-- Microsoft Said to Debut Its Own Windows Tablet Next Week
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-06-15T20:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/microsoft-said-to-plan-branded-tablet-computer-debut-next-week.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will announce plans
to sell a tablet running the next version of the  Windows
operating system  under its own brand, a major departure from its
strategy of partnering with computer makers, according to a
person familiar with the plans.  The Redmond, Washington-based company may demonstrate the
device at an event in  Los Angeles  on June 18, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the plans haven’t been
made public. The company has said it aims to release the new
Windows 8 operating system in time for the holiday season.  Microsoft has been working with personal-computer makers to
produce Windows 8 tablets, designed to win back consumers who
have shunned Windows machines in favor of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. The
world’s largest software maker may be taking steps to exert more
control over the hardware that runs its programs -- as Apple
does -- in order to mount a more successful challenge.  “If Microsoft wants to control the entire user experience
and the entire quality of their products, they have to build
their own hardware,” said Michael Cherry, an analyst at
Directions on Microsoft, a Kirkland, Washington-based market-
research firm.  Frank Shaw , a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to comment.  Yesterday, the company invited press via e-mail to an event
in Los Angeles on June 18 at 3:30 p.m., at a location to be
disclosed later.  “This will be a major Microsoft announcement -- you will
not want to miss it,” the invitation said.  Software Focus  Microsoft shares rose 2.3 percent to $30.02 at the close in
 New York . The stock has gained 16 percent this year.  Since the release of International Business Machines
Corp.’s first PC in 1981, Microsoft has focused on software for
the machines and left design and branding to hardware makers.
While the company has in the past decade played a larger role in
working with some PC makers on design, it has shied away from
developing the machines and selling them under the Microsoft
brand.  The shift in strategy has the potential to sour Microsoft’s
relationship with some PC partners, many of which have been
investing to develop Windows 8 tablets themselves and may not
want to compete directly with Microsoft.  Still, PC makers may have limited recourse, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in New York. Apple doesn’t
license its software to computer makers, and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which
makes the Android operating system, will probably make its own
tablets through its recent  acquisition  of Motorola Mobility.  Tablet Options  “If you’re a computer maker, you don’t love it,” Gillis
said. “But what are you going to do? Build an Android tablet?
Google is going to build its own tablet, too. Everyone is making
their own hardware now. It’s like having a poodle in your purse.
All the cool kids are doing it.”  The addition of a tablet would radically alter
 profitability  in the Windows business, which now sells just
software with operating margins of more than 60 percent. By
comparison, computer maker  Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s operating margin for the
most recent fiscal year was about 7 percent.  A move into tablets would be a similar strategy to the one
Microsoft employed with its Zune music and video player.
Microsoft initially provided software to partners, who failed to
gain share against Apple’s iPod, forcing Microsoft to produce
its own hardware. The Zune failed to dent Apple’s dominant
market share, and Microsoft canceled the product last year.  Controlled Experience  For Microsoft, sticking with devices from its PC partners
only may be equally risky. Sales in the Windows group have
missed analysts’  estimates  in four of the six most recent
quarters as consumers shifted to purchasing tablets rather than
lower-cost laptop PCs running Windows. Microsoft, which
initially released a version of Windows for tablet machines in
2002 before scaling back, has zero share of the market now,
according to researcher Gartner Inc.  Selling a branded tablet would help the company make sure
the new Windows dovetails exactly with the hardware, avoiding
issues that have cropped up when computer makers have added
their own software that has degraded or limited the performance
or design of Windows.  “The idea would be to make sure Microsoft’s vision for
such a device is translated exactly into the consumer experience
without a third-party interpretation,” said  Michael Gartenberg ,
an analyst at Gartner.  Apple’s Dominance  Apple has expanded its grip on the tablet market even as
companies such as Amazon.com Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.
release new tablets running Google’s Android software and PC
makers work to prepare their Windows 8 tablets. Researcher IDC
yesterday boosted its forecast for the tablet market on strong
demand for the iPad.  Worldwide shipments of tablets this year will be 107.4
million units, up from an earlier projection of 106.1 million,
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC said in a statement. Unit
sales may reach 142.8 million next year and 222.1 million by
2016, the researcher said.  IDC predicts the  iPad  will account for 62.5 percent of
global shipments this year, up from 58.2 percent last year.
Apple’s share could rise even further if it introduces a smaller,
less expensive tablet, IDC said.  Microsoft’s tablet plans were previously reported by
entertainment website The Wrap and the All Things D blog.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  