-- IFC Not Counting on Greek Exit From Euro Area, Ellena Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-06-15T13:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ifc-not-counting-on-greek-exit-from-euro-area-ellena-says.html
The  International Finance Corp ., the
 World Bank ’s private-sector lending arm, is not betting on
Greece leaving the Euro area, said Guy Ellena, IFC Director for
Manufacturing, Agribusiness and Services for  Europe , Middle East
and North Africa.  Uncertainty in Europe may increase demand for the
Washington-based lender’s funds, Ellena said in an interview in
Belgrade yesterday. Grece’s election on June 17 will determine
whether Greeks, in a fifth year of recession, accept open-ended
austerity to stay in the euro or reject the conditions of a
bailout and risk the turmoil of becoming the first to exit the
17-member currency.  “No, we are not counting on the Greek exit,” Ellena said.
“We know a further deterioration in the Euro zone, whether
because  Greece  is going out or staying in, has an impact on
peripheral economies and countries like Serbia, Croatia or
Ukraine. They are very dependent on what’s happening in
Europe.”  The Balkan region, which depends on the European Union for
economic expansion, has been hit as the euro region’s debt
crisis cuts demand for their exports and the banks tighten
lending over concern that Greece may abandon the single currency
bloc. The World Bank has slashed economic growth forecasts for
all Balkan countries, including Serbia, Croatia and  Bulgaria .  The IFC is “looking at what could be an impact on our
portfolio, but these are our projections,” Ellena said. “My
sense is that maybe there will be half-solutions.”  IFC Lending  The IFC, along with the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and other multilateral lenders, will “come
increasingly in demand to compensate for the lack of liquidity
or the lack of risk capital from local banks” at a time when
long-term funding is not readily available and investors are “a
bit cautious about putting money,” he said.  The IFC expects lending to Europe,  Middle East  and North
Africa to expand to as much as $6 billion this year, a 20
percent increase on the previous year, to include all the
manufacturing, agribusiness, services and financial market
transactions, he said. Financing of agribusiness alone will
range from $320 million to $350 million, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  