-- IHH Healthcare Said to Reserve 62% of IPO for Cornerstone Buyers
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2012-06-15T02:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ihh-healthcare-said-to-reserve-62-of-ipo-for-cornerstone-buyers.html
IHH Healthcare Bhd.,  Asia ’s biggest
hospital operator, reserved more than 60 percent of its 6.4
billion-ringgit ($2 billion) initial public offering for 22 so-
called cornerstone investors including JF Asset Management Ltd.,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Malaysian company set aside 1.38 billion of 2.23
billion shares on offer for such buyers, said the people, who
declined to be named as the information is confidential.
Marketing to other institutions will begin in the first week of
July, one person said.  IHH Healthcare is selling a larger portion of its IPO to
cornerstone investors than Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd.,
which raised about $3.3 billion in Kuala Lumpur this week. Felda
sold about a third of the stock to such buyers, which typically
agree to hold the shares for a set period of time in exchange
for guaranteed allocation.  Fullerton Fund Management Co., Newton  Investment Management 
and Och-Ziff Capital Management Group are among the cornerstone
investors in IHH Healthcare’s IPO, the people said. Billionaire
T. Ananda Krishnan’s Usaha Tegas Sdn. and CIMB-Principal Asset
Management Bhd. are also investing, according to the people.  The Edge Financial Daily published the cornerstones’
identities today, citing an unidentified person.  IHH Healthcare, controlled by Malaysia’s state investment
company Khazanah Nasional Bhd., has been on an acquisition
spree. It agreed to buy 75 percent of the owner of  Turkey ’s
largest hospital group, Acibadem Saglik Hizmetleri & Ticaret AS,
in December.  The Malaysian company earlier paid S$3.5 billion ($2.7
billion) for the 76.1 percent of Singapore’s Parkway Holdings
Ltd. it didn’t already own, beating New Delhi-based Fortis
Healthcare Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser in  Hong Kong  at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  