-- IKEA Plans TV Sales as Home-Entertainment Range Started
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-15T12:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ikea-plans-tv-sales-as-home-entertainment-range-started.html
IKEA, the Swedish retailer known for
its self-assembled furniture, will start selling smart
televisions integrated into cabinets with speakers and Blu-ray
players in a bid to tap into the 250-million-TV global market.  The Uppleva home-cinema systems will go on sale this month
in stores in  Stockholm , Berlin, Milan, Paris and Gdansk,  Poland ,
with more locations to be added this year and next, said Magnus
Bondesson, a business area manager for IKEA of  Sweden . The idea
for the range came from customers frustrated with obtrusive
mismatches between TVs and furniture, he said.  “We’ve received a lot of feedback in the living room that
it was difficult to furnish with electronics,” Bondesson said
in an interview June 13 at IKEA’s store at the Kungens Kurva
shopping center near Stockholm. “People perceived that
electronics didn’t match the style of the furniture, that there
were too many remotes, too many cables and so on.”  For the second year in a row, worldwide TV shipments in
2012 may remain unchanged at just less than 250 million units,
with growth in liquid-crystal display sets offsetting drops in
plasma and cathode-ray tube models, according to  NPD
DisplaySearch .  TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings Ltd. (1070) , the
electronics supplier for the Ikea line, raised its full-year
target for LCD TV sales 10 percent on June 7.  Experience  The Uppleva range, which takes its name from the Swedish
word for “experience,” offers TVs in four sizes from 24 inches
to 46 inches diagonally, and the sets are Wi-Fi ready to enable
connections to the user’s smartphone or other wireless devices,
said  Francis Cayouette , the range’s designer.  TCL (1050) , the Hong Kong-based manufacturer providing the TVs,
Blu-ray disc players and speakers, was involved in the project
from an early stage to ensure a harmonious design, Cayouette
said in an interview at the IKEA Kungens Kurva outlet.  “If you buy a white TV on the market today you will get a
white that is different from the furniture whereas here we have
a perfect fit,” he said.  The closely held IKEA retail empire that  Ingvar Kamprad 
started almost 70 years ago has amassed a fortune that Bloomberg
values at more than $37 billion, making the Swede second-richest
man in  Europe  and one of the world’s five wealthiest.  Bondesson said IKEA has considered the challenges of
selling electronics in stores built to sell furniture.  “We’re not going into the electronics business,” he said.
“This is a new way of working that integrates the electronic in
the furniture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  