-- Time Inc.’s Sports Illustrated Cuts Staff Through Buyouts
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/time-inc-s-sports-illustrated-cuts-staff-through-buyouts.html
Time Inc. plans to cut editorial
jobs at  Sports Illustrated  through voluntary buyouts and may
eliminate some positions if not enough people take an exit
package.  Terry McDonell, editor of Time Inc.’s Sports Group, said in
a telephone interview yesterday that he is looking to reduce
positions of editors and reporters with buyouts being offered
through June 21.  “Everything is about money eventually and being more
efficient,” he said. Although  Sports Illustrated , which has 210
editorial employees, is “very profitable,” the reductions will
allow the magazine to become even more so, he said.  McDonell said the decision to cut staff came from within
the Sports Group, which is led by Mark Ford.  Time Inc., also publisher of Time, People, Entertainment
Weekly and InStyle, has struggled to offset shrinking print
revenue with  Internet advertising . Publishing accounts for 9
percent of parent company  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s annual operating
income. The division’s sales have fallen 26 percent since the
recession began in 2007, to $3.68 billion last year.  Laura Lang, chief executive officer of Time Inc., is
working to revive growth amid intensifying online competition.
She was hired in November from digital ad agency Digitas,
following a nine-month search to replace the previous chief,
 Jack Griffin . Time Warner CEO Jeffrey Bewkes had fired Griffin
after he clashed with other Time Inc. executives.  Lang hired Bain & Co. in March to advise on increasing
revenue at the ailing magazine unit.  Ad Pages  Sports Illustrated’s circulation was 3.18 million in
December, according to the  Audit Bureau of Circulations . In the
first five months of the year, the sports title’s ad pages have
dropped 4 percent compared to the same period a year ago,
according to  Media Industry Newsletter . Sports readers are
increasingly moving to digital publications like  Deadspin ,
published by Gawker Media, as well as Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN
cable network.  “You have to change,” McDonell said. “That’s the lesson
we’ve seen all across publishing.”  Time Warner gained 2.8 percent to $36.42 at the close in
New York yesterday. The shares have risen less than one percent
this year.  The New York Times earlier reported the staff cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  