-- In Gupta, Jurors Saw American Dream and Convicted Anyway
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-06-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/in-gupta-jurors-saw-american-dream-and-convicted-anyway.html
Jury foreman Richard Lepkowski
didn’t want to convict  Rajat Gupta  of  insider trading . To him
and other jurors, Gupta had lived a “story-book life” and
“the American dream,” he said. In the end, though, the case
was just too strong.  “I wanted to believe the allegations weren’t true,”
Lepkowski, 51, said in an interview yesterday in  Manhattan 
federal court. “Here was a man who came to this country and was
a wonderful example of the American Dream.”  “But at the end of the day, those allegations on which we
found guilt -- the evidence was overwhelming,” said Lepkowski,
a resident of Westchester County, New York, and an executive at
the nonprofit Children’s Tumor Foundation.  Gupta, orphaned as a teenager in India, rose to become
managing partner of McKinsey & Co. and a director at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  Yesterday, he became
the most prominent executive to be convicted in a five-year U.S.
crackdown on insider trading at  hedge funds .  Jurors weighed the evidence for 9 1/2 hours over parts of
two days before convicting Gupta of one count of conspiracy and
three counts of securities fraud, the maximum sentence for which
is 20 years in prison. They acquitted him of two counts of
securities fraud. The trial lasted four weeks.  Two in Tears  When the 12 jurors returned to the courtroom to deliver
their verdict at 11:38 a.m., two were in tears.  “I struggled, I’ll be honest with you,” said Ronnie
Sesso, 53, a youth advocate who works for  New York City ’s
Administration of Children’s Services, who said she, too, had
become emotional in rendering her decision. “I was trying to
determine the outcome of this person’s life.”  The verdict came much faster than it did last year in the
U.S. case against Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.
Then, jurors deliberated for 12 days before convicting
Rajaratnam of  securities fraud  for trading on illegal tips from
Gupta and others.  Still, the Gupta jurors said they wrestled with many issues
before filing into the courtroom for the last time.  “It’s hard,” said Agnes Sanders, a retired librarian from
Manhattan who declined further comment. “I’m sure we reached
the right verdict, but it’s hard.”  Many Successes  A constant theme in the deliberations was Gupta’s
reputation for integrity and his successes over the course of
his life, according to one juror who asked not to be named.
Wherever possible, jurors gave Gupta, 63, the benefit of the
doubt. They appreciated the passion of the lawyers on both
sides, the juror said.  After seven hours of deliberations on the first day, jurors
returned to court yesterday not knowing if they’d reach a final
verdict by the end of the day, the juror said. It all came
together in the morning, and by 11:30 a.m. they had a verdict.
Every juror was emotional, the juror said.  Lepkowski and Sesso said a central concern for jurors was
motive. The panel discussed why Gupta, who a prosecution witness
testified had a net worth of $80 million and had led a stellar
business career, would leak tips to Rajaratnam. One reason, they
concluded, was that Gupta wanted Rajaratnam’s help building his
private equity fund, New Silk Route.  ‘Need for Greed’  “What did Mr. Gupta get out of this by giving Mr.
Rajaratnam the information? Was it the future, was it cash?”
Sesso said. Ultimately, Sesso pointed to Gupta’s “need for
greed: ‘I could get away with it once and I’ll do it again,’”
she said.  The jurors said Gupta was manipulated by Rajaratnam, who is
serving an 11-year prison sentence. Sesso and Lepkowski cited
the testimony of Gupta’s former McKinsey protege,  Anil Kumar ,
who pleaded guilty and testified against Gupta. Lepkowski said
he found parallels between the way Kumar had been co-opted by
Rajaratnam into passing inside information about technology
firms he was advising and what happened with Gupta.  “He manipulated Rajat Gupta and Mr. Kumar,” Lepkowski
said. “What happened to him almost imitated what happened to
Gupta. You can see him playing one off the other.”  Both jurors said they came away with a low opinion of
Rajaratnam, who was convicted of making millions of dollars off
tips in separate schemes. Sesso called the convicted fund
manager “a snake in the grass.”  ‘Manipulative Man’  “ Raj Rajaratnam  was a very manipulative man, and he made
it easy for Rajat Gupta to share this information,” Lepkowski
said. “For Raj and Galleon, this was normal operating
procedure.”  Ben Harris, a spokesman for Rajaratnam’s lawyer,  John Dowd ,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message left at his
office seeking comment on the jurors’ statements.  Another issue was the circumstantial nature of the case.
Still, Sesso became convinced of Gupta’s guilt after she
examined the late-in-the-day timing of phone calls to Rajaratnam
and the trades he made immediately afterward.  “The information and then the actions taken,” she said.
“It was too many coincidences,” Sesso said, citing phone
records that showed Gupta calling Rajaratnam just minutes before
the end of trading and the fund managers purchased 217,200
shares of Goldman Sachs stock just two minutes before the market
closed.  “We never got comfortable with anything,” Lepkowski added.
“The saddest part of the trial for me was the two character
witnesses -- one who came from  India ” to testify for Gupta
“and the one who knew him since fifth grade.”  ‘Not Enough Evidence’  Jurors didn’t convict Gupta on two counts of securities
fraud stemming from two alleged tips he passed that resulted in
Rajaratnam’s March 12, 2007, trade on Goldman Sachs stock and
the fund manager’s Jan. 29, 2009, trade on Procter & Gamble. Two
jurors said they hadn’t found enough evidence to convict on
those charges. Prosecutors didn’t have wiretaps of Rajaratnam
talking about those trades for both counts.  “There wasn’t the corroborating evidence that there were
in the other counts,” Lepkowski said. “In the end we found
that there was not enough evidence to convict beyond a
reasonable doubt.”  Lloyd Blankfein , Goldman Sachs chairman, testified for the
prosecution over three days, telling the jury that discussions
he had with board members were confidential. Gupta’s lawyer  Gary Naftalis  assailed Blankfein, calling him “a man with no memory
of anything” and “less than candid.”  Blankfein’s Testimony  Lepkowski said he understood Blankfein wouldn’t have been
able to remember specifically what he told Gupta and his fellow
directors during board meetings. At one point on the witness
stand, Blankfein struck the same pose as one in a photograph in
a news article the defense displayed in court, sparking laughter
from the jurors.  “I personally appreciated Mr. Blankfein’s levity on the
stand because it helped break up the tedium,” Lepkowski said.
“I didn’t find him an un-credible or unhelpful witness.”  While Gupta didn’t testify at the trial, jurors were made
aware by his lawyer that he’d been an orphan and climbed to the
top of the corporate pyramid. Each day, Gupta’s wife, grown
daughters and friends filled the first rows in the courtroom
gallery.  Their presence wasn’t lost on the panel.  “I can see the love and passion he has for his family,”
Sesso said, adding that jurors talked about the charities for
which Gupta raised money. “We wanted him to walk, go home to
his family and live a very prosperous life.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  