-- Indonesian Coffee Premium Soars on Concern About Limited Supply
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-15T13:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/indonesian-coffee-premium-soars-on-concern-about-limited-supply.html
The premium buyers have to pay to
obtain coffee from  Indonesia , the third-biggest robusta grower,
rose seven-fold in a week, with exporters refraining from
selling contracts for later dates, according to Volcafe.  Indonesian beans for June and July shipment were at a
premium of $70 a metric ton to the price on the NYSE Liffe
exchange in London, the coffee unit of commodities trader ED&F
Man Holdings Ltd. said in a report e-mailed today. That compares
with a premium of $10 a ton in the previous week.  “Differentials have slightly tightened and exporters are
only keen to sell for nearby positions as they anticipate that
the availability of coffee will diminish around August and
September,” the Winterthur, Switzerland-based trader said.  Differentials refer to a discount or a premium paid for
physical coffee in relation to the price on the futures market.
Bean deliveries to ports in Indonesia this week totaled 7,000
tons to 7,500 tons, Volcafe said.  Indonesia will produce 9.7 million bags of coffee in the
2012-13 season that started there in October, up from 8.3
million bags a year earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said in a report published June 5.  In  Vietnam , the world’s largest robusta producer, exporters
are waiting for the prices on NYSE Liffe to rise before buying
the remainder of the coffee from farmers, resulting in limited
flow, Volcafe said. Robusta coffee fell 3.3 percent this month.  Vietnamese coffee for June and July shipments was at a
premium of $40 a ton to NYSE Liffe, data from the trader show.
That compares to a premium of $10 a ton last week.  “Rainfall for June is lower than previous years,” Volcafe
said. “However, crops should be developing well,” the trader
said, referring to the 2012-13 crop that starts in October.  Robusta coffee for September delivery rose 0.1 percent to
$2,107 a ton by 1:49 p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 