-- Hindustan Unilever, ICICI Pay More Tax Indicating Rising Income
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-06-15T10:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/hindustan-unilever-icici-pay-more-tax-indicating-rising-income.html
Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the Indian
unit of the world’s second-largest consumer goods company, and
 ICICI Bank (ICICIBC)  Ltd. paid more advance tax for the three months to
June 30, indicating rising profits.  Hindustan Unilever paid 45 percent more, or 1.4 billion
rupees ($25 million), for the quarter, according to a deputy
commissioner in Mumbai’s tax office. ICICI Bank, the nation’s
second-largest lender, increased payment 25 percent, according
to the official who declined to be identified citing rules.  Companies pay tax in advance based on their estimated
income for the year, a measure monitored by investors as an
indicator of profitability. The benchmark BSE  India   Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  gained 1.5 percent to its highest in more than a month.  “The increase shows there is no serious deterioration in
corporate earnings,” said  Gajendra Nagpal , chief executive
officer with New Delhi-based Unicon Financial Intermediaries.
“Most people expected the numbers to be less than last year.”  State Bank  of India paid 11.7 billion rupees, compared with
11 billion rupees a year earlier.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  paid 4 percent
more, while  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC)  raised tax
payments 18 percent to 3 billion rupees, the official said.  Indian companies pay 30 percent of their income as tax.  India’s economy  expanded 5.3 percent in the three months
through March. It may grow 6.5 percent to 7 percent this year,
 Montek Singh Ahluwalia , the deputy chairman of the nation’s
planning commission, said June 8, short of Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s goal of 9 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  