-- Signs of U.S. Weakness Mount as Confidence, Output Fall
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-06-15T20:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/industrial-production-in-u-s-unexpectedly-dropped-in-may.html
Industrial production unexpectedly
fell and  consumer confidence  slid, adding to evidence of U.S.
economic weakness days before Federal Reserve policy makers meet
to decide whether more stimulus is needed.  Output at factories, mines and utilities decreased 0.1
percent last month after a revised 1 percent gain in April, the
Fed reported today in Washington. The Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan index of consumer sentiment for June fell to 74.1,
the lowest level this year, from 79.3 last month.  “We’re traveling along a canal of miserable growth,” said
 Brian Jones , a senior U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in New
York, who correctly forecast the decline in production. “It’s
not fast enough to bring the unemployment rate down or generate
an appreciable number of jobs, yet it’s not weak enough that
we’re going back into recession.”  Stocks climbed for a second day on speculation the Fed will
join central banks in taking steps to boost growth as  Europe ’s
deepening debt crisis threatens the global economy. Shock waves
from Europe are roiling U.S. markets, denting business and
consumer confidence and cutting demand for American goods.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1 percent to
1,342.84 at the close in New York. Treasuries climbed, pushing
the yield on the 10-year note down to 1.58 percent from 1.64
percent late yesterday.  Monetary policy makers from the U.K. to  Japan  and Canada
this week sounded the alert about potential fallout from the
euro zone’s troubles.  Watching Markets  The  Bank of Japan  today kept the size of its asset-purchase
fund unchanged, two days before a Greek election that may
determine whether Europe’s crisis worsens, and said it will pay
“particular” attention to global markets.  Reports in the U.K. today showed exports fell in April and
construction slumped, highlighting the economy’s weakness as
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  warns that the outlook is
deteriorating rapidly.  New York-area factories expanded this month at the slowest
pace since November, another report showed. The Federal Reserve
Bank of  New York ’s  general economic activity  index dropped to
2.3 from 17.1 the prior month. Readings greater than zero show
expansion in New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern
 Connecticut .  Economists forecast a 0.1 percent advance in U.S.
production in May, according to a Bloomberg News survey median.
Manufacturing, which makes up about 75 percent of total
production in the U.S., dropped 0.4 percent last month.  Less factory production represents a pause in the industry
that helped the world’s largest economy emerge from recession
three years ago.  ‘Continued Weakness’  “We’ve seen continued weakness in Europe and we’ve seen
only moderate growth in the U.S.,” Gregory Hayes, chief
financial officer at United Technologies Corp., said June 14 at
an industrials and materials conference in  Chicago . Hartford,
Connecticut-based United Technologies’ products include Pratt &
Whitney jet engines and Otis elevators.  Slowing growth in  China  and across  Asia  is also taking a
toll on American manufacturing. China cut borrowing costs for
the first time in four years last week to boost growth.  “We are seeing a slowdown in Asia that we had not expected
about three months ago, and the United States is not out of the
woods yet either when we look at the unemployment numbers,”
Clay Jones, chief executive officer of Rockwell Collins Inc.,
said at a June 13 conference.  Utility production climbed 0.8 percent last month after a
5.3 percent jump in April, today’s report showed. Mining output
increased 0.9 percent following a 0.6 percent decrease.  Motor Vehicles  Motor vehicle and parts production dropped 1.5 percent in
May after a 4 percent surge the month before, the Fed said.
Autos in May sold at a 13.73 million annual rate, down from
14.38 million in April and the slowest this year, according to
data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Factory output excluding vehicles and parts fell 0.3
percent in May after a 0.5 percent gain. Output of business
equipment increased 0.3 percent after a 1.5 percent jump in
April.  Consumer goods  decreased 0.2 percent after a 1.4 percent
gain.  Today’s data cap a week of reports pointing to an economy
that’s losing momentum. Retail sales fell in May for a second
month, prompting economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Morgan Stanley to cut forecasts for second-quarter economic
growth.  Jobless Benefits  More Americans than forecast applied for unemployment
insurance payments last week, another sign the labor market is
struggling to improve after the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly
rose to 8.2 percent last month. Payrolls increased by 69,000 in
May, the fewest in a year.  Labor-market weakness is starting to take a toll on the
confidence of consumers, whose spending makes up 70 percent of
the economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  for June was projected to fall to
77.5, according to a median forecast of 66 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The June decline was the first in 10 months. The index
averaged 64.2 during the last recession and 89 in the five years
before the 18-month economic slump that ended in June 2009.  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions  asks
Americans whether they’re better off than they were a year ago
and if they think it’s a good time to buy big-ticket items like
cars. In June that measure eased to 82.1 from 87.2.  Consumer Expectations  The index of  consumer expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
decreased to 68.9, also the lowest this year, from 74.3, which
was the highest since July 2007.  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which sets the course of
central bank policy, begins a two-day meeting on June 19. The
group may address a cooling expansion, weaker job growth and the
financial crisis in Europe.  “Will there be enough growth going forward to make
material progress on the unemployment rate?” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony last week to the Joint Economic
Committee. “That’s the essential decision and the central
question that we have who look at.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  