-- Industrial Production in U.S. Probably Expanded at Slower Pace
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-15T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/industrial-production-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-slower-pace.html
Industrial  production  in the U.S.
probably cooled in May as businesses trimmed investment plans
and fewer motor vehicles rolled off assembly lines as sales
slowed, economists said before a report today.  Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.1
percent after April’s 1.1 percent advance that was the biggest
since December 2010, according to the median forecast of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show
manufacturing in the New York-region probably slowed this month.  Less factory production represents a pause in the industry
that helped the world’s largest economy emerge from recession
three years ago. Slumps in parts of  Europe  and a slowdown in
 Asia  may temper demand for U.S.-made products at the same time
companies limit purchases of new equipment.  “Manufacturing has been mediocre recently,” said Erik
Johnson, a U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
 Massachusetts . “The sector isn’t off the charts, but, more
broadly, it is outpacing much of the rest of the economy.”  The Federal Reserve releases the production data at 9:15
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a drop of
0.3 percent to an increase of 1.1 percent.  Other figures highlight manufacturing is cooling. A
national factory barometer, the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index,  fell  in May after reaching a 10-month high
in April. The index’s production gauge dropped, while its new
orders measure advanced.  Empire State  The  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York ’s general economic
index, due at 8:30 a.m., probably  declined  to 13 in June from
17.1 the prior month, according to the median forecast. Readings
greater than zero show expansion by manufacturers in the so-
called Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern  New
Jersey , and southern  Connecticut .  Job creation  at factories has slowed as well. Weekly hours
worked by manufacturing employees slid to 40.5 in May, the
lowest in six months, Labor Department data show. The number of
workers added to factory payrolls last month was three times
less than the average in the first quarter.  Shares of manufacturers may be underperforming as a result.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Machinery Index (S15MACH)  has fallen
14 percent in the second quarter. That compares with a 5.6
percent drop in the broader  S&P 500 Index  in the same period.  Autos in May sold at a 13.73 million  annual rate , down from
14.38 million in April and the slowest this year, according to
data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Beige Book  While car and truck sales  retreated  last month, a separate
report from the Fed suggests auto manufacturing is holding up.
Demand was strongest in vehicle and steel production, and
manufacturing continued to expand, the central bank said in its
 Beige Book  report on economic activity in its districts from
early April to late May.  Recovery in the housing market, which has lagged behind the
rest of economy, may also boost business at producers that
service homebuilders.  “Spending time with homebuilders, suppliers of every
single product that goes into a house, from asphalt shingles to
installation, wood products, concrete, wiring, plumbing
fixtures, there’s a sense of optimism in the homebuilding
industry today that has lasted for more than a couple months,”
Dan Fulton, the chief executive officer of timber company
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , said during a June 13 investor conference
“The market continues to feel like it’s got legs.”  Another report today is projected to show  consumer
sentiment  declined in June. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of confidence dropped to 77.5 from a
final May reading of 79.3, a four-year high, according to the
Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  