-- Industrias CH Gains on IPC Index Speculation: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-06-15T21:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/industrias-ch-gains-on-ipc-index-speculation-mexico-city-mover.html
Industrias CH SAB (ICHB) , Mexico’s largest
steelmaker, rose to a one-month high after Deutsche Bank AG said
the stock will probably join the nation’s benchmark stock index.  The shares added 0.9 percent to 60.58 pesos today, the
highest since May 15 on a closing basis. Earlier, the shares
jumped as much as 3.6 percent in intraday trading.  The company will probably be added to the index after Grupo
Elektra SA’s possible deletion from the IPC in a September
rebalancing, Deutsche Bank said today in an e-mailed report.
Elektra will exit the index unless it unwinds an equity swap
soaking up its free-floating stock, according to the report.  “Elektra’s deletion will give space for one more stock,”
Frederick Searby, a Deutsche Bank analyst, wrote in the report.
Industrias CH “is currently the best positioned to take
advantage of this.”  Elektra has plummeted 65 percent since April 11, when the
Mexican stock exchange changed its requirements for eligibility
on the benchmark index, saying shares tied up in derivative
instruments couldn’t be counted toward the free-float
prerequisite. It fell 1.5 percent today.  Javier Vigil, an investor relations official at Industrias
CH, said the company has been trying to increase liquidity to
get the stock back on the IPC after almost a year. Last October,
it hired Credit Suisse Group AG as a market maker, and company
officials have been visiting investors to boost interest, he
said in a telephone interview from  Mexico  City.  “It’s a priority to get back on the index,” Vigil said by
phone. “We’re very optimistic.”  Roberto Gavaldon, a spokesman for the exchange operator,
Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB, and Dan McCosh, an Elektra
spokesman, didn’t immediately return requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  