-- ING Cut as Moody’s Downgrades Dutch, Belgian Banks
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   R u s s e l l   W a r d
-- 2012-06-15T16:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ing-bank-cut-as-moody-s-downgrades-five-dutch-banking-groups.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  and KBC Groep NV were
among banks in  Belgium  and the Netherlands cut by Moody’s
Investors Service on concern that the recession, regional debt
crisis and dependence on wholesale funds makes them vulnerable.  Long-term debt ratings at ING,  Rabobank Nederland ,  ABN AMRO 
Bank NV and LeasePlan Corporation NV were lowered by two grades,
and SNS Bank NV received a one-level cut, Moody’s said in a
statement today. KBC, Belgium’s biggest bank and insurer, was
also lowered two grades, the ratings company said.  European policy makers are struggling to contain financial
turmoil that forced the Spanish government to seek a 100 billion
euro ($126 billion) bailout for its banks on June 9. Mounting
concern about  Spain ’s public finances and  Greece ’s June 17
elections, which may determine its exit from the euro, are
intensifying the crisis, now in its third year.  “Dutch banks will face difficult operating conditions
throughout 2012 and possibly beyond,” Moody’s said in the
statement. The Netherlands “is affected by the ongoing euro
area debt crisis and regional economic weakness,” it said.  ING, the biggest Dutch financial services company, is now
rated A3, while its ING Bank unit was downgraded two levels to
A2. Rabobank Nederland was lowered to Aa2, the third-highest
investment grade, ABN Amro to A2, and LeasePlan to Baa2. SNS
Bank is now Baa2. ING’s ratings have a negative outlook and
those of the other lenders are stable, Moody’s said.  ‘Priced In’  ING shares gained 5.6 percent to 4.96 euros by the close of
trading in Amsterdam today, while SNS Reaal soared 10 percent,
the  most  in two years, to 1.05 euros.  KBC (KBC)  advanced 3.4 percent
to 15.70 euros in Brussels, the highest closing price in two
months. ABN Amro and Rabobank are not traded.  “This is in line with what Moody’s signaled and had been
priced in by investors,” said Walter Leering, a fixed-income
analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers NV in Amsterdam. “The
one-step cut for SNS is a positive. Moody’s had indicated it
might be downgraded by as many as three notches and that would
have reduced it to junk status.”  Moody’s cut Brussels-based KBC two levels to Baa1, and its
KBC Bank unit to A3, according to a separate statement that
cited the lender’s “exposures to markets experiencing material
stress, notably Ireland and  Hungary .” Market and economic
conditions may also constrain KBC’s ability to repay government
funds by the end of 2013, Moody’s said.  ‘No Surprise’  Today decision “comes as no surprise as Moody’s has been
taking rating actions on a large number of European banks,”
said Raymond Vermeulen, a spokesman for ING. Arien Bikker, a
spokesman for ABN Amro said the rating action was “in line with
the indication given in February.”  Spokesmen for Rabobank and SNS, both based in the Dutch
city of Utrecht, declined to comment.  “This expected downgrade is in line with the overall
tendency so far among the financial institutions under review,”
KBC said in an e-mailed statement. “Important to note is that
we have stable, aligned and consistent rating assessments with
all three rating agencies.”  KBC’s Irish banking unit was cut to junk for the first time
by Moody’s, which reduced the long-term bank deposit and debt
ratings for KBC Bank Ireland Plc by one step to Ba1. The short-
term bank deposit rating was cut to Not-Prime.  KBC’s Irish unit, which received an additional 75 million
euros of capital from KBC in the first quarter, has taken 3.6
billion euros of three-year loans from the  European Central Bank 
since December to replace loans from its parent.  It would have taken more three-year ECB loans in March if
it had more eligible collateral available at the time, KBC Chief
Executive Officer Johan Thijs told analysts and investors on a
May 10 conference call.  Central Banks  Central banks intensified warnings that  Europe ’s failure to
tame its debt crisis threatens to roil the world’s financial
markets and economy, with Greece’s election in two days looming
as the next flashpoint for investors. Monetary policy makers
from the U.K. to Japan and  Canada  sounded the alert about
potential fallout from the single currency bloc’s troubles.  Rabobank Chairman Piet Moerland yesterday said a Greek exit
from the euro should be prevented at all costs and Europe’s
rescue fund should be at least tripled to 1.5 trillion euros to
restore calm in financial markets permanently.  Speculation that central banks may step up measures to
boost economies led European stocks higher today, with the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  adding 1 percent.  Market Funding  The Dutch economy, the fifth largest in the euro area, has
contracted for three straight quarters amid budget cuts that
have damped consumer demand.  Retail sales  fell the most in at
least 11 years in April, government figures showed yesterday.  Still, the domestic environment for Dutch banks has
weakened less than in other parts of the euro region, given the
country’s Aaa debt rating, Moody’s said.  The rating company recognized that Dutch banks have “so
far retained good access to market funding and asset quality has
remained solid to date,” said Hans Pluijgers, an Amsterdam-
based analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA. “With the
exception of the real estate loan book of SNS Reaal we agree
with this argument.” Loan losses on Dutch mortgages will
probably remain manageable, Pluijgers said in a note to
investors.  ING’s loans in Spain are “sizable, but manageable,” the
Amsterdam-based bank said yesterday. It had 18.4 billion euros
in bank lending in Spain in the first quarter, the firm said.  Spain’s request for a bailout of its banks made it the
fourth and largest euro-area economy to seek aid. The yield on
the country’s benchmark 10-year bond closed at a euro-era record
of 6.92 percent yesterday after Moody’s cut the sovereign rating
three levels to Baa3, one step above junk.  The rating company last month downgraded 16 banks in Spain,
including  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , as well as 26 Italian banks, such
as UniCredit SpA and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. Moody’s put 114
European banks and an additional eight non-European firms with
large capital-markets businesses under review in February to
assess the impact of Europe’s tumult.  It today also downgraded UniCredit’s leasing unit,
UniCredit Leasing SpA, by two levels to Baa2 from A3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Russell Ward in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  