-- U.K., France Boost U.S. Treasury Holdings Amid Crisis
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-06-15T16:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/international-demand-for-u-s-financial-assets-slowed-in-april.html
The U.K. and  France , two of  Europe ’s
largest economies after  Germany , each boosted their holdings of
U.S. Treasuries by more than 26 percent in April amid the fiscal
crisis in the euro region, while total  international demand  for
U.S. financial assets slowed.  The U.K.’s portfolio of Treasuries rose 26.5 percent to
$154.2 billion, while France’s holdings increased 29.4 percent
to $59.4 billion, the Treasury Department said today in
Washington. China remained the largest international buyer of
Treasuries, as its holdings rose $1.5 billion to $1.15 trillion,
according to the Treasury.  “Uncertainty and fear over whether the euro will survive
are driving money into the safe haven of U.S. Treasuries and the
elections in  Greece  are front and center in this debate of ‘will
they stay or will they go,’”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York , said
in an e-mail. “Safe haven flows from Europe are driving yields
down here and the trend is likely to continue until Europe finds
a way to stop the crisis from spreading.”  Elections in Greece on June 17 will set the stage for
determining whether the country is prepared to stand by its
international bailout commitments. In Germany, Chancellor  Angela
Merkel  rejected quick solutions proposed to fix Europe’s
financial crisis such as joint debt sharing, saying Germany
can’t save the world economy alone and fellow Group of 20
countries must help.  Equities, Bonds  Net buying of U.S. long-term equities, notes and bonds
totaled $25.6 billion during April, down from net purchases of
$36 billion the month before, the Treasury said. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected net buying of $45 billion
of long-term assets, according to the median estimate.  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, increased its portfolio
of U.S. Treasuries by $1 billion to $65.6 billion in April.
Foreign holdings of U.S. Treasuries reflect both private and
official purchases.  Treasuries climbed, set for a weekly gain, amid speculation
a slowing U.S. economy will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to add
stimulus measures, stoking investor demand for safety.  The 10-year yield dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.58 percent at 12:34 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It touched 1.5688
percent, the lowest level since June 8.  Foreign Purchases  Estimates of foreign purchases of long-term U.S. assets in
April ranged from net buying of $20 billion to $70 billion,
according to six economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the
report.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners sold a net $20.5 billion, compared with net selling
of $48.6 billion in the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  