-- Iran May Be Building Secret Uranium Plant, Group Says
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2012-06-15T21:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/iran-may-be-building-secret-uranium-plant-group-says.html
Iran may be constructing a secret
uranium enrichment plant outside of international nuclear
safeguards, according to a report from the Institute for Science
and International Security.  “Although suspicions are increasing that Iran is building
a secret centrifuge plant, ISIS assesses that it is unlikely
that Iran could currently have such a plant or finish one in the
next year,” according to the report yesterday from the
Washington-based research group.  Iran is already increasing its stockpiles of 19.75 percent
low-enriched uranium which, with further processing, would be
enough to fuel a single nuclear bomb “by early next year,”
according to ISIS analysts  David Albright  and Christina Walrond.  If Iran “modestly expands” its capability to make 19.75
percent uranium consistent with its existing plans, it could
have enough for a nuclear weapon by the end of 2012, they said.
“Production of enough for a second nuclear weapon would take
many additional months.”  The report comes days before a third round of international
negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program, which Israel
and western nations say they suspect is being used to develop a
nuclear weapons capability. Iran says it is purely civilian and
that the 19.75 percent uranium is needed for current and future
reactors producing isotopes for medical use.  Nuclear Negotiations  Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , is scheduled
to meet officials from  China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K.
and the U.S. in Moscow on June 18-19. EU foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton  heads the negotiations. Iran must show it is
committed to addressing international concerns about  uranium
enrichment , a European diplomat told reporters June 13 in
Brussels after requesting anonymity.  At earlier rounds, European and U.S. negotiators pressed
Iran to halt production of 19.75 percent enriched uranium at its
underground Fordo plant, located near Qom, and its Natanz
facility. They want Iran to agree to ship stockpiles out of the
country to allay concerns that the material could be further
enriched to at least 90 percent for bomb use.  “By any realistic analysis, Iran is making far more 19.75
percent uranium than it needs,” said Albright, a physicist who
is ISIS president, and Walrond, an analyst.  ‘Breakout’ Possibility  The current stockpiles are monitored by the Vienna-based
 International Atomic Energy Agency  to avoid diversion for
weapons use. To build a nuclear bomb, Iran either would have to
“breakout” of current international safeguards -- providing a
signal that could lead to a military strike by the U.S or Israel
-- or could try to conduct enrichment secretly.  “If Iran seeks to breakout at Fordo only, the time to
produce enough weapon-grade uranium for a nuclear weapon is
estimated to exceed two months,” the analysts said. “In this
case, there is adequate time for both the detection of such a
breakout and an international response.”  Iran could reduce the time by further processing some of
the 19.75 percent uranium using centrifuges at Natanz, its other
known enrichment plant, they said. That would reduce breakout
times to as little as about a month and require a relatively
rapid detection and response, they said.  In contrast, if  Iran  had to rely mainly on its stock of 3.5
percent uranium, a level applicable for nuclear power reactors,
breakout times to obtain enough weapon-grade uranium for a
nuclear weapon would be several months, they said.  Military Strikes  Even with a relatively short breakout time of one month,
the Natanz site -- regularly visited by IAEA inspectors -- is
highly vulnerable to military strikes. “On balance, Iran may
feel deterred from breaking out there,” the two researchers
said.  Because the underground Fordo enrichment plant is so deeply
buried, they said, “it raises concerns that Iran will try to
breakout at this site, believing that the site is impervious to
military strikes or that breakout can be achieved prior to a
military strike.”  “The ability to fully destroy the Fordo site is open to
debate, but nonetheless the  United States  and  Israel  have the
military capability to shut down operations at the facility for
some period of time,” they said.  Iran has acknowledged that its enrichment operations have
suffered setbacks from damage from the Stuxnet computer virus
that cybersecurity experts have said may have been developed by
Israel and the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  