-- Ireland Needs More Bank Measures to Ease Market Return, IMF Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-06-15T15:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ireland-needs-more-bank-measures-to-ease-market-return-imf-says.html
Ireland’s efforts to return to bond
markets would be enhanced by new measures to deal with its
banking debt, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Entering bond markets at reasonable cost and on the scale
needed in 2013 and thereafter will require a substantial
improvement in market conditions,” the IMF said in the report
released today in  Washington . “These prospects would also be
improved by a deepening of financial sector reforms to address
remaining issues from Ireland’s deep banking crisis, in
particular the annual promissory note payments.”  Ireland’s government is seeking to restructure about 30
billion euros ($37.9 billion) of so-called promissory notes, or
IOUs, used to rescue the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp., which
was renamed Irish Bank Resolution Corp. The state is also
seeking help to move loss-making home loans out of the banks.  Craig Beaumont, the IMF’s mission chief for Ireland, said
on a call with reporters that while there is no “firm
timetable” for the release of a technical paper on the Anglo
Irish promissory note issue, he’d like to move the process ahead
at a “reasonable pace.”  He said the troika overseeing
Ireland’s bailout view the issue “in very common way.”  The state needs to secure an accord to refinance the cost
of bailing out Anglo Irish to “ensure the political
sustainability” of more budget cuts, the IMF said.  Ireland stepped out of bond markets in September 2010 and
sought an international rescue two months later, amid concern
that the nation’s banking woes would push it into bankruptcy.  Debt  Debt will peak at 121 percent of gross domestic product in
2013 before declining to 111 percent by 2017, the IMF forecast.
Should economic growth stagnate at 0.5 percent, debt may rise to
133 percent by 2017, the IMF said.  “Debt sustainability is fragile, particularly with respect
to the medium-term growth prospects,” the IMF said.  Beaumont said the fund may review its 2013 Irish economic
growth forecast of 1.9 percent in the light of the escalating
euro-region debt crisis. He also said the IMF wouldn’t seek new
spending cuts or tax increases this year if slowing growth hurt
tax revenue.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark,
yielded 7.32 today, up from 6.99 percent when the IMF published
its March review. The yield on the equivalent Greek security is
27 percent and on the Portuguese note it’s 10.5 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  