-- Ivory Coast Resumes Payments on Its Defaulted Eurobonds
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-06-15T11:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ivory-coast-resumes-payments-on-its-defaulted-eurobonds.html
Ivory Coast , the world’s largest
cocoa producer, said it has resumed coupon payments on $2.3
billion of defaulted Eurobonds for the first time since January
last year.  The country told the  Central Bank  of West African States,
which represents Ivory Coast and a number of other former French
colonies, to transfer $45 million to meet scheduled June coupon
payments on June 12, Adama Kone, head of the nation’s public
treasury said by phone yesterday. The dollar bonds gained for a
second day, jumping 1.6 percent to 72.375 cents on the dollar as
of 11:23 a.m. in London, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Eurobonds due 2032 have surged 50 percent this year
after the government of President  Alassane Ouattara  pledged to
bondholders in January that the June payment would be made. The
government of ousted President  Laurent Gbagbo  halted payments
following a post-election crisis in November 2010.  “This is certainly a significant step forward that will
help reintegrate Cote d’Ivoire into the global financial system
after last year’s default,”  Samir Gadio , an  emerging-markets 
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in London, said by e-
mail. He forecasts the price of the bonds will reach “at least
90 on a multi-month basis.”  Ivory Coast will meet the holders of its defaulted
Eurobonds early next month to talk about the payment of the
three coupons the country missed in 2010 and 2011, Kone said.
The payment of the missed coupons will start in 2013, he said.  Good Faith  “I am pleased to confirm to you that the Republic of Cote
d’Ivoire has instructed Citibank as Trustee Paying Agent to pay
the holders of the bonds,” Finance Minister Charles Koffi Diby,
said in an e-mailed statement sent today by Lazard & Co., which
advises Ivory Coast. The semiannual coupon of $43.7 million
payment will be made on July 2 and a good faith payment of $2.1
million made on June 29, Diby wrote.  At least 3,000 people died in post-election violence after
Gbagbo refused to hand over power to Ouattara, who won a
November 2010 vote. Exports of cocoa and coffee were slashed
during the crisis, starving the government of revenue. Ouattara
took power last May.  The bonds were initially sold in April 2010. Last year’s
default was the second for Ivory Coast since 2000 when it
reneged on $3.5 billion of Brady bonds, securities created as
part of a debt restructuring plan for  developing countries  and
named after former U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady.  Subdued Advances  Ivory Coast  dollar bonds  have returned 44 percent so far
this year, the best performer and beating an average return of
6.5 percent, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI Global
Index.  Venezuela  had the second-highest gain with a 15 percent.  Further advances for the debt this year may be subdued on
concerns over concerns about the  European debt crisis , said Kojo Amoo-Gottfried, an analyst at FM Capital Partners Ltd.  “They’ve dealt with many of the internal issues, excluding
arrears, but  market sentiment  isn’t very positive right now for
bonds in general for emerging markets and that may extend some
pressure on them until the euro zone issue is resolved,” Amoo-
Gottfried said in a phone interview from  London  today.  The West African nation’s economy is expected to expand by
about 8 percent this year, after contracting 4.7 percent in
2011, according to the  International Monetary Fund . Ivory Coast
will get $5 billion in debt relief when it completes the
country’s program for indebted poor nations, expected this
month, the Washington-based lender said in May.  Challenges  The country may sell debt abroad within the next two years
to help fund investment in development, Aurelien Mali, a
sovereign credit analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a
May 16 interview in Johannesburg.  The economy has “definitely improved significantly over
the last six months,” Amoo-Gottfried said. “It still has a lot
of challenges, such as the violence in the west of the country
and cocoa prices remain lower than they were in 2011.”  A June 8 ambush that killed seven United Nations peace-
keepers was was deadliest attack on foreign troops in Ivory
Coast in eight years. Four more residents died in attacks in the
same cocoa-growing area along its porous western border with
Liberia overnight on June 12 and as many as 5,000 people have
fled their homes, according to the UN.  The attacks are extending a decade of violence which
started with a military uprising in 2002 that left Ivory Coast
divided between a government-controlled south and rebel-held
north.  Cocoa prices have fallen more than 30 percent in London
from their 2011 peak.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  