-- James Cameron, National Geographic, De Borchgrave: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/james-cameron-national-geographic-de-borchgrave-d-c-.html
Austrian alpinist Gerlinde
Kaltenbrunner, the first woman to climb the world’s 14 8,000-
meter peaks without supplementary oxygen, was named National
Geographic Society’s “Explorer of the Year” Thursday night.  Jacques Piccard, who in 1960 was one of the two first men
(with Don Walsh) to explore the deepest part of the ocean, the
Pacific’s Mariana Trench, received the Hubbard Medal
posthumously. It was accepted by his son, balloonist Bertrand Piccard, the first person to complete a nonstop, round-the-world
balloon flight.  Film director  James Cameron , a National Geographic
explorer-in-residence, became the third person to explore the
Mariana Trench, on March 26.  Cameron participated in the program at the society’s
headquarters, which included a viewing of “Titanic: 100 Year
Obsession,” commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Titanic
sinking.  Cameron, director of the blockbuster “Titanic,” and
Stewart Wicht, Rolex Watch U.S.A. Inc. chief executive, admired
a model of the ship. Both sported Rolex’s Sea-dweller Deepsea.
Rolex sponsored Cameron’s recent expedition as well as the event
last night.  Robert Ballard, who discovered the Titanic’s remains in
1985, said his favorite item in the exhibition was a model of
the wreckage.  At the party after the awards presentation, bubbles fell
from the ceiling and frosty mist rose from the floor.  Chef Barton Seaver studied the meals served on the Titanic
to determine his own menu. One of his offerings was Waldorf
salad, a preferred dish onboard.  Papier-Mache  Belgian Ambassador Jan Matthysen was at the  Hillwood
Estate , Museum & Gardens Thursday night for the opening of
“Pret-a-Papier: The Exquisite Art of Isabelle de Borchgrave.”  De Borchgrave, a Belgian artist, created floral hand fans
for the more than 300 guests; June breezes made them
unnecessary.  A few fireflies could be seen in the garden during dinner,
which included Belgian endive salad, Belgian frites and Belgian
chocolate ganache.  Hillwood, the former home of the late heiress Marjorie
Merriweather Post, opened to the public as a museum in 1977. It
houses Russian and French art and boasts a 25-acre landscaped
garden.  George Floyd, a partner with Brown Advisory Securities, a
major sponsor of the event, said he became a supporter of
Hillwood because Ellen Charles, his sister-in-law, is Post’s
granddaughter.  Charles sat at de Borchgrave’s and Matthysen’s table, near
philanthropist Nina Pillsbury.  After the meal, guests walked through the mansion to look
at the exhibition, which features historic dresses and costumes,
like those of Empress Josephine, made with papier-mache. Many of
the designs were inspired by paintings in the Hillwood
collection, such as “Portrait of Countess Samoilova” by Karl
Pavlovich Briullov.  “Can it be?” asked Laura Bisogniero, the wife of Italian
Ambassador Claudio Bisogniero, to no one in particular, while
she marveled at a dainty papier-mache tiara, modeled after the
countess’s.  The event raised almost $100,000 for Hillwood. The
exhibition opens to the public Saturday.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 