-- Last Aum Fugitive Caught by Japan Police for 1995 Sarin Attack
-- B y   K e i i c h i   Y a m a m u r a   a n d   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2012-06-15T06:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/japan-police-capture-final-aum-fugitive-takahashi-nhk-says.html
Japanese police caught Katsuya Takahashi, the last remaining fugitive of the Aum Shinrikyo cult
that carried out the 1995 sarin-gas attack on the  Tokyo  subway,
ending a 17-year nationwide manhunt.  Takahashi, 54, was apprehended this morning and was being
held at the Tokyo Metropolitan Police headquarters, according to
a police official in the capital, who declined to confirm
additional details. Public broadcaster NHK earlier reported he
was found in an Internet cafe in Tokyo’s Ota ward around 9:15
a.m. Police planned to formally arrest him on charges including
murder, NHK said.  The capture ends the search for the last three suspects in
a spree of violence by Aum members that culminated in the sarin
attack on Tokyo’s subway, which killed 12 people and sickened
thousands. The attack helped shatter postwar myths of a united,
peaceful Japan and prompted tougher public security laws.  Takahashi’s fellow suspect Naoko Kikuchi, 40, was
apprehended on the outskirts of Tokyo on June 3. Police arrested
Makoto Hirata, 47, on Jan. 1.  The cult’s founder, Shoko Asahara, has been sentenced to
death for at least 27 murders attributed to the group. The 57-
year-old Asahara, born Chizuo Matsumoto, was the 12th Aum member
sentenced to hang for the attacks and has exhausted all his
appeals.  The cult had killed seven people in 1994 in a separate
sarin attack in the city of Matsumoto. Originally developed in
 Germany  in 1938 as a pesticide, sarin can cause symptoms in
humans ranging from watery eyes to paralysis and death,
depending on the amount of exposure.  Subway Attack  In the Tokyo attack on March 20, 1995, five Aum members
carried plastic bags filled with liquid sarin onto trains on the
Hibiya, Marunouchi and Chiyoda subway lines, which were
converging at Kasumigaseki station in the government district,
and punctured them using the sharpened tips of umbrellas.  The attack “succeeded in causing panic and chaos in the
station and throughout Tokyo,” according to a U.S. government
 report , which described “men, women and children in panic,
coughing uncontrollably, vomiting and collapsing in heaps.”  More than 180 people were indicted for the attacks. Asahara
was arrested in May 1995 and sentenced to death in February 2004
after an eight-year trial. Prosecutors at the time called him
the worst criminal in the history of  Japan . Japan’s supreme
court rejected a final appeal against Asahara’s death sentence
in 2006.  Mail Bomb  Aum members were also found guilty of the 1989 murder of a
lawyer who represented victims of the cult, along with his wife
and 1-year-old son, and of mailing a bomb to the office of
Tokyo’s governor in 1995, injuring one person. Followers of the
cult were also investigated for a near-fatal shooting of Japan’s
top police official.  Asahara, who is legally blind, was born into a poor family
of tatami-mat makers. He founded Aum in the mid-1980s and went
on to draw thousands of followers to his sect, which prophesied
an imminent Armageddon in which its followers would seize power
and achieve salvation.  Aum made a public apology in 1999 for its violent acts and
pledged to compensate victims. The group renamed itself Aleph
the following year, renounced violence and said it was no longer
under Asahara’s leadership. The organization  split  into two
groups in 2007, according to Japan’s Justice Ministry, which
estimated total membership in the cult at about 1,500 at the
time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiichi Yamamura in Tokyo at 
 kyamamura@bloomberg.net ;
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Gearoid Reidy at 
 greidy1@bloomberg.net  