-- JetBlue Pilot Osbon Found Competent to Stand Trial
-- B y   C a t h y   M a r t i n d a l e   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-15T17:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/jetblue-pilot-osbon-found-competent-to-stand-trial.html
Clayton Osbon, the  JetBlue Airways
Corp. (JBLU)  pilot arrested in March after his erratic behavior led to
the diversion of a flight, was found mentally fit to stand trial
by mutual agreement of the prosecution and defense.  U.S. District Judge Mary Lou Robinson in Amarillo,  Texas ,
made the ruling at a hearing today, after ordering Osbon in
April to undergo a mental examination at a federal medical
facility. Osbon’s lawyer told the court in April that he will
mount an insanity defense to charges that his client interfered
with the duties of a flight crew.  The hearing today was to help determine whether Osbon is
“suffering from a mental defect or deficiency rendering him
mentally incompetent” to understand the legal proceedings “or
assist properly in his own defense,” according to a court
filing.  Osbon’s behavior while captaining a March 27 flight from
New York to  Las Vegas  caused his co-pilot to bar him from the
cockpit, according to a federal agent’s affidavit filed with a
criminal complaint the next day. After Osbon began shouting and
pounding on the flight deck door, he was restrained by some of
the plane’s passengers.  The plane was diverted to Amarillo, where Osbon was taken
into custody. He was indicted on April 11.  Pilot Questioned  Assistant U.S. Attorney Denise Williams and Osbon’s defense
attorney, E. Dean Roper, told the judge today that both parties
agreed to a written stipulation based on the court-ordered
examination of Osbon’s competency to stand trial.  The two sides agreed that Osbon is able to communicate with
his attorneys and assist in his own defense, and understands the
charges against him. Robinson accepted the stipulation after
questioning Osbon on each point and about whether he believed
the agreement to be in his best interest.  The pilot, wearing a dark green jail uniform and ankle
chains, replied, “Yes, your honor” to each of the judge’s
questions. Robinson granted the attorneys’ joint motion to seal
the report of Osbon’s mental health examination.  Robinson’s decision comes just two days after 10 New York-
area passengers on Osbon’s March 27 flight sued the pilot and
JetBlue for claims including assault, reckless infliction of
emotional distress and negligent supervision, hiring and
retention. The passengers are seeking compensatory and punitive
damages in  New York  State Supreme Court in Queens.  The complaint alleges the passengers “experienced fear of
imminent death and severe physical injury due to the actions of
defendant Osbon and the ensuing struggle to subdue him” and
“suffered severe emotional disturbance, anxiety and fear.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Osbon, 12-cr-00017, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Amarillo). The civil
case is Euler v. JetBlue Airways Corp., 701032/2012, New York
State Supreme Court (Queens).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Marten in New York at 
 cmarten@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  