-- JetBlue Pilot Osbon Faces U.S. Judge Over Fitness to Stand Trial
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-15T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/jetblue-pilot-osbon-faces-u-s-judge-over-fitness-to-stand-trial.html
Clayton Osbon, the  JetBlue Airways
Corp. (JBLU)  pilot arrested in March after his erratic behavior led to
the diversion of a flight, is set for a court hearing today over
whether he is mentally fit to stand trial.  U.S. District Judge Mary Lou Robinson in Amarillo,  Texas ,
is scheduled to hear findings from a mental examination of Osbon
that she ordered in April at a federal medical facility. Osbon’s
lawyer told the court in April that he will mount an insanity
defense to charges that he interfered with the duties of a
flight crew.  The hearing will help determine whether the pilot is
“suffering from a mental defect or deficiency rendering him
mentally incompetent” to understand the legal proceedings “or
assist properly in his own defense,” according to a court
filing.  Osbon’s lawyer, E. Dean Roper, and Assistant U.S. Attorney
Denise Williams didn’t return phone calls yesterday seeking
comment on the hearing.  Osbon’s behavior while captaining a March 27 flight from
 New York  to  Las Vegas  caused his co-pilot to bar him from the
cockpit, according to an FBI agent’s affidavit filed with a
criminal complaint the next day. After Osbon began shouting and
pounding on the flight deck door, he was restrained by some of
the plane’s passengers.  The plane diverted to Amarillo, where he was taken into
custody. He was indicted on April 11.  Osbon is still employed at  Long Island City , New York-based
JetBlue, though he isn’t on active duty, Allison Steinberg, a
company spokeswoman, said in an interview. JetBlue supports
Osbon and all its employees, she said when asked for a comment
about the hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Osbon, 12-cr-00017, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Amarillo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  