-- Junk ETF Bond Volumes Signal Electronic Demand: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-06-15T19:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/junk-etf-bond-volumes-signal-electronic-demand-credit-markets.html
Trading of exchange-traded funds
that focus on  junk bonds  is soaring while volume in the
underlying securities slumps as dwindling dealer holdings prompt
investors to seek electronic platforms.  Volumes in the two biggest ETFs in June have climbed 22
percent above the six-month average while overall  trading  for
the debt has sunk 9 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A record $1.67 billion of shares was traded May 31 in
the funds from  BlackRock Inc. (HYG)  and  State Street Corp. (JNK) , equivalent
to 35 percent of the day’s total volume for U.S. junk debt.  Junk ETFs are providing liquidity for investors who want to
accumulate and unload risky assets quickly as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis escalates with dealer inventories dropping
81 percent from the 2007 peak. The funds are luring
institutional investors while firms from BlackRock to  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  form electronic bond-trading platforms as
dealers become less willing to hold capital as a buffer against
losses on corporate debt.  “ Hedge funds  and individual investors recently may be able
to articulate a trade more efficiently” through ETFs rather
than the actual bonds, said Jason Rosiak, head of  portfolio
management  at Pacific Asset Management, an affiliate of Pacific
Life Insurance Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California . “That could be
considered an indictment on the bid-offer spread increasing due
to dealers not taking a significant amount of risk.”  Juggle Quotes  New regulations from  U.S. Congress  and the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  are spurring the biggest banks to pare
 holdings  of corporate bonds to $44.6 billion as of June 6 from a
peak of $235 billion in October 2007, according to Federal
Reserve data. Declining inventories are delaying trades as
brokers are less able to use bank capital to buy notes and have
to juggle price quotes from potential investors.  “Money managers are not used to bids and offers, they’re
used to going to a dealer,” said Gary Gastineau, managing
director at ETF Consultants. “ETFs will be much more important
for trading.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. fell, with the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declining by 2.6 basis points to a mid-price of 117.9 basis
points as of 3:37 p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  GE Bonds  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
 bond market  stress, fell 2.5 basis points to 27.25 basis points
as of 3:37 p.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek
the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of  General Electric Co. (GE)  are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
83 trades of $1 million or more as of 3:38 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  High-yield ETFs, listed on exchanges and brokered like
stocks, are growing as the bond market stands to undergo the
biggest transformation since Trace brought transparency to
pricing in 2002. The funds have amassed $26.7 billion in assets
since the first one began five years ago.  ‘Enhance Transparency’  Trading volumes in BlackRock’s  iShares iBoxx High Yield
Corporate Bond Fund  are an average 4 million shares a day in
June through June 13, Bloomberg data show. That compares with a
six-month  daily average  of 3.05 million shares, according to the
data.  Daily volumes in State Street’s SPDR Barclays Capital High
Yield Bond ETF were an average 6.3 million during the period,
compared with a six-month average of 5.36 million, Bloomberg
data show.  Markit Group Ltd. is responding to investor demand for
trading alternatives for corporate debt with a set of indexes,
one of which tracks the same  iBoxx  benchmark as BlackRock’s
fund. The Markit indexes allow investors to bet on borrowers’
ability to repay their debt in a total-return swap format.  “In recent years, we have expanded their coverage across
the fixed-income asset class to enhance transparency,” said
Armins Rusis, Markit’s global head of data, indices and
research, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement announcing the
initiative.  Bloomberg LP, the owner of Bloomberg News, competes with
Markit in selling information to the financial-services
industry.  Spanish Banks  A measure of the gap between where dealers buy and sell
debt quadrupled last year as  Europe ’s crisis escalated. The so-
called bid-ask spread for 15 of the most-traded credit swaps on
U.S. investment-grade companies expanded to 18.7 basis points on
Oct. 4 from 4.85 on Aug. 3, according to market prices compiled
by London-based CMA and Bloomberg. The gap has narrowed to 8.7.  The turmoil in Europe has roiled speculative-grade debt,
with U.S. high-yield bonds losing 1 percent since the end of
April, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s .  While Spain requests as much as 100 billion euros ($126.3
billion) of aid to shore up its lenders, the U.K. central bank
has activated an unused plan to inject at least 5 billion pounds
($7.8 billion) a month into the financial system.  ‘More Efficient’  “Given the fact that a lot of the moves in the market are
macro related, it fits to see a rise in the trading activity of
index based asset-class products with bets being taken both long
or short,” said  Chris Taggert , a senior analyst at research
firm CreditSights Inc. in New York.  High-yield ETFs are attracting a record volume of
institutional investors, with the buyers accounting for 52
percent of BlackRock’s ETF and 62 percent of the  fund  from State
Street.  In April, BlackRock said it was planning a bond-trading
platform called Aladdin Trading Network to lower trading costs
for customers. Goldman Sachs started a similar system, called
GSessions, in May as it adapts to regulatory changes and
competition.  MarketAxess Holdings Inc.’s electronic trading system for
U.S. and European investment-grade,  emerging markets  and other
types of bonds said in April that it had a record $58.7 billion
of transactions during March.  “As trading becomes more difficult in the bonds, people
will say trading in ETFs is more efficient,” said Chris Hempstead, director of ETF execution at WallachBeth Capital LLC
in New York. “By trading the ETF, you’re transferring the onus
for trading the bonds onto someone else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  