-- Kroger $1 Billion Buyback Right Size for Debt: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-06-15T15:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/kroger-1-billion-buyback-right-size-for-debt-corporate-finance.html
Kroger Co. (KR) , which saw the cost of
insuring its bonds reach a nine-year high and its stock fall to
a 16-month low this week, is laying the groundwork for a
rebound.  Credit-default swaps linked to the largest U.S. supermarket
chain fell to 117.9 basis points at 11:39 a.m. in New York from
138.7 on June 13 after Kroger raised its profit forecast and
reported better results than analysts had expected. Its  stock 
climbed 6.6 percent to $22.69 after the company announced a
buyback of as much as $1 billion.  The retailer is supporting its credit with sales that have
expanded every year since at least 1987 and rising income that
includes a $2.40 per share profit forecast for the current
fiscal year, an increase of two cents from an earlier estimate.
The Cincinnati-based company has gained market share even as
other grocers lost sales to discounters Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
Target Corp. while operating in “a brutal business with razor
thin margins,” according to money manager Bonnie Baha.  “Kroger’s management has historically exhibited a balanced
financial policy which treats both stockholders and bondholders
fairly,” said Baha, head of global developed credit at Los
Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees $35 billion.
The share repurchase program “doesn’t unduly alarm us from a
bondholder perspective,” she said.  The company is  rated  Baa2 at Moody’s Investors Service, the
second-lowest investment grade, and an equivalent BBB at
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Spreads Widen  “We will manage our  leverage ratio  to a level that will
continue to support our BBB credit rating,” Mike Schlotman,
Kroger’s chief financial officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Kroger’s bonds
instead of government debt has climbed 62 basis points to 200
basis points, or 2 percentage points, from the beginning of
April, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. That
compares with a spread widening of 44 basis points to 210 basis
points for the entire U.S. Corporates Food & Drug Retail index.  Investors were becoming concerned that the grocer wouldn’t
be able to maintain its market share in the face of growing
competition, Mickey Chadha, Moody’s lead Kroger analyst, said in
a telephone interview.  ‘Increased Competition’  “Being that the grocery space is under increased
competition from the Wal-Marts, Targets and Costcos of the world
and from the extreme value discounters like the dollar stores
there was some concern over pricing pressure and how that would
play out this quarter,” he said. “It was definitely reassuring
that Kroger continues to perform well and outperform is peers in
quite a challenging business environment.”  Kroger’s board approved the $1 billion share buyback
program to replace an authorization exhausted June 12, after
returning more than $1.6 billion to shareholders through
buybacks and dividends in the past four quarters, the company
said this week.  The retailer loaded up on  debt  in 1988 to protect itself
against a wave of takeover in the supermarket industry. Its
borrowings rose to $5.08 billion at the end of the calendar year
from $1.33 billion a year earlier, sending its  credit rating  to
B1 from A3 at Moody’s and B+ from A at S&P. It returned to
investment-grade at both companies in 1997.  Kroger now has $8.11 billion of total debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kroger Swaps  Credit swaps on Kroger, which pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt, had surged 70.6 basis points since the beginning
of April, Bloomberg prices show. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  “It’s been a steady move,” Diana Allmendinger, research
director at Fitch Solutions, said in a telephone interview. The
contract’s rise “may be a correction,” because it held at low
levels for an extended period and is now “right in line” with
levels consistent with its credit rating.  “It’s not like it’s underperforming in terms of where its
rating is, it’s just that it’s widened out so much from where it
was,” she said.  Trades by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s London-based chief
investment office responsible for a $2 billion trading loss may
have raised the cost of hedging Kroger’s debt.  Kroger is part of the 10-year Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index Series 9, the so-called IG9 index created
in 2007 and one of the positions contributing to the JPMorgan
Chase loss. It has surged relative to the current most-active
index, creating a technical effect that pushed credit-default
swaps on the vintage index’s constituents wider, according to
Hale Holden, a Barclays Plc strategist.  ‘Very Diversified’  The company has a “very diversified store base
geographically and it also has diversified store formats which
cover a wide consumer demographic,” said Chadha of  New York- 
based Moody’s.  “Its margins are not increasing much but in this business
and competitive environment, if you can hold your margins fairly
stable or manage to limit their decline, you’re doing a good
job,” he said.  Kroger’s  gross margin  fell to 20.9 percent last year from
22.2 percent the year before and 23.2 percent in the 12 months
ended Jan. 30, 2010. By Jan. 31, 2014, the ratio of gross profit
to sales is forecast to decline to 20.3 percent, according to
the  average  of six analysts in a survey by Bloomberg News.  Sales at Kroger rose 10 percent to $90.4 billion in its
fiscal year through January and are expected to increase 6.9
percent to $96.6 billion in the current year, according to
analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Sales Increase  Revenue rose 6.3 percent last year to $43.6 billion at
Safeway Inc. and dropped 3.8 percent to $36.1 billion at
Supervalu Inc. Pleasanton, California-based Safeway is the
second-biggest U.S.  grocery chain , while Supervalu, based in
 Eden Prairie ,  Minnesota , is third.  Kroger, which operates locations under the Ralphs, Dillons
and Food 4 Less brands, was founded in 1883 and incorporated in
1902. Of its 2,435 supermarkets, about 45 percent have gas
stations. The company also has about 790 convenience store and
350 fine jewelry stores.  The company has tried to attract customers with its 11,000
private-label items, which are sold in three price tiers. It
recently introduced new flavors of snack chips, including sea
salt, cinnamon sugar and gluten-free rice and bean, under
Private Selection, its gourmet line.  ‘Price Competitive’  Kroger’s lower prices are “the most meaningful
differentiator” from Supervalu and Safeway, according to Ajay Jain, a New York-based stock analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP who
rates the shares “hold.”  “They’re just much more price competitive,” he said in a
telephone interview. Because of the “meaningful overlap” with
Wal-Mart, “they’ve been investing in lower prices for a few
years now,” he said. Kroger also competes with the dollar-store
chains, he said.  Kroger is benefiting from consumers eating more meals at
home, “taking market share from restaurants,” Jain said.  “We’re competing against more than just traditional
grocery retailers,” Chief Executive Officer  David Dillon  said
on a conference call with analysts and investors on June 14.
“As we have grown market share, our customers come from a much
broader base than just supermarkets. It is also clear that we
compete very well with a broader array of food retailers -- and
this includes restaurants.”  As global economic growth slows, Kroger’s ability to
continue to “fend off” losing market share would be the only
concern for DoubleLine’s Baha.  “Of the peers left in the space, they’re certainly the
strongest player,” she said in a telephone interview. “They’ve
shown good financial management. Given their earning report,
what’s a billion stock buyback? I think that can be easily
handled, given the cash flow the company throws off and the fact
that they really have done a good job managing their business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  