-- Nokia Takeover Seen as Collapsing Shares Signal Bottom: Real M&A
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-06-15T20:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/nokia-takeover-seen-as-collapsing-shares-signal-bottom-real-m-a.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s steepest stock drop in
more than a decade is turning the mobile-device maker into a
potential takeover target for buyers willing to bet that it
still has a future in smartphones.  Nokia plunged 18 percent yesterday after forecasting a
wider second-quarter operating loss from handsets and saying it
will cut as many as 10,000 jobs as it cedes market share to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Samsung Electronics Co. devices. After
wiping out about $100 billion in market value, Espoo, Finland-
based Nokia trades at a 38 percent discount to its net assets,
the least expensive on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg dating back to 1995.  Once Europe’s most valuable company, Nokia is losing money
as it tries to rebuild the smartphone business around  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone software and after failing to sell an
unprofitable  equipment venture  with  Siemens AG. (SIE)  With the lowest
price-sales multiple among communications-equipment makers, cash
and short-term investments exceeding its $8.6 billion market
value and more than 10,000 patent families, Nokia could attract
Microsoft, said Falcon Point Capital LLC. It may even be cheap
enough to lure buyout firms, Avian Securities LLC said.  “The key question is, can they do something to turn this
into a growth business again?”  Michael Mahoney , senior managing
director at Falcon Point in San Francisco, said in a telephone
interview. “If they can just make it grow, even a little bit,
it’s very cheap.”  Doug Dawson , a spokesman at Nokia, declined to comment on
speculation about a possible sale.  Losing Lead  “This is a great company and we’re going to build on our
strengths in brand, scale” and intellectual property, Dawson
said. “We think we have the assets for growth.”  Moody’s Investors Service today became the last of the
three major rating companies to cut Nokia’s debt to junk.  Nokia  started out  as a wood-pulp and paper company in 1865
before expanding into rubber, electronics and eventually
telecommunications. The company’s market capitalization, which
was more than 300 billion euros in 2000, has tumbled more than
90 percent since the iPhone was introduced five years ago,
valuing it at 6.8 billion euros ($8.6 billion) as of yesterday.  The world’s largest handset maker for 14 years, Nokia’s
market share has been gouged in recent years by Apple and device
makers such as  Samsung (005930)  that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system,
the fastest-growing major smartphone platform. Samsung earlier
this year overtook Nokia for the top spot in mobile phones
overall, according to  Stamford , Connecticut-based Gartner Inc.  Nokia, which hired Microsoft’s Stephen Elop as chief
executive officer in 2010 to halt the slide, last year adopted
Microsoft’s Windows Phone, ditching its own smartphone software
in a bid to recapture market share.  Lowered Forecast  Nokia’s share of smartphone shipments fell to 7.8 percent
in the first quarter, according to International Data Corp.  “Any company that goes through these kinds of massive tech
discontinuities and competitive changes, it’s death by a
thousand cuts,” Adnaan Ahmad, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in
 London , said in a phone interview.  Yesterday, Nokia cut its earnings forecast for the second
time this year and added 10,000 job cuts to more than 10,000
already announced in the handset division.  “This is harder than we thought and we’re having to make
deeper changes,” Elop said on a conference call yesterday.  Nokia’s decline yesterday reduced the stock price to 1.83
euros, which is 0.62 times book value, an all-time low for the
company since at least 1995, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Today, the stock rose 5.6 percent to 1.93 euros.  Cash Hoard  The company was valued at an  81 percent discount  to its
revenue, also a record low and a cheaper multiple than every
other communications-equipment maker in the world with a market
capitalization of at least $5 billion, the data show.  Nokia had  $12.4 billion  in cash and short-term investments
as of March 31, topping its market value of $8.6 billion
yesterday, the data show. After accounting for  debt , Nokia’s net
cash position of $5.9 billion is still the equivalent of 68
percent of its market capitalization.  “Close to half of the market cap is cash -- that’s cheap
no matter what’s going on,” Falcon Point’s Mahoney said. For
private-equity firms, “it’s cheap enough. When you are at this
type of level, you don’t even need to cut costs that much to get
value out of the transaction.”  Matt Thornton , a Boston-based analyst at Avian Securities,
said a private-equity firm could be interested in buying Nokia’s
main handset business for its cash, while the Nokia Siemens
Networks venture could be sold or spun off into a separate
public company.  Samsung Speculation  On June 8, Nokia shares climbed the most in five months as
investors speculated that Samsung, the world’s largest mobile-
phone maker, was preparing a takeover offer. Samsung, based in
Suwon,  South Korea , released a statement earlier this week
saying the market speculation was groundless.  “Samsung, I think, is almost impossible,” said  Janardan Menon , an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London. “They’ve
got a great business themselves, why would they want to go and
spoil their margins with this? It comes with too much baggage in
terms of cost structure and legacy operating systems.”  Microsoft is the most likely buyer of Nokia, its main
partner in smartphones, as it aims to turn Windows Phone into a
viable contender to Apple iOS operating system and Android,
 Charlie Wolf , a New York-based analyst at Needham & Co., said in
an interview.  “If Nokia doesn’t come out of its funk within a year,
Nokia is going to be finished,” Wolf said. “And without Nokia,
Windows Phone could be finished. It’s difficult to see Microsoft
winning in the smartphone space -- it needs to buy Nokia.”  Patent Power  Besides gaining Nokia’s hardware engineering expertise,
manufacturing operations and distribution system, Microsoft
could benefit from the Finnish company’s portfolio of patents.
Wolf estimates Nokia’s patents are more valuable than the ones
Google acquired with its $12.8 billion purchase of Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., which closed last month. Nokia’s patents
may be worth $7.5 billion, according to MKM Partners.  Kristin Widing, a spokeswoman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment on whether the company would
consider purchasing Nokia.  Other buyers could include Chinese telecommunications
companies such as Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s largest maker
of phone equipment, or  ZTE Corp. (763) , China’s second-biggest
manufacturer in the industry, Falcon Point’s Mahoney said.  “Nokia is a fantastic brand,” Mahoney said. “I just
think American subscribers who owned Nokia phones in the past
probably liked them. That might help the Chinese side to
approach the world market -- and get more money for their phones
in China.”  Not Yet  Jannie Long, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Huawei, which is
located in Shenzhen, declined to comment.  “As far as I know, ZTE doesn’t have any plan for Nokia,”
David Dai, a spokesman for Shenzhen-based ZTE, said.  Michael Genovese, managing director at MKM Partners, said
an acquirer is unlikely to step forward now while the company is
still losing market share.  “I’ve been in the stores, and no one is buying Nokia’s
Windows Phones,” Genovese said. “I don’t think anyone will be
buying them any time soon. Microsoft may eventually end up
buying Nokia, but that’s at least a year away.”  As it attempts to restructure and to stabilize its
business, the company could burn through much of its cash in two
years, Genovese said. The company  lost  1.16 billion euros in
2011, and is  projected  to lose an additional 1.9 billion euros
this year as sales decline 18 percent, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Lottery Ticket’  “Who would buy them at this point?” Lars Soederfjell, a
Stockholm-based analyst with Bank of Aaland, said in a telephone
interview. “You need to stabilize the business. There’s too
much uncertainty. It’s more like buying a lottery ticket than
anything else.”  Still, industry analysts at Gartner and Framingham,
Massachusetts-based IDC say they expect the Windows Phone
platform will make inroads as Microsoft develops it further.  Carolina Milanesi, an analyst at Gartner, said the firm
forecasts Windows Phone will be the second-biggest smartphone
ecosystem after Android in 2015. IDC expects Windows Phone to
pass Apple’s iOS in 2016.  For a potential acquirer looking to enter the phone market,
Nokia’s depressed valuation may offer a compelling entry point,
said  Michael Holland , chairman of New York-based Holland & Co.,
which oversees more than $4 billion and owns Microsoft shares.  “I’m sure it’s much cheaper at these prices to buy Nokia
rather than build,” Holland said in a phone interview. Nokia’s
“valuations are just so compelling. The question is, does
anyone have the confidence to take that step?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 