-- Nokia’s Debt Rating Is Reduced to Junk Status at Moody’s
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-06-15T12:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/nokia-debt-rating-is-reduced-one-step-to-junk-status-at-moody-s.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s debt rating was cut to
junk at Moody’s Investors Service, the last of the three major
credit-rating companies to strip the Finnish mobile-phone maker
of its investment grade because of mounting handset losses.  The senior debt rating was reduced by one step to Ba1, the
highest non-investment grade, with a negative outlook, Moody’s
said in a statement today. The decision affects about 3.6
billion euros ($4.5 billion) in debt, Moody’s said.  Nokia’s restructuring plan “delineates a scale of earnings
pressure and cash consumption that is larger than we had
previously assumed,” Wolfgang Draack, a senior vice president
at Moody’s, said in the statement.  Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop announced a
restructuring plan yesterday including as many as 10,000 job
cuts. The Espoo, Finland-based company said it expects to book
1.25 billion euros in cash outflows for its restructuring
programs from the second quarter through the end of 2013.  The company is “running out of time” and must reduce cash
outflow or its debt rating will be cut again,  Fitch Ratings  said
in a statement today.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch cut Nokia in April to BB+,
their highest junk grade, with a negative outlook.  Default Swaps  “Although the cost-cutting provides some relief,
ultimately the company needs to demonstrate that its products
are attractive to consumers and can enable it to win back market
share,” Owen Fenton, a London-based Fitch analyst, said in the
statement.  The cost of insuring Nokia bonds using credit-default swaps
climbed to a record high today. It rose 25 basis points, or 2.7
percent, to 933 basis points, according to Bloomberg prices.
Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements. The insurance cost has risen 163
percent this year.  Elop’s shift to using  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone
operating system hasn’t stopped Nokia losing smartphone market
share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software. Nokia smartphone shipments fell  51 percent  in
the first quarter while low-end phone shipments tumbled 16
percent. Competition in the third quarter will be tough as well,
Elop said.  “We believe we have the net cash needed to manage through
this transition and the scope of today’s changes is designed to
ensure this remains true,” he said June 14 on a conference call
about the restructuring plan.  Nokia’s net cash and other liquid assets shrank to 4.9
billion euros at the end of the first quarter, from 5.6 billion
euros at the close of 2011 and 6.4 billion euros at the end of
March 2011.  Nokia predicted a second-quarter operating loss in handsets
of more than 3 percent of sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  