-- Norway Fish Producers Surge Amid Recovery in Prices: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-06-15T10:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/norway-fish-producers-surge-amid-recovery-in-prices-oslo-mover.html
Marine Harvest ASA (MHG)  and  Cermaq ASA (CEQ) ,
two of Norway’s biggest salmon producers, surged in Oslo trading
amid signs that falling production during the next two years
will lead to increased prices.  Cermaq jumped as much as  10 percent , the most in almost a
year, while Marine Harvest gained as much as  7.2 percent  to the
highest level since July 13. Cermaq, the third-largest fish
farmer, was the biggest winner on the OBX benchmark index, ahead
of Marine Harvest, the world’s largest producer.  “We have seen a positive shift in demand as the low prices
have led to increased market penetration,” ABG Sundal Collier
Holding ASA analyst Dag Sletmo said in an e-mailed note
yesterday. “We upgrade the sector to buy from hold as the cycle
should start to head north in 2013.”  Wholesale prices for fresh salmon have fallen 21 percent
during the last year amid rising output from Chile and  Norway ,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on figures from Fish
Pool ASA, a clearing house for financial contracts on salmon.
Shares in fish farmers have declined as producers seek to reduce
costs and reorganize debt as weaker demand curbs margins.  “Supply growth will drop from 19 percent in 2012 to 4
percent in 2013, which should be supportive for prices,” Sletmo
wrote. “The year-on-year growth in supply peaked at 33 percent
in the first quarter of 2012 and will decline steadily in the
quarters and years ahead.”  Cermaq traded 5.6 percent higher at 73.95 kroner as of
11:40 a.m. in Oslo, while Marine Harvest was up 4.8 percent at
3.782 kroner. ABG’s Sletmo  upgraded  both companies to buy from
hold in his report.  “If history repeats itself, there is 100 percent upside in
Marine Harvest and the sector on a one-to-two year horizon,”
wrote Sletmo, who also upgraded Bakkafrost P/F,  Salmar ASA (SALM) ,
 Leroey Seafood Group ASA (LSG)  and  Grieg Seafood ASA (GSF)  to buy and kept
that recommendation on  Morpol ASA. (MORPOL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  