-- Obama’s 2008 Young Voters Find Little Hope in Job Market
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-06-15T00:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/obama-s-2008-young-voters-find-little-hope-in-job-market.html
A year after finishing college,
Alison Foster, 23, is living with her parents and scraping by on
part-time, temporary project work from an employer she interned
with earlier this year.  “I didn’t anticipate that a year out I would be barely
making any money at all,” said Foster, from Arlington,
 Virginia . Along with a degree in environmental sciences from the
University of  Vermont , her resume includes prestigious
internships with a member of Congress and the National Park
Service’s Conservation Study Institute, and yet no job offers
have come.  In the hard economic times since 2008, when Foster voted
for President  Barack Obama ’s message of hope, America’s young
voters have been battered. They’ve disproportionately sustained
job losses, wage declines and detours on their career paths.  For many, even the normal rites of passage to adulthood
have been disrupted, as they delay such life steps as leaving
home, getting married and having children.  “These people are stuck,” said  William Frey , a
demographer at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington. “Their
life is on hold in many different ways.”  One in six 16- to 24-year-olds last year was idle, neither
working nor attending school even for just an hour a week,
according to an analysis of Labor Department data by Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economics professor. Among 20- to 24-year-old
men, almost one in five was idle last year.  Jobs Decline  As of May, 41 percent of the nation’s net decline in full-
time jobs from four years earlier was among under-25-year-olds,
an age group that represents just 14 percent of the workforce,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Under-35-year-olds
account for 65 percent of the decline in full-time employment,
though they comprise only 35 percent of the  labor force .  Even among young people who have full-time work, real wages
have dropped, while older workers’ pay has kept even or slightly
improved. Median weekly earnings after inflation fell 6 percent
among 18- to 24-year-olds in full-time jobs from 2007 to 2011,
according to an analysis of Labor Department data by the Pew
Research Center in Washington.  “You’ve got a lot of very well-educated people and they’re
stepping down many, many levels,” said Alex Rebeiz, 44, manager
at the Arlington store for Eastern Mountain Sports, an outdoor
gear retailer.  Quality Clerks  Applicants for part-time sales jobs have surged among
recent college graduates, even some with master’s degrees, he
said. Sales have risen more than 10 percent compared with a year
ago, an improvement he largely attributes to the rising caliber
of his staff.  “The quality of our customer experience in the store has
gone way up,” he said.  Disillusionment is lowering the generation’s enthusiasm for
Obama. Young adults who experience economic hardship and watch
 Washington ’s gridlock are turning cynical toward politics,
concluding that voting “is not a valuable use of their time,”
said John Della Volpe, director of polling at Harvard
University’s Institute of Politics, which regularly surveys
youth opinion.  The portion of 18- to 24-year-olds who say they will
definitely vote dropped to 47 percent this year from 64 percent
in 2008, according to polls conducted by the Institute of
Politics during March and April of each election year.  Leading Margin Shrinks  Support for Obama also has declined, with the president
besting Republican Mitt Romney 41 percent to 29 percent in the
age group compared with 53 percent to 32 percent against
Republican  John McCain  in 2008, according to the poll.  Sixty-six percent of voters under 30 cast ballots for Obama
in the last election, the highest share for a presidential
candidate from that age group going back to the start of modern
exit polls in 1980. Turnout in the age group was the highest in
16 years, according to the  U.S. Census  Bureau.  That enthusiasm altered the electoral map. Support from the
young supplied Obama’s 2008 victory margin in  Indiana  and North
Carolina, both of which hadn’t voted for a Democratic president
for decades. Republican  Mitt Romney  has repeatedly reminded
young voters that Obama has meant hard times.  “Young people have been hit disproportionately hard by the
Obama economy, and they understand that President Obama has not
lived up to his promises or made things better,” said Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman.  Presidential Priority  Clo Ewing, an Obama spokeswoman, said the president has
made young Americans “a priority and has taken action important
to their generation,” including ending the  Iraq war  and
extending health-care coverage.  “We are confident that his vision for the future -- a
country where everyone gets a fair shake with a stronger middle
class -- stands in stark contrast with Republicans who believe
we can cut our way to prosperity,” she said.  Labor Department data show the jobless rate among under-25-
year-olds has fallen over the past three years, declining from
15 percent in May 2009 to 12.9 percent last month and dropping
among those in the age group with college degrees from 8.6
percent in May 2009 to 6.8 percent last month.  Unemployment figures don’t full capture all those without
jobs because discouraged workers no longer seeking employment
aren’t counted. Also, people who delay entry into the workforce
by staying in school aren’t counted.  Dream Deferred  Raja Duggal, a 26-year-old from  San Francisco  who voted for
Obama last time, has since had to defer his own dreams. Three
years after graduating from San Francisco State University with
a psychology degree, his aspiration to counsel children remains
unrealized.  “I really wanted to help kids out. I understand where kids
from broken families come from because I’ve been there,” said
Duggal, who said his mother died when he was 8 years old and his
father turned to alcohol. “I pushed through with everything I
had to get through college.”  Now, he works part-time at an antiques store and as an
administrative assistant in an office. He’s grown “impatient”
and has a “love-hate relationship” with Obama, though he said
he will still probably vote for him again.  Foster, in Virginia, said she will likely back Obama again,
as well. “I do have questions,” she said. “But I’m pretty
liberal. I’m not going to vote for Mitt Romney.”  Appeal to Young  Republican strategist  Karl Rove  has started a political
action committee under the name Crossroads Generation to appeal
to young voters based on their economic travails.  Obama’s been making regular stops at college campuses,
promoting a bill to prevent an increase in student loan interest
rates and highlighting a provision in the health-care law that
permits children to stay on family insurance policies until age
26.  Still, until the economy improves, prospects for younger
workers will remain tough.  “The worse the labor market, the less employers are
willing to take chances on young workers, and the more they are
competing with other people who have lost their jobs,” Katz
said.  Compounding the difficulty, turnover in the workplace is
sluggish. Though the layoff rate has dropped to pre-recession
levels, few workers have left their jobs the past three years
and companies are slow to make new hires. Older workers have
postponed retirement after confronting depleted 401(k) saving
balances and declines in  home equity . The number of 70- to 74-
year-olds in full-time jobs has swelled by almost a third since
May 2008.  Beyond Pocketbook  The repercussions reach beyond the pocketbook. Thirty-one
percent of young adults said they have postponed marriage or
having a child during the downturn, according to a Pew Research
Center Survey of adults between the ages of 18 and 34 conducted
in December 2011.  The U.S. birth rate declined more than 11 percent from 2007
to 2011 and the marriage rate dropped 6.8 percent from 2007 to
2010, according to the National Center for Health Statistics.  The portion of men 25 to 34 years old living with their
parents also has grown from 14.3 percent in 2006, the year
before the recession started, to 18.6 percent in 2011, according
to the U.S. Census. Among women in the age group, 9.7 percent
live with their parents, up from 8.8 percent in 2006.  “The first five years in a worker’s career are often a
very big part of getting set up in the labor market, finding
what you’re good at and getting wage growth,” Katz said. “Now
that we’ve essentially had five terrible years, a whole cohort
of young people has missed out on those early opportunities.”  Quality Baristas  Instead, college graduates often are stuck in jobs off the
career track, baristas and bartenders with degrees.  The portion of working 20- to 24-year-old college graduates
in jobs that don’t require a higher education surged from 34.2
percent in 2007 to 39.1 percent in 2010 and among 25- to 29-
year-old graduates the portion rose from 26.1 percent to 29.9
percent, according to an analysis by Paul Harrington and Neeta
Fogg, researchers at the Center for Labor Markets and Policy at
 Drexel University  in Philadelphia.  “Teen-agers coming out of high school really get pushed
out of the job market,” he said.  College graduates who take jobs that might have gone to
high-school grads confront rising levels of  student loans  to pay
off.  Average student loan  debt  at graduation was $25,250 in
2010, up 11 percent from two years earlier, according to the
Project on Student Debt, an advocacy group based in Oakland,
 California . Those students who choose to avoid the depressed job
market by continuing in graduate school emerge with even higher
levels of debt.  Recession’s Cost  The cost of the Great Recession to their livelihoods is
likely to continue for decades to come.  College students who graduated during the early 1980s
economic downturn suffered wage losses of more than $100,000
during the next 15 years compared to those who came into the job
market later in the decade, according to research by Yale School
of Management economist Lisa Kahn.  “The group we’re seeing here is going to be hit harder,”
said Heidi Shierholz, a market economist with the  Economic
Policy Institute  in Washington. “This recession is deeper and
longer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  