-- Obama Doing Fine Describing Large U.S. Companies: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-06-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/obama-doing-fine-describing-large-u-s-companies-bgov-barometer.html
Republican  Mitt Romney ’s campaign
mocks President  Barack Obama  for saying last week that “the
private sector is doing fine,” with unemployment above 8
percent and 12.7 million Americans out of work.  While there’s room for debate about the definition of
“doing fine,” the BGOV Barometer shows that by some measures -
- corporate profits, stock market performance and hiring by
private employers -- the health of the U.S. private sector is
improving.  When it comes to hiring, companies are ahead of government
employers, according to Labor Department data. In the 35 months
since the  recession  ended in June 2009, private employers have
added 3.1 million jobs, compared to a loss of 601,000 federal,
state and local government workers.  Among broader measures of private sector health, corporate
profits are reaching record highs. Profits by members of the
Russell 3000 Index of U.S. companies last year topped $1
trillion for the first time, quadrupling a combined $250 billion
during the depths of the recession in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The corporate sector is in a relatively strong
position,” said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York . “The key weakness is
the overall economy.  “It’s the uncertainty about the economic outlook and the
question mark over  Europe  that’s becoming increasingly larger
and more ominous,” Riccadonna said. “That is preventing them
from hiring more aggressively or investing more aggressively.”  ‘Good Momentum’  Obama made the “doing fine” comment while contrasting
private employment growth with job losses related to state and
local government budget cuts. He tried to fend off political
critics later the same day, saying the “economy’s not doing
fine.” Still, he told reporters there has been “some good
momentum” in the private sector.  Romney is replaying the president’s June 8 remark in a
television commercial that asks: “How can President Obama fix
our economy if he doesn’t understand it’s broken?”  Speaking yesterday in  Cleveland , Obama poked fun at the
attacks he’s sustained since his “doing fine” comment.  “There will be no shortage of gaffes and controversies
that keep both campaigns busy and give the press something to
write about -- you may have heard I recently made my own unique
contribution to that process,” Obama said. “It wasn’t the
first time. It won’t be the last.”  Not Enough  Romney, campaigning in Cincinnati, said Obama hasn’t done
enough to put Americans back to work.  “If you think the president’s right when he said the
private sector is doing fine, well then he’s the guy to vote
for,” he said. “As you look at the president’s record, it is
long on words and short on action that created jobs.”  While the candidates spar over the U.S.’s economic goals
for the next four years, Obama may benefit from the fact that 68
percent of Americans say his predecessor, Republican  George W.
Bush , should have at least a moderate amount of blame for the
state of the economy, according to a Gallup poll conducted June
7-10. The survey of 1,004 adults has an error margin of plus or
minus four percentage points.  “This was not your normal recession,” Obama said
yesterday in Cleveland. “We acted fast.  Our economy started
growing again six months after I took office and it has
continued to grow for the last three years.”  The Commerce Department reported May 31 that total U.S.
corporate  profits  rose to almost $2 trillion, an all-time high,
during the first three months of 2012.  Slowing Growth  At the same time, earnings growth slowed, stoking concerns
about whether the pace of recovery is faltering. The 0.6 percent
increase from 2011’s fourth quarter was the smallest since the
end of 2008.  The Standard & Poor’s 100  Index (OEX)  has slid 5.8 percent from a
52-week high on April 2. Nonetheless, the S&P 100, which
includes some of America’s biggest companies, is up 6.7 percent
in 2012. The technology-heavy Nasdaq 100 Index has risen 11.5
percent this year.  Over a longer period, the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  has risen 65
percent since Obama was inaugurated in January 2009. That’s the
stock-market benchmark’s best performance at this point in a
president’s first term since a 77 percent gain under Republican
Dwight Eisenhower from January 1953 to June 1956.  The 3.1 million private jobs added under Obama since the
recession ended in June 2009 trails the 4.3 million average gain
at the same point after seven other U.S. recessions since 1961.  Ronald Reagan  The average is bolstered by almost 8.8 million private jobs
added under President  Ronald Reagan  over the 35 months after a
recession ended in November 1982. The  Federal Reserve  under
Chairman  Paul Volcker  helped fire up the economy by cutting
 interest rates  after inducing a slowdown designed to tame
inflation.  Private job growth averaged about 3.6 million during the
35-month periods after the other six recessions since  John
Kennedy ’s presidency.  The 601,000 drop in government employment since June 2009
is by far the biggest at the same point after any of the last
eight U.S. recessions. At this point in the other seven
recoveries, public employment had gained an average of 616,000
jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  