-- Obama Welcomes Young Illegal Immigrants and Hispanic Vote
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-15T19:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/obama-welcomes-young-illegal-immigrants-and-hispanic-vote.html
On immigration enforcement, the
Obama administration has officially taken its foot off the gas.
It announced Friday in an executive action that young illegal
immigrants who meet select criteria won’t be subject to
deportation.  Those who are younger than 31, came to the U.S. before they
were 16 and are students, high school graduates or honorably
discharged veterans will be able to register to remain and work
in the U.S. without becoming citizens. About 800,000 immigrants
may be eligible, according to the Department of  Homeland
Security .  The move is philosophically consistent with President
 Barack Obama ’s support for the Dream Act, the legislation
stymied by Congress that would provide a path to citizenship for
young illegal immigrants. Still, it represents a stark
counterpoint to the policy of the past three years, during which
the administration deported more than 1 million illegal
immigrants, a record that surprised and angered some Hispanic
supporters of the president.  Although Obama’s  initiative  removes the fear of immediate
deportation for some, it doesn’t eliminate the uncertainty that
dogs the lives of illegal immigrants. For example, if an
otherwise eligible young person happens to have been out of the
country anytime in the past 5 years (excluding military
service), the offer of immunity is moot. Requests for work-
authorization papers will be reviewed case by case, and have to
be renewed every two years, with no guarantee that the rules
won’t change.  The temporary nature of the benefits underscores the
political nature of the plan. As an act of “prosecutorial
discretion,” as Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano 
emphasized repeatedly in announcing the action, it is subject to
reversal by a subsequent administration. In other words, if
Hispanic voters want to keep their young undocumented friends
and neighbors out of deportation proceedings two years from now,
they know whom to vote for in November.  Presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  bungled the immigration
issue badly in the Republican primary season, when he endorsed
 Arizona ’s crackdown and generally mimicked his party’s most
punitive voices. Republican Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida ,
himself Cuban-American, raised hopes a few months ago when he
signaled he would introduce legislation that sounded remarkably
similar to the plan the administration has now offered. Nothing
materialized from Rubio, who called the administration’s new
effort “a short-term answer to a long-term problem.”  There is a limit to what the White House can achieve
through executive action, and the new amnesty -- a word the
administration avoids -- probably walks right up to that line.
Passing the Dream Act, let alone comprehensive immigration
reform, will require more courage from Republicans such as
Rubio, and from some Democrats, too. With the border more secure
due to increased enforcement, and illegal immigration slowing
due to a poor economy, excuses for inaction are dwindling.  Illegal immigration is a product of ambition, opportunity
and happenstance. Who makes it across the U.S. border, who finds
work, who stays -- all are subject to the vagaries of grit and
luck. We have supported the Dream Act in part from the belief
that it will accentuate ambition and opportunity and minimize
happenstance, enabling young illegal immigrants who go to school
or serve in the armed forces to leave uncertainty behind and
gain a sure pathway to employment, dignity and citizenship. The
administration’s plan will help some of them, and that’s good.
If it changes the political calculus for immigration opponents
in Congress, that’s even better.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 