-- Obama Administration Says Some Youth Deportations to End
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-06-16T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/obama-administration-said-to-end-deporting-undocumented-youths.html
President  Barack Obama ’s decision to
end deportations of some young illegal immigrants brought to the
U.S. as children gives him added leverage with Hispanic voters
less than five months before Election Day.  The action yesterday, affecting about 800,000 undocumented
immigrants, may box in Republicans -- including presumptive
party presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  -- who have favored a
get-tough approach to border security over any rewrite of
immigration laws while downplaying the issue in the national
campaign.  “In  Nevada  and Colorado it could make a big difference,
and also some in Florida too,” said Ruy Teixeira, a senior
fellow at the Center for American Progress in Washington. “In
 Virginia , it could make a difference too. The Hispanic
population is sizable and rising rapidly.”  Obama has come under criticism from some Hispanic leaders
for not pushing hard enough for changes in immigration law and
for stepped up enforcement against undocumented residents. The
U.S.  deported  396,906 illegal immigrants in the fiscal year
ending Sept. 30, a record, according to U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.  The administration’s action bypasses Congress, where
legislation known as the Dream Act designed to give a path to
legal status for younger undocumented immigrants has been
stalled. It also pushes the issue back into the spotlight in the
election campaign between Obama and Romney, who has opposed the
Dream Act.  Policy Change  The government estimates there are 11.5 million people in
the country illegally. Obama’s policy affects those who were
brought to the U.S. before age 16, have been in the country for
at least five years, have no criminal record and are in school
or have a high school diploma or equivalent, or have been
honorably discharged from the armed forces.  “This is not amnesty, this is not immunity,” Obama said
in the White House  Rose Garden  yesterday. “This is not a path
to citizenship, it’s not a permanent fix.”  Romney told reporters in Milford,  New Hampshire , yesterday
that Obama should have sought legislation, and that if elected
he would seek a statute providing “certainty and clarity” for
some younger illegal immigrants who are in the U.S. “through no
fault of their own.”  Romney’s Position  “We have to find a long-term solution, but the president’s
action makes reaching a long-term solution more difficult,” the
former Massachusetts governor said as he embarked on a six-state
bus tour.  During the Republican primaries, Romney said he would veto
the Dream Act and that anyone in the U.S. illegally should
return to the home countries while applying for residency.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the No. 2 Democratic
leader, said he raised concerns with the administration two
months ago that career Department of Homeland Security officials
were deporting young people who would be covered by provisions
of the Dream Act. He said Obama’s decision to address that issue
creates stark party differences in this fall’s election.  “I do believe on balance most independents and certainly
many people on our side feel this is an historic humanitarian
moment,” Durbin, a sponsor of the Dream Act, said in a
telephone interview.  Obama’s action parallels a proposal by Republican Senator
Marco Rubio of Florida -- a potential vice presidential
candidate for Romney -- to grant work visas to some young people
brought to the U.S. illegally as children if they served in the
military or pursued an education.  ‘Short-Term Answer’  In a statement yesterday, Rubio said that while there was
wide support for helping children who are undocumented through
no fault of their own, Obama’s policy will make it harder to
balance achieving that goal while discouraging illegal
immigration.  The announcement “will be welcome news for many of these
kids desperate for an answer, but it is a short-term answer to a
long-term problem,” Rubio said.  The policy shift comes one week before Obama is scheduled
to speak the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials in  Orlando ,  Florida . Romney is scheduled to
address the group the day before, according to the association’s
website.  Hispanic Voters  Obama campaign officials are counting on strong support
from Hispanic voters to give the president an edge in what most
national polls show is a close race. Obama in 2008 won the
Hispanic vote over Republican  John McCain  by 67 percent to 31
percent, according to an analysis of exit polls by the Pew
Hispanic Center.  Polls this year show he still maintains a significant edge.
Obama leads Romney 61 percent to 27 percent among Hispanics,
according to a May 16-21 NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll of
300 Hispanic adults.  The issue for the president is whether these voters will be
motivated enough to cast ballots in November, said Teixeira, who
specializes in electoral demographics.  “They’re pretty confident African-Americans will turn
out,” he said of the Obama campaign. “There was always more
fear that the Hispanics might not show up.”  Obama has supported an overhaul of the nation’s immigration
laws to create a work-permit system and a path to citizenship
for some of the 11.5 million people now in the U.S. illegally, a
plan backed by his predecessor, Republican President  George W.
Bush . Congressional Republicans have blocked the proposal and
several states, including  Arizona , have tightened immigration
enforcement.  Deferments  Under the policy announced yesterday, those eligible can
apply for a two-year deferment on any deportation action, and if
granted, gain the ability to work in the U.S. Those with the
deferments must renew them every two years in order to stay in
the U.S.  Obama’s action may be vulnerable to a legal challenge
because his executive order goes beyond the typical scope of
presidential orders, said  Ross Baker , a political scientist at
 Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey . He said Obama
is trying to accomplish a policy objective by executive fiat.  “This is usurping the powers of Congress,” Baker said.
“Congress may not be willing to pass it, but we have a
Constitution that says this is Congress’s job.”  ‘Affront’  Senator Chuck Grassley of  Iowa , ranking Republican on the
Judiciary Committee, said it is “an affront to the process of
representative government by circumventing Congress and with a
directive he may not have the authority to execute.”  Some young immigrants who could benefit from the new policy
heralded yesterday’s action.  Houston resident Loren Campos, 23, said he achieved a
lifelong dream in May 2011 when he graduated from the  University
of Texas  at Austin with a degree in civil engineering. His
pride, though, was overshadowed by fear that he could be
deported at any time because he came to this country illegally.  He said his graduation “was bittersweet” because of the
fear. “Now this policy change will provide an opportunity to
give back to the country I consider my home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  