-- Obama Taps Entertainers to Stay Ahead of Romney’s Money
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-06-15T01:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/obama-taps-entertainers-to-stay-ahead-of-romney-s-money.html
President  Barack Obama  called
Republican attacks against him “elegant,” “crisp” and
mistaken as he spoke at the first of two New York City
fundraisers due to bring in $4.5 million for his campaign.  Obama told approximately 50 donors tonight at actress Sarah Jessica Parker’s red brick four-story townhouse that Republicans
are delivering a simple message. “You can fit it on a bumper
sticker.”  The message, Obama said, is, “If you’re frustrated and
you’re disappointed, then it’s the fault of the guy in the White
House. That’s an elegant message. It happens to be wrong, but
it’s crisp.”  Among those in attendance were actress Meryl Streep and
Michael Kors, the designer and chief creative officer of  Michael
Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  The guests paid $40,000 to attend the
reception, co-hosted by Vogue editor-in-chief  Anna Wintour .  Another 250 people will pay $10,000 apiece for a dinner at
the Plaza Hotel hosted by singer  Mariah Carey  and Mayor  Cory Booker  of Newark, New Jersey. Booker angered the Obama campaign
with remarks on NBC’s “Meet the Press” last month, criticizing
the president’s attacks on Romney’s private-equity experience.  Obama told the guests at Parker’s home, “We’ve got a huge
amount of work to do.” He said his re-election would ensure
that a health-care overhaul is implemented and the transition in
Afghanistan is successful.  Financial Reform  He revisited a theme from his remarks earlier today in
 Cleveland  that Republicans want to return to the same policies
that “got us into this mess in the first place,” including
eliminating financial reform and keeping tax cuts for the
wealthiest Americans.  Millard Drexler, chief executive officer of J. Crew Group
Inc., and Andy Cohen, Bravo’s senior vice president of
development and talent, were also at the Parker dinner where
guests ate by candlelight at a long rectangular table.  Wintour is a top bundler for Obama, having raised at least
$500,000 for his campaign, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks political financing.  While the pace of Romney’s fundraising has increased since
he secured the Republican nomination, Obama’s re-election
committee more than doubled the amount raised by Romney’s
campaign through April, taking in $222.3 million to $100.4
million, and had $115.2 million in the bank entering May,
compared with $9.2 million for the challenger.  Message Defined  Before the fundraiser at Parker’s home, the president
toured the unfinished 22nd floor of a skyscraper being built on
the grounds of the World Trade Center towers, which were
destroyed in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  Obama and first lady  Michelle Obama , joined by  New York 
Governor Andrew Cuomo, New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  and
New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , met with workers and
signed one of the last steel beams to be put in the structure’s
framework.  “We remember. We rebuild. We come back stronger!” Obama
wrote above his signature.  Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  