-- Mobile-Phone Radiation Safety to Be Reviewed by U.S. FCC
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-06-15T15:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/mobile-phone-radiation-safety-to-be-examined-by-u-s-regulator.html
The U.S. Federal Communications
Commission plans to ask whether its standards protect people
from mobile-phone radiation, a question it hasn’t posed in 15
years, as people use smartphones for longer, more frequent
calls.  Julius Genachowski , the agency’s chairman, is asking fellow
commissioners to approve a notice commencing a formal inquiry,
Tammy Sun, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in an e-mailed
statement. The notice won’t propose rules, Sun said.  “Our action today is a routine review of our standards,”
Sun said. “We are confident that, as set, the emissions
guidelines for devices pose no risks to consumers.”  The FCC last updated its  guidelines  setting maximum
radiation-exposure levels, which are based on the amount of heat
emitted by mobile phones, in 1996.  “Any changes in the rules will have an impact on handset
vendors,” said  CW Cheung , the Asia-Pacific head of consulting
for telecoms at Ovum, which advises companies in the
telecommunications industry. “As most vendors are based outside
the U.S., it could also become a trade issue.”  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , based in Suwon,  South Korea , was
the world’s biggest vendor of mobile handsets in the first-
quarter, according to research company  Strategy Analytics .
Finland’s  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  ranked second, while Cupertino, California-
based  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was third, according to the researcher.  May Affect Brain  There have been concerns that radio-frequency energy from
phones held close to the head may affect the brain and other
tissues,  according to  the  National Cancer Institute , part of the
U.S. government’s National Institutes of Health. The cancer
institute said on its website that studies of cells, animals and
humans haven’t produced evidence that radiofrequency energy can
cause cancer.  The number of mobile phone calls per day, the length of
each call and the amount of time people use the phones have
increased, and phone technology has also undergone substantial
changes, the cancer institute said.  About 44 million people in the U.S. had mobile phones in
1996, according to FCC  figures . There were 332 million wireless
subscriber  connections  last year, according to CTIA-The Wireless
Association, a trade group.  No Evidence  The weight of scientific evidence hasn’t effectively linked
exposure to radio-frequency energy from mobile devices with
health problems, according to the FCC’s website on wireless
devices and health concerns.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  found  no evidence 
linking wireless phone use to heightened risk of brain tumors,
according to its website. The agency examined a 2010 World
Health Organization study and a separate program by the NCI that
found no increase in  brain cancer  as mobile phone use increased.  Wireless devices emit energy when used, and the closer the
device is to the body the more energy a person absorbs, the FCC
said. People can reduce exposure by using a speakerphone or
earpiece and increasing the distance between wireless devices
and the body, the FCC said, without endorsing the need for such
measures.  “We fully expect that the FCC’s review will confirm, as it
has in the past, that the scientific evidence establishes no
reason for concern about the safety of cellphones,”  John Walls ,
a spokesman for CTIA-The Wireless Association, said in an e-
mailed statement today. The Washington-based trade group’s
members include  Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
and T-Mobile USA Inc., the U.S. unit of Bonn-based  Deutsche
Telekom AG. (DTE)   iPhone Guidance  Apple Inc.  recommends  that iPhone users carry the device at
least 5/8 inch (1.5 centimeters) from their bodies to keep
exposure levels below the maximum levels. The iPhone meets FCC
and European Union exposure guidelines, the Cupertino,
California-based company said in a manual for the iPhone4s.  The city of  San Francisco  in 2010 required that stores post
the level of radio waves emitted by each mobile phone they sell.  CTIA-The Wireless Association challenged the requirement in
court, saying it would  mislead  consumers about a safe product.  More research is needed into whether mobile-phone use harms
people’s health, as a “growing number of experts” raise
concern, U.S. Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat, said at a
hearing in 2009.  Some researchers believe the low level of radiation from
mobile phones may cause cancers of the brain and central nervous
system, said Harkin, chairman of an Appropriations subcommittee
on health. He made the remarks at a panel hearing into mobile
phones.  Unprecedented Levels  “We’re talking about cell phones that many of us are using
all the time, and children are using in unprecedented levels,
and we have never been exposed to this level in our lives,”
Devra Lee Davis, at the time an epidemiology professor in the
 University of Pittsburgh ’s School of  Public Health , told the
Harkin panel hearing in 2009.  Standards are set for “a very large, big man” and not for
children, Davis said. The absence of definite epidemiological
evidence isn’t proof that there’s not a problem and shows that
not enough studies have been done, she said. Davis is founder
and president of the Environmental Health Trust, a Teton,
Wyoming-based group, according to its website.  There is possible evidence linking mobile-phone use to an
increased risk of tumors, according to a  study  of scientific
studies and articles that was published in 2009 in the Journal
of Clinical Oncology.  ‘Possibly Carcinogenic’  The International Agency for Research on Cancer, part of
the  United Nations ’  World Health Organization , in June 2011 said
a family of frequencies that includes mobile-phone emissions is
“possibly carcinogenic to humans.”  In July, another body found that studies from several
countries have failed to show an increase in brain tumors as
many as 20 years after mobile phones were introduced and 10
years after the technology became widespread. The result was
reported by the International Commission on Non-Ionizing
Radiation Protection’s committee on epidemiology in
Environmental Health Perspectives, a monthly journal of the U.S.
National Institute of Environmental Sciences.  Concerns that the technology might be harmful to the health
of the 4.6 billion people who use mobile phones aren’t likely to
be put to rest soon because data is limited and researchers
can’t prove the complete absence of an impact, the International
Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection’s committee
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  