-- Oil Gains a Second Day on Stimulus Speculation, OPEC Call
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-15T13:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/oil-gains-a-second-day-on-stimulus-speculation-opec-output-call.html
Oil traded near a four-day high in
 New York  on speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve may take
more steps to stimulate the economy and on OPEC’s call for
members to cut production in excess of targets.  Futures were little changed after climbing as much as 1.1
percent. A report showed yesterday that the cost of living in
the U.S. fell by the most in more than three years. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries needs to reduce
output by 1.6 million barrels a day to comply with its targeted
ceiling, Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri said.  Oil’s rise was “a reaction to the OPEC comments yesterday
that they should adhere to the target of 30 million barrels a
day,” Torbjoern Kjus, an oil analyst at DnB NOR ASA, said by
phone from Oslo. “We won’t see aggressive cuts from  Saudi
Arabia  unless we fall $10 to $15 below current prices.”  Oil for July delivery rose as much as 89 cents to $84.80 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest since June 11. The contract added 1 cent
to $83.92 at 1:54 p.m. London time. The contract increased 1.6
percent yesterday to $83.91, the highest settlement since June
8. Prices are down 15 percent this year.  Brent crude  for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained 8 cents, or 0.1 percent, to
$97.11 a barrel. The European benchmark contract’s premium to
New York futures narrowed to as little as $12.37 a barrel today.  Bullish Chart  Commodities gained on speculation central banks will take
steps to boost economies as Europe’s debt crisis saps growth.
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said late yesterday the
case for more stimulus in the U.K. “is growing.” Federal
Reserve policy makers start a two-day meeting on June 19.  Saudi Arabia will make sure there is enough supply in the
global oil market, the kingdom’s oil minister said today.  “The whole idea is that there will not be any shortages in
the market,”  Ali al-Naimi  told Bloomberg News in Vienna. “That
has been Saudi Arabia’s policy all along. To manage stability of
the oil market, keeping it in balance.”  Oil in New York is extending gains after yesterday’s
rebound created a so-called bullish engulfing pattern on the
daily candlestick chart, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Crude has long-term technical support along its 200-
week moving average, around $80.81 a barrel. Buy orders tend to
be clustered near chart-support levels.  Korea Imports  OPEC kept its output limit at 30 million barrels a day at a
meeting in Vienna yesterday as concern that global growth is
shrinking outweighed calls by some members for supply cuts to
stem sliding prices. Increased production from Saudi Arabia, the
world’s biggest crude exporter, has been blamed for the drop in
prices by members including  Iran , whose own exports will
probably be curbed by a European Union embargo scheduled to
start July 1. OPEC’s 12 members pump about 40 percent of the
world’s crude.  “There are more supportive factors now for oil than there
are negative,”  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive officer of
Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney,
said in a telephone interview. “The whole purpose of the cartel
is to provide guidelines to production. Compliance is just a
word. If the price slips below $80 a barrel then quotas will
change and give prices a big bump.”  South Korea ’s crude imports from Iran in May fell 40
percent from a year earlier, the customs service said today. The
world’s fifth-largest oil importer purchased 550,714 metric
tons, or about 17,765 tons a day, from Iran last month, compared
with 911,889 tons a year earlier, it said on its website.  Hoarding Crude  The cost of living in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude
consumer, fell in May by the most in more than three year. The
consumer-price index declined 0.3 percent, more than forecast
and the biggest drop since December 2008, after no change the
prior month, the Labor Department reported yesterday in
 Washington .  Oil in New York may fall next week on speculation that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will spread after the downgrade of  Spain ’s
credit rating and weekend elections in  Greece , a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Seventeen of 39 analysts and traders, or 44
percent, forecast crude will decline through June 22. Fifteen
respondents, or 38 percent, predicted futures will increase and
seven said there will be little change.  China  is hoarding crude at the fastest rate since the
Beijing Olympics four years ago as oil’s slump prompts the
country to import unprecedented volumes, even as refining slows.  The world’s second-biggest oil consumer built a surplus of
about 90 million barrels of crude in the first five months of
the year, government data show. The excess, the highest since
the run-up to the 2008 games, is probably being kept at
emergency and commercial storage centers, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  