-- Oil Rises on Speculation Central Banks to Boost Stimulus
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-06-15T20:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/oil-fluctuates-on-slower-n-y-industrial-growth.html
Oil rose on speculation that central
banks will take steps to bolster global economic growth as
investors await Greek elections this weekend.  Futures climbed a second day as policy makers from the U.K.
to  Japan  and  Canada  stepped up warnings about the threat to
financial markets should Europe fail to contain its debt crisis.
The Greek vote June 17 may determine whether the country remains
in the euro bloc. The Federal Reserve starts a two-day meeting
June 19.  “It is looking increasingly likely that central banks will
take action and increase stimulus,” said  Phil Flynn , senior
market analyst at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “The Fed
has a lot of cover for stimulus and might not even wait for the
meeting next week.”  Crude for July delivery rose 12 cents to $84.03 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract climbed to $84.80
earlier. Prices dropped 7 cents this week. They have dropped 24
percent from the year’s high of $110.55 a barrel on March 1.  Brent oil for August settlement gained 44 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the session at $97.61 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  The  Bank of England  said it will provide billions of pounds
of emergency aid to U.K. lenders. The central bank will allow
the lenders to swap assets for money they can loan to companies
and households.  ‘Held Hostage’  Greeks will vote for the second time in six weeks after a
May 6 ballot failed to yield a government. The final polls,
published on June 1, showed no party set to win a majority. Exit
polls will be released when voting ends at 7 p.m. June 17 in
Athens, with a first official result estimate due around 9:30
p.m.  “ Greece  is holding the global economy hostage,” Flynn
said. “The markets have been betting that the anti-austerity
forces will lose, which would boost  oil prices . If they win,
there will be a deflationary downdraft that will impact all
markets.”  European Union leaders will press for new efforts to boost
the area’s economy and improve lending conditions, according to
a draft document prepared for a June 28-29 summit in Brussels.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  each increased 0.7 percent.  Futures retreated from the day’s highs after industrial
production in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in May for the second
time in three months and confidence among American consumers
declined in June to the lowest level this year.  U.S. Manufacturing  Output at factories, mines and utilities decreased 0.1
percent last month after a revised 1 percent gain in April, the
 Federal Reserve  reported today in Washington. Economists
forecast a 0.1 percent advance, according to the median of a
Bloomberg survey. Manufacturing, which makes up about 75 percent
of total production, dropped 0.4 percent last month.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
 consumer sentiment  fell in June to 74.1 from 79.3 the prior
month, which was the highest since October 2007. The gauge was
projected to fall to 77.5, according to a median forecast of 66
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “On the economic front, the numbers are just bad and crude
could get down even below the $80 mark,” said Tariq Zahir, a
New York-based commodity fund manager at Tyche Capital Advisors.
“People are trying to position themselves for the Greek
elections and the Fed meeting.”  OPEC Output  OPEC kept its output limit at 30 million barrels a day at a
meeting yesterday in Vienna as concern that global growth is
shrinking outweighed calls by some members for supply cuts.
Increased production from  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
crude exporter, has been blamed for the drop in prices by
members including  Iran , whose own exports will probably be
curbed by a European Union embargo scheduled to start July 1.  Saudi Arabia will make sure there is enough supply in the
global crude market, the kingdom’s oil minister said a day after
the meeting.  “The whole idea is that there will not be any shortages in
the market,”  Ali al-Naimi  said in an interview with Bloomberg
News today in Vienna. “That has been Saudi Arabia’s policy all
along. To manage stability of the oil market, keeping it in
balance.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 421,053
contracts as of 4:02 p.m. Volume totaled 580,242 contracts
yesterday, 3.5 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.48 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  