-- Hong Kong Home Prices to Fall Up to 20%, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-06-15T03:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/hong-kong-home-prices-to-fall-up-to-20-deutsche-bank-says.html
Property prices in  Hong Kong  may
fall as much as 20 percent in the next 12 months as the city’s
new leader sets out to increase housing supply after taking over
in July, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “The supporting pillars for the residential market over
the past two years are weakening,” Deutsche Bank analysts  Tony Tsang  and Jason Ching wrote in a report yesterday. On July 1,
“we expect the Hong Kong property market to enter a new age,
characterized by normalized supply dynamics.”  Hong Kong  home prices  have risen about 8 percent this year,
extending gains since early 2009 to more than 80 percent after a
slowdown in the second half last year. Leung Chun-ying, who
takes over as chief executive in July, has pledged to bridge a
widening wealth gap and rein in home prices that have become
increasingly unaffordable for the general public.  The surge in real estate prices over the past three years
has been fuelled by record-low  mortgage rates , a lack of new
supply and an influx of buyers from other parts of China. Hong
Kong halted regular land sale in 2004 to support falling home
prices, before resuming the mechanism in 2010. The city is now
the world’s most expensive place to buy a home and to rent
 office space .  Financial Secretary  John Tsang  and  Norman Chan , head of the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority, have both warned the public about
potential risks when buying property. The government may take
further action including accelerating new land supply and
tightening mortgage lending if home prices continue surging, the
officials have said.  Home prices may fall as much as 40 percent if the city’s
economy contracts as a result of the  European debt crisis  in
“the worst case scenario,” Raymond Ngai, an analyst at Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit, said last week.  The Hong Kong government may reduce its 1 percent to 3
percent growth forecast for this year because of concerns that
the European debt crisis would worsen, Financial Secretary Tsang
said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  