-- Hong Kong Exchanges Bid for LME Beats out ICE
-- B y   S t a n l e y   J a m e s   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-06-15T15:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/hong-kong-exchanges-to-acquire-lme-beating-out-ice.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
host to the world’s fifth-largest equity market, agreed to pay
1.39 billion pounds ($2.15 billion) for the London Metal
Exchange, which handles more than 80 percent of global trade in
industrial-metal futures.  LME investors will get 107.60 pounds per ordinary share in
cash, with a vote scheduled before the end of next month, the
bourses said today. The stock traded at 4.925 pounds in July
2011, before the LME said it was considering bids. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and closely held Metdist
Ltd. are the biggest LME shareholders.  Hong Kong is the only place in China where investors can
freely buy and sell shares in Industrial & Commercial Bank of
 China  Ltd., the biggest lender by value, and PetroChina Co.,
Asia’s largest company. The deal would be Hong Kong Exchanges’
first overseas acquisition. The 135-year-old LME sets global
benchmark prices for metals including copper, aluminum and
nickel, of which China consumes more than any other nation. Its
network of warehouses doesn’t currently extend into the country.  “Hong Kong Exchanges can be positive for LME if it can
enhance its China exposure,” said Jonas Kan, the head of Hong
Kong research at Daiwa Capital Markets. “HKEx has a clearing
business, visibility in listing for Chinese companies, and has
experience working with regulators and authorities in China,
which can add value to the LME.”  Morning Post  Buying the LME would give Hong Kong Exchanges its first
commodities contracts. Shares of Hong Kong Exchanges retreated
23 percent since the  South China Morning Post  reported its bid
Feb. 18. That compares with a 15 percent drop in the  Bloomberg
World Exchanges Index. (BNWEXCH)  Hong Kong Exchanges is paying with
existing cash and new loans of at least 1.1 billion pounds.  “Their full potential will not be realized until they can
tap the geography,” Charles Li, chief executive officer of Hong
Kong Exchanges, said at a press conference in Hong Kong today.
“They need China expertise. They need Asia expertise. And we
have a lot of it.”  The LME management led by  Martin Abbott , chief executive
officer, will stay, Li said. “Given the magnitude of what we’re
talking about here, clearly we will significantly augment the
management structure.” Some people may be moved between Hong
Kong and  London  and commodities experts hired, he said.  Hong Kong Shares  Shares of Hong Kong Exchanges declined 9.4 percent this
year, valuing the company at $15.66 billion. Its net income fell
7 percent in the first quarter as listing fees declined. Hong
Kong Exchanges recently lost its rank as the world’s most
valuable exchange company to CME Group Inc.  The Chinese city’s bourse wants to expand its product base
as the pipeline of large initial public offerings from China
dries up. Hong Kong has hosted $3.2 billion in IPOs this year,
compared with $9.8 billion in the comparable period in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m skeptical about the deal,” said  Andrew Sullivan ,
principal trader at Piper Jaffray  Asia  Securities Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “They want to build up the bourse and expand into other
areas. They’re spending a lot of money at a time they’re not
getting an awful lot of income. You won’t see the synergy
straight away.”  LME Profit  The LME reported a 19 percent drop in net income to 7.68
million pounds last year, even as revenue climbed 21 percent to
61.2 million pounds.  The offer will be recommended by all the LME’s directors
and sent to investors within 15 business days, with a meeting
held before the end of July. It will need approval by more than
50 percent of LME shareholders, with the owners of at least 75
percent of the stock backing the move. The LME is owned by more
than 60 of its 94 members.  The takeover, which needs the approval of the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority, may be completed in the fourth
quarter. Both sides agreed to break fees of 25 million pounds to
30 million pounds depending on the circumstances.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , the second-largest U.S.
futures market, and Hong Kong Exchanges were the two parties
left in a bidding process announced by the LME in September.
 Claire Miller , a spokeswoman for ICE in London, declined to
comment. The LME said today it would no longer be seeking
competing takeover offers. ICE shares jumped 4.9 percent by
10:59 a.m. in  New York  trading.  Open Outcry  Hong Kong Exchanges pledged to maintain the LME’s contracts
and ring, host to London’s last open-outcry trading. The bourse
will continue to be based in London and regulated by the FSA.
The Asian exchange also said it would keep the LME’s existing
warehousing network, help the bourse develop its own clearing
house and freeze trading fees until at least the start of 2015.  The transaction will help the distribution of LME data
across Asia and increase the number of customers in mainland
China, the London bourse said. Hong Kong Exchanges will also
support the expansion of the LME’s warehousing network, which
currently consists of more than 600 storage points.  The LME’s board after a takeover would consist of nine
directors. Seven of those will have non-executive roles, with
two of them chosen from Hong Kong Exchanges’ management. The
bourse handled a record $15.4 trillion of contracts last year.  Hong Kong Exchanges is being advised by UBS AG and N.M.
Rothschild & Sons Ltd. while the LME hired Moelis & Co.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan in London,
declined to comment. JPMorgan owns 1.4 million ordinary shares,
or 11 percent, and is the biggest shareholder. Sophie Bullock, a
spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in London, declined to comment.
Goldman owns 1.23 million, or 9.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stanley James in Hong Kong at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  