-- Monsanto Corn Injured by Early Rootworm Feeding in Illinois
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-15T18:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/monsanto-corn-injured-by-early-rootworm-feeding-in-illinois.html
Monsanto Co. (MON)  corn has been
overwhelmed in parts of Illinois by rootworms that hatched a
month early, renewing concern that the bugs are becoming immune
to the insecticide engineered into the crop.  An “amazing” number of rootworms have emerged as adult
beetles, the earliest start in at least 30 years, Michael Gray,
an entomologist at the  University of Illinois  at Urbana, said
today in an online  journal . The insects “severely pruned” the
roots of corn observed June 7 at a farm in Cass County, about
200 miles (322 kilometers) southwest of  Chicago .  The western corn rootworm is one of the most destructive
pests and historically cost U.S. farmers about  $1 billion  a year
in damages and chemical pesticides before crops with built-in
insecticide were developed. Corn fields in four states were
overrun with the bugs last year, incidents that the
Environmental Protection Agency suspects is a sign of increasing
resistance to the insecticide.  The damaged fields in  Illinois  have been planted with corn
continuously for at least 10 years, including six consecutive
years with corn engineered to produce the Cry3Bb1 protein from
Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt, a natural insecticide, Gray said.  “Under these conditions, the selection pressure for
resistance development is markedly increased,” he said.  The damaged plants probably will fall over, a phenomenon
known as lodging, as the insects continue to dine on the roots
and the plants gain height, Gray said. The rootworm begins life
as a root-chewing grub before developing into an adult beetle.  Monsanto evaluated fields on the Cass County farm and will
collect bugs for study next week, said Danielle Stuart, a
spokeswoman for the St. Louis-based company.  “This is a unique situation and there were surrounding
fields that had little to no damage, so we also want to better
understand why we see some fields more heavily infested than
others,” she said an e-mail.  Growing Resistance  The Cry3Bb1 protein is engineered into Monsanto crops and
SmartStax corn, which contains a second Bt protein from  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW)  and  DuPont Co. (DD)  Monsanto, the world’s largest seed
company, introduced its rootworm-killing corn technology in
2003. Less than 0.2 percent of the 37 million acres planted with
the trait last year experienced unexpected rootworm damage, the
company has said.  An Iowa State University study published last July was the
first to confirm that some rootworms have evolved resistance to
Monsanto’s Bt corn. A study to determine whether rootworms that
damaged Illinois fields last year are resistant to the modified
crop should be completed in August, Gray said.  Early Rootworms  Farmers should begin scouting for high rootworm populations
earlier than usual in case insecticides need to be applied,
Monsanto said.  “The combination of a mild winter, early spring planting,
and the hot, dry conditions has created the potential for heavy
insect pressure in corn fields this season,” Stuart said.  Monsanto’s worst resistance problem is with crops
engineered to tolerate its Roundup herbicide. Weeds that Roundup
no longer kills have invaded as many as 20 million acres (8.1
million hectares) of corn and soybeans, according to a Dow
study.  As many as 28 million acres of cotton, soybean and corn may
host Roundup-resistant weeds by 2015, according to  Syngenta AG. (SYNN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  