-- Monti’s Backers Slide in Polls Signals Risk for Fiscal Rigor
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-06-15T09:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/monti-s-weakening-support-may-threaten-future-fiscal-discipline.html
The four main political parties
backing Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s unelected government fell
below 50 percent for the first time in an opinion poll, with
support surging for an anti-austerity bloc.  The 5 Star Movement, whose leader, comic-turned-politician
Beppe Grillo, says the nation may need to restructure debt and
exit the euro, became  Italy ’s second-biggest party, a poll by
the SWG Institute showed. Monti’s popularity fell to an all-time
low of 33 percent, less than half the level when he was
appointed in November, SWG said.  Italy, the bearer of the euro’s second-largest public debt,
must have “budget discipline as a travel mate” in the future,
Monti said in Parliament on June 13. Monti passed a 20 billion-
euro ($32 billion) austerity plan in January that aimed to bring
the  budget deficit  within the European Union limit this year.
The measures contributed to pushing the economy into its fourth
 recession  since 2001, with unemployment now topping 10 percent.  The  Democratic Party ,  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of
Liberty, the Union of Centrists, and the Future and Liberty
Party, the main parties backing Monti, hold more than two thirds
of the seats in Parliament and have faced a decline in support
since the start of his government in November. SWG said the four
are currently polling at 48.5 percent.  ‘Softer Stance’  “Voters of the parties that decided to back Monti in order
to save Italy from the crisis are perplexed now,” Maurizio Pessato, vice president of SWG said in an interview. “They ask
themselves, if it was a case of much rigor about nothing and if
it isn’t better to adopt a softer stance” on budget and
economic policies.  Italy’s borrowing costs surged this week after  Spain 
requested a 100 billion-euro bank rescue, fueling contagion to
Italy. Italy’s 10-year yield reached a four-month high of 6.22
percent on June 13, approaching the 7 percent level when Monti
came to power.  Backing for the People of Liberty Party fell to 15 percent,
while the Democratic Party was little changed at 24 percent, the
Union of Centrists’ rating declined 1 percentage point to 5.7
percent and Future and Liberty Party was at 3.8 percent, the
poll published today by SWG showed.  SWG polled 900 people between June 12-13 and the survey had
a margin of error of 3.3 percent, the company said.  Monti’s Appointment  Since Monti was appointed to replace Berlusconi in
November, the parties backing him have “lost more than 10
percent of popular support,” Pessato said. “There is a growing
discontent with Monti’s action, because the crisis goes on and
on and many realized that he hasn’t got a magic wand to overcome
it.”  The other parties with seats in Parliament, Berlusconi’s
former ally, the  Northern League , and the Italian Values,
received a combined 10.8 percent in the poll, SWG said.  By contrast, 5 Star Movement, founded by Grillo three years
ago, has seen its support to 20.5 percent from about 11 percent
last month, according to SWG.  Grillo’s movement had a strong showing in local elections
in May, with five of its mayoral candidates winning in Northern
cities and towns, including Parma. Running in national elections
may be much more complicated.  “The problem with Grillo is that he hasn’t got allies, and
he won’t likely have any,”  Roberto D’Alimonte , a professor of
politics at Rome’s LUISS University, said.  At a June 12 meeting with Monti, the leaders of Italy’s
main parties pledged to back the government’s reform measures
that are now making their way through parliament, according to a
June 12 statement from the premier’s office.  The leaders of “parties that are on their way into
decline, that will perhaps disappear after the forthcoming
elections, have discussed our future with a gentleman that no
one elected,” Grillo said in a June 13  post  on his website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.ne  