-- Moody’s Cuts $11.6 Billion California Redevelopment Debt
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/moody-s-cuts-11-6-billion-california-redevelopment-debt.html
Tax-allocation debt tied to
 California ’s former redevelopment agencies was cut to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the uncertainty of  cash
flow  to make payments on $11.6 billion in bonds.  All the securities rated Baa3 or above were downgraded to
Ba1, one step below investment grade, and are under review for a
ratings withdrawal, analysts Eric Hoffmann and Kevork Khrimian
said yesterday in a report.  Redevelopment agencies issued bonds to finance projects and
received property-tax revenue increases that resulted. Governor
 Jerry Brown  and lawmakers eliminated the agencies Feb. 1 and
directed their assets toward public education. Cities and
counties assumed responsibility for most redevelopment debt.  “The downgrade is wholly unwarranted,”  Tom Dresslar , a
spokesman for California Treasurer Bill Lockyer, said yesterday.
“No bondholder has failed to receive payment as a result of the
dissolution of redevelopment agencies. The law makes it very
clear that bondholders have the same priority for payment after
the dissolution as they did before.”  The legislation that dissolved the agencies left the
potential for legal and political disputes over the procedures
for distributing revenue, Moody’s said.  A quarrel in Santa Clara County was cited June 8 when
Moody’s cut the ratings on $1.75 billion in tax-allocation bonds
issued by the former redevelopment agency in  San Jose ,
California’s third-largest city.  San Jose Dispute  The county, which collects and distributes property taxes
to its municipalities, withheld $20 million from San Jose. The
county said its largest city failed to provide financial
information for repaying bondholders, according to a  statement .  In its report today, Moody’s said debt service on
redevelopment bonds could be disrupted even in fiscally healthy
cities and counties because of ambiguities in the law.  “The new cash distribution procedure effectively
eliminates bond indentures’ flow of funds, and it is clearly
subject to differing procedural interpretations,” the report
said. “These differing interpretations can, without warning,
give rise to the potential for debt-service defaults that did
not exist prior to the passage of this law.”  Pico Rivera and Monrovia missed payments on debt from their
former redevelopment agencies, officials in the two Los Angeles
County suburbs have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  