-- Osborne Warns on Greek Euro Exit, Suggests Deposit Cover
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-06-15T22:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/osborne-warns-on-greek-euro-exit-suggests-deposit-cover.html
George Osborne , the U.K. Chancellor
of the Exchequer, warned against the dangers of a disorderly
Greek exit from the euro area and backed  deposit insurance  for
the currency bloc’s banks.  “The worst thing for the world would be a Greek exit
without a plan to deal with the contagion, because that would be
like letting Lehman Brothers go and not having a plan for the
day after,” Osborne said in excerpts of a CBS Evening News
interview scheduled for broadcast this evening. The 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. deepened the global
financial crisis.  Osborne spoke two days before Greek voters go to the polls
in an election that may decide whether the nation leaves the 17-
nation euro area. A Group of 20 summit in  Mexico  next week will
give European leaders a chance to discuss the crisis with heads
of other major economies, including U.S. President  Barack Obama .  European leaders are considering ways to strengthen the
monetary union and share risks as they seek to restore the
health of the financial system. Among the proposals are a
facility that can take direct stakes in banks, to be followed
later by a single resolution authority for the 17-country
monetary union and a single deposit-insurance fund.  “We need to have some confidence that bank depositors in
Spain and other countries have their deposits protected by the
rest of the euro zone,” Osborne said, according to the advance
excerpts of the interview.  Merkel Opposes  Osborne said if the euro zone has a single currency, it
needs to have common debt, and he said these proposals were all
about moving in the direction of a “political union.”  “Whilst they dither and delay in getting to that point,
the U.S. is suffering,” Osborne said. “The U.K. is suffering.
The rest of the world is suffering. And, of course, the peoples
of  Spain  and  Greece  and all these other countries are suffering,
too.”  German Chancellor Angela Merkel today rejected calls for a
deposit-insurance fund and said she opposes “premature”
proposals for pooling debt to stem the euro area’s financial
crisis.  “ Germany  will not be persuaded of all those quick
solutions such as euro bonds, stability bonds, a European
deposit-insurance fund,” Merkel said in a speech to a small-
business group in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  