-- Stocks, Commodities Rise on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-15T20:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/most-asian-stocks-oil-gain-on-stimulus-bets-dollar-declines.html
Stocks rose, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to its first back-to-back weekly gain since
April, as commodities and Treasuries advanced amid speculation
central banks will take steps to boost growth as investors await
Greek elections this weekend.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  added 1.2 percent at 4
p.m.  New York  time, posting a second straight weekly gain. The
 S&P 500  increased 1 percent to 1,342.84, the highest level since
May 11. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials added 0.1
percent. Yields on 10-year Treasuries dropped six basis points
to 1.58 percent. The yen gained against 14 of 16 major peers.  Policy makers from the U.K. to Japan and  Canada  stepped up
warnings about the threat to world financial markets should
 Europe  fail to contain its debt crisis. Greek elections June 17
may determine whether the country upholds austerity measures
attached to international aid and remains in the euro bloc.
Reports on U.S. industrial production and  consumer confidence 
trailed projections.  “There’s hope of some coordinated action if bad news does
occur,” said  Tim Ghriskey , who oversees about $2 billion as
chief investment officer of Solaris Group in  Bedford Hills , New
York. “That seems to be supporting the stock market. Yet
investors are still skittish. There’s the Greek election. It
could be an ongoing process.”  All of the 10 main industries in the S&P 500  rallied  as
energy and technology shares had the biggest gains.  Microsoft, Facebook  Microsoft Corp. increased 2.3 percent as a person familiar
with the matter said the company will announce plans next week
to sell a table computer running the next version of Windows.
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. advanced 4.7 percent after its bid
for the London Metal Exchange was rejected in favor of Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.’s offer. Facebook Inc. rose 6.1
percent, completing the first weekly gain since it went public
last month.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 1 percent. Banks
rebounded after the  Bank of England  said it will provide
billions of pounds of emergency aid to U.K. lenders. Barclays
Plc jumped 4.2 percent, Lloyds Banking Group Plc added 5.2
percent and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc surged 7.9 percent.
The central bank will allow the lenders to swap assets for money
they can loan to companies and households.  European Union leaders will press for new efforts to boost
the area’s economy and improve lending conditions, according to
a draft document prepared for a June 28-29 summit in Brussels.
Steps include introducing so-called project bonds, making better
use of EU infrastructure funds and increasing the capital, and
therefore lending power, of the  European Investment Bank ,
according to the June 12 draft.  Gold, Copper  Gold futures added 0.5 percent to $1,628.10 an ounce,
rallying for a sixth straight day. Copper rose 0.9 percent to
$3.3835 a pound. Natural gas slipped 1.1 percent after surging
14 percent yesterday.  Treasuries rose as lower-than-estimated economic reports
reinforced speculation that the Fed will add to stimulus
measures, stoking investor demand for the safety.  Industrial production  in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in May
for the second time in three months as factories turned out
fewer vehicles and  consumer goods . Output at factories, mines
and utilities decreased 0.1 percent last month after a revised 1
percent gain in April, the Fed reported today in  Washington .
Economists forecast a 0.1 percent advance, according to the
Bloomberg News survey median.  Confidence among U.S. consumers declined in June to the
lowest level this year as the labor market showed few signs of
improving. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment fell to 74.1 from the May reading of 79.3,
which was the highest since October 2007. The gauge was
projected to fall to 77.5, according to a median forecast of 66
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The yen strengthened the most in two weeks against the
dollar after the Bank of  Japan  refrained from expanding monetary
stimulus that debases the currency. The yen appreciated 0.8
percent to 78.68 per dollar, the biggest gain since May 31. It
advanced 0.7 percent to 99.58 per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  