-- Panama Economic Growth Accelerated to 10.6% in First Quarter
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-06-15T22:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/panama-economic-growth-accelerated-to-10-4-in-first-quarter-1-.html
Panama ’s economy expanded 10.6
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, fueled by
 government spending  on infrastructure and expansion work on the
Panama Canal, the Comptroller General said.  Economic growth accelerated from 9.6 percent in the fourth
quarter, the agency said today on its website. Finance Minister
Frank De Lima had earlier said the economy grew 10.4 percent.  Government spending rose 41 percent from the same quarter a
year ago, a pace that is likely to continue and help drive 10
percent growth through the year, said  Boris Segura , a Latin
American strategist at Nomura Securities International. The
 International Monetary Fund  expects the economy to expand 7.5
percent in 2012, making it the second straight year that the
Central American nation would lead  Latin America  in growth.  “Panama’s fundamentals are fine overall,” Segura said in
phone interview from New York. “High growth allows you to pay
for this stuff.”  Panama’s $5.25 billion canal expansion project and public
investments such as a $1.5 billion subway line for the capital
are likely to promote above average growth for the next two
years, according to Fitch Ratings. The economy risks overheating
as labor markets tighten, Fitch said in a May 31 report.  “I don’t think you can ever grow too fast,” De Lima said
in an interview today in Panama City. The economy should grow 10
percent this year as the government continues infrastructure
investments, he said.  Annual inflation was unchanged at 6 percent in May.
Panama’s unemployment rate hovers at 4.4 percent and companies
are struggling to find workers, President Ricardo Martinelli
said in an interview last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 