-- Payrolls Climb in 27 U.S. States, Led by California and Ohio
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-15T14:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/payrolls-climb-in-27-u-s-states-led-by-california-and-ohio.html
Payrolls increased in 27 states in
May, while the  unemployment rate  climbed in 18, indicating
progress in the U.S. labor market remains uneven.  California led the nation with a 33,900 gain in payrolls,
followed by  Ohio  with 19,600 more jobs, figures from the Labor
Department showed today in Washington.  The economy last month added the fewest number of workers
in a year, while the jobless rate rose to  8.2 percent , data
showed on June 1. Faster hiring may be needed to accelerate
consumer spending and trim unemployment, which remains a concern
for Federal Reserve policy makers who are set to meet next week.  “The underlying pace of employment growth has softened,”
Bricklin Dwyer, an economist at BNP Paribas in  New York , said
before the report. “The risks for a weaker employment print
have increased.”  South Carolina showed the biggest increase in unemployment,
which climbed to 9.1 percent in May from 8.8 percent the prior
month. Michigan’s jobless rate climbed to 8.5 percent from 8.3
percent, its first increase in a year.  Although unemployment in  Nevada  fell to 11.6 percent last
month from 11.7 percent in April, it remained the highest in the
country. Rhode Island was second, with a rate of 11 percent,
followed by California at 10.8 percent.  North Dakota  had the lowest unemployment in the nation,
with its rate at 3 percent for a third month.  Massachusetts posted the biggest decline in joblessness,
with its rate falling to 6 percent in May from 6.3 percent the
prior month.  Payroll Declines  States showing the largest decreases in employment were
North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Maryland.  New Jersey  added 17,600 jobs in May, the third most among
states and its biggest employment gain in more than seven years,
as governments filled seasonal positions and a new casino
opened. Its jobless rate rose to 9.2 percent, one percentage
point above the U.S. level, as the state labor force expanded,
Governor  Chris Christie  told reporters in Trenton yesterday.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Employers nationwide added 69,000 jobs last month, after a
revised 77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department data showed on June 1.  Fed Meeting  A sustained rebound in hiring is needed to strengthen the
pace of  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent
of the economy. The  Federal Open Market Committee , which sets
the course of central bank policy, begins a two-day meeting on
June 19. The group may address a cooling expansion, weaker job
growth and the financial crisis in Europe.  “Will there be enough growth going forward to make
material progress on the unemployment rate?” Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony last week to the
Joint Economic Committee. “That’s the essential decision and
the central question that we have who look at.”  Verizon Communications Inc., the second-largest U.S. phone
company, is among employers trimming expenses. It offered exit
packages to 1,700 technicians and call-center workers, a move
that may lead to hundreds of job cuts if enough employees don’t
volunteer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  