-- Pengrowth Dividend Cut Seen as Energy Declines: Corporate Canada
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-06-15T04:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/pengrowth-dividend-cut-seen-as-energy-declines-corporate-canada.html
Pengrowth Energy Corp. (PGF)  and Penn West
Petroleum Ltd. are under pressure to follow  Enerplus Corp. (ERF)  with
dividend cuts as high-yielding Canadian oil and gas producers
preserve cash in response to falling energy prices.  Enerplus reduced its dividend by 50 percent to 9 Canadian
cents a share, the first cut to its payout in more than  three 
years. The move announced on June 12 dropped the Calgary-based
producer’s dividend yield to 8.3 percent.  Pengrowth, Penn West,  Peyto Exploration & Development Corp. (PEY) 
and  Bonavista Energy Corp. (BNP)  may all follow suit with reduced
payouts as oil trades near an eight-month low, said Kyle Preston,
a Calgary-based analyst at  National Bank of Canada .  “Once one company cuts, it opens the door for others to
proceed,” Preston said in an interview. “These companies are
looking at the broader global market and the uncertainty and
taking steps to protect their balance sheets.”  Enerplus, valued at about C$2.6 billion ($2.5 billion), has
seen its shares lose  half their value  this year. The stock fell
3.7 percent on June 13 after the dividend cut was announced.  Pengrowth fell 35 percent this year through yesterday in
Toronto, which compares with declines of 30 percent for  Penn
West (PWT)  and 46 percent for Bonavista.  Smaller Canadian oil producers are reassessing their
financing plans as energy prices slip. Crude futures in  New York 
fell to $81.07 a barrel on June 12, the lowest intraday price
since Oct. 6. Oil declined 43 percent from a record in 2008 of
$147.27, and was down 15 percent this year.  Yield, Growth  “This reduction will strike a better balance between yield
and growth, allowing continued investment into our asset base in
a more sustainable manner,” Enerplus said in its statement on
June 12.  Producers with the highest payouts are most likely to
follow Enerplus, Preston said.  Enerplus and Penn West are former income trusts, companies
that distributed most of their income to shareholders in monthly
payouts. The Canadian government shut down the structure in 2006,
forcing these companies to convert to dividend-paying
corporations.  For every C$100 Enerplus had in  cash flow  from operations
in the first quarter, it paid shareholders C$154 in dividends,
the highest dividend-cash flow ratio among 45 Calgary-based oil
and gas-related companies with market capitalization of more
than C$1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Pengrowth paid out C$60 in dividends from cash flow, compared
with C$43 at Penn West and C$42 at Peyto.  Weak Prices  Pengrowth has no plans to cut its dividend, Chris Webster,
the company’s chief financial officer, said by telephone.  “While commodity prices are weak, we feel there is no
reason to examine the dividend right now,” Jason Fleury, a Penn
West spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  Jim Grant, a Peyto spokesman, said by phone the company has
no plans to cut its dividend. Cameron Deller, a Bonavista
spokesman, declined to comment when contacted by phone.  Retail  sales  in the U.S., the world’s largest consumer of
oil, fell in May for a second month, prompting economists to cut
forecasts for economic growth. Slower growth reduces demand for
oil, which is used to make gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.  In  Europe , gross domestic product in the countries that
share the euro may contract 0.4 percent this year before
expanding 0.9 percent in 2013, according to a survey of
economists by Bloomberg.  Canada , the world’s 10th-largest
economy, may grow 2.2 percent this year.  10-Year Low  Natural-gas futures in New York touched a 10-year low of
$1.902 per million British thermal units in April and averaged
$2.50 in the first quarter. The fuel surged to $2.495 per
million Btu yesterday after a government report showed a
smaller-than-estimated gain in U.S. supplies last week.  Limiting dividend spending allows companies to continue
investing in operations and avoid selling assets, said Gordon Currie, a Calgary-based analyst at Salman Partners.  Zargon Oil &
Gas Ltd. (ZAR)  is also among firms that may reduce dividend payouts,
he said.  “Reducing  capital expenditures  may limit future growth,”
Currie said in a note to investors.  Jason Dranchuk, Zargon’s chief financial officer, declined
to comment on its plans, saying that dividend policy is the
responsibility of the company’s board of directors.  Bakken, Marcellus  Enerplus produced an average of 79,190 barrels of oil
equivalent per day in the first quarter. The company pumps oil
from its leases in regions including the Bakken in  North Dakota 
and the Marcellus in the U.S. northeast, according to the
company’s  website . Enerplus controls  reserves  equivalent to 322
million barrels of oil.  The 12-month dividend yield at Enerplus, the dividend per
share as a percentage of the share price, was 16.4 percent
before the cut, more than five times greater than the 3.1
percent dividend yield of the  S&P/TSX Composite Index. (SPTSX)  The
dividend yield is now 13.4 percent for Zargon, 12 percent for
Pengrowth, 10.3 percent for Bonavista, 7.7 percent for  Penn West ,
and 4.1 percent for Peyto.  With a lower dividend, Enerplus can now focus on expanding
its business, said Grant Hofer, an analyst at Barclay’s Capital
in Calgary.  “This cut was long overdue and should be a positive from a
funding perspective, as well as supporting growth into next
year,” Hofer said in a June 13 note to investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  