-- Peru’s Sol Posts Biggest Weekly Gain in Year on Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-06-15T20:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/peru-s-sol-posts-biggest-weekly-gain-in-year-on-stimulus-outlook.html
Peru ’s sol rose, extending its
weekly rally to the biggest in a year, as speculation central
banks will take steps to revive growth eased concern the euro
zone’s debt crisis will derail the global economy.  The sol advanced 0.6 percent to 2.6515 per dollar today and
gained 1.1 percent since June 8, the best five-day performance
since the period ended May 13, 2011.  Some investors reduced their dollar holdings on bets the
sol may keep strengthening as exporters buy the local currency
next week to pay taxes, said Gonzalo Navarro, the head trader at
 Banco Santander  in Lima. “And you have central banks thinking
about spurring growth.”  Peru’s Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said today the
government will expand an economic stimulus package after the
economy slowed more than forecast in April.  Economic activity rose 4.4 percent, the least in more than
two years and less than the 5.3 median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The moderation will be temporary and gross domestic product
will probably rise 5.7 percent in the second quarter, central
bank President Julio Velarde told reporters in Lima today. The
bank stands ready to cut its benchmark  interest rate  and lower
 reserve requirements  if the global outlook worsens, he said.  The yield on the benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due in August 2020 dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 5.12 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. The price increased 0.29 centimo to 117.86
centimos per sol.  Policy makers from the U.K. to Japan stepped up warnings
this week about the threat to world financial markets should the
European crisis deepen after elections in  Greece  on June 17. A
victory by Syriza, the party promising to renege on terms of
Greece’s bailout deal, may speed the nation’s exit from the
euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  