-- Peugeot Plans Sale of Majority of Gefco Trucking Division
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-06-15T06:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/peugeot-plans-sale-of-majority-of-gefco-trucking-unit.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, plans to sell at least 50 percent of
its profitable Gefco trucking unit, more than previously
discussed, as it seeks to raise cash amid slumping sales.  “The chief executive told us that more than half of the
shares would be sold,” Patrice Clos, a FO union representative
and head of Gefco’s works council, said in a phone interview.
Gefco Chief Executive Officer Yves Fargues provided the
information at a works council meeting yesterday, Clos said.  The sale of a majority of the trucking unit “would mean
that Gefco’s earnings would get deconsolidated in Peugeot’s
accounts,” Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC Securities,
said by phone. “This would basically mean a 20 percent cut in
their operating income.”  Peugeot announced plans in February to sell assets,
including a stake in Gefco, as the Paris-based carmaker grapples
with European overcapacity and increasing debt. The French
carmaker’s sales in  Europe  tumbled 15 percent in the first five
months of 2012, outpacing an industrywide slump and causing its
market share to drop to 12.1 percent from 13.2 percent,
according to data from the ACEA industry group.  Gefco, a fully-owned Peugeot subsidiary, has attracted
eight bidders so far, and Peugeot plans to narrow the field to
three by the end of July, Clos said. The deal is slated to close
by early September, which would be a month later than previously
scheduled, he said, adding that Fargues didn’t provide details
on valuation nor identify the bidders.  Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a spokesman for Peugeot in Paris,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  