-- Pfizer Sees Harvard Collaboration as Spark for New Drugs
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-15T20:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/pfizer-sees-harvard-collaboration-as-spark-for-new-drugs.html
When Hal Dvorak, a Harvard scientist
whose ideas helped spur the advance of targeted cancer drugs,
sought a partner recently to help him develop new treatments, he
only had to walk two blocks to find one.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , which is spending $100 million to open a
state-of-the-art laboratory in Boston, was there. For Dvorak,
teaming with Pfizer “is an ideal arrangement,” he said,
providing convenience and expertise bringing research into the
clinic.  Partnerships between industry and academia, of course,
aren’t new. Yet Pfizer, Sanofi,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and other drug
companies are putting a new twist on the arrangement by stepping
up their level of collaboration with universities. In the case
of Pfizer, the world’s largest drug company is embedding
operations in Boston,  San Francisco , New York and  San Diego ,
often in the very same buildings where famed academic
institutions have labs.  “No matter how much money you have, nothing compares to
the innovation going on out in the world,” said Jose Carlos Gutierrez-Ramos, the director of the Pfizer lab, in an
interview. “We want to be here, integrated into this fabric.”  The push represents Pfizer’s strategy for long-term drug
development at a time of uncertain prospects for new
blockbusters. Pfizer gained its two biggest  sellers , the
cholesterol pill Lipitor and the painkiller Lyrica, in its $120
billion purchase of Warner-Lambert in 2000. As opportunities for
such mega-deals become more scarce in the pharmaceutical
industry, the need for long-range planning will become
increasingly important.  Future Promise  That’s why Pfizer sees embedding in academic labs so
crucial to its future. The ideas that show promise, “we’ll buy
later,” said Gutierrez-Ramos.  In two to three years, Pfizer plans to have 50  drug
development  projects running in their centers around the
country, all of which have been opened since late 2010,
Gutierrez-Ramos said.  The initiative comes at a crucial point in the company’s
history.  Lipitor, once the world’s best-selling drug with more than
$12 billion a year in sales, stands to lose 80 percent of its
revenue as cheaper generic versions grab market share this year.
The company has also suffered a series of research failures
since 2006, when a drug designed to replace that revenue, the
good-cholesterol pill torcetrapib, was abandoned after being
linked to heart attacks.  Read’s Strategy  In response, Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  has begun
cutting back the size of the company, selling one non-
pharmaceutical unit, planning to spin off another and trimming
expenses. He has said he wants to rebuild Pfizer into a smaller,
faster-moving company that focuses on development of  new drugs .  “It makes sense to outsource anything that someone else
can do better than you and that you don’t consider a core
competency or source of competitive advantage,”  Erik Gordon , a
professor of business at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann
Arbor , said in an e-mail.  Pfizer gained less than 1 percent to $22.61 at the close in
New York. Since Dec. 3, 2010, the last trading day before Read
was named CEO, the  stock  has increased 35 percent.  Strong Connections  Pfizer is turning to executives like Gutierrez-Ramos, whose
job is to create strong connections within one of the world’s
most creative hotbeds for biotechnology innovation.  In  Boston , the Pfizer lab is located in the same building
as offices of renowned research centers of  Boston Children’s
Hospital  and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, which would
make some potential partnerships just an elevator ride away.  The Boston lab has reviewed 400 partnership proposals in
the last year and is working on projects involving chronic
 kidney disease , osteoporosis and cancer, Tony Coyle, chief
scientific officer for the Pfizer center, said in an interview.  Gutierrez-Ramos said he is trying to create an atmosphere
at the lab where outside researchers easily come and go, and
Pfizer’s scientists visit neighboring academicians on their
turf.  Pharmaceutical companies, which historically are highly
secretive about their work because of competition, need to be
willing to take more risks in the future, he said, creating
access to its inner sanctums to develop drugs earlier.  Development Resources  What Pfizer offers academic researchers are
“extraordinary” resources for drug development that nearby
university labs can’t match, said Harvard’s Dvorak.  Dvorak , in 1983, was one of the first scientists to
demonstrate that cancer cells secreted vascular endothelial
growth factor, or VEGF, the initial idea behind development of
drugs, such as  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin, that cut off the
blood supply to tumors to stop their spread.  “An academic lab can only go so far,” Dvorak said in a
telephone interview from Boston. “We’re good at identifying
targets, but if you want to make monoclonal antibodies or take
this to the clinic, we have no experience in that. That’s not
our bag.”  Coyle, of Pfizer’s center, agrees. “We’ve cured diabetes
in mice so many times” in the laboratory, Coyle said. “But
there’s been a very poor appreciation from the academic
community” about how to develop drugs for use in the clinic.  18th Floor  An example of the advantages for academics can be seen in a
single machine located on the lab’s 18th floor.  Separated by a wall of glass from an open-plan suite for
the group’s top managers, the machine has the ability to rapidly
test thousands of compounds against Pfizer’s own chemical
library to see if they match with known disease pathways or
proteins that have been identified as possible targets. Past
rows of lab benches, two rooms full of complex imaging equipment
are used to identify how proteins interact.  Universities and research institutes need all the help they
can get, according to a  report  by the Tufts Center for the Study
of Drug Development released in April. Funding from the U.S.
National Institutes of Health has been unchanged for a decade,
at about $31 billion for 2013.  At the same time, pharmaceutical companies have cut their
early-stage research budgets in a tough economy to focus on
late-stage clinical development and marketing, the report said.  Significant Change  The partnership model now being pursued by Pfizer and a few
other large drugmakers, “represents the most significant change
in the innovative landscape we’ve seen in three decades,” said
Ken Kaitin, director of the Tufts center.  Sanofi (SAN) , based in Paris, has its own collaboration program,
with Harvard, the  University of California , San Francisco, and
several others, the company said.  In March, Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker,
announced it was joining the party. The  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based company said it will spend as much as $90 million
over seven years to help fund a new  California  Institute for
Biomedical Research it will run in San Diego.  “With academic centers, with the reduction in NIH support,
there’s almost a desperation that they must, must find new
revenue streams,” Kaitin said in an interview in Boston.
“That, in most cases, means working with industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  