-- Philippine Peso Falls as Spain Concern Mounts
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-06-15T08:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/philippine-peso-falls-as-spain-concern-mounts.html
The Philippine peso had its biggest
weekly gain in more than three years on speculation improving
economic fundamentals will win it a credit-rating upgrade.  The currency advanced for a fourth day after Standard
Chartered Plc recommended yesterday that clients buy the peso
via the non-deliverable forwards market, saying it expects the
 Philippines  to achieve an investment-grade rating by 2014. The
peso touched a six-week high today as the central bank reported
funds sent home by overseas workers rose 5.4 percent in the
first four months from a year earlier to $6.5 billion, making up
10 percent of the economy.  “There’s a lot of hope on the upgrade,” said Andy Ji, a
Singapore-based foreign-exchange strategist at  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia . “The fiscal situation is good and the macro
outlook is positive. Remittances have always been strong.”  The peso strengthened 2.4 percent this week to 42.255 per
dollar in  Manila , the most since the week ended Dec. 19, 2008,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency rose 0.7 percent
today and touched 42.255, the highest level since May 4. The
peso has rallied 3.7 percent this year, the most among the 11
most-traded Asian currencies.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, increased 25 basis points to 7
percent this week. It was unchanged today.  Borrowing Costs Held  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record-low 4 percent yesterday after the economy
expanded 6.4 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
the most in  Southeast Asia . Exports increased 7.6 percent from a
year earlier in April, a statistics office report showed
yesterday, exceeding the median 0.5 percent gain forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Moody’s Investors Service raised the outlook on the
nation’s Ba2 rating, the second-highest junk ranking, to
positive last month, citing improving debt levels. That followed
a similar move by  Standard & Poor’s  in December, which also
rates the nation two levels below investment grade.  Fitch
Ratings  raised its assessment to the top junk level last year.  The yield on the government’s 8 percent bonds due July 2031
climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this week
to 6 percent, according to prices from Tradition Financial
Services. The rate was little changed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 