-- Gilts Rally on Speculation BOE Ready to Restart QE
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-06-15T16:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/pound-weakens-as-king-signals-boe-ready-to-offer-support.html
Gilts rallied, pushing two-year note
yields toward a record low, on speculation the  Bank of England 
will buy more  government bonds  to support the economy as
 Europe ’s debt crisis deepens.  Investors increased bets that borrowing costs will fall,
sending implied yields on short-sterling futures to contract
lows. Central bank Governor Mervyn King announced joint steps
with the Treasury to increase the flow of credit to U.K. and
said the case for more stimulus is “growing.”  “The central bank eased the criteria on which banks can
access liquidity from it, and at lower rates,” said  John Wraith , an interest-rate strategist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in London. “These measures have led to a sharp drop in
implied rates. Gilt yields dropped as expectations of more bond
buying have strengthened.”  The yield on the two-year note fell six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 0.22 percent at 4:55 p.m. London time.
It fell to 0.193 percent, approaching the record low of 0.189
percent reached on June 1. The 2.25 percent security due March
2014 rose 0.1, or 1 pound per 1,000-pound ($1,563) face amount,
to 103.485.  Ten-year yields dropped six basis points to 1.67 percent.  “I will be a seller of sterling against the dollar,” said
 Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at the Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “These measures may
arguably help the economy in a longer run, but in the near term
there will be more supply of sterling into the market.”  Monthly Injection  The Bank of England’s liquidity plan will see it inject at
least 5 billion pounds a month into the financial system. A
separate program will allow lenders to swap assets with the
central bank in return for money to be loaned to companies and
households. The Treasury said a 5 percent increase in lending
would inject about 80 billion pounds into the economy.  Barclays Plc economist  Simon Hayes  said today that the
central bank will boost its bond-purchase plan by 50 billion
pounds next month to shelter Britain from financial woes in the
euro area.  Gilts handed investors a 1.4 percent gain this year,
compared with a 2.6 return from German bonds and 1.7 percent
from Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analyst Societies.  Greeks go to the polls on June 17 for the second time in
two months after an inconclusive May 6 vote deepened concern
 Greece  will leave the 17-nation euro currency bloc.  Euro Turmoil  With the euro-area turmoil pushing up funding costs and
making it harder to access credit, King said the lending plan
will provide banks with funds below current market rates. This
will be linked to their performance “in sustaining or expanding
their lending to the U.K. non-financial sector during the
present period of heightened uncertainty,” he said.  The implied yield on the short-sterling futures contract
expiring in December fell 22 basis points to 0.60 percent, a
contract low based on closing-market rates. The measure is used
by analysts to gauge the trajectory of borrowing costs between
banks. The implied yield on the June 2013 contract declined 18
basis points to 0.59 percent.  The difference between two-year swap rates and the
comparable gilt yield, known as a  swap spread , which is
perceived as a measure of stress in the financial system,
dropped to 70 basis points, the lowest since December last year.  Borrowing Costs  The liquidity moves were announced after record-low
official  interest rates  and a so-called quantitative easing
program failed to bring down borrowing costs that lenders charge
to companies and households. The central bank has said the
turmoil in the euro area, Britain’s largest trading partner,
poses the biggest risk to the economy and financial stability.  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and
Barclays Plc shares all jumped more than 4.5 percent on the
announcement, pushing a  gauge  of U.K. banks to a one-month high.  The pound rose 0.6 percent to $1.5656, the highest since
May 29. It was 0.6 percent stronger at 81.69 pence per euro
after weakening by as much as 0.4 percent to 81.53 pence.  The U.K. currency has dropped 2.5 percent in the past
month, the worst performance among 10 developed-nation
currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
It’s declined as traders added to bets that the central bank
will create additional money and buy bonds to boost the economy.
The euro fell 1 percent in the period.  The rate that London-based banks say they pay for three-
month loans in sterling fell to 0.951 percent today, according
to the British Bankers’ Association. That’s the lowest since
Sept. 29.  The  London  interbank offered rate, or Libor, for such loans
compares with 0.99 percent yesterday, the BBA data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  