-- Prudential Said to Buy Retail Space in Hancock Center
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-06-15T19:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/prudential-said-to-buy-retail-space-in-hancock-center.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  has agreed
to acquire retail space in the John Hancock Center on Chicago’s
Magnificent Mile from North Star Realty Finance Corp., according
to two people with knowledge of the transaction.  The  second-largest U.S. life insurer  has a deal to purchase
the shopping component of Chicago’s fourth-tallest building,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the deal
hasn’t been announced. The Hancock Center’s 172,000 square feet
of retail space is home to stores including Best Buy and The
North Face.  The deal marks a step toward North Star’s goal of selling
off the tower in pieces after seizing the building this year
when a partnership including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
Whitehall real-estate unit failed to refinance maturing loans
taken out at the height of the property bubble in 2007. North
Star, a New York-based real estate investor, partnered with
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to buy out debt holders and take it over,
people familiar with that deal said.  John Chartier, a spokesman for Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential, said he couldn’t immediately comment, and  Amanda Williams  of Deutsche Bank declined to comment. Joe Calabrese, a
spokesman for North Star, didn’t respond to a telephone call and
an e-mail seeking comment.  Prudential, the second largest U.S. life insurer, invests
in real estate using money that backs policies and funds it
raises from third-party investors. The company’s real-estate
unit managed $49.1 billion of gross property assets at the end
of 2011 and purchased a 20-story  office tower  in Atlanta in May,
according to statements on Prudential’s website.  The Hancock building, completed in 1970, has an observatory
on the 94th floor that is one of  Chicago ’s biggest tourist
attractions. In addition to the retail component, the property
has 896,980 square feet (83,332 square meters) of office space,
a parking garage and 49 floors of residential condominiums.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  