-- Rajat Gupta Convicted for Giving Rajaratnam Inside Tips
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 2012-06-16T17:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/rajat-gupta-convicted-of-insider-trading-by-u-s-jury.html
Rajat Gupta, who reached the
pinnacle of corporate America as managing partner of McKinsey &
Co. and director at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG) , was convicted by a federal jury of leaking inside
information to hedge-fund manager Raj Rajaratnam.  Gupta, 63, was found guilty of three counts of securities
fraud and one count of conspiracy yesterday by a federal jury in
Manhattan in its second day of deliberations. Securities fraud
carries a maximum prison sentence of 20 years, and conspiracy
carries a five-year maximum. U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said
Gupta can remain free on bail until his sentencing on Oct. 18.  The outcome is a victory for the U.S. government in its
nationwide crackdown on insider trading at  hedge funds .  “Having fallen from respected insider to convicted inside
trader, Mr. Gupta has now exchanged the lofty board room for the
prospect of a lowly jail cell,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement. “Violating clear and sacrosanct
duties of confidentiality, Mr. Gupta illegally provided a
virtual open line into the boardroom for his benefactor and
business partner,  Raj Rajaratnam .”  No Reaction  Gupta, who was also acquitted of two counts, showed no
reaction during the reading of the verdict. His wife, Anita,
sobbed loudly as she lowered her head onto the courtroom
balustrade when the jury announced the first guilty count.  He is most prominent of the 62 people convicted since the
nationwide crackdown began. To date, the U.S. has brought cases
against 68 traders and their sources from  Wall Street  to Silicon
Valley. No one has won an acquittal; six cases are pending.  Gupta didn’t speak to reporters as he left the courthouse
with his family. Gupta’s four daughters -- Geetanjali, who
testified for the defense, Megha, Aditi and Deepali -- were
seated directly behind their father and hugged and cried when
the verdict was read.  “We continue to feel that Mr. Gupta is innocent of all
charges,” defense lawyer  Gary Naftalis  said after the verdict.
“We will be making a motion to set aside the verdict and appeal
if necessary.”  Gupta “didn’t trade,” Naftalis said. “He didn’t tip Mr.
Rajaratnam. He didn’t receive a dishonest dime.”  Besides his tenure at Goldman Sachs and McKinsey, which he
ran from 1994 to 2003, the Kolkata-born Gupta served on the
boards of the Rockefeller Foundation and the Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation. He is also a co-founder of the Indian School
of Business in Hyderabad.  Raising Money  He has raised millions of dollars for education and health-
care programs, served as an adviser to the  United Nations  and
counseled chief executives including  Lloyd Blankfein  of Goldman
Sachs, who was a prosecution witness at the trial. He lives in a
waterfront home in Westport, Connecticut.  Richard Scheff, chairman of Philadelphia-based Montgomery,
McCracken, Walker & Rhoads LLP, said a conviction would be
“extremely” significant.  “It doesn’t get much higher,” Scheff, who specializes in
white-collar criminal investigations, said in an interview
before the verdict.  Rajaratnam, who co-founded Galleon Group LLC, was convicted
at trial last year and sentenced to 11 years in prison, a record
at the time for  insider-trading  crimes. He’s appealing the
verdict.  Hugged Lawyers  After the jury left, Gupta hugged defense lawyers Alan
Friedman and Robin Wilcox. Naftalis patted his client on the
back. Gupta embraced his wife, who buried her head in his chest
and sobbed. The four daughters and Gupta’s brother-in-law joined
in the embrace.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a lawsuit
against Gupta, which is still pending.  The verdict “sends a very strong message to corporate
America and to Wall Street that those who engage in insider
trading, irrespective of their station in life, can expect to be
prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” SEC Enforcement
Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a statement. “We appreciate the
tremendous work of the federal prosecutors at the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan  in successfully prosecuting this
case.”  Gupta is the latest object lesson in what happens to
business leaders who lose their bearings, said Georges Ugeux, a
former New York Stock Exchange official and now chief executive
officer of New York-based Galileo Global Advisors LLC.  “They start to believe they are so brilliant, they are so
powerful, and they behave like they are above the law,” Ugeux
said before the verdict was handed down. “There will always be
people who will go over the line, but there are others who will
see the price someone like Gupta has paid, and say it’s not
worth it.”  Warren Buffett  Gupta was found guilty of leaking tips to Rajaratnam, 55,
about New York-based Goldman Sachs, including information about
a $5 billion investment by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. on Sept. 23, 2008, and a tip on a quarterly loss. The jury
acquitted him of charges that he leaked information that
Cincinnati-based P&G’s organic sales growth would fall below
estimates and that he tipped Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs’s
earnings in the first quarter of 2007.  Unlike the Rajaratnam prosecution, which was based on
dozens of wiretaps of his mobile-phone conversations, the case
against Gupta was circumstantial, built on trading records,
business relationships and comments by Rajaratnam or others
about Galleon’s sources of information.  At the trial, Blankfein testified that he briefed his board
over the phone on the Buffett investment beginning at 3:15 p.m.
Within a minute after the call with the directors concluded at
3:53 p.m., Rajaratnam answered a call on his private line from a
McKinsey conference room being used by Gupta, according to phone
records and testimony.  Bought Shares  Rajaratnam got off a call and hurriedly told Ananth
Muniyappa, then a Galleon trader, to buy Goldman Sachs stock,
Muniyappa testified. Galleon bought 267,000 shares. Prosecutors
played a wiretapped recording of a Rajaratnam phone call from
the next day.  “I got a call at 3:58, right?” Rajaratnam could be heard
telling another trader. “Saying something good might happen to
Goldman.”  Anthony Sabino , a professor of law at the Tobin School of
Business at St. John’s University in New York, said the case
relied on the “old-school” methods the federal government used
in prosecuting earlier insider-trading cases.  “These cases were based on the building of a sequence of
events and pieces of evidence and prosecutors connected the dots
for the jury,” Sabino said.  ‘Extraordinary Profits’  The defense assailed what it called the lack of “real,
hard, direct evidence” in the prosecution’s case, pointed to
other leakers at Goldman Sachs and sought to show that Galleon
had legitimate reasons for the trades. Naftalis reminded jurors
that there were no wiretaps of Gupta tipping Rajaratnam, and he
said the two men had a falling out after Gupta lost $10 million
in a Galleon fund.  Prosecutors said Gupta leaked the information because he
wanted Rajaratnam’s help with a new fund he was starting, as
well as a slice of the “extraordinary profits” at Galleon.
Gupta was to become chairman of Galleon’s international fund,
according to the government.  Rajaratnam, for instance, bumped up by $4 million Gupta’s
stake in a Galleon investment after Gupta told him about a
Goldman Sachs board discussion held in  St. Petersburg , Russia,
prosecutors said.  “Rajaratnam offered Gupta many benefits,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Richard Tarlowe said in his summation on June 13.
“What was good for Rajaratnam and Galleon was good for Gupta.”  Parents Died  Gupta’s father, a journalist who worked for two newspapers,
fought for India’s independence and was jailed several times for
his political activism. Gupta’s mother was a teacher in a
Montessori school. The family moved to  New Delhi  when Gupta was
five.  Orphaned at 18 after both his parents died of natural
causes, Gupta persuaded an unmarried aunt to live with him and
his siblings, according to a 1994 interview he gave to
“Business Today,” an Indian magazine.  He said he was shattered by his father’s death and became
very studious, careful never to make a mistake that could cost
him his scholarship to the Modern School, one of India’s few
English-language, Western-style high schools.  He ranked among the top 20 of hundreds of thousands of
Indian youth who took the entrance examination in 1966 for a
spot at the elite Indian Institute of Technology, according to
an interview he gave to the “Economic Times” of India when he
became head of McKinsey.  Harvard Scholarship  Gupta chose the Delhi campus and in 1971 he earned a
bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering. His first job offer
came from ITC Ltd., a British-owned company that sold cigarettes
and ran hotels. He turned it down when he was admitted to
Harvard Business School on scholarship.  Gupta became a Baker Scholar, a distinction earned by the
top 5 percent of students in his graduating class in 1973. Hired
by McKinsey in New York, he advanced steadily, becoming a
partner at the consulting firm in 1980 and moving to Copenhagen
the following year. In 1984, Gupta began overseeing all of the
firm’s business in Scandinavia. He moved to McKinsey’s Chicago
office in 1987 and became its head in 1989.  McKinsey grew rapidly under his leadership beginning in
1994. He won re-election twice, and during his three terms at
the helm, the maximum the firm allows, revenue increased to
$3.4 billion from $1.2 billion. The number of partners rose to
891, according to Kennedy Information LLC, a research firm that
tracks the consulting industry.  Private Equity  After retiring in 2007, Gupta divided his time between his
Connecticut home, a Manhattan apartment and a Florida getaway.
He traveled to India to look for investments for New Silk Route
Partners, the private equity firm he started with Rajaratnam and
others, and paid visits around the world to the public companies
and nonprofit boards on which he was a director.  By April 2008, his net worth was $84.1 million, according
to his personal banker’s testimony at the trial.  The prosecution of Gupta subjected the inner workings of
Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, to public
scrutiny. Along with Blankfein, witnesses against Gupta included
William George, an independent Goldman Sachs director, and  Byron Trott , who was the company’s vice chairman of  investment banking 
until he left the firm in 2009.  A prosecutor said a Goldman Sachs salesman also tipped
Rajaratnam; the defense claimed a firm analyst leaked
information; and Gupta’s lawyer, Gary Naftalis, used his
summation to assail Blankfein as “less than candid.”  ‘Very Disappointed’  “We are very disappointed that Mr. Gupta breached his
duties as a director and violated the trust of our shareholders
and the firm,” Goldman Sachs said in a statement after the
verdict.  The trial won’t help the bank’s reputation, said Ben Wallace, an analyst at Westborough, Massachusetts-based Grimes &
Co., which manages about $1 billion and doesn’t hold Goldman
Sachs shares.  “It plays into the general thought about their access to
inside information and how they use it,” Grimes said. “The
question is: Where is their reputation already?” Still, he said,
“This isn’t going to lead the SEC to do anything.”  Gupta’s relationship with Rajaratnam put him in the
government’s crosshairs. Agents of the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation listened in on a July 2008 phone call in which
Gupta discussed Goldman Sachs business with Rajaratnam and the
two bantered about Gupta’s interest in joining KKR & Co., the
buyout firm. Even after Rajaratnam lost the $10 million, Gupta
continued to leave friendly messages, wishing Rajaratnam a happy
New Year in January 2009.  ‘Business Relationship’  “The government demonstrated that Gupta and Rajaratnam had
a close and intense business relationship and they’d invested
millions of dollars with each other,” said Sabino of St. John’s.
“Prosecutors showed that even if Gupta didn’t receive any cash
from these tips, the investments received a benefit by helping
Rajaratnam.”  Donald Jacobs, dean emeritus of Northwestern University’s
Kellogg School of Management, said he’s not swayed by the jury’s
verdict. Jacobs said he can’t reconcile the allegations with the
Gupta he has known since the 1980s, who strictly adhered to
McKinsey’s client confidentiality code. Jacobs worked with Gupta
in helping found the Indian School of Business in 2001.  “The whole history of  Rajat Gupta  doesn’t support his
having done what was charged,” he said, echoing a sentiment
expressed by the jury foreman after yesterday’s verdict.  “I wanted to believe the allegations weren’t true,”
Richard Lepkowski, 51, said in an interview. “Here was a man
who came to this country and was a wonderful example of the
American Dream.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
and John Helyar in Atlanta at   jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  