-- Rand Set for Weekly Advance as Yields Fall on Stimulus
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-06-15T13:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/rand-weakens-paring-weekly-rise-before-greeks-head-for-polls.html
The rand was set for a second
consecutive weekly advance on speculation global policy makers
will act to combat a global economic slump, improving investors’
appetite for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency gained as much as 0.3 percent, and
traded at 8.3778 per dollar as of 2:35 p.m. in Johannesburg,
little changed from yesterday’s  New York  close. The rand has
strengthened 0.1 percent this week. Yields on the nation’s 6.75
percent bonds due 2021 dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 7.53 percent, the lowest since May 3.  Stocks and commodity prices climbed for a second day on
bets central banks will take steps to boost economies after
policy makers from the U.K. to Japan and  Canada  stepped up
warnings about the threat to world financial markets should
Europe fail to contain its debt crisis. Greek elections June 17
may determine whether the country upholds austerity measures and
remain a member of the euro bloc, South  Africa ’s biggest
regional trading partner.  “Risk received a boost after reports that leading central
bankers were considering taking action,” Nomvuyo Guma, a
currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg,
said in e-mailed comments. “The improvement in sentiment saw
the rand regain further ground against a sagging dollar.”  Bad News Good  U.S. industrial output probably slowed and  consumer
confidence  fell, according to economists’ estimated before
reports due today. More Americans applied for jobless benefits
and consumer prices dropped by the most in three year, reports
showed yesterday, giving the  Federal Reserve  more room to spur
the economy.  “Markets are using this poor news to price in more
quantitative easing,” or bond-buying by the Federal Reserve,
Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at Tradition
Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments. “So bad news is now good
news, because bad news means” monetary stimulus, he added.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials climbed
0.5 percent as the prices of metals including copper and nickel
rose. South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  gained, led by
commodity exporters including  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   Bonds gained for a fifth day, driving three-year yields to
a record low, as investors bet signs of a slowing global economy
will put pressure on the central bank to cut  interest rates .
Yields on 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 dropped five basis points
to 6.11 percent.  Two-year interest-rate  swaps , a gauge of investors’
expectations of average borrowing costs over the next two years,
dropped 1.5 basis points today to 5.475 percent, the lowest
November. The swap rate fell below the South African Reserve
Bank’s 5.5 percent repurchase rate, an indication that traders
expect a rate cut in the two-year period.  The central bank has left its repo rate unchanged since
November 2010 to boost growth in Africa’s biggest economy, even
as the  inflation  rate rose above the 3 to 6 percent target
range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  