-- Treasuries Advance as Greek Election Boosts Safety Bid
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-15T21:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/treasuries-advance-on-bets-fed-will-take-steps-to-spur-economy.html
Treasuries extended a weekly gain as
reports showing industrial production unexpectedly fell and
 consumer confidence  slid added to speculation the Federal
Reserve will provide more stimulus to sustain economic growth.  Yields on the benchmark  10-year note  remained less than a
quarter-percentage point above the record low reached two weeks
ago as investors continue to seek a refuge from Europe’s
financial turmoil. Volatility rose to the highest since March
amid speculation central banks will take steps to boost growth
as investors await Greek elections this weekend.  “The weaker the numbers are that come out on our economy,
the more likely they will lean toward doing something,” Douglas Swanson, co-manager of a $26.5 billion fund at JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s J.P. Morgan Asset Management, said of the Fed. “There’s
nothing in the short term that’s going to cure  Europe . They need
to come up with a credible long-term plan.”  The 10-year  yield  dropped seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.58 percent at 5:21 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The yield, which fell
to a record 1.44 percent on June 1, was down six basis points on
the week. The 1.75 percent security due in May 2022 increased
19/32, or $5.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 18/32.  Thirty-year bond  yields fell six basis points to 2.68
percent. They touched a record low 2.51 percent on June 1. The
two-year note yield declined two basis points to 0.27 percent.  Volume Drops  Trading volume shrank. About $211 billion of Treasuries
 changed hands  through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer
broker, down 22 percent from $272 billion yesterday. It was the
lowest since May 29. The average volume over the past year was
$256 billion.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending June 12, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 95,385 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions rose by 57,493 contracts, or
152 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based
commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Volatility rose today to 95.4 basis points, the highest
since December, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
MOVE index. The gauge measures Treasury price swings based on
options. The one-year average is 88.2 basis points.  Expensive Securities  A valuation measure showed U.S. government bonds are at
almost the most expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the  Federal Reserve , was at negative
0.89 percent, the most costly level since it reached a record of
negative 0.94 percent on June 1. The average over the past year
is negative 0.46 percent. A negative reading indicates investors
are willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  U.S. government securities returned 3.1 percent this
quarter through yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
showed. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of shares lost 7 percent including
reinvested dividends over the period.  Treasuries extended gains today after the Fed Bank of New
York’s general economic index dropped to 2.3 this month, down
from 17.1 in May. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the so-called Empire State Index, which covers  New York ,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  ‘Soft Reading’  “It was a pretty soft reading from the Empire
manufacturing index,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which
oversees $12 billion in fixed-income assets. “Although it
covers one region, the market is very sensitive to negative news
right now.”  Growth in U.S. industrial production decreased 0.1 percent
last month, after a revised 1 percent gain in April, according
to Fed data. A Bloomberg News survey forecast a 0.1 percent
gain. Manufacturing, which makes up about 75 percent of total
production, dropped 0.4 percent.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment for June fell to 74.1 from 79.3 at the end of
last month. A Bloomberg survey projected a decline to 77.5.  U.S. policy makers meet June 19-20. The Fed purchased $2.3
trillion of bonds from December 2008 to June 2011 in two rounds
of a tactic called quantitative easing to stimulate the economy.  The nation’s consumer price index declined 0.3 percent last
month, the biggest drop since December 2008, after no change the
prior month, the Labor Department reported yesterday. Retail
sales fell in May for a second month, data showed June 13,
prompting economists to cut forecasts for economic growth.  Inflation Bets  The  gap  in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, which represents traders’
expectations for inflation over the life of the debt, touched
2.09 percentage points, down from a 2012 high of 2.45 percentage
points in March.  The Fed bought $1.35 billion of Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities today due from January 2022 to February
2042. The purchase was part of its Operation Twist program to
replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term securities through this month in an effort to hold
down borrowing costs.  Greece ’s election on June 17 will turn on whether voters in
the nation, which is in a fifth year of recession, accept open-
ended austerity to stay in the euro or reject the conditions of
a bailout and risk the turmoil of becoming the first to exit the
17-member currency.  Fallout Warnings  Central banks intensified warnings that Europe’s failure to
tame its sovereign-debt crisis threatens to roil the world’s
financial markets. Monetary policy makers from the U.K. to Japan
and  Canada  sounded the alert about potential fallout. They spoke
as Group of 20 leaders prepare to meet in Mexico next week amid
the weakest international economy since the 2009 recession  Major central banks are preparing for coordinated action to
increase liquidity in financial markets if needed, Reuters
reported yesterday, citing officials linked to the G-20.  The U.K. and  France  each increased their holdings of
Treasuries by more than 26 percent in April amid the euro bloc’s
crisis. Britain’s holdings rose 26.5 percent to $154.2 billion,
while France’s increased 29.4 percent to $59.4 billion, the
Treasury Department said today.  China remained the largest international buyer of
Treasuries, with its holdings rising $1.5 billion to $1.15
trillion, the data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  