-- Reed Urges Diplomacy Over Violence in Syria (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-06-15T16:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/reed-urges-diplomacy-over-violence-in-syria-transcript-.html
Democratic U.S. Senator  Jack
Reed  of  Rhode Island  said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend, that the U.S. should pursue diplomacy over violence
against Sunni Muslim civilians in  Syria  because the
potential costs of military intervention are too great.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Democratic Senator Jack
Reed of Rhode Island, a senior member of both the Senate
Banking and Armed Services Committee. Senator, thank you for
being with us.  SENATOR JACK REED: Thanks, Al.  HUNT: Let’s start off with the committee hearings on
 Jamie Dimon . You were there. Most press accounts say he came
through unscathed. Were all of your questions answered, or
do you think there ought to be more inquiries?  REED: Well, I think there have to be very careful
inquiries by the regulators. They have access to the
documents, to the - all of the specific decisions. They can
talk directly to the -  HUNT: How about the Senate? Should the Senate do more?  REED: Well, I think we should - we should wait, but not
indefinitely, but wait until we get a good readout from the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, from the  Federal
Reserve , from those who are charged with not only
supervising, but analyzing what happened. I think also
though one of the things in response to my question that Mr.
Dimon indicated that there is room for a Volcker rule. It
has to be drafted appropriately, and no one argues that. But
if a good Volcker rule was in place, my argument would be
that they wouldn’t have suffered $2 billion or more - maybe
more of direct losses and a significant loss in their
shareholder equity.  HUNT: The Republicans of course spent a lot of time
talking about repealing Dodd-Frank at that hearing. Was what
happened at the hearing and JPMorgan a setback of those
efforts to repeal Dodd-Frank?  REED: I think to a degree it was. But also, to give Mr.
Dimon credit, he was very clear. He said there are some
parts of this bill that we supported and there were some
that we didn’t. So if they were looking for a wholesale sort
of throw it all out, that didn’t happen. And I think that’s
- I think that was something that they didn’t quite expect,
that he would be clear that there were parts of the bill
that are very necessary.  HUNT: Right. Let’s turn to another one of your areas of
expertise, foreign policy and Syria.  John McCain  and others
have said the carnage is so bad the U.S. has no choice but
to intervene. Is this  Barack Obama ’s Bosnia moment, and
what’s the best option?  REED: Well, unfortunately this is a very difficult
situation where there very well might not be any great
options. The situation has deteriorated. The Assad regime
has lost any legitimacy in terms of their attacks against
their own people. But I think you have to look very
carefully at the cost also of intervention. What does that
mean? Is that taking down their air defense system,
inserting troops on the ground? That is not without cost,
both in terms of our personnel -  HUNT: At this stage, you would oppose both of those
actions?  REED: I think that at this stage we still have to - as
frustrating and as painful, given some of the scenes we’ve
seen, we have to pursue diplomacy. The key - one of the key
elements here is the Russians. They have long-time ties to
the Syrian government, to the Assad family, not just the
government. We - and I know we’re working very hard to get
them to recognize that this regime no longer is legitimate
in the eyes of the world.  HUNT: Senator - Secretary Clinton said this week not
only are they not helping, but they’re actually helping
Assad with - with - with weapons to kill people.  REED: They - apparently they have either - they have
introduced, or at least they’re much more visible now,
attack helicopters of Russian origin. It doesn’t help. But
we have undertaken interventions in the past that have
proved to be extraordinarily expensive, and in some cases
counterproductive. I think - and so we have to be very, very
careful. The issue in terms of is this Bosnia, et cetera,
there was a long process of diplomacy, of pulling together
the  United Nations . It was a United Nations effort. We
positioned military force. We did that, but when we went in,
it was after exhausting every type of diplomatic approach.  HUNT: Do you think there’s any chance with diplomacy
that Assad would go?  REED: There is a chance. Again, it oscillates from day
to day. It looked - a few weeks ago it looked like it was a
rejection of him. It’s very complicated. I’m stating the
obvious. There’s another factor too about intervention in
this case. There is no coherent, to the point, resistance
force.  HUNT: You mean internally?  REED: Internally. There is this - there’s a free Syrian
army, et cetera, but in terms -  HUNT: So we don’t know what would happen.  REED: - in terms of a coherent opposition. Also, it
looks like in terms of current opposition that touches all
of these sectarian groups, that has not yet emerged. And
then if you’re going to conduct military operations, if it’s
- if it’s the outside alone, the United Nations or a
coalition of the willing, and you don’t have an internal
force, that makes it all the more difficult.  HUNT: Many Democrats were very critical of Bush-Cheney
for extralegal actions. Use of torture, warrantless
monitoring. How is President Obama’s drone program, which
they won’t - which the administration doesn’t even admit
exists, why isn’t that a similar abuse of power?  REED: I think it is something that, first of all,
again, it’s - no one seems to acknowledge this, but it’s
obvious. It is targeted very - very particularly, very
carefully against those individuals who have demonstrated a
willingness to engage us, attack us, plan attacks against
us. It’s a policy, and again, it’s a policy that the
president continued from President Bush, who began really
those operations, particularly in  Pakistan . I think both
presidents thought that - that given an enemy that is
committed to attacking us, is not non-deterrable, can only
be effectively countered by preemption, this is an
appropriate way to preempt them.  HUNT: Okay. Final -  REED: It’s - I got to tell you though. It’s - the
cumulative effect of these attacks, I don’t think we can be
cavalier about it and just sort of say this is a - because
in this world there’s a - what comes around goes around in
terms of justification for doing things. So I think we have
to be careful. But we’ve dealt a significant blow to
terrorist networks by being able to deploy these weapons
systems.  HUNT: Let me ask you a final question.  Governor Romney 
has proposed to increase the  defense budget  $96 billion I
think next year, over $2 trillion over 10 years, because he
said the president’s put us on a course towards a hollow
defense.  REED: I do not agree. Secretary Panetta does not agree.
Chairman Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
does not agree. Bob Gates started a process of cutting
roughly $500 billion over about a 10-year period after a
significant increase in the defense budget because of the
wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  HUNT: So Governor Romney’s -  REED: First of all, I’d say ask him how he’s going to
pay for it. Because frankly the other issue here - and I
think there’s a growing realization that our - our strength
as a nation rests upon our economy as well as our military
prowess. So that’s the first question. But we are in a
situation now where under the leadership of President Obama,
but with the advice, and in fact the direction of Secretary
Gates, now Secretary Panetta, the military leaders, they
feel confident that the course we’re on is an appropriate
one. It’ll leave us able to defend our interests and frankly
over-match our opponent. The question they worry about is,
and we all do, is sequestration. What does that do to this
plan? That’s a whole different issue.  HUNT: We will come back to talk about that some time in
the next six months. Senator Reed, thank you so much for
being with us.  REED: Thanks, Al.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT
IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT
AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL
USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL
HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST
PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN CONNECTION
WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH TRANSCRIPT.
NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF
BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<738796.1204164.3.0.2.9.25>#
 