-- Reed Smith, Fennemore, Patton Boggs: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-15T10:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/reed-smith-fennemore-patton-boggs-business-of-law.html
Reed Smith LLP , Shook, Hardy & Bacon
LLP and Fennemore Craig PC have been recognized for integrating
women into leadership positions among law firms with more than
100 lawyers.  The determination by the Women in Law Empowerment Forum is
made by measuring specific benchmarks of women’s achievements
that address money and power, rather than family-friendly
policies or initiatives. Six criteria, including whether women
account for at least 20 percent of a firm’s equity partnership,
whether they hold positions of power like firm chair or managing
partner or practice group leader and whether they served on key
committees at their firm, such as governance or compensation,
are used. The organization also looked at whether women
represented at least 10 percent of the top half of the most
highly compensated partners.  In order to gain “certification” the firms had to meet at
least three of the six criteria. Fifty firms at least met the
minimum requirements; three met them all. Thirteen firms met
five out of the six criteria.  “The reality is -- the world is diverse. Juries are
diverse, clients are diverse, customers are diverse,”  Marie Woodbury, a partner at Shook Hardy, said in a statement. The
most successful law firms need to be able to incorporate diverse
perspectives in solving problems for clients, whether those
problems are resolved in the courtroom, the board room or the
marketplace.’’  Reed Smith  and Shook Hardy made the exclusive list of firms
meeting all the requirements two years in a row.  “We are also grateful to WILEF for creating these
standards, and for encouraging law firms to adhere to them, and
to strive to do better -- it’s a tremendous benefit to our firm
internally and to our clients,” Reed Smith global managing
partner Gregory B. Jordan said in a statement.  The firm has more than 600 women lawyers, who account for
about 21 percent of the total partnership. Women hold 23.5
percent of all leadership positions at Reed Smith, and 27
percent of the firm’s compensation and promotion committee,
according to the firm.  Among the firms who applied for certification, 84 percent
met the standard that women constitute at least 10 percent of
the top half of the highest paid partners. At the bottom of the
rankings, 37 percent met the standard that women make up at
least 25 percent of practice group leaders or department heads.  Elizabeth Tursi, the organization’s chair, said that equity
partner status is the most important criterion. Only 42 percent
of the certified firms had 20 percent or more women as equity
partners. “Given the current environment relating to law firms,
equity status is getting more difficult to achieve even for
men,” Tursi said in an e-mail. “If it’s a two-tier firm, women
are disproportionately affected and are often relegated to non-
equity status.”  Firm News  Patton Boggs Hires Dewey Riyadh-Based Team, Opens New Office  Patton Boggs LLP will open an affiliated office in  Riyadh ,
Saudi Arabia, with former Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP lawyers, as well
as adding three professionals to support them at offices in the
U.S. The new hires will expand the mergers & acquisitions,
 capital markets , litigation, energy and  Islamic finance 
practices at the firm.  Of the seven lawyers formerly affiliated with Dewey, five
will form the Riyadh office, two will be based in the firm’s
Washington office and a professional will join the  New York 
office.  The group is led by Khalid Al-Thebity, who will manage the
Riyadh office. Al-Thebity’s firm previously served as the Riyadh
office affiliated with Dewey, Patton Boggs said in a statement.
The firm handles corporate, commercial and financial law, as
well as real estate and Saudi-specific litigation and
arbitration. Al-Thebity’s work primarily focuses on assisting
clients in the energy and real estate industries with a range of
transactions, particularly project finance and development. His
expertise extends to regulatory-related insurance affairs and
construction matters.  Al-Thebity has represented the government of Saudi Arabia
for more than 15 years. He has also worked with foreign
companies completing transactions and joint ventures in Saudi
Arabia, the firm said.  The firm has offices in Doha and  Abu Dhabi  currently.
Edward J. Newberry, managing partner of  Patton Boggs , said in an
interview that the firm had been interested in a Riyadh office
for four or five years.  “We’ve been active in the Middle East
for three decades and have had offices there for over a
decade,” he said. “Entry into the Saudi market allows us to
have a more complete presence.”  Four Riyadh-based associates will work with Al-Thebity. In
Washington, counsel David A. Colson, a former U.S. State
Department deputy assistant secretary for Oceans, and counsel
Brian J. Vohrer also join the team. International energy adviser
Tess Serranti will be based in New York.  Patton Boggs has more than 550 lawyers with 10 offices in
the U.S. and  Middle East .  Moves  Hilton In-House Counsel Joins Sutherland in Washington  Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP announced that Mark A. Robertson, former senior vice president and assistant general
counsel for Hilton Worldwide Inc., has joined the firm as a
partner in Washington.  Robertson spent 17 years in the legal department at Hilton,
ultimately serving as the senior legal representative for the
company’s operations, brand and commercial services teams, the
firm said. He managed business and legal issues relating to
international and domestic hotel operations for more than 3,500
owned, leased, licensed, franchised and affiliated properties
across 10 different Hilton brands.  “We are thrilled to have Mark join us,” said managing
partner Mark D. Wasserman. “His experience managing diverse
legal matters on a global scale, from ecommerce and  information
technology  to compliance and  crisis management , will benefit a
broad spectrum of our clients.”  “Our outsourcing team has had the pleasure of working
alongside Mark over the past three years in developing and
implementing various strategies and solutions for core business
functions and operations.” said Scott M. Hobby, who leads
Sutherland’s outsourcing and mergers and acquisitions practices.
“We are delighted to have him join our team and continue
expanding our services to the hospitality sector.”  Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP has 425 attorneys in six
U.S. offices and  London .  Latham Hires Bingham Corporate Partner in Boston  Latham & Watkins LLP has hired Sarah K. Gagan, previously
of Bingham McCutchen LLP, in the firm’s  Boston  office as a
partner in the corporate department.  Gagan practice focuses on technology and intellectual
property transactions, including complex licensing and
development arrangements, systems integration projects,
information technology and business process outsourcing, the
firm said. She also regularly advises clients on technology and
intellectual property issues in mergers and acquisitions,
 venture capital  and private equity transactions.  Latham’s Boston office opened in 2011 and the firm has
built a client base advising emerging companies and
multinational conglomerates as well as the investment banks,
venture capital and private equity firms that serve them.  “Our clients come from a diverse array of backgrounds and
Sarah’s expertise in technology ownership for emerging
companies, open source matters, licensing, intellectual property
diligence and merger provisions will be invaluable to them,”
Phil Rossetti, Latham & Watkins’ office managing partner in
Boston, said in a statement.  Latham & Watkins has approximately 2,000 attorneys in 31
offices in the U.S.,  Europe , the Middle East, and  Asia .  Former Armed Services Committee Counsel Joins McKenna Long  John W. “Jay” Heath, a former counsel on the minority
staff of the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee, has joined
the government contracts practice of McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP
as counsel in the firm’s Washington office.  As a counsel to the minority of the U.S. Senate Armed
Services Committee, Heath conducted congressional investigations
and helped prepare Senator  John McCain , the ranking Republican
member, for Committee markup, Senate floor action and conference
of the annual defense authorization bill, the firm said. Heath
had oversight responsibilities on matters related to major
defense acquisition programs. He also served as the minority
staff lead for all Department of Defense intelligence programs
and non-waived special access programs, according to the firm.  Heath joins McKenna Long’s government contracts practice of
more than 70 attorneys and professional advisers. The firm has
more than 575 attorneys and public policy advisers in 13 offices
in the U.S. and Brussels.  Baker Hostetler Hires Former Government Lawyer for Tax Practice  Jay R. Nanavati, former U.S. Department of Justice
Assistant Chief for the Western Criminal Enforcement section of
the Tax Division, has joined Baker Hostetler LLP’s national tax
controversy and litigation practice as counsel.  Nanavati spent more than seven years with the DOJ. His
practice will focus on criminal tax defense, white-collar
criminal defense and civil-tax controversy. In that capacity, he
will advise and represent individuals and corporations in
criminal tax fraud investigations, sensitive civil tax
examinations where fraud or substantial penalties may arise,
voluntary disclosures, criminal and civil tax disputes, tax
shelter matters and corporate internal investigations of tax and
finance related matters, the firm said.  Baker & Hostetler has more than 800 lawyers with 11 U.S.
offices.  News  News Corp. Hacking Lawyer Settles Libel Case Against U.K. Police  Mark Lewis , the British lawyer for some of the first
victims of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s tabloid phone-hacking, accepted 206,200
pounds ($319,600) to settle a defamation lawsuit against London
police related to the scandal.  The case, which had been scheduled for a trial in London
next month, was resolved after the  Metropolitan Police Service 
paid the lawyer 30,000 pounds in damages and 176,200 pounds in
legal costs, Lewis said today in an e-mail. Lewis sued after
police officials contradicted his assertion to Parliament in
2009 that phone hacking at News Corp.’s News of the World
tabloid was widespread. He was later proved right.  The case “could have been avoided if there had been a
proper investigation into the activities in 2006,” when police
limited their probe to “one rogue reporter” at the tabloid who
was then jailed for the offense, Lewis said. “There was
widespread phone hacking.”  A media-ethics inquiry triggered by the scandal has heard
from victims who claim police portrayed the scandal as being
contained even though they had evidence showing otherwise. While
the Met opened a new investigation in January 2011, probes in
2006 and 2009 failed to reveal the extent of the illegal
practice. News Corp. shuttered the paper in July to help contain
public anger over the scandal.  “The MPS has not admitted liability in this matter, but is
rightly mindful of the cost of legal proceedings to the public
purse,” Met spokesman Rob Singh said in an e-mail.  The case relates to Lewis’s testimony to lawmakers probing
phone-hacking in 2009, in which he claimed a detective had told
him privately that phone hacking was far more widespread than
police had revealed at the time. Since then, the Met has
arrested about 50 people in three parallel probes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 