-- Rehn Says EU Must Move to Debt Sharing to Tame Financial Turmoil
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-15T10:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/rehn-says-eu-must-move-to-debt-sharing-to-tame-financial-turmoil.html
European Union policy makers must
move toward greater risk sharing as efforts to contain the euro
area’s financial crisis have failed to tame the turmoil, EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said.  “In the financial circles, few doubt that it makes
economic sense to create a deep, liquid and stable market for
 government bonds  with the joint issuance of public debt,” Rehn
said today in Brussels, according to the text of speech prepared
for delivery to a  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. conference in
Brussels today that was not open to the press.  “But this process has to provide an answer to the concerns
about  moral hazard , or a possible free-riding on the budgetary
prudence and economic strength of others,” Rehn said.  Rehn called for the EU to pursue a banking union with
common backstops and stronger, more coordinated supervision. He
also said the EU should investigate joint debt proposals, such
as the redemption fund suggested by the German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s council of economic advisers, along with stricter
fiscal controls.  Rehn said the  European Central Bank  has played an
“important role” to ensure monetary and financial stability,
and he also noted steps by some EU members to increase the pace
of budget cuts and policy changes. Without these reforms, the EU
faced “terrible depression” and a possible breakup.  “These actions have contained the crisis -- but not tamed
it, not to speak of overcoming it,” Rehn said. “It is evident
that our actions have been insufficient with the view of the
challenges and the length of the rebalancing process across
Europe,” Rehn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  