-- Reliance Asset Says Cash Crunch Needs Reserve Cuts: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-15T05:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/reliance-asset-says-cash-crunch-needs-reserve-cuts-india-credit.html
India ’s biggest fund managers say
the central bank needs to cut lenders’ reserve  requirements  to
revive economic growth as cash shortages in the financial system
enter a record eighth month.  The “excessive focus” of policy makers on curbing
 inflation  could limit access to funds that companies need for
expansion, according to Reliance Capital Asset Management Ltd.,
the nation’s second-largest money manager, which oversees more
than $14 billion. Reducing the ratio of cash that banks have to
set aside is a “more critical issue” than lowering borrowing
costs, according to ICICI Prudential Asset Management Co., which
manages $12.3 billion.  Lenders’  borrowing  from the central bank, a measure of cash
shortages, was 824 billion rupees ($14.8 billion) a day this
month, above the 600 billion rupee maximum limit favored by the
 Reserve Bank of India . Benchmark yields dropped two basis points
in June to 8.36 percent as economists predict that policy makers
will cut borrowing costs next week. Similar yields rose three
basis points in China and six basis points in the U.S.  “More than cutting rates, there has to be a change in
stance on liquidity to boost growth,” Amitabh Mohanty, the
Mumbai-based head of fixed income at Reliance Capital, said in
an interview on June 13. “This is the right time to ensure that
there is a surge in liquidity, because the overall sentiment
surrounding the economy is very poor.”  Repurchase Rate  Lenders borrowed 914 billion rupees on average from the
central bank every day in the past year, compared with 608
billion rupees in the prior 12 months, according to  Reserve Bank 
data. M3, which includes currency in public circulation and  bank
deposits , rose 13.7 percent in the year through June 1, below
the monetary authority’s projection of 15 percent.  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest lender by assets,
expects a 1 percentage point cut in the reserve ratio because of
the cash crunch, Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri told reporters in  New
Delhi  on June 12. That call isn’t the consensus, with only five
of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey predicting the Reserve
Bank will reduce the proportion by 50 basis points to 4.25
percent on June 18.  The monetary authority will lower the  repurchase  rate, at
which it lends, by 25 basis points to 7.75 percent, the survey
showed.  Funding Stress  Reliance Capital and ICICI Prudential, the nation’s third-
largest fund manager, say the Reserve Bank should cut the
reserve ratio by 50 basis points. HDFC Asset Management Co.,
which oversees $16.2 billion as the biggest  money manager ,
declined to comment.  “I would prefer to see a cut in  reserve requirements 
rather than the repo rate,” Chaitanya Pande, the Mumbai-based
head of fixed-income investments at ICICI Prudential, said in an
interview on June 13. “It will remove the stress on banks to
borrow at any rate.”  Yields on three-month certificate of deposits, which
represent the cost of bank borrowings, were 9.05 percent today,
105 basis points, or 1.05 percentage points, above the central
bank’s lending rate.  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 rose
two basis points to 8.36 percent today, paring the decrease for
this quarter to 23 basis points. The  premium  over similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries has shrunk 47 basis points this month
to 643, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rupee-denominated securities returned 4.6 percent this
year, the best performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt
markets monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc. That was 208 basis
points more than what investors got from South Korean notes,
which saw the second-highest increase.  Growth Trade-Off  Accelerating inflation may prevent policy makers from
cutting the  cash reserve ratio , according to the local unit of
Daiwa Asset Management Co., which oversees about $143 million.
Wholesale prices rose 7.55 percent last month from a year
earlier after increasing 7.23 percent in April, a commerce
ministry report showed yesterday. The  economy  expanded 5.3
percent in the three months through March, the slowest pace
since 2003, government data showed two weeks earlier.  “It’s a trade-off between growth and inflation,” Killol
Pandya, the Mumbai-based head of fixed-income investment at
Daiwa Asset, said in an interview yesterday. “As things stand
now, there is only an outside chance of a CRR cut as it will
immediately contribute to inflation. I’m not unduly bullish on
the RBI easing monetary policy.”  The  rupee  weakened 0.2 percent to 55.7050 per dollar today.
It advanced 0.7 percent this month. Only the Philippine peso,
 South Korea ’s won and  Thailand ’s baht have fared better among
 Asia ’s most-traded currencies.  Deposit Growth  Credit-default swaps on  State Bank , which protect the debt
of the lender against a default, fell one basis point this month
to 381, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted in privately negotiated markets. Some
traders consider the bank a proxy for the sovereign. The swaps
pay face value if a company fails to adhere to debt terms.  Slowing growth in bank  deposits  requires Reserve Bank
action, according to ING Vysya Bank Ltd., the local unit of the
biggest Dutch financial services company. Savings at lenders
rose 14.13 percent in the year through May 25, below the 16
percent growth projected by the monetary authority for the
current fiscal year.  “I don’t see how the RBI, without easing liquidity, can
target deposit growth” above what it is now, Shailendra Bhandari, the Mumbai-based managing director and chief executive
of ING Vysya Bank, said in an interview on June 13. “I fully
agree with the SBI chairman that there is a need for a reserve-
ratio cut,” he said, predicting a 25 basis point reduction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  