-- ResCap Rebuffs Berkshire, Keeps Fortress as Lead Bidder
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-15T18:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/rescap-rebuffs-berkshire-stays-with-fortress-as-initial-bidder.html
Residential Capital LLC rejected an
offer from  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the holding company run by
billionaire  Warren Buffett , to be the initial bidder in a
proposed auction of ResCap’s most-valuable assets.  ResCap asked the judge overseeing its bankruptcy to name a
 Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  affiliate and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) 
as the so-called stalking-horse bidders for separate auctions,
according to court papers filed yesterday in Manhattan.  Before ResCap entered bankruptcy May 14, it negotiated a
deal to name Fortress as the lead bidder, with a $2.4 billion
offer, in a proposed auction for ResCap’s mortgage unit. Ally,
ResCap’s parent, separately offered $1.4 billion for a set of
loan assets.  Fortress’s bid “will likely remain the highest and best
offer for the debtors’ servicing platform,” ResCap said in its
filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn is scheduled to decide
on June 18 whether to approve the proposed auctions and name
Fortress and Ally as the stalking-horse bidders. Berkshire,
based in Omaha,  Nebraska , filed court papers this week offering
to replace those companies.  Glenn can choose Nationstar, Berkshire, or approve an
auction with no stalking-horse.  Legal Claims  Should Glenn approve ResCap’s proposals, Berkshire still
could bid in the auctions. It wouldn’t have the advantages given
to the stalking-horse, including any breakup fee.  Ally, based in  Detroit , supported ReCap’s bankruptcy filing
as a way to resolve legal claims related to mortgage-backed
securities. Ally is 74 percent-owned by the  U.S. Treasury  after
receiving a bailout.  Ally has offered to either serve as a stalking-horse at an
auction for the loan assets, or to buy the assets as part of a
court-approved reorganization plan that would resolve certain
legal claims against it.  A committee of unsecured creditors has objected to the
proposed auction of the mortgage servicing unit, saying it was
being rushed.  At the hearing next week, Glenn will also consider
Berkshire’s request for an examiner to investigate deals made
before the company sought court protection, including
transactions with its parent, Ally. Berkshire said in a court
filing that it holds more than $900 million of ResCap’s junior
secured bonds.  Breakup Fee  Fortress’ Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. would act as
stalking-horse for the mortgage unit under ResCap’s proposal.
Should it be outbid at the auction, it would get a $72 million
breakup fee, according to court records.  Replacing Nationstar would discourage investors from trying
to buy assets out of bankruptcy, the company said in a court
filing yesterday. Its executives and employees spent a lot of
time and money studying ResCap’s mortgage unit before agreeing
to become the stalking-horse bidder, Nationstar said.  Under bankruptcy court rules, when a company wins approval
as the stalking-horse, its initial offer becomes a binding sales
contract that can be enforced even if no one else participates
in the auction. Should a company be outbid, it typically
receives a breakup fee and its expenses are reimbursed.  Clearly Superior  To replace Nationstar, Berkshire would need to convince the
judge that its offer is clearly superior, either because it is
offering more money, or because it would close the sale quicker
and with fewer contingencies, Mark Collins, head of the
bankruptcy and restructuring department of Richards Layton &
Finger, a Wilmington, Delaware, law firm.  “All things being equal, the nod typically goes to the one
who was there first,” Collins said.  Berkshire has offered to match Nationstar’s price for the
mortgage unit while lowering the breakup fee to $24 million.  When companies fight for the right to be the stalking-horse
bidder, some judges have declined to select one, instead
ordering an auction to go forward without granting bid
protections, such as a breakup fee, to any bidder, Collins said
in an interview today. That, in theory, saves money.  Judges also look at how much effort the bankrupt company
put into trying to identify a stalking-horse. If the company
spent months negotiating with several potential bidders, a judge
may hesitate to replace the chosen stalking-horse, Collins said.  “All of those things will play into the court’s
decision,” he said.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  