-- Rinehart’s Hancock Skirts Reciprocity on Benefits: Judge
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-06-15T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/rinehart-s-hancock-skirts-reciprocity-on-benefits-judge.html
Billionaire  Gina Rinehart ’s Hancock
Prospecting Pty availed benefit from a 1984 division of assets
agreement with then partner Wright Prospecting Pty and didn’t
reciprocate, according to an appeals judge hearing a dispute
over a 3 billion ton iron ore property in  Australia .  Rinehart claims a 1989 agreement to divide properties
between her father  Lang Hancock  and Wright Prospecting founder
Peter Wright, including Rhodes Ridge in Western Australia as a
joint venture between the two, supersedes a 1984 accord that
gave Wright the option to claim Hancock’s stake in the asset in
a swap of properties.  “Front and center was the impropriety of your client
obtaining the benefit under the 1984 agreement as a whole and
seeking to resist the same benefit to WPPL” under the 1989
agreement,  Carmel McLure , the presiding judge in Hancock’s
appeal of a ruling that awarded the company’s 25 percent stake
in Rhodes Ridge to Wright, said yesterday. McLure addressed her
comment to Hancock’s lawyer Steven Finch, before the conclusion
of a four-day hearing in Perth.  Rinehart,  Asia ’s richest woman, is attempting to reclaim a
stake in one of the richest, undeveloped iron ore properties in
the world, with  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  holding the remaining 50
percent. Rio Tinto already operates iron ore mines in the region
and has the infrastructure, including a railway to transport the
ore to port, in place.  Reserves Ruling  The three-judge appeal panel reserved its decision
yesterday, giving no indication of when it might rule on the
dispute.  Wright granted Hancock its 25 percent stake in the McCamey
Monster property, for example, an asset then considered of
“roughly equal value” to Rhodes Ridge, because it was on the
Hancock side of the ledger in the distribution of properties
under the 1984 accord, Wright Prospecting’s lawyer  Rod Smith 
said yesterday.  “Wright wouldn’t have done that if told the 1984 agreement
was not effective,” Smith said. “We conveyed on Hancock the
rights in their schedule as and when they asked for them.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  acquired the McCamey property in 1992 and
is building the $3.4 billion Jimblebar mine and rail lines at
the site, with the  intention  of producing 35 million tons of
iron ore annually when the mine opens in 2014, according to the
company’s 2011 annual report.  ‘Haven’t Complied With’  The transfers of property to Hancock weren’t done under a
part of the agreement that Wright is asserting to gain control
of Rhodes Ridge, Finch said.  That part of the agreement, referred to as Clause 4, was a
trigger that initiated a process to transfer all the properties
in the agreement, Finch said.  “There is a rule on how you acquire property and they
haven’t complied with it,” Finch said, referring to Wright
Prospecting.  Smith told the appeal panel earlier this week that Hancock
rejected a A$65 million ($65 million) offer from  Rio Tinto ’s CRA
Ltd. unit for Rhodes Ridge in the early 1990s, after agreeing to
sell the Marandoo property in the same area to CRA for A$60
million.  Valuation of Rhodes Ridge was discussed in closed court
during the original trial because it was deemed commercially
sensitive, according to a 2010 ruling by Justice  Michael Murray .  CRA won approval to build a A$500 million mine at the
Marandoo site in the Pilbara region of Western Australia in
1992.  Rio Tinto, based in  London , which produces 15 million tons
of iron from Marandoo annually, said in February 2011 it planned
to spend $933 million to expand the mine, extending its life by
16 years to 2030. The property has 225 million tons of proved
and probable reserves, containing about 63 percent iron,
according to Rio Tinto’s 2011  annual report . The Rhodes Ridge
property has similar grades, according to Rio Tinto.  11-Year Dispute  Rio Tinto has been mining at Marandoo since 1994.  Rinehart’s appeal continues an 11-year dispute over Rhodes
Ridge between the heirs of Hancock and Wright Prospecting
founder Peter Wright, whose  iron-ore  discoveries in the
Australian state in the 1950s and 1960s made Rinehart the
richest person in the country and Wright’s children, Angela Bennett and Michael Wright, the 14th wealthiest, according to
BRW’s Rich 200 list. Michael Wright died in April.  Iron ore  has more than doubled to $134.70 a ton as of June
14 from $59.10 on March 27, 2009, helping Rinehart rise to the
29th spot on a list of the world’s wealthiest people with a net
worth of $18.6 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index .  The Rhodes Ridge property lies between the operating Hope
Downs 1 mine and the Hope Downs 4, where Rio Tinto plans to
start mining by the end of the year. The Hope Downs mines are
equally owned by Hancock Prospecting and Rio Tinto.  Murray had ruled Wright Prospecting is entitled to exercise
its option to assume Hancock’s stake.  The appeal case is: Hancock Prospecting Pty. v. Wright
Prospecting Pty.  CACV 43/2011.  Supreme Court  of  Western
Australia  (Perth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  