-- Start of Romney’s 6-State Bus Tour Ends With Immigration Focus
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-06-16T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/romney-says-obama-denying-fair-shot-for-middle-class.html
As  Mitt Romney  kicked-off the first
barnstorming tour of his general election campaign, the heavily
choreographed start of his five-day bus trip ended up undercut
by the man he hopes to unseat -- President Barack Obama.  The president’s announcement yesterday that his
administration would stop deporting hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants brought to the country as children pushed the
immigration debate into the campaign spotlight, causing Romney
to soften his rhetoric on an issue he’s largely skirted since
locking down the Republican presidential nomination.  After refusing to answer questions about the new policy
during much of the day he spent in New Hampshire, Romney emerged
from his campaign bus late in the afternoon to tell reporters
Obama’s move complicates efforts to craft a “long-term
solution” providing “certainty and clarity” to the children
of illegal immigrants.  Romney said he would prefer a legislative solution, without
offering details on what that might be, and refused to say
whether he would reverse Obama’s decision if elected.  “We have to find a long-term solution, but the president’s
action makes reaching a long-term solution more difficult,”
Romney said in Milford,  New Hampshire . “If I’m president we’ll
do our very best to have that kind of long-term solution.”  Revised Rhetoric  The statement was a departure from his rhetoric during the
Republican primary campaign, when Romney differentiated himself
from some of his rivals by taking a hard line on immigration
issues.  In debates during the Republican race, he criticized
opponent Texas Governor  Rick Perry  for backing a law allowing
illegal immigrant students to pay in-state tuition rates at
state universities, and attacked former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  for saying deportation should be avoided for otherwise
law-abiding illegal immigrants who have been in the U.S. for
decades.  Romney has said he opposes any proposal giving legal status
to undocumented immigrants without first requiring that they
leave the U.S. He’s vowed to veto legislation -- known as the
Dream Act -- that would grant young illegal immigrants who went
to college or served in the military a pathway to citizenship.  He hasn’t spotlighted those positions now that he is trying
to win Latino voters, a pivotal bloc in swing states including
Florida, Colorado and  Nevada . Obama won two-thirds of the
Hispanic vote nationwide in his 2008 presidential victory,
according to exit polling.  ‘Not Happy’  Romney’s refusal to address the immigration issue in front
of voters in New Hampshire perturbed one who attended an event
in Milford.  “He told me, ‘I’m not familiar with that,” said Rachel
Swinford, a Republican from New Boston, New Hampshire, who asked
Romney his opinion on Obama’s decision after the event. “I’m
not happy.”  With most national polls showing the presidential match-up
a dead-heat, Obama campaign officials are counting on strong
support from Hispanic voters to give the president an edge.
Romney’s campaign has sought to woo Hispanics by emphasizing
jobs and economic issues, his candidacy’s central theme.  ‘Detached’  Speaking in the morning in Stratham, New Hampshire, Romney
kept his remarks focused on the economy, casting Obama as
“detached and distant” from the economic struggles of average
Americas.  “If there has ever been a president who has failed to give
the middle class of America a fair shot, it is  Barack Obama ,”
he told a crowd of 500 supporters at the farm where he began his
White House bid in June a year ago.  The attack was a direct response to Democrats, who say
Obama’s policies help give all Americans a “fair shot.”  Dubbed the “Every Town Counts Tour,” Romney’s trip
targets undecided voters living in the smaller cities and towns
that dot six pivotal states in his battle with Obama.  After New Hampshire, Romney will continue through five more
states -- Ohio,  Michigan ,  Iowa ,  Pennsylvania , and  Wisconsin  --
that all were won by Obama four years ago. Romney aides say the
tour will focus on areas struggling economically, difficulties
Romney attributes to Obama policies.  “This is an opportunity to go to places that are little
bit off the beaten path and visit towns and cities where people
are really struggling in this Obama economy,” strategist Russ
Schriefer told reporters at Romney campaign headquarters in
 Boston  during a pre-tour briefing yesterday.  Limited Schedule  The trip also marks a return to the type of retail
campaigning Romney did during his quest for his party’s
nomination. Since he effectively secured it in April, the former
Massachusetts governor has maintained a limited public schedule.
Most of his time has been spent in closed-door meetings, with
small business-owners in swing states, donors at fundraisers and
strategy meetings with other Republicans.  On his tour, he plans to shake hands and kiss babies at
pancake breakfasts and hamburger lunches in at least 14 small
towns and cities.  In Milford, Romney hosted an “ice cream social,” greeting
voters in a town square as a brass band entertained the crowd
with polka music.  The campaign has chartered four new buses, plastered with
“Every Town Counts” slogan on their sides, for the event.
Chartered planes also will help transport the campaign and press
corps from state to state, allowing the candidate to cover
hundreds of miles in less than a week.  Future Ads  At yesterday’s opening rally in Stratham, Romney read from
teleprompters set up on a small podium. A 30-foot crane paid for
by the campaign rose out of the hay bales arranged as a backdrop
to shoot footage for future television ads.  During the primary, Romney struggled to win support from
Republicans in rural areas, who exit polls showed favored former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum . Now, Romney is working to
consolidate his party’s base while also reaching out to
independent voters who may have voted for Obama in 2008 and are
now frustrated with the slow pace of the economy recovery.  “I have a simple message,” he said yesterday. “Hold on a
little longer.  A better America begins today!”  Obama’s campaign attacked Romney, saying he’s promoting
“failed” policies that benefit a few rich taxpayers.  “This middle-class-under-the-bus tour is going to give us
a chance to highlight those differences,” Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  of  Los Angeles , who will serve as chairman of
September’s Democratic National Convention, told reporters on a
conference call yesterday.  Running Mate  Romney’s bus trip offers him and his strategists an
opportunity to audition potential running mates. Republicans
joining him on the tour include former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , an early rival in the Republican presidential fight,
and  Ohio  Senator  Rob Portman , each considered top vice
presidential prospects.  Romney also plans to share a hamburger with U.S. House
Speaker  John Boehner  in the Republican lawmaker’s home state of
Ohio.  MoveOn.org, an activist group backing Obama, plans to trail
the Romney camp in what the group dubs the “Romneymobile” -- a
Cadillac with NASCAR-style corporate decals and a fake dog on
top. The vehicle is meant to call attention to the widely cited
story of Romney driving to a family vacation with his dog locked
in a crate strapped to the top of his car, as well as references
he has made this year to his wife driving “a couple of
Cadillacs” and his friendships with NASCAR owners.  At the Stratham event, two planes circled overhead with
dueling banners, “Romney for President 2012” and “Romney’s
every millionaire counts tour.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Stratham, New Hampshire at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  