-- Rubber Has First Weekly Gain in Six on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-06-15T08:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/rubber-set-for-first-weekly-gain-in-six-on-stimulus-speculation.html
Rubber rose for a third day to post
the first weekly gain in six on speculation that central banks
may take more steps to stimulate economies as global growth
slows and Greek voters head for the polls this weekend.  The November-delivery contract rose 1.8 percent to end at
247.8 yen a kilogram ($3,138 a metric ton), the highest
settlement price since June 1, on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.
Futures gained 4.3 percent this week, snapping the worst run of
weekly losses since 2008.  Asian stocks and oil advanced on speculation that central
banks may increase measures to support economies as  Europe ’s
debt crisis hurts growth, with Greek voters set to cast ballots
on June 17 in a poll that may determine the fate of the  euro
zone . Reports showing U.S. jobless claims climbed while the cost
of living fell fueled speculation that Federal Reserve policy
makers will discuss stimulus measures when they meet on June 19.  “European countries are ready to support  Greece 
financially, supporting stocks and commodities,” said Kazunori Kokubo, managing director at Yutaka Shoji Singapore Pte. It’s
difficult for prices to drop as a lack of near-term supplies has
led to backwardation, he said, referring to the pattern where
nearby contracts are more expensive than those further out.  The June-delivery contract climbed 0.8 percent to 250 yen a
kilogram.  Global financial conditions could deteriorate significantly
if Europe’s crisis worsens, Canada’s central bank said
yesterday.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said Europe’s
crisis cast a “large black cloud of uncertainty” over the
global economy.  Thai Rains  Rains in  Thailand ’s south have hit rubber tapping, cutting
supplies, according to the Rubber Research Institute of
Thailand. The southern region accounts for about 80 percent of
output.  Thailand’s Rubber Estate Organization will raise the price
it buys ribbed-smoked sheets from farmers 1.2 percent to 98.50
baht ($3.12) per kilogram on June 18, according to a  statement .
That’s higher than the average auctioned price in three southern
markets of 96.94 baht, it said on its website today. Thai rubber
on a  free-on-board basis  rose 1.6 percent to 107.90 baht a
kilogram today, the institute said.  September-delivery rubber in  Shanghai  gained 3 percent to
close at 22,920  yuan  ($3,600) a ton.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  