-- Ruble Strengthens for Second Week Versus Dollar on Oil Gain
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2012-06-15T15:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ruble-strengthens-most-in-week-versus-dollar-on-crude-oil-gain.html
The ruble climbed, appreciating for
a second week against the dollar as oil,  Russia ’s main export,
rallied.  The Russian currency gained 0.3 percent to 32.5050 per
dollar by the close in Moscow, taking its advance this week to
0.5 percent. The country’s $3 billion of Eurobonds due 2042
rose, cutting the yield by three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 5.222 percent.  Brent crude  advanced 0.8 percent to $97.84 per barrel after
Abdalla El-Badri, secretary-general of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, said OPECs output would need to
be reduced by 1.6 million barrels a day to keep within its
target limit. Oil and gas together contribute about 50 percent
of Russia’s state revenue, according to the government’s
estimates.  Investors should buy the ruble against the dollar to profit
from a temporary bounce in riskier assets after Greek elections
on June 17, according to Bhanu Baweja, an emerging-market
strategist at UBS AG in  London . Currencies like the ruble may
rally if Greek parties supporting a European bailout win the
election, he wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.  “The risks are probably asymmetric for the ruble,”
Vladimir Kolychev, chief economist at Societe Generale SA’s OAO
Rosbank unit in Moscow, said by e-mail. In the event of a
positive outcome from the Greek elections “we’ll avoid a
catastrophe, but we’re still left in a world where growth is
slowing down across the globe,” he said.  Rates on Hold  The ruble was little changed at 41.0390 per euro and gained
0.2 percent to 36.3453 against the central bank’s target dollar-
euro basket. Investors pared bets on the currency weakening,
with non-deliverable forwards showing the ruble at 33.0060 per
dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 33.077 per
dollar yesterday.  Russia left its benchmark  refinancing rate  unchanged for a
sixth month at 8 percent today, according to a statement on the
central bank’s website. Bank Rossii lowered the cost of currency
swaps to 6.5 percent from 8 percent, effective June 18, the
statement said.  “This should essentially put a cap on foreign-exchange
swap rates on the market,”  Rosbank (ROSB) ’s Kolychev said. It’s “one
more incremental step that shows stable  interest rates  are much
more important for the central bank than currency volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  