-- RWE Sale of Egypt Gas Assets Said to Stall Amid Turmoil
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-06-15T11:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/rwe-sale-of-egypt-gas-assets-said-to-stall-amid-turmoil.html
A sale by  RWE AG (RWE)  of energy assets in
 Egypt  is stalled as the country’s turbulent political transition
deters potential buyers from bidding for the German utility’s
offshore gas fields there, according to people familiar with the
situation.  A deal to sell the Egyptian assets is unlikely to be
reached this year after early bidders lost interest, the people
said, asking not to be identified as the discussions are
private. RWE is moving ahead with asset sales in  Norway  after
appointing Deutsche Bank AG last year to weigh options for the
future of Dea, its oil and gas exploration and production unit,
they said. The Egyptian fields may be valued at as much as $3
billion, people with knowledge of the process said last year.  More than a year after the ouster of former president  Hosni
Mubarak , clashes between the military-appointed government and
the legislature have shown Egypt remains unstable. This week,
Egypt’s highest court issued twin rulings dissolving parliament
and clearing the way for Ahmed Shafik, Mubarak’s last prime
minister, to run for the presidency. The country still has no
constitution in place, and economic growth is the lowest in
decades, slowing to 0.4 percent in the final quarter of 2011,
compared with 5.6 percent a year earlier, as instability
deterred tourists and investors.  A spokeswoman for RWE declined to comment on the process.  Gas Diversions  In addition to broader political developments, Egyptian
Natural Gas Holding Co., the state natural gas utility, has said
it will temporarily divert some gas produced in Egypt for
domestic uses to meet supply shortages instead of allowing it to
be exported.  RWE is raising as much as 11 billion euros ($14 billion) to
reduce debt and finance new projects after  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  ordered German utilities to close their nuclear plants by
2022 in the wake of the Fukushima nuclear accident in Japan.
Rival  EON AG (EOAN)  is cutting jobs, and last month shored up its
financial position by selling Open Grid Europe, Germany’s
biggest gas distribution system, to funds led by Macquarie Group
Ltd. for 3.2 billion euros.  The utilities are seeking about 15 billion euros in damages
from the German government over the forced exit from nuclear
power, the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  reported this week,
citing court filings.  Locked In  Both companies are also locked into oil-indexed gas
contracts with producers such as OAO Gazprom, Russia’s state gas
export monopoly, that require them to take gas at prices higher
than they can re-sell it on the retail market, hurting their
earning power.  Before seeking buyers, RWE Dea had planned to commit $3.6
billion to develop gas fields in the Mediterranean off Egypt’s
 Nile Delta , a sum that would have been the company’s biggest
single investment in oil and gas production, according to the
company’s 2010 annual report.  RWE sites in Norway and the  North Sea  that may be targeted
for disposal have, by contrast, attracted interest from
Wintershall AG, the oil and gas production unit of German
chemical producer  BASF SE (BAS) , people familiar with the situation
said in May.  Editors:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  