-- Ryanair’s Aer Lingus Stake Referred for Probe by U.K. Regulator
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-15T16:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/ryanair-s-aer-lingus-stake-referred-for-probe-by-u-k-regulator.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest discount airline, is facing a full investigation of its
30 percent stake in Irish competitor  Aer Lingus (AERL)  Group Plc after
a U.K. regulator said the holding may lead to higher prices.  The six-year-old minority share may also weaken Aer Lingus
as a competitor and stifle investments from other airlines, the
U.K.’s “first-phase” antitrust regulator, the  Office of Fair
Trading , said in an e-mailed statement today. The agency
referred the investigation to the U.K.  Competition Commission .  Ryanair has been fighting with regulators over the stake
since it acquired the shares as part of a takeover bid that was
ultimately blocked by the European Union. The airlines carry
more than 80 percent of the 370,000 passengers that travel
between the U.K. and Ireland each month, the OFT said.  “We do not believe that this is a sensible or useful
expenditure of U.K. taxpayers’ monies or resources,” Ryanair
Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in a statement.  The U.K. Court of Appeal ruled June 1 that Ryanair didn’t
have the right to appeal a lower court ruling that the OFT was
entitled to seek a full probe from the Competition Commission.  The OFT began the Ryanair probe in October 2010 and the
carrier sued in January 2011 to block the investigation. The
probe is a “wild goose chase” and a waste of money, Dublin-
based Ryanair said.  The OFT said Ryanair could weaken Aer Lingus as a
competitor through votes at Aer Lingus shareholder meetings, by
restricting the carrier’s funding opportunities, influencing how
it uses takeoff and landing slots at London’s Heathrow airport
or blocking some acquisitions.  The decision comes a day after U.K. Business Secretary
 Vince Cable  appointed Clive Maxwell as the OFT’s chief executive
officer. Maxwell’s predecessor  John Fingleton  stepped down as
the OFT was suffering a series of court defeats in which several
of its biggest and most high-profile antitrust fines were
slashed on appeal due to improper handling of the cases.  After buying the stake, Ryanair mounted a public bid for
the rest of Dublin-based Aer Lingus. The European Commission in
June 2007 blocked the takeover -- a decision Ryanair failed to
overturn in a European Union court.  Aer Lingus had also appealed the EU ruling, challenging the
commission’s decision not to force Ryanair to divest its
minority holding. In July 2010, the European General Court ruled
the Brussels-based regulator couldn’t force a divestment when a
minority stake doesn’t give “decisive influence.”  “Today’s decision by the OFT supports our view that
Ryanair’s shareholding in Aer Lingus is contrary to the
interests of consumers and the majority of our shareholders,”
Aer Lingus CEO Christoph Mueller said in a statement. “It is
unacceptable that our principal competitor has been allowed to
remain on our share register even though the European Commission
blocked their hostile takeover almost five years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  