-- SEC Names Thomas Butler as Head of New Credit-Ratings Office
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-06-15T15:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/sec-names-thomas-butler-as-head-of-new-credit-ratings-office.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission named Thomas Butler, a former Morgan Stanley managing
director, to head a new credit-ratings office created as part of
the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul.  Butler will run a staff of about 25 lawyers, accountants
and examiners responsible for monitoring the nine registered
nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, the SEC
said in a  statement  today. The office will issue an annual
report on each of the ratings firms, which are led by Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  Credit-rating companies were at the center of the 2007-2008
financial crisis that triggered the longest recession in seven
decades. The biggest credit raters were “key enablers of the
financial meltdown,” justifying the exploding sales of
mortgage-linked securities with top ratings before issuing
downgrades that “wreaked havoc across markets,” the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission said in a January 2011  report .  Butler, who starts June 18, worked 14 years at Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney and its predecessor, Citigroup Inc.’s
global wealth management division, the SEC said in the
statement. He was chief operating officer for the broker’s
investment strategy, investment advisory, global investments and
public sector units. Butler previously worked at UBS AG’s
securities division and investment firm Babcock & Brown Inc.  Ratings-firm examinations required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank
act had been done by the SEC’s Office of Compliance Inspections
and Examinations before the creation of the new office, the
regulator said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  