-- SEC Seeks to Reinstate Claims Against Goldman Sachs’s Tourre
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-15T00:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/sec-seeks-to-reinstate-claims-against-goldman-sachs-s-tourre.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission asked a court to reinstate fraud claims it dismissed
against  Fabrice Tourre , the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  trader
accused of misleading investors in a collateralized debt
obligation.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in  Manhattan  last June
threw out some of the SEC’s claims after Tourre argued that he
couldn’t be held liable under U.S. securities law for foreign
transactions that occurred outside the country. Jones cited a
2010 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that U.S. securities laws don’t
protect foreign investors who buy stocks on overseas exchanges.  In today’s filing, the SEC cited a recent appeals court
ruling and argued that the definition of a “domestic securities
transaction” that Jones applied in her ruling “is broader than
the test this court employed.” Under the more recent ruling,
the SEC requested that aiding and abetting fraud claims against
Tourre be reinstated.  The SEC initially sued the London-based trader in April
2010, saying he defrauded investors by not disclosing that hedge
fund Paulson & Co. had helped pick the underlying securities for
a CDO called Abacus and planned to bet against them. After
reaching a $550 million settlement with New York-based Goldman
Sachs, the SEC filed a new claim against Tourre, saying he gave
the company “substantial assistance” as it misled investors.  Pamela Rogers Chepiga, a lawyer representing Tourre, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the SEC’s filing
after regular business hours.  Amro Bank  The transactions at issue in the case involved  IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG (IKB) , which allegedly lost almost all of its $150
million investment, and  ABN Amro  Bank NV, which assumed the
credit risk associated with a portion of a CDO called Abacus.  Jones let the SEC’s case proceed on a claim that Tourre
“knowingly, recklessly or negligently” made misrepresentations
in the sale of securities to ACA Management LLC, IKB and ABN
Amro.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  