-- Secret Service Agent Intoxication Alleged in Complaint
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-06-15T22:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/secret-service-agent-intoxication-alleged-in-complaint.html
The U.S. released a log of
allegations of improper conduct made against Secret Service
employees during the past decade, including a description of an
agent who appeared under the influence of alcohol when he was
supposed to be protecting a foreign leader.  The  229-page log  was provided today with extensive
redactions in response to Freedom of Information Act requests
from news organizations after agents were accused of consorting
with prostitutes while preparing for President  Barack Obama ’s
arrival in Cartagena,  Colombia , for a summit in April.  The prostitution allegations tarnished the agency’s
reputation and prompted questions from lawmakers about conduct
by agents. The director of the Secret Service,  Mark Sullivan ,
said last month at a Senate hearing that what unfolded in
Colombia wasn’t a “systemic issue.”  Two other episodes involving prostitution were recorded in
the log from the inspector general for the Homeland Security
Department, the parent agency of the Secret Service. The log
documented complaints spanning a decade.  In 2003, the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation caught a
Secret Service agent calling a number that had been wiretapped
as part of a prostitution investigation. The agent, who retired,
told authorities he got the phone number from a flier handed out
by a woman on the street and called it “out of curiosity.”  Undercover Officer  In another case, alluded to in Sullivan’s congressional
testimony, a uniformed sergeant was arrested in 2008 on charges
of soliciting an undercover police officer who was posing as a
prostitute. The sergeant, who was driving a “marked” police
car, was placed on administrative leave, the log note said.  The agent who appeared intoxicated was the “detail
leader” of a Secret Service team assigned to protect the
president of the  Dominican Republic  during a 2005 U.S. visit,
according to the log.  The agent “was relieved from duty after reporting for work
apparently under the influence of alcohol,” according to the
log entry.  The names and gender of agents in the logs were blacked out
by the government.  In a statement, Secret Service spokesman Max Milien said
the “vast majority” of the log entries “did not involve
allegations of misconduct by Secret Service agents or
officers.”  Other complaints of “alcohol abuse” included one in 2004
stating that an armed agent “consumed alcohol” before boarding
a commercial airliner.  Driving Incident  Another agent was arrested in  Los Angeles  after driving
into a ditch and being found to have a 0.09 percent blood-
alcohol level. Under California law, 0.08 percent is the legal
limit. A “visual examination” prompted the arresting officer
to order a test for cocaine use. No results of that test were
available, the log note said.  The log is a compendium of complaints against Secret
Service personnel or accounts of incidents involving the agency.
Most of the entries recorded anonymous complaints about e-mail
solicitations for personal financial information that people had
received in connection with what the log called “a Nigerian
investment scam.”  The inspector general reviewed incidents involving the use
of force. The log recorded the 2003 shooting of an injured deer
by an agent who wanted “to put the animal out of its misery.”  ‘Good Shoot’  In 2002, two uniformed officers on routine patrol were
“involved in a shooting” when the officers came upon a fight
in which one person was threatening another with a machete. “No
action taken. Good shoot. No negligence on the part of agency
employees,” according to the log, which didn’t say whether
anyone was struck by a bullet.  An agent in  Texas , “allegedly upset after an argument,”
fired a handgun, according to a 2008 entry. The agent sought
help from an employee assistance unit.  There were also several complaints of alleged sexual
harassment, including one to the Secret Service’s equal-
employment opportunity unit that the special agent in charge of
an office had discriminated against an employee for refusing
“sexual advances,” according to the log entry.  A Secret Service agent was “verbally counseled” for
participating with an FBI agent “in the unauthorized electronic
intercept” of a mobile telephone, according to a 2004 log
entry. The agent’s conduct was characterized as “job-
performance failure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  