-- Senater Reed Urges Diplomacy Over Intervention in Syria
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-06-15T11:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/senater-reed-urges-diplomacy-over-intervention-in-syria.html
The Obama administration should
pursue diplomacy concerning the violence against Sunni Muslim
civilians in  Syria  because the potential costs of military
intervention are too great, said U.S. Senator  Jack Reed .  “I think that at this stage we still have to -– as
frustrating and as painful, given some of the scenes we’ve seen
-- we have to pursue diplomacy,” Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  this week accused Russia
of providing Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad with attack
helicopters to use in the conflict. Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, is calling for the U.S. to arm Syrian rebels and
provide them a safe haven in the country. He told the newspaper
The Hill this week that it’s “disgraceful” that the White
House is doing “nothing” to assist civilians under attack.  Reed, also a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee,
said he holds out hope the Russians will decide to use long-
standing ties to Assad to help become a force in ending the
violence.  “One of the key elements here is the Russians,” said
Reed, 62. “They have long-time ties to the Syrian government,
to the Assad family, not just the government. I know we’re
working very hard to get them to recognize that this regime no
longer is legitimate in the eyes of the world.”  Romney on Defense  Reed also criticized a proposal by presumptive Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  to boost the Pentagon’s budget
by $96 billion next year and by $2 trillion over a decade.  He rejected Romney’s contention that President  Barack Obama 
is hollowing out the U.S. military with too many cuts. He
defended a decision by then-Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  to
cut almost $500 billion over 10 years to draw down defense funds
after the end of the war in  Iraq  and the slimming of forces in
 Afghanistan .  “First of all, I’d say ask him how he’s going to pay for
it,” Reed said. “There’s a growing realization that our
strength as a nation rests upon our economy as well as our
military prowess.”  A former Army Ranger and paratrooper, Reed is best known
for his grasp of military issues. Though he voted against the
invasion of Iraq in 2003, he has visited the nation repeatedly
since the war began. He also has frequently visited Afghanistan.  JPMorgan Hearings  Reed, who also serves on the Senate Banking Committee, said
the Senate should consider further action after this week’s
testimony before the panel by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  on the bank’s trading losses of
more than $2 billion. He said senators first need to let
regulators probe the circumstances and then proceed.  “We should wait, but not indefinitely, but wait until we
get a good readout from the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, from the  Federal Reserve , from those who are charged
with not only supervising, but analyzing what happened,” Reed
said.  Dimon told the panel that overconfidence in trusted
managers let traders accumulate the losses through a strategy
that “violated common sense.”  Risk-monitoring systems and executives at the largest U.S.
bank failed to adequately police threats concentrated in a
derivatives portfolio at a London unit of the chief investment
office, he said. The division wasn’t subjected to the same
scrutiny as other businesses, and managers there deviated from
control procedures, even after triggers on risk limits were
breached, Dimon testified.  Dodd-Frank Repeal  Reed said it’s clear that the trading loss at the New York-
based investment house was a setback to calls by Republicans to
repeal the 2010 Dodd-Frank law boosting regulation on banks.  He pointed to Dimon’s testimony that some aspects of that
law have worked, even as others haven’t.  “That was something that they didn’t quite expect -- that
he would be clear that there were parts of the bill that are
very necessary,” Reed said.  Noting that Dimon had indicated that there is room for a
Volcker rule -- a provision in Dodd-Frank that would limit
proprietary trading by banks -- Reed said, “If a good Volcker
rule was in place, my argument would be that they wouldn’t have
suffered $2 billion or more, maybe more, of direct losses and a
significant loss in their shareholder equity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  