-- Serbian President’s Party Invites Socialists to Form Cabinet
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-06-15T17:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/serbian-president-s-party-invites-socialists-to-form-new-cabinet.html
Serbian President  Tomislav Nikolic ’s
Progressive Party has asked the Socialist Party to join them in
talks on forming a government, more than a month after
inconclusive elections.  “We believe that  Serbia  has no time to waste, that Serbia
has no time to wait, we are convinced that the citizens voted
for a change, that people want a different government,”
Aleksandar Vucic, the acting leader of the Progressives, told
reporters today in Belgrade.  Serbia needs to form a government quickly to ease concern
over its fiscal outlook as the economy teeters on the brink of
recession, according to  Fitch Ratings . The country’s three-
member Fiscal Council, which monitors budget performance, warned
of a looming debt crisis on May 30 after the budget gap rose to
7 percent to 8 percent of gross domestic product and public debt
approached 50 percent of GDP.  The five-month  budget deficit  widened 80 percent to 89.3
billion dinars ($971 million), while the economy contracted 1.3
percent in the first quarter after a harsh winter paralyzed many
industries and the euro-area debt crisis damped exports.  The Progressives, who have 73 of parliament’s 250 seats,
would control 117 seats if the Socialists join them. Both
parties used nationalist rhetoric in their campaigns ahead of
the May 6 elections, and said they favor closer ties with
 Russia . If no government is formed by the end of August, Serbia
will have to call fresh elections.  IMF Talks  A new government will need to resume IMF talks over a
suspended $1.3 billion precautionary loan arrangement earlier
this year when it became clear the country would miss agreed
fiscal targets that include keeping a full-year budget gap under
4.25 percent of GDP.  Talks between former President  Boris Tadic ’s Democrats and
the Socialists, led by  Ivica Dacic , stumbled on the number of
parties in a new coalition.  The top leadership of Tadic’s Democrats decided to step up
efforts to form as broad a coalition as possible at a meeting
today. They want to “intensify negotiations on the formation of
a program government” to pursue a ’’responsible economic
policy, fight against poverty and against corruption’’ and be
stable and ’’supported by a wide majority in Serbia’s
parliament,’’ according to a statement after the meeting.  ‘Consultations’  The Socialists, previously led by deceased former strongman
 Slobodan Milosevic , want a broad coalition to include the
 Liberal Democratic Party , which calls on Serbia to recognize
Kosovo’s independence, and the United Regions of Serbia, a group
led by  Mladjan Dinkic , who has held the posts of the economy
minister, finance minister and central bank governor since
Milosevic’s fall in 2000.  Tadic’s Democrats, which dominated the previous government,
removed Dinkic in February 2011 following his criticism that
Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s Cabinet wasn’t following his
authority.  The Democrats will meet all three groups for
“consultations” including Dinkic’s United Regions, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  