-- Singapore Home Sales in May Decline to Lowest This Year
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-06-15T10:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/singapore-private-home-sales-in-may-decline-to-lowest-this-year.html
Singapore’s May private home sales
fell 32 percent from a month ago, posting the lowest sales this
year as the Europe crisis damped demand.  Private home sales fell to 1,702 units last month from this
year’s peak of 2,496 units in April, according to data from the
 Urban Redevelopment Authority . Sales fell below 2,000 units for
the first time in four months.  “There has been greater uncertainty in the market because
of the Euro zone crisis,” said Nicholas Mak, executive director
at SLP International Property Consultants, a real estate
consulting company. “That’s resulted in lower sales and a more
cautious approach from buyers.”  Singapore’s benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  dropped 6.9
percent in May, its worst monthly drop since September 2011,
amid concerns the  European debt crisis  may worsen. The city’s
private home  price index  declined 0.1 percent in the first
quarter, the first decline in almost three years.  The lower sales may fend off further measures from the
government, according to Bank of America Corp.  Singapore  is
unlikely to introduce additional measures to cool the housing
market because of a weak economic outlook and lower property
transactions, analysts at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  ‘Severe Blow’  “A fragile economic outlook and softness in the broader
 property market  suggests that another round of measures may be
unwarranted at this point,” Hak Bin Chua, a Singapore-based
economist at Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.
“The last round of measures in December already dealt quite a
severe blow to overall sentiment and transactions.”  The  index  tracking property stocks in Singapore climbed to
a one-month high.  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built. Foreigners and
corporate entities have to pay an additional 10 percent stamp
duty following measures introduced in December. The extra levy
is 3 percent for permanent residents purchasing a second home
and for citizens buying their third residential property.  “Going forward, there are early signs that new home sales
momentum is slowing down due to changing external
circumstances,” Li Hiaw Ho,  executive director  at CBRE in
Singapore, said in an e-mailed statement. “As such, we do not
expect the sales volume in the second half to be as high as the
first half.”  Home sales have climbed 54 percent to 10,880 units this
year, according to the data. Prices rose 1.1 percent for the
mass market in the same period, the authority said.  Flo Residence  in the northeastern suburb of Punggol
contributed the most to sales last month, with 266 units,
according to the government data. Sales were also boosted by the
SeaHill development in the west of the city with 200 homes sold,
while 192 apartments of the 862 marketed at Eight Riversuites in
the central Whampoa East suburb were bought in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  