-- America Movil Says KPN Benefits From Germany, Belgium Units
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/slim-s-america-movil-calls-on-kpn-to-keep-german-belgian-assets.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , which is offering
2.6 billion euros ($3.3 billion) to increase its stake in  Royal
KPN NV (KPN)  to 27.7 percent, said the Dutch operator benefits from
retaining mobile-phone assets in  Germany  and  Belgium .  KPN has put its German E-Plus unit under review to defend
itself after Mexico City-based America Movil last month began
its unsolicited offer. KPN had also started reviewing the future
of its Belgian mobile-phone unit BASE.  “We thought that this was a company, KPN, all of it, that
had good potential for development,” America Movil Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said in a phone interview
from Mexico. “One area was Germany but also Belgium, both have
been growing well and still have a lot more to offer. It is much
better when you can develop an asset before you go into any
transaction.”  KPN, the former phone monopoly in the Netherlands and the
largest operator in the country, has called America Movil’s
offer of 8 euros a share “opportunistic.” KPN and Spain’s
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  are considering ways to merge their German units,
a move that would create the country’s top mobile-phone operator
by customers, two people with knowledge of the matter said this
month.  To be sure, if the company were to receive a very high
offer for certain assets, then it should be accepted, Garcia- Moreno said. “There are offers one cannot refuse, but I think
those things tend to be quite exceptional in life and it’s
really more about creating value.”  Telekom Austria  America Movil owned 8.1 percent of KPN as of a June 13
filing. That was up from 4.8 percent when America Movil
disclosed last month its offer to buy more shares.  The CFO also said America Movil, which agreed yesterday to
buy a 21 percent stake in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  from investor Ronny Pecik, currently doesn’t plan further European investments
beyond KPN and  Telekom Austria .  “We are not looking at anything else, we have decided to
limit ourselves to what we can do, given our  credit ratings ,”
Garcia-Moreno said. “We want to hold onto our credit ratings
and that imposes very clear, very explicit limitations in terms
of how much we can lever up and we do not want to affect the
distributions we make to our own shareholders as a consequence
of this.”  Slim’s wireless company purchased 5 percent of Telekom
Austria’s shares and will acquire 16 percent later this year
after regulatory approval, according to a  filing .  America Movil 
paid about 9.50 euros a share, said a person with knowledge of
the matter, asking not to be identified because the deal is
private.  Eastern Europe  America Movil said the deal is part of its geographic
diversification strategy and will provide an attractive presence
in Central and Eastern Europe. Austria’s state assets agency
OeIAG, which holds 28.4 percent and is Telekom Austria’s biggest
shareholder, said it welcomes America Movil taking a stake.
Telekom Austria Chief Executive Officer Hannes Ametsreiter said
he appreciates Slim as a strategic and long-term investor who
will contribute industry knowledge.  Telekom Austria, based in Vienna, has operations in
Belarus,  Bulgaria ,  Croatia ,  Liechtenstein , Macedonia,  Serbia  and
Slovenia in addition to the carrier’s domestic network. The
company had 20.3 million wireless subscribers and 2.6 million
fixed lines at the end of March.  Telekom Austria rose 1.4 percent yesterday to 8.15 euros in
Vienna while KPN gained 0.6 percent to 7.96 euros in Amsterdam.
America Movil declined 0.2 percent to 16.77 pesos in  Mexico 
City.  Garcia-Moreno said that while the company hadn’t held talks
with the Austrian government, KPN should be as receptive as
Telekom Austria.  “We have said almost exactly the same with Telekom Austria
as we have said with KPN,” Garcia-Moreno said. “You have seen
the reaction of the Austrian government and that I think stands
in stark contrast to that which we heard from KPN. So if it’s
the same offer, what’s the difference in perceptions?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  