-- SNB Reviews Communications After Credit Suisse Puts Surge
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-06-15T14:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/snb-reviews-communications-after-credit-suisse-puts-surge.html
The  Swiss National Bank  will review
its communications procedures after trading in bearish options
on  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  surged following a private briefing in
which regulators disclosed the firm faced a capital shortfall.  The SNB will review how it publishes its annual financial
stability report, the central bank said in an e-mailed statement
today. The bank has so far presented preliminary information to
journalists under embargo before the official publication of the
release, “to explain the partly complex content of the
report,” it said.  Shares in Credit Suisse,  Switzerland’s second-largest bank ,
plunged 10 percent to 17.01 francs yesterday after the SNB said,
as part of the  annual report , that the lender needs a “marked
increase” in capital this year. That was the first time since
the central bank began publishing the study in 2003 that it
singled out Credit Suisse as needing a bigger improvement in
capital than  UBS AG (UBSN) , the country’s largest lender.  The disclosure of the annual report under embargo “seems
to be common practice and they should review the process,”
Andreas Venditti, an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank, said in a
phone interview.  Credit Suisse Puts  Turnover in  puts  that give the right to sell Credit Suisse
shares jumped on June 11, when the SNB briefed about 30
journalists who didn’t have to sign a non-disclosure agreement.
The central bank also sent the report to UBS and Credit Suisse,
the only lenders to receive the report under embargo, which
arrived on June 12.  Trading in Swiss puts expiring today with a strike price of
19 francs jumped to 4,250 contracts on June 11 from 200 on June
8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average volume
in the month to June 8 was 426 a day. The derivatives rose to 2
francs apiece yesterday from 26 centimes at the start of the
week.  The shares rose 3.4 percent to 17.59 francs at 4:17 p.m. in
Zurich today.  Under local regulations,  Switzerland ’s stock exchanges must
monitor their markets for illegal insider transactions, price
manipulation and other unlawful activity. If they suspect
impropriety, the exchanges must report it to the regulator,
Finma, which has the mandate to investigate.  Tobias Lux, a spokesman for Finma, wasn’t immediately
available to comment. Alain Bichsel, head of media relations at
the SIX Swiss Exchange, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  