-- Sovereign Risk Tied to Banking Sectors, Egan-Jones’ Egan Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-15T17:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/sovereign-risk-tied-to-banking-sectors-egan-jones-egan-says.html
European sovereign-debt risk is
linked to losses that those countries’ banks may have to absorb,
according to Sean Egan of Egan-Jones Ratings Co.  “History has shown the banks and the sovereign-credit risk
have been joined at the hip,” Egan, president of credit-rating
firm Egan-Jones in Haverford, Pennsylvania, said today an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with
 Tom Keene . “Sovereigns have stood behind their banks for the
simple reason that if the banking sector goes, the countries
go.”  France ’s credit rating was cut one step yesterday to BBB+
from by Egan-Jones, which cited “deterioration” in the
nation’s credit metrics and the need for support of the
country’s banks. Yields on French  government bonds  due in 10
years have fallen nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point,
to 2.59 percent since the downgrade.  “You have to solve the underlying problem and that is the
fact that you have a heightened debt to” gross domestic
product, Egan said. “The trick here is not to issue more debt,
but rather to get the debt down to a manageable level,
particularly when the GDPs are not growing while interest,
funding costs have been growing.”  The company cut the U.K.’s credit ranking on June 4 by one
level to AA- on concern the nation will be unable to continue
reducing its  budget deficit  as the economy weakens. Yields on
British  debt  due in 10 years have risen 14 basis points since
the ranking change to 1.66 percent.  SEC Dispute  The Securities and Exchange Commission April 24 began
administrative proceedings against Egan-Jones and its president
for allegedly making misleading statements in a 2008 filing with
the agency.  The SEC order also said that Egan-Jones violated certain
conflict-of-interest and recordkeeping provisions required of
nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.  Egan-Jones said in a complaint filed June 6 in federal
court in  Washington  that it would be deprived of its rights,
including that to a  jury trial , if the SEC’s enforcement action
was to proceed in an “administrative forum” rather than in
court where the company can present evidence of the SEC’s
“improper” motive for making the allegations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  