-- Spain Urged to Slow Cuts as IMF Calls for Overhaul of Banks
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-06-15T16:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/spain-urged-to-slow-cuts-as-imf-calls-for-bank-system-overhaul.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
 Spain  should slow down deficit cuts to avoid exacerbating the
effects of the recession, and urged the government to step up
bank supervision and identify lenders that aren’t viable.  Spain will probably miss its budget-deficit target of 5.3
percent of gross domestic product this year after the shortfall
was 8.9 percent last year, the Washington-based lender said in a
statement on its annual review of Spain. The government, which
aims for a 3 percent shortfall next year, shouldn’t try to
correct any slippage too quickly as the IMF forecast the economy
will continue shrinking in 2013.  “The medium-term targets are broadly appropriate, but a
smoother path would be appropriate during a period of extreme
weakness” in order to reduce “the risk of creating a negative
feedback loop,” the IMF said.  Spain’s 10-year bond yields surged to 6.874 percent today,
as investors increased bets that the country’s 100 billion-euro
($128 billion) European bank bailout may not be enough to
prevent the state losing  market access . The government forecasts
the economy will shrink 1.7 percent this year, returning to
growth next year.  The IMF called for banking supervision to be “upgraded”
and said the government should make the most of the bank bailout
to overhaul the industry. Banks should be “triaged” into those
that don’t need help, viable ones that do and “non-viable
banks.” It should also deal with “legacy real estate assets,”
the fund said, without giving details.  Wages and Prices  The IMF praised Spain’s labor-market overhaul even as it
said it could be strengthened to help bring down the 24 percent
 jobless  rate. Net exports will continue to contribute to growth,
the lender said, as it called for wages and prices to come down.
It also proposed public-wage cuts.  “A cooperative solution, where workers accept greater wage
moderation, employers pass on the cost savings to prices and
hire, and banks recapitalize, could result in a faster
reallocation of resources to dynamic sectors and a better
outcome for all,” the IMF said.  The IMF said Spain shouldn’t “rule out” any options for
cutting the deficit over the medium term. The country has scope
to increase value-added tax and could do so immediately, while
the government should also sell assets. VAT hikes and public
wage cuts could be written into law now to bolster confidence,
and only reversed if the goals are met, the report said.  Rebates for mortgage payments, which Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  restored as one of his first initiatives after coming to
power in December, should be scrapped. Temporary and one-time
measures should be avoided, as should tax amnesties such as the
one introduced this year, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  