-- Spain Grazing Junk Status Fuels Contagion Risk: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-06-15T12:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/spain-grazing-junk-status-fuels-contagion-risk-euro-credit.html
Spain ’s slide down the credit-rating
ladder has brought the nation within a hair of junk status and
risks triggering contagion in  Italy  and beyond should investors
completely shun its bonds.  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year notes was at 6.89
percent at 2:33 p.m. in  Madrid , after rising to a euro-era
record 6.92 percent yesterday. That came after Moody’s Investors
Service cut its rating three levels to Baa3, one step above
junk. Investors demanded 5.3 percentage points  more  to hold its
10-year debt than that of  Germany , with which it shared an AAA
rating as recently as September 2010.  Moody’s said Spain’s decision to seek as much as 100
billion euros ($126 billion) of European funds to shore up its
banks increased the risk the country would need a full bailout.
Spain’s aid request and the credit-rating reduction have
increased foreign investor flight, leaving the Treasury
increasingly reliant on the soon-to-be rescued domestic banking
industry to buy its debt.  “Junk status would be serious and would confirm it is
locked out of the  capital markets ,” said  Marc Chandler , head of
global currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New
York . “It would mean the bank aid turns into a full-fledged aid
package, redouble pressure on Italy and France while  Portugal 
would take another hit.”  Italy’s 10-year bond yield has risen almost 30 basis points
since Spain said it would request the bank assistance on June 9.
That pushed the premium investors demand to hold Italian debt
over comparable German bunds to 455 basis points.  Under Scrutiny  Moody’s has kept Spain on review for a possible further
downgrade.  Fitch Ratings , which rates Spain two levels above
junk at BBB, said June 12 that all euro countries were at risk
of downgrade. Standard and Poor’s has a negative outlook on
Spain’s BBB+ rating, which is three steps above junk.  Spain’s financing needs are increasing along with its
costs. The debt load surged after a  budget surplus  turned into a
ballooning deficit following the end of a 10-year real-estate
boom. The economy is stuck in its second recession since 2009,
complicating efforts to trim the euro-region’s third-largest
deficit by 40 percent in a year.  Spain’s total public debt rose to 72.1 percent of GDP in
the first quarter from 68.5 percent at the end of last year, the
Bank of Spain said today. In April, the central government’s
deficit was at 2.4 percent of GDP, compared with a full year
target of 3.5 percent, according to the Budget Ministry. It
surged from a year ago due to cash transfers to the 17 semi-
autonomous to help them reorder their finances, it said.  Debt Load  The bank bailout will increase Spain’s debt to about 90
percent of gross domestic product and threatens to further limit
its ability to sell borrow, Moody’s said when announcing the
rating decision. That will make the government more dependent on
the same domestic banks that needed the rescue to cover their
bad real-estate loans.  Treasury data show foreign investors’ share of Spanish
bonds dropped to 38 percent in April from 52 percent in
December, while domestic lenders’ rose to 30 percent from 16
percent.  “This is an unsustainable situation,” Moody’s wrote in
its June 13 report. “The government is likely to become
increasingly constrained with regard to the terms under which it
is able to refinance maturing debt.”  Rating Pressure  A junk rating also may put additional pressure on the banks
by reducing the value of the  government bonds  that Spanish
lenders use as collateral to access funding from the  European
Central Bank .  Bank of Spain data published yesterday showed the lenders
increasing dependence on ECB funding, which rose 9 percent in
May to a record 288 billion euros. Under ECB rules, governments
must maintain a rating equivalent to at least BBB- from one of
the four accepted rating agencies.  The recent widening in Spanish corporate bond spreads
partly reflects growing concerns about a junk rating, said Georg Grodzki, who helps oversee $515 billion at  Legal & General (LGEN) 
Investment Management in  London .  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s $1.5 billion of
5.462 percent bonds due in 2021 yield 7.20 percent, or 550 basis
points more than comparable maturity Treasury bonds, about 200
basis points than at the start of March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “A junk rating of Spain would be much more significant
than those of Portugal and Ireland as billions of corporate
bonds that would no longer qualify for investment grade funds
would be subject to forced selling,” Grodzki said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  