-- Sparx Wins Sovereign Fund Money to Start Japan Property Business
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-06-15T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/sparx-wins-sovereign-fund-money-to-start-japan-property-business.html
Sparx Group Co. (8739) , a Japanese asset
manager, won money from a sovereign wealth investment company
overseas to start a property fund focused on residential assets,
Chief Executive Officer Shuhei Abe said.  Sparx Asia Capital Management Ltd. will be responsible for
the five-year fund, which will have maximum capacity of 40
billion yen ($507 million) and will start in August or September,
Abe said in a telephone interview from  Tokyo . The company will
team up with a Japanese real estate investment trust in running
the fund and will start with about 10 billion yen, he said,
declining to name the state fund or the REIT.  “The Japanese  property market  has become a very attractive
investment,” said Abe. “We’re hoping that this business will
become one of the core businesses for Sparx in the long run.”  Sparx is widening its offerings beyond its focus from
equity-related products to return to profit after it widened its
full-year loss as performance and asset management fees dropped
amid market declines. Sparx posted a net loss of 4.54 billion
yen for last fiscal year, compared with a 3.7 billion yen loss a
year earlier, even after the company cut salaries and relocated
to less expensive offices in Tokyo.  The company plans to eventually expand its offerings in the
property market including logistics and hotels to meet rising
demand from overseas institutional investors including
sovereign wealth funds in the  Middle East , Abe said.  Rising Demand  Sparx is entering the property business as real estate
prices signal a recovery. Companies including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  also plan to start a private real estate investment
trust to meet increasing demand from Japanese pension funds.  The number of condominiums offered for sale in Tokyo and
surrounding areas in April rose the most in 18 years as the
nation’s property industry recovered from a record earthquake
and tsunami in March 2011. The number of new homes put on the
market two months ago surged 82 percent from a year earlier,  the
Real Estate Economic Research Institute  said last month.  Abe said last month his company plans to raise 50 billion
yen for new funds including those that will invest in Japanese
real estate and renewable energy.  Sparx last year tied up with  Kachikaihatsu Co. (3010) , a Tokyo-
based property firm which operates the Best Western hotel brand
in  Japan , for its first hotel fund that was aimed at providing
lodging for relief workers and volunteers following the March
2011 disaster. It also started an Asian long-short equity fund
last fiscal year using $10 million of the company’s own cash as
 seed capital .  Shares of Sparx added 1.3 percent to 5,460 yen at the close
of trading on the Jasdaq exchange in Tokyo. The stock has gained
1.9 percent this year, compared with the 2.2 percent advance by
the  Jasdaq index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 