-- Statement by the IMF Mission to St. Kitts and Nevis (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-15T19:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-st-kitts-and-nevis-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to St. Kitts and Nevis:  Mr. George Tsibouris, head of an International Monetary Fund (IMF)
staff mission to St. Kitts and Nevis, issued the following statement
today at the conclusion of the mission:
“An IMF team visited Basseterre during June 4-15 to undertake the third
review of the program under the Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) approved by
the Fund’s Executive Board on July 27, 2011.
“The focus of the mission was to assess the quantitative performance at
end-March 2012 under the SBA; review the ongoing macroeconomic and
structural policies; and examine the prospects for the remainder of
the year. All quantitative performance criteria were met at end-March
2012 despite weaker first-quarter economic activity. Economic growth
for 2012 has been revised downward to zero percent, reflecting the
impact of the uncertain global economic environment which continues
to weigh on economic activity, particularly in the still declining
construction sector. Softer-than-expected domestic demand resulted
in lower imports that contributed to a narrowing of the external
current account deficit. Meanwhile, inflationary pressures abated
during the first quarter reflecting lower international commodity
prices. Buoyant non-tax revenue and higher-than expected income tax
receipts more than offset a slight decline in taxes on international
trade. Expenditure restraint particularly on capital outlays also
contributed to a better-than-expected overall fiscal balance and a
reduction in budgetary arrears.
“The structural benchmarks at the end-March 2011 were also met.
Proposals for reform of the social safety nets and for the rationalization
of the liquefied petroleum gas subsidies have been presented to the
Cabinet. These constitute important first steps towards consolidating
the variety of social assistance provided by the government, and will
help to better target these programs to the most vulnerable.
“Progress with debt restructuring, aimed at restoring debt sustainability,
has been notable. The new bonds to complete the debt exchange have been
issued and are being serviced as scheduled. An agreement to reschedule
the debt owed to members of the  Paris Club  was reached in May 2012, which
would extend the repayment period to twenty years with a seven-year grace
period. The shareholders’ agreement for the special purpose vehicle (SPV)
to facilitate the domestic debt for land swap has been signed and the
company incorporated. Negotiations with other domestic creditors are
underway. As the authorities have previously indicated, Treasury bills
are excluded from the debt restructuring exercise.
“The mission and the authorities have agreed on a draft memorandum of
economic and financial policies that maintains the fiscal targets and
structural benchmarks for 2012. In light of the above, the mission would
recommend to the IMF Executive Board completion of the third review under
the Stand-by Arrangement. The IMF Board is expected to discuss the third
review under the SBA in early August 2012.
“The authorities have reiterated their strong commitment to the policies
and objectives of their home-grown economic program aimed at restoring
fiscal and debt sustainability. Notwithstanding the overall good program
performance to date, there are still risks related to the uncertain global
economy. The hesitant recovery in domestic economic activity, despite
modest growth in tourist arrivals is worrisome. The authorities are
urged to consider macroeconomic policies that could help spur growth,
including in expenditure management, to secure the fiscal space for an
acceleration of infrastructure and priority social projects;  tax policy ;
and the environment for doing business.
“During the review, the mission held meetings with Prime Minister and
Minister of Finance the Rt. Hon. Denzil Douglas, Premier Joseph Parry
of Nevis, members of the Federal Cabinet and of the Cabinet of the Nevis
Island Administration, senior officials of the Ministries of Finance and
 Sustainable Development , the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB), and
representatives of the private sector. The mission would like to thank
the authorities for their excellent cooperation.”  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 