-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Kuwait (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-15T19:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-kuwait-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to Kuwait:  On June 15, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation[1] with Kuwait on
a lapse of time basis. Under the IMF’s lapse of time procedures, the
Executive Board completes the Article IV Consultations without convening
formal discussions.  Background  The 2012 consultation discussions were held against the backdrop of
significantly higher oil revenues for Kuwait, a product of higher
global  oil prices  and an increase in oil production. The policymaking
landscape changed significantly in 2011 and early 2012. After six cabinet
resignations in the past five years, the Prime Minister resigned in
late 2011 and new Parliamentary elections were held in early February
2012, producing significant gains for the opposition. A new government
was formed shortly after.  Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth in 2011 is estimated at around
8¼ percent, supported by a 15 percent increase in oil production.
Higher oil revenues resulted in an increase in Kuwait’s current account
and fiscal surpluses to over 41 and 30 percent of GDP, respectively.
Growth in non-oil economic activity was moderate and is estimated at
about 4½ percent in 2011, primarily driven by higher government
expenditure--the government’s wage bill and capital expenditure are
estimated to have increased by almost 20 percent in FY 2011/12.
Banks’ private sector credit growth continued to be weak, at about
2½ percent, held back largely by a decline in lending to investment
companies (ICs).  Headline inflation in 2011 increased to about 4¾ percent, from 4
percent in 2010, as food inflation increased to almost 9¼ percent
(8¼ in 2010). On the other hand, nonfood inflation remained relatively
subdued at 3½ percent, although somewhat higher than the almost
3 percent observed in 2010. Equity prices in the  Kuwait  Stock
Exchange (KSE) came under renewed downward pressure and the stock
market’s unweighted index declined by almost 16½ percent--its fourth
consecutive annual decline--although it showed some rebound in the
first four months of 2012.  The financial sector faced a mixed environment in 2011. The banking
sector remained well capitalized, liquidity conditions continued to
be favorable, and lending to some sectors strengthened. Nevertheless,
banks’ profits remained largely flat due to a significant buildup in
provisions. ICs hit renewed setbacks due to adverse market conditions
and the reemergence of global liquidity strains. Average equity prices
of ICs declined by almost 27 percent in 2011, which brought the
cumulative decline vis-à-vis August 2008 to almost 79 percent.  Executive Board Assessment  In concluding the 2012 Article IV Consultation with Kuwait Executive
Directors endorsed staff’s appraisal, as follows:  The economic outlook for 2012 is broadly positive. Economic recovery
is expected to strengthen, led by high government expenditure--particularly
wages and capital expenditure. High fiscal and external surpluses are
expected to persist. Inflation is projected to moderate slightly due to
a decline in global food inflation. Low implementation rates of the
 capital budget  and legislative bottlenecks could, however, dampen the
recovery.  Near term economic policies should continue to remain supportive.
While the supportive fiscal stance is appropriate and has been called
for in recent years in view of still-moderate economic growth and low
inflationary pressure, the recurrent nature of expenditure growth
increases the rigidity of the budget and complicates short-term fiscal
 management. Inflation is projected to remain low, but inflation risk
is on the upside and the authorities should be ready with a strategy
for fiscal adjustment if inflationary pressures build up. This strategy
should safeguard the capital budget as much as possible. The real  exchange
rate  is broadly in line with fundamentals.  Kuwait has significant fiscal space but the country is now at a
crossroads as regards conserving wealth for its future generations.
Kuwait’s non-oil primary deficit is above the estimated baseline
benchmarks that take into account intergenerational equity in the
distribution of oil wealth. Furthermore, rising public sector wage
and pension costs and rapid  population growth  are expected to exert
pressures on public finances in the medium term. If Kuwait is to
preserve wealth equally for its future generations, fiscal consolidation
will be needed in the medium term.  Overall, there is a need to improve the productivity and welfare
impact of  government spending . Reallocating government expenditure
toward capital expenditure would enhance non-oil GDP growth and improve
the long-term outcomes of the fiscal accounts, while improving the
productivity of government expenditure and contributing to the
diversification objectives of the DP. In this connection, the authorities
are encouraged to improve the government’s capacity to implement the
capital budget, contain the growth of the public sector wage bill, avoid
a further buildup of the pension system’s unfunded liabilities, and avoid
new measures that would further increase current expenditures. The
introduction of a VAT would be a step forward. The adoption of a
medium-term budget framework and a well-designed fiscal rule could
improve fiscal management. Finally, the phased retargeting of fuel-related
subsidies to the most vulnerable segments of the population should be
part of a medium- to long-term fiscal reform program.  Legislative and other reforms are needed to improve Kuwait’s business
environment and employment opportunities for Kuwaitis. Specific
attention should be given to upgrading the education system to make
it attuned to the needs of the business sector. Corporate governance
should be enhanced by strengthening institutions’ board member
composition and member roles, and enforcing the appropriate
implementation of auditing and reporting standards. On the legislative
side, the authorities should proceed with modernizing legislation to
enhance the business environment, taking into account best international
practices to avoid the pitfalls of recent legislative experience.
Finally, the authorities are encouraged to undertake a comprehensive
review of business procedures and requirements with the view to
streamlining them.  The authorities are encouraged to continue to be vigilant toward existing
and emerging financial sector risks. To this end, they should maintain
their strategy of building precautionary provisions and retained profits
by banks, continue to enhance ICs supervision, and develop the needed
tools for ICs resolution. Furthermore, in developing a new and improved
national legislative base, the authorities should continue to take into
account the specific nature of the central bank’s operations and the
need to strengthen and preserve its operational independence.  There has been significant progress in improving Kuwait’s statistical
system, but further improvements are needed.  In this regard, the
authorities are encouraged to provide the needed resources to the
Central Statistical Bureau.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  