-- Stony Brook Gets Lift From Joe Nathan’s Big-League Donation
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-15T14:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/stony-brook-gets-lift-from-big-league-donor-of-joe-nathan-field.html
Joe Nathan , the All-Star relief
pitcher and only Stony Brook Seawolf to play in the major
leagues, says his alma mater’s sudden baseball success has taken
at least a dozen years.  “It’s not a shock to me where they are,” said Nathan, the
 Texas Rangers  closer who says he started college as a light-
hitting shortstop. “If you look at what they’ve done not just
this year, but over the years, they’ve been pretty good.”  Stony Brook University , the 16,000 undergraduate-student
school 60 miles (97 kilometers) east of New York on  Long Island ,
is among the eight teams in the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association ’s College World Series. It’s the first appearance in
the final round for the school, which only started playing
Division I baseball in 2000.  The Seawolves now play their home games at Joe Nathan
Field, built as part of a $500,000 donation the pitcher made
four years ago.  “I wouldn’t have made it to pro ball without that school,
so it was a no-brainer for me,” Nathan, 37, said before the
Rangers played the  Arizona  Diamondbacks two nights ago in
Arlington,  Texas . He keeps a framed picture of the field next to
his locker. “The place gave me a chance to mature both
physically and mentally and become a better baseball player. It
was a perfect fit for me.”  Winners of 28 of their last 31 games, including upsets over
four lower-seeded teams this month, the Seawolves open play in
the College World Series today against UCLA.  Lowest Seed  They are the lowest-seeded team playing in the double-
elimination tournament in Omaha,  Nebraska , which culminates in a
best-of-three championship series starting June 24. Stony Brook
is the first team from the Northeast U.S. to qualify since the
NCAA abandoned geographic regionals in 1987.  “The people in the South haven’t heard much about  Stony
Brook , but they know who they are now,”  Louisiana State
University  coach Paul Mainieri said last week after the Tigers
were eliminated by the Seawolves. “They gained an awful lot of
respect, not only down here but nationwide. That team can play
with anybody.”  The Seawolves advanced from the opening round with wins
over the  University of Miami , the University of  Central Florida 
and Missouri State University. All three of those were in the
NCAA’s top 35; Stony Brook was No. 86.  The team dropped the first game of a best-of-three series
to LSU, a six-time College World Series champion, then rallied
to earn a spot on the final stage. Throughout the run, players
held up an “O” with their hands, symbolic of their quest to
reach Omaha.  ‘Gutsy Group’  “We are very tough-minded group, a gutsy group,” Coach
Matt Senk said during the LSU series. “They love playing the
game, they love playing together and they just keep on playing
to keep on playing.”  The team’s run has caught the eye of alumni well beyond
Long Island. Richard Gelfond, the chief executive of  IMAX Corp. (IMAX) 
and a 1976 Stony Brook graduate, said today in an e-mail that he
is at a business summit in  Mexico  “proudly wearing” a
Seawolves T-shirt.  “I believe the awareness and success of the Stony Brook
baseball program will lead to increased engagement, pride and
giving by all alums, regardless of economic status,” said
Gelfond, who donated $1 million to the school for mercury
research in 2010.  Nathan’s Famous  Since being drafted in the sixth round by the  San Francisco
Giants  in 1995, Nathan has been a four-time All-Star and had six
consecutive seasons of more than 35 saves as a member of the
 Minnesota Twins  from 2004 to 2009. This year, he has a 1.75
earned-run average and 13 saves for the defending American
League-champion Rangers. He is in the first year of a two-year
$14.5 million contract with the Rangers.  He returned to school and graduated with a degree in
business management in 1997. He is the only former Stony Brook
player to reach the major leagues, according to Baseball-
Reference.com.  Stony Brook was a Division III school when Nathan played
there, and he said it had a basis for a successful program then.  “They really haven’t skipped a beat since they moved to D-
1,” he said. The Seawolves haven’t had a losing season since
2006.  State School  The school was founded in 1957 and is part of the State
University of  New York  system. It charges $5,270 tuition per
year for New York residents and $14,720 for out-of-state
students.  The team landed in Omaha two days ago, sent off by students
and fans waving signs and banners that said, “Shock the
World,” the team’s adopted motto that became popular on the
social media site Twitter.  Nathan was inducted into the athletic program’s Hall of
Fame with the Class of 2006, the same year he was awarded the
 University Medal , the school’s highest honor.  He said he might be able to make it to Omaha next week to
watch Stony Brook play, if the Seawolves haven’t been eliminated
by then.  “It’s just been a fun ride following them,” Nathan said.
“I felt like a little kid watching them as a fan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  