-- Sugar Rises on Speculation Rains to Cut Brazilian Yields
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-15T18:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/sugar-rises-on-speculation-rains-to-cut-brazilian-yields.html
Raw sugar rose the most in more than
a week on signs that rains will hamper crops in Brazil, the
world’s top producer. Coffee gained, while cocoa slid.  Rains are forecast to last through the beginning of next
week, according to Marco Antonio dos Santos, an agronomist at
weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia in  Sao Paulo . Rainfall has
slowed Brazil’s sugar harvesting and spurred an 18 percent drop
in the amount of cane processed by mills in the second half of
May, Unica, an industry group, said yesterday.  “Rains forecast for next week may be helping sugar up
today, as they will reduce the sugar content in the cane,”
Juliano Ferreira, a broker at ICAP do Brasil Ctvm, said by e-
mail today.  Raw sugar for October delivery climbed 2.6 percent to
settle at 20.01 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York , the biggest advance since June 6.  Options contracts, which give the holder to right to buy or
sell the futures at a fixed price, for July delivery sugar on
ICE expire today. There are about 12,000 outstanding contracts
giving holders the right to sell sugar at 20 cents a pound.  “We also have the options expiry today, and with the
harvest delayed in  Brazil , it may be that traders will try to
take a large delivery when the July contract expires,” Ferreira
said. “The ones that sold this position will try to defend the
price up to 20 cents.”  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery advanced 0.6
percent to $1.52 a pound on ICE.  Cocoa futures for September delivery declined 0.7 percent
to $2,247 a metric ton in New York.  In London futures trading, refined sugar and robusta coffee
climbed on NYSE Liffe. Cocoa dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  