-- Swig Refinances Manhattan Tower With Barclays, UBS Loan
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-06-15T16:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/swig-refinances-manhattan-tower-with-barclays-ubs-loan.html
New York real estate investor Kent Swig obtained $161.5 million of loans to refinance debt on 110
William St., a lower  Manhattan  office tower.  Swig, president of Swig Equities LLC, obtained a $141.5
million mortgage from  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  that will be
packaged into bonds, he said in a statement. He received the
loan with partner Silverpeak Real Estate Partners, which manages
assets for a member of Dubai Investment Group. Pearlmark Real
Estate Partners LLC provided a $20 million mezzanine loan as
part of the transaction.  “The refinancing of 110 William St. provides long-term
stability to our property,” Swig said in the statement.  The debt replaces a loan originated by Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., Alan Segan, a Swig Equities spokesman, said in an
e-mail. Lehman provided a $156 million mortgage on the 900,000-
square-foot (84,000-square-meter) tower in June 2007, as
commercial real estate prices were peaking, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The loan, which was packaged inside LBCMT 2007-C3, a
commercial mortgage backed security, was scheduled to mature
this month. Lehman filed for  bankruptcy protection  in September
2008, helping trigger a global credit freeze and recession.  Swig and Dubai Investment unit Longwing Real Estate
Ventures acquired the property in 2004 for $164.5 million,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based
research firm which tracks commercial real estate sales. The
building was appraised at $264.3 million in 2007.  City Tenants  The tower was 90 percent  occupied  as of March 31, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tenants include the New York City
Economic Development Corp. and the New York City Housing
Development Corp.  Swig lost properties after real estate values plunged. In
2009,  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  won the bidding on Swig’s
$640 million Sheffield57 condominium conversion project, on West
57th Street in midtown Manhattan, after he defaulted on its
financing. In March, Lehman asked the judge in charge of its
bankruptcy to allow it to complete Swig’s stalled projects at 25
Broad St. and 45 Broad St. in lower Manhattan.  The structure of the new financing for 110 William St.
suggests that lenders are reluctant to provide as much debt as
they had before the crisis, said  Ben Thypin , director of market
analysis at Real Capital. The loan from UBS and Barclays doesn’t
cover Swig’s original financing, he said. The mezzanine loan
probably helps the owners fill the gap between the amount UBS
and Barclays put up and the original financing, Thypin said.  UBS and Barclays “wanted to be balancing the conservatism
with putting up as much money as possible,” he said. “Their
prospective bondholders don’t want to see as high leverage loans
as they’ve historically been making.”  In New York, UBS also has financed a dormitory for the New
School in lower Manhattan, the land beneath the tower at 919
Third Ave. and Hampshire Hotels & Resorts’ Dream Downtown hotel
on West 16th Street.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  