-- Syrian Exiles Blame Assad for Fueling Sectarian Killings
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-06-15T15:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/syrian-exiles-blame-assad-for-fueling-sectarian-killings.html
Syrian soldiers shot Mustafa Ali
Esbero four times -- three bullets to the stomach, one through
the arm. He lost a kidney, a chunk of his liver, part of his
bowels and the ability to walk.  Esbero, a Sunni Muslim, said the soldiers were Alawites,
members of the minority Shiite Muslim sect whose adherents
include Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and many of his top
officials. While Esbero would appear to be another casualty of a
gathering sectarian civil war, he described his attackers
differently -- as soldiers forced to fight for the regime or be
killed by their own officers.  “There is no problem with sects,” said the former cattle
merchant, who fled to a Turkish refugee camp less than 100 yards
from the Syrian border. “We live side-by-side, no problem. Our
problem is the regime. It’s trying to provoke civil war,” he
said, propped up on a mattress in the 226 square-foot (21-
square-meter) shipping container that’s now his home, chain-
smoking Parliament cigarettes.  A blanket draped over his thin legs didn’t hide the
railroad track of a scar that stretched across his stomach or
the plastic loop of a colostomy bag.  Esbero’s views were echoed in conversations with more than
two dozen Syrians in exile. Rural villagers housed in refugee
camps, mini-skirted Muslims who chatted over beer, bearded men
whose veiled wives listened silently, truck drivers and
international businessmen all argued that their country isn’t
doomed to sectarian conflict.  Sectarian Scenarios  They expressed concern that the foreign perception that
 Syria  is unraveling along patchwork lines of religion and
ethnicity is deterring Western nations from intervening. Hassan
al-Aswad, a Sunni lawyer from Deraa, where anti-regime protests
began, said he thinks inaction suggests the U.S. may prefer the
continuity of Assad’s regime, or some version of it, to an
uncertain aftermath following his departure.  “They’re afraid of the future, they talk about a civil war
starting when the regime falls,” he said, shaking his head.  “Circassians, Druze, Alawite, Kurds, Sunni, Christian, we
have all lived in this country for 7,000 years,” said al-Aswad,
43, who escaped from a Syrian jail in April 2011 and now lives
in Istanbul. “And all these years, no civil war.”  Regime Atrocities  In the sectarian scenarios, a civil war would pit Assad’s
ruling Alawite sect and the regime’s Christian supporters
against the country’s majority Sunni population. That split
could inflame the larger regional divide between the Sunni
Persian Gulf countries that back the opposition and their
Shiite-rival Iran, which supports the Syrian regime.  “People know the regime’s trying to create this
situation,” said Medea Daghistaney, a secular Sunni from Homs.
She described soldiers mistaking her for an Alawite because she
doesn’t cover her hair, and warning her not to enter her own
Sunni neighborhood because “they will slaughter you.”  The 29-year-old activist, now an Istanbul resident, works
for a London-based group that documents Syrian government crimes
for future prosecution. She said they have many reports of
troops trying to sow sectarian discord by planting Alawite
bodies in Sunni areas or Alawite soldiers raping Sunni women.  Torture Reports  Another group, New York-based Human Rights Watch, issued a
report today saying Syrian government forces have used sexual
violence to torture detained men, women, and boys. Witnesses and
victims also said soldiers and pro-government armed militias
have sexually abused women and girls as young as 12 during home
raids and military sweeps of residential areas, the rights group
said.  The  United Nations  estimates that more than 10,000 people
have been killed in the 15 months of the uprising against the
four-decade rule by the Assad family. UN observers yesterday
said they encountered the stench of dead bodies when they
entered the deserted Syrian town of Haffa, where they observed
evidence of looting and burned buildings in what had been a
farming community of  Sunni Muslims .  Hisham Marwah, head of the legal division of the  Syrian
National Council , said the opposition umbrella group is mindful
of history. “We’re not going to allow the civil war to
happen,” said the Ottawa-based international lawyer.  Civil War  He was nursing a sugary cup of Turkish tea in the lobby of
the Istanbul airport  Holiday Inn , which has become the informal
headquarters of the SNC, a collection of Syrian exiles from
around the world. They had just met to elect a new leader, a
secular Kurdish academic living in  Sweden  who was selected to
show inclusiveness.  “What can lead to civil war? If revolutionaries have guns
and use them against others,” said Marwah, 50. “We have a plan
to control all of them so they don’t use their guns.”  The SNC hopes to ensure stability by managing all elements
of the transition, from health to the management of petroleum
resources, he said. It will also use culture and Islamic values,
he added.  Opposition leaders will stress that Assad “abused everyone
badly,” including jailing Alawites who disagreed with him, he
said. “This isn’t sectarian.”  ‘Revenge Killing’  Adib Shishakly, 43, a Syria-born American who helped found
the SNC, said another factor weighing against sectarian strife
is that neither Assad’s regime nor its opponents are organized
along sectarian lines.  While the officer corps of Assad’s security forces is
dominated by Alawites, his ruling leadership isn’t, said
Shishakly, grandson of a former Syrian president. Syria’s vice
president is a Sunni, as are his interior minister and most of
the cabinet. Assad’s defense minister is a Christian.  “The Syrian regime consists of all kinds of sects,” the
Houston-based businessman added. “The opposition consists of
all kinds of sects. You’ll see some revenge killing, but I don’t
think you’ll see a civil war.”  History offers examples to the contrary. The U.S. removal
of  Saddam Hussein , whose Sunni-led regime repressed majority
Shiites, led to Sunni-Shia warfare to a greater degree than many
Iraqis anticipated. In Rwanda, Tutsis and Hutus lived together
before the 1994 genocide that claimed as many as 800,000 lives
in about three months, mostly from the Tutsi minority.  Analysts such as  Andrew Tabler , a fellow at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, see potential parallels for
Syria in sectarian conflicts such as in Lebanon, which was
devastated by civil war between 1975 and 1991, and in the
Balkans, where international action came only after UN
peacekeepers failed to prevent massacres of Muslims by Christian
Serbs.  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said in an interview
on France Inter radio today that Russia was holding talks on
Assad’s ouster. “We’ll do everything for him to leave power
quickly,” Fabius said.  “It’s not true that we’re holding talks on the fate of
Syria after Bashar al-Assad,” Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  told reporters in Moscow. “We don’t carry out regime
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Kilis, Turkey at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  