-- U.K. Regulator Drops Civil Probe of Daimler, Fiat Truck Units
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-15T13:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-k-regulator-drops-civil-probe-of-daimler-fiat-truck-units.html
Britain’s antitrust regulator
dropped a civil probe into a suspected cartel of truckmakers to
let the European Union focus on the case involving  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
U.K. Mercedes-Benz unit and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Iveco subsidiary.  The European Union’s competition regulator in Brussels,
which is running a parallel case, is “particularly well
placed” to handle the investigation on a wider level, the
Office of Fair Trading said in a statement today in London.  The probe, which started in September 2010, before the EU
version, involved at least five companies including  Scania AB (SCVB) 
and  Volvo AB. (VOLVB)  The probe dropped a criminal version of the case
in December, a year after a Daimler executive was arrested.  The decision “does not prevent the OFT from deciding, in
consultation with the European Commission, to re-open the
investigation at a later date in the light of new information or
a change of circumstances,” the watchdog said in the statement.  The European Union’s antitrust regulator is still probing
the companies for possible competition violations. In the U.K.,
the investigation was the biggest since the OFT’s first criminal
antitrust trial -- against four current and former British
Airways Plc executives -- collapsed in May 2010 due to problems
with the watchdog’s evidence. Several other OFT criminal probes
have been dropped without charges since then.  Ian Jones , the head of the U.K. Mercedes-Benz truck
division, was detained by police and then released on bail when
the probe began. Daimler, the world’s largest truck maker, had
its U.K. offices in Tongwell, England, searched by
investigators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  