-- U.K. Inflation May Have Stayed at Lowest in More Than Two Years
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-k-inflation-probably-stayed-at-lowest-in-more-than-two-years.html
U.K.  inflation  may have remained at
its lowest level in more than two years in May as oil and food
prices fell and the euro-area debt crisis hurt economic
activity.  Consumer prices rose an annual 3 percent last month, the
same as in April, according to the median forecast of 29
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. April’s reading was the
lowest since February 2010.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said earlier this week
that the case for  more stimulus  to aid Britain’s economy is
“growing” as he unveiled measures to fight an escalation of
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Food and crude-oil prices are falling,
which may give the Monetary Policy Committee more room to
restart its quantitative easing program to bolster growth.  “Consumer-price inflation should head down further over
the coming months,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS
Global Insight in  London . “This should facilitate further QE by
the Bank of England. It will also help economic activity by
easing the squeeze on consumers’ purchasing power.”  The  Office for National Statistics  in London will publish
the inflation data at 9:30 a.m. on June 19. A day later, the
 Bank of England  will publish the minutes of this month’s policy
meeting, which will show how officials voted on the decision to
leave their  stimulus program  on hold.  Turmoil in the euro area has dented confidence in the U.K.
and darkened recovery prospects. The  economy  shrank 0.3 percent
in both the first quarter and the last three months of 2011.  In May, the central bank forecast annual consumer-price
gains would slow to 2 percent by about the middle of next year
and to about 1.6 percent in two years.  Factory-output prices 
unexpectedly fell 2.5 percent in May as energy prices declined,
the statistics office said on June 8.  In addition,  global food prices  had their biggest drop in
more than two years in May as the cost of dairy products
slumped. An index of 55 food items tracked by the  United
Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization fell 4.2 percent from
April, the Rome-based agency said earlier this month. It was the
biggest percentage drop since March 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  