-- U.K. Shale Driller Cuadrilla Names Former BHP Executive as CEO
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-06-15T07:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-k-shale-driller-cuadrilla-names-former-bhp-executive-as-ceo.html
Cuadrilla Resources Ltd., a U.K.
shale-gas explorer that suspended drilling in northwest  England 
after causing minor earthquakes, named a former head of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s petroleum unit as chief executive officer.  Francis Egan will take up the CEO post on July 9. He
replaces  Mark Miller , who will stay with the company as director
of the Bowland Shale exploration and development program, the
company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Cuadrilla, which says it’s found more natural gas trapped
in the local shale rock than  Iraq  has in its entire reserves,
plans to pursue  hydraulic fracturing  in three wells by the end
of this year. The program hinges on getting final approval from
Britain’s energy department, which called for an assessment of
fracking after two tremors near Blackpool last year.  “As Cuadrilla prepares to fully explore the potential of
shale gas in the U.K., Francis’s extensive industry knowledge
will mean that the company will be well positioned to unlock the
potential of shale gas and most importantly set the very highest
standards of safety,” said  John Browne , chairman of Cuadrilla
and the former CEO of  BP Plc. (BP/)   Fracking, as the process is known, uses water, sand and
chemicals to open fissures and has made the U.S. the world’s
largest natural-gas producer. European nations have hesitated to
endorse the technique because of concerns it may pollute water.
France and Bulgaria have banned the practice.  “As CEO my fundamental commitments are to safety and
environmental protection,” Egan said in a statement. “I
appreciate that there are still important questions about shale
exploration in the communities in which we operate, so my first
priority will be to ensure Cuadrilla continues to listen to and
work with our local communities in Lancashire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  