-- U.K. Exports, Construction Slump Raise Recession Risk: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-06-15T11:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-k-exports-construction-slump-raise-recession-risk-economy.html
U.K. exports fell in April and
construction slumped, highlighting the economy’s weakness as
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  warns that the outlook is
deteriorating rapidly.  Exports plunged 8.6 percent from March, the most in almost
six years, pushing the trade deficit to 10.1 billion pounds
($15.7 billion) from 8.73 billion pounds, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today. Construction output dropped 13.2
percent, it said in a separate report.  The data highlight the vulnerability of the U.K. to the
euro-area crisis, two days before elections in Greece that may
spark a breakup of the 17-nation common currency area. King said
yesterday the case for more stimulus in the U.K. is “growing”
and he and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  unveiled
measures to help bank liquidity and boost lending.  “The recession is set to continue,” said  Vicky Redwood ,
an economist at  Capital Economics  in London and a former central
bank official. “The export number shows the other cost of the
euro-zone crisis on the economy aside from bank funding. We
think the bank may do more quantitative easing next month.”  King said the euro-area crisis is casting “a black cloud
of uncertainty,” highlighting the alarm of global central
bankers after  Spain  became the fourth member of the region to
seek a bailout. In addition to looser policy, he said the
central bank will activate a sterling liquidity facility to aid
banks and start within weeks a credit-easing operation that may
boost lending by 80 billion pounds.  ‘Downward Revision’  “Since our Inflation Report only four weeks ago,
conditions have deteriorated with weakening business surveys, a
downward revision to measured output, and further slowing in
economies overseas,” the governor said.  Britain’s deficit for goods and services widened to 4.42
billion pounds in April, the statistics office said. That’s the
second highest on record and the biggest since August 2005, in
the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina . The goods deficit with the
European Union widened to a record 4.9 billion pounds.  The construction report showed that in the quarter through
April, output fell 6.7 percent from the same period a year
earlier. Construction plunged 4.9 percent in the  first quarter ,
when the economy shrank 0.3 percent.  ‘Borderline’  “It’s looking pretty borderline for the U.K. economy,”
said  Simon Hayes , an economist at Barclays Plc in  London .
referring to a potential contraction in the current quarter.
“The Spain situation has left a lot of people exasperated. If
this keeps going, since we’ve already got tighter credit
conditions, we have a very weak near-term outlook.”  The Bank of  England  left its  bond-purchase target  unchanged
this month at 325 billion pounds. Hayes changed his forecast for
stimulus today and now sees a 50 billion-pound increase in QE
next month.  U.K. manufacturing  shrank the most in three years in May as
domestic and foreign demand weakened, a report this month
showed. Separately today, the EU’s statistics office reported
that euro-area exports declined for a second month in April,
adding to signs of continued weakness in the region.  G-20 Response  European stocks rose today, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
climbing 0.8 percent as of 11:46 a.m. in London. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index advanced 1 percent. The pound fell 0.1 percent
against the dollar today to traded at $1.5547.  Reuters reported yesterday that central banks are prepared
to coordinate actions if needed to boost liquidity in financial
markets, citing officials linked to the Group of 20 nations.  Spokesmen and spokeswomen at the  European Central Bank ,
Bank of England, Bundesbank,  Swiss National Bank  and Bank of
France declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News on
the prospect of emergency coordinated action.  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, speaking after a
policy meeting today, said central banks are always in close
contact and share the view that financial stability is
important. G-20 leaders will hold a summit in  Mexico  starting on
June 18.  At its meeting, the BOJ kept the size of its asset-purchase
fund at 40 trillion yen and a credit lending program at 30
trillion yen, matching the forecasts of 13 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. It said it will pay “particular” attention
to global markets.  In the U.S., industrial production probably cooled in May
as businesses trimmed investment plans and fewer motor vehicles
rolled off assembly lines as sales slowed, economists said.
Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.1 percent
after April’s 1.1 percent advance that was the biggest since
December 2010, according to a survey. Another report may show
manufacturing in the New York-region probably slowed.  “The world economy is a much less welcoming environment in
which to rebalance the U.K. economy than two years ago,” King
said. “Not only have the euro-area problems escalated to the
point where exit for  Greece  and other periphery countries is the
subject of widespread speculation, but signs of a slowing in
China, India, and other previously buoyant emerging economies,
such as  Brazil , are appearing daily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  