-- U.K. Researchers Start Plan to Double Wheat Yields in 20 Years
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-15T10:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-k-researchers-start-plan-to-double-wheat-yields-in-20-years.html
U.K. plant researchers started a
program to more than double the potential wheat yields in the
country, the European Union’s third-biggest grower of the grain,
to 20 metric tons per hectare (2.47 acres) within two decades.  The work by Rothamsted Research, founded as an
agricultural-research station in 1843, will be funded by the
government-financed Biotechnology and Biological Sciences
Research Council, the council wrote in an online  statement  dated
June 13. U.K. farmers on average harvest 9 tons of wheat per
hectare, while the average global yield is 3 tons, it said.  Rothamsted has faced protests for testing wheat genetically
modified to repel aphids, a grain pest. An intruder broke into
the researcher’s facilities on May 20 and caused property damage
in an attempt to disrupt the experiment, the researcher reported
last month.  “Wheat is the world’s number one staple crop and has not
benefited from the attention afforded to corn and soybeans in
recent years,” Martin Parry, a professor who heads the so-
called 20:20 Wheat program, was cited as saying.  Every ton-per-hectare yield increase for wheat is estimated
to create 318 million pounds ($494 million) in value for U.K.
farmers at the farm gate level, the council said.  The program will seek to boost wheat yields through genetic
improvement, more efficient photosynthesis and use of nutrients,
as well as changes to the wheat plant’s canopy and root
structure, according to the statement.  Wheat provides about a fifth of human calories, according
to the council. The rate of growth in wheat yields has declined
since 1980, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  