-- U.K. Banks Rise After Central Bank Unveils Emergency Aid
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-06-15T16:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-k-banks-rise-after-central-bank-unveils-emergency-aid-plan.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc rose after the U.K. central bank said
it would provide billions of pounds of cheap emergency aid to
shore up British lenders as Europe’s debt crisis worsens.  RBS (RBS)  surged 7.9 percent to 247.6 pence in London trading,
the most in almost five months, while Lloyds  climbed  5.2
percent. The companies are Britain’s two-biggest taxpayer-
assisted lenders.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  also
gained, while the pan-European, 43-member Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index rose 2.1 percent.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  unveiled a “funding
for lending” program that will allow institutions to swap
assets with the central bank in return for money to be loaned to
companies and households. The U.K. Treasury said a 5 percent
increase in lending would inject about 80 billion pounds ($124
billion) into the economy.  “The real and present danger was that  Greece  leaves the
euro and the banks collapse due to a lack of liquidity,” said
Cormac Leech, a London-based analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd.
“The BOE has now guaranteed that the banks will stay solvent if
there is panic and a significant proportion of the U.K.
population takes their money out.”  The central bank will also activate an unused facility to
put at least 5 billion pounds a month into the financial system
in an effort to bring down borrowing costs driven higher by the
turmoil in the euro region.  ‘Devil in Detail’  King’s measures highlight central banks’ concern over the
dangers posed by the euro-area debt crisis after Spain became
the fourth member of the region to seek a bailout last week.
Reuters reported that central banks are prepared to coordinate
actions if needed to boost liquidity in financial markets,
citing officials linked to the Group of 20 nations.  “The devil will be in the detail, so we await to see
exactly how this scheme will result in banks changing their view
of credit risk and more small firms’ applications being
accepted,”  John Walker , national chairman of the Federation of
 Small Business , said in an e-mailed statement today. “There
must be a clear reporting process to provide tangible evidence
the money is being passed on to small firms and not just shoring
up the banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  