-- U.S. Consumer Sentiment Gauge Declines to a Six-Month Low
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-06-15T14:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-s-consumer-sentiment-gauge-declines-to-a-six-month-low.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
declined in June to the lowest level this year as the labor
market showed few signs of improving.  The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan  index of
 consumer sentiment  fell in June to 74.1 from 79.3 the prior
month, which was the highest since October 2007. The gauge was
projected to fall to 77.5, according to a median forecast of 66
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  A pace of job growth that’s slowed for four straight months
and wage gains that are failing to keep pace with inflation are
offsetting cheaper prices at the gas pump. At the same time,
households may be feeling less wealthy as  Europe ’s debt crisis
roils share prices, raising the risk that  consumer spending  will
stagnate.  “I’m not so sure how much the average American is in tune
with what is exactly occurring in Europe,”  Russell Price ,
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said
before today’s report. “But it is at the front of their minds,
because they’re seeing stock values decline and they’re seeing
job growth decline and that’s worrisome.”  Estimates for the Michigan confidence measure ranged from
74 to 80, according to the Bloomberg survey. The June decline
was the first in 10 months. The index averaged 64.2 during the
last recession and 89 in the five years before the 18-month
economic slump that ended in June 2009.  Stocks advanced amid speculation central banks will take
steps to boost economies as investors awaited Greek elections
this weekend. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent
to 1,336.71 at 10:10 a.m. in  New York .  Bloomberg Measure  Michigan’s reading for June contrasts with the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, which has increased the past four weeks
after reaching an almost four-month low in the second week of
May.  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions  asks
Americans whether they’re better off than they were a year ago
and if they think it’s a good time to buy big-ticket items like
cars. In June that measure eased to 82.1 from 87.2.  The index of  consumer expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of consumer spending,
decreased to 68.9, also the lowest this year, from 74.3, which
was the highest since July 2007.  Employment growth has waned relative to its pace earlier
this year, when it hit a high of 275,000 in January. Payrolls
increased by 69,000 in May, the fewest in a year, after a 77,000
gain the prior month. The jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent.  Federal Reserve  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which sets the course of
central bank policy, begins a two-day meeting on June 19. The
group may address a cooling expansion, weaker job growth and the
financial crisis in Europe.  “Will there be enough growth going forward to make
material progress on the  unemployment rate ?”  Federal Reserve 
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony last week to the
Joint Economic Committee. “That’s the essential decision and
the central question that we have who look at.”  Cheaper energy costs are providing some respite for
Americans. The price of a gallon of gasoline was $3.53 as of
June 13, the lowest cost since mid-February, according to AAA,
the biggest U.S. auto group.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3 percent over the next 12 months, the same as
in the prior survey.  Inflation Expectations  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Fed policy
makers, Americans expected a 2.9 percent rate of inflation this
month compared with 2.7 percent in May.  Some companies remain upbeat. Even as economies in Europe
and  Asia  slow, pork export volume for  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  in
Smithfield,  Virginia , grew 24 percent in the company’s fiscal
2012.  “We’re optimistic about demand,” Chief Executive Officer
Robert Manly said in a June 14 earnings call. “U.S. consumers
have more disposable income thanks for lower gas prices,
drilling season has begun and we have lower supplies of beef and
chicken competing in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  