-- U.S. Regulator Said to Exempt Small Branches From Swaps Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-15T20:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-s-regulator-said-to-exempt-small-branches-from-swaps-rules.html
Some overseas branches of U.S. banks
such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  may win
exemptions from Dodd-Frank Act collateral and clearing
requirements, according to two people briefed on the matter.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission on June 21 may
propose letting non-U.S. branches with less than 5 percent of a
bank’s aggregate notional swap business be free of some
requirements, according to the people, who requested anonymity
because the guidelines haven’t been proposed. The banks would
still face reporting requirements and need to show that risk
from the overseas trades isn’t brought back to the U.S., one of
the people said.  Dodd-Frank, the U.S. regulatory overhaul enacted in
response to the 2008 credit crisis, is designed to increase
transparency by having swaps cleared on public exchanges. CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  has said JPMorgan’s loss of at least $2
billion on derivatives trades conducted in London underscores
the need for U.S. regulators to ensure that banks’ foreign
branches and subsidiaries are covered by the new rules.  “During a default or crisis, risk of overseas’ branches
and affiliates inevitably flows back into the  United States ,”
he said during a speech on June 14 at a Institute of
International Bankers conference in  New York .  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
branch threshold.  Revenue Source  Swaps trading has been a major source of revenue for large
U.S. banks, and some of them have conducted roughly half of such
trades outside of the U.S., often through branches or other
subsidiaries.  Imposing Dodd-Frank margin requirements on non-U.S. swaps
would “eviscerate our ability to serve clients overseas and
cede the global market to foreign competitors,” JPMorgan
Associate General Counsel  Don Thompson  said at a House hearing
Feb. 8. “Although this varies from quarter to quarter, we often
derive as much as of our revenues from our global operations as
from those in the United States,” he said.  The CFTC also is planning an order giving overseas-based
swap dealers as much as a year to comply with all of Dodd-Frank
regulations, Gensler said in the speech. The delay may affect
compliance with capital and some risk-management regulations, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  