-- U.S. Money Funds Reduced Euro-Area Bank Holdings in May
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h   a n d   A l b e r t o   F u e r t e s
-- 2012-06-15T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-s-money-funds-reduced-euro-area-bank-holdings-in-may.html
The 10 biggest prime U.S. money
market funds cut their holdings of debt issued by euro-area
banks by $8.3 billion in May as concerns mounted that the 17-
country currency union could break up.  The funds reduced holdings of Dutch banks by $3.3 billion
last month, while those in German banks declined by $2.9 billion
and in French banks by $2 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Funds increased holdings issued by Japanese, U.S. and
U.K. banks by a combined $11.2 billion.  Holdings of debt from European banks, including those
outside the euro region, have fallen every month since the end
of January, with a combined decline of $20 billion over the
period to $178 billion. Elections in  Greece  have fueled concern
that the country may exit from the euro, and  Spain  this month
requested as much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion) from
European Union rescue funds to recapitalize its banks. The
country’s credit rating this week was cut three steps by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited the nation’s debt burden.  Boston-based Fidelity Investments, the largest U.S.
provider of money funds, reduced holdings of European bank
securities in the past two months and cut the weighted average
maturity of those holdings to two days, Nancy Prior, president
of the firm’s money market group, said in a telephone interview
on June 8.  More Liquidity  “That goes hand-in-hand with having increased liquidity,”
she said.  Pittsburgh-based  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) ’s Prime
Obligations Fund had the highest proportion of euro-area bank
holdings at 21 percent of assets at the end of May. It was also
one of two funds with an annualized yield of 0.19 percent, the
highest among the funds surveyed. The other fund was the Western
Asset Institutional Liquid Reserves, which is 7.9 percent
invested in euro-area banks.  Three funds, including JPMorgan’s Prime Money Market Fund,
had an annualized yield of 0.01 percent. The JPMorgan fund had
8.8 percent of assets in euro-zone bank paper. The Vanguard
Prime Money Market Fund was the only fund with no European bank
holdings.  Melissa Ryan, a spokeswoman at Federated, declined to
comment on European bank exposure.  Mary Athridge , a spokeswoman
for Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., Western Asset Management
Co.’s parent, said European holdings at the Western fund were
concentrated in Northern Europe and  Germany  and had been reduced
by 60 percent over the past 12 months.  Liquidity Pool  In addition to selling commercial paper, certificates of
deposit and  repurchase agreements  to money funds, banks can
obtain short-term funding from central banks, inter-bank
repurchase agreements or increase deposit rates to attract more
money from individual customers. Banks can also hold cash-like
instruments in a liquidity pool to meet redemptions.  The survey included Fidelity Cash Reserves, JPMorgan Prime
Money Market Fund, Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund, Fidelity
Institutional Prime Money Market Portfolio, Fidelity
Institutional Money Market Portfolio, BlackRock TempFund,
Federated Prime Obligations Fund, Schwab Cash Reserves, Western
Asset Institutional Liquid Reserves and Dreyfus Cash Management
Fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alberto Fuertes in London at 
 afuertes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  