-- U.S. Health Insurance Regulator to Leave Oversight Job
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-15T17:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-s-health-insurance-regulator-to-leave-oversight-job.html
Steve Larsen, the government
administrator directing enactment of U.S. insurance regulations
created by the 2010 health-care overhaul, said he is leaving to
take a job with  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)   Larsen will resign as head of the Center for Consumer
Information and Insurance Oversight in July to become an
executive vice president at UnitedHealth’s Optum unit, he said
in an e-mail. Larsen worked for  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP) , a  Virginia
Beach , Virginia-based insurer specializing in Medicaid plans,
before joining the  Department of Health  and Human Services in
2010 and had served as Maryland’s insurance commissioner.  Larsen’s departure was announced by his boss,  Marilyn Tavenner , the acting administrator for the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, in an e-mail to her staff today. He will
be replaced temporarily by Mike Hash, an adviser to Health and
Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  while Tavenner
searches for a permanent replacement, she said.  “I am proud of our efforts to hold insurance companies
accountable to consumers and our work with states and others to
build a new insurance marketplace,” Tavenner said in the e-mail
to her staff.  Spending Rules  Larsen supervised new rules that limit the amount of
premium revenue insurers can keep for profit and administrative
costs. His agency is guiding states as they develop insurance
“exchanges” authorized by the law to sell policies to people
who don’t get coverage through work. The agency will install a
federal exchange in states that refuse to build their own by
2014 when the exchanges are supposed to begin.  Larsen’s position made him one of the country’s most
powerful regulators of the health insurance industry, said Joel Michaels, a partner at  McDermott Will & Emery  in Washington who
represents insurance companies.  “His role was fairly prominent because the nature of the
law moved so much state insurance regulation to federal
regulation, at least in certain key areas,” Michaels said today
in a telephone interview.  The U.S. Supreme Court is expected to rule this month on a
case that argues that provisions of the law are
unconstitutional. Larsen’s work may be undone, and his agency
eliminated, if court throws out the law.  The Optum division of Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth, the largest U.S. health insurer, provides health-
care services including pharmacy benefit management, consulting,
and wellness and disease-management programs for employers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  