-- U.S. Stocks Rise Amid Speculation Central Banks May Act
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-15T20:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-s-stock-futures-rise-amid-speculation-on-stimulus.html
U.S. stocks rose, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its first back-to-back weekly rally
since April, on speculation central banks will act to boost the
economy as investors awaited Greek elections this weekend.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  gained 2.3 percent as a person familiar
with the matter said the company will announce plans next week
to sell a tablet computer running the next version of Windows.
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. added 4.7 percent as its bid for
the London Metal Exchange was rejected in favor of Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.’s offer.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  jumped 6.1
percent and capped the first weekly gain since it went public.  The  S&P 500  rose 1 percent to 1,342.84 at 4 p.m. New York
time, the highest since May 11. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
climbed 115.26 points, or 0.9 percent, to 12,767.17. Trading
volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was about 7.5
billion shares, 11 percent above the three-month average.  “Ahead of Sunday’s election in Greece, central bankers
stand ready,” Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak
& Co. in  New York , wrote today. “With all the water central
banks have expended out of their fire hoses in their attempt to
‘do something,’ I can only think of magic candles. Those candles
you blow out that only flare up again immediately after.”  Expectations for global policy action grew as central banks
intensified warnings that Europe’s failure to tame its crisis
threatens the economy. European Central Bank policy makers have
overcome a key concern about taking the benchmark rate below 1
percent, two euro-area central bank officials said. The June 17
vote will turn on whether Greeks accept open-ended austerity to
stay in the euro or reject the conditions of a bailout and risk
becoming the first to exit the 17-member currency.  Fed Action  Stocks also rose on speculation the Federal Reserve may
join central banks in taking steps to boost growth. Data today
showed that industrial production unexpectedly fell and consumer
confidence slid, adding to evidence of U.S. economic weakness.
U.S. policy makers meet June 19-20.  “There’s hope of some coordinated action if bad news does
occur,” said  Tim Ghriskey , who oversees about $2 billion as
chief investment officer of Solaris Group in Bedford Hills, New
York. He spoke in a telephone interview. “There’s the Greek
election. It could be an ongoing process.”  David Bianco , Deutsche Bank AG’s chief U.S. equity
strategist, withdrew a forecast that the  S&P 500 (SPX)  will post a
near-term gain of 5 percent or more, citing uncertainty before
Greece’s elections. While Bianco maintained his year-end
projection of 1,475 for the  index , he said he’s no longer
convinced the next 5 percent move in the gauge is higher.  Least-Tied  Concern about Europe’s debt crisis and a global slowdown
put the S&P 500 on the brink of a so-called correction this
month. It fell 9.9 percent from an almost four-year high in
April through June 1. Since then, the  lowest  valuation in six
months and bets on policy action drove the gauge up 5.1 percent.
The S&P 500 rose 1.3 percent this week.  All  10 groups  in the S&P 500 rose today as energy and
technology shares had the biggest rallies.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the
second-largest U.S. energy company, added 2.4 percent to
$104.33.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the biggest maker of database software,
added 2.9 percent to $27.70 after ThinkEquity LLC recommended
buying the shares.  Microsoft jumped 2.3 percent to $30.02. The company may
demonstrate the tablet computer at an event scheduled in Los
Angeles on June 18, said a person familiar with the plans. The
company has said it aims to release the new Windows 8 operating
system in time for the holiday season.  Frank Shaw , a spokesman
for Microsoft, declined to comment.  Bidding Process  IntercontinentalExchange, the second-largest U.S. futures
market, rallied 4.7 percent to $134.80.  ICE (ICE)  and Hong Kong
Exchanges were the two parties left in a bidding process
announced by the LME in September. The LME said today it would
no longer be seeking competing takeover offers.  Facebook rose 6.1 percent to $30.01, extending its weekly
advance to 11 percent. The company asked a court to consolidate
more than 40 shareholder lawsuits over its initial public
offering last month. Investors sued Facebook and Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. over problems in trading company shares on May 18,
the first day they were publicly available.  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  soared 7.6 percent to $29.95.
MHR Fund Management LLC disclosed a 13.6 percent stake in the
truckmaker, more than billionaire investor Carl Icahn’s 11.9
percent holding. MHR is run by Mark Rachesky, a former protege
of Icahn’s. MHR “may seek to engage in discussions with
management,” according to a regulatory filing.  Financial Shares  Financial shares in the S&P 500 advanced 1.4 percent.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  added 3.1 percent to $7.90, after slumping as
much as 1.4 percent earlier today.  David Trone, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC, expects some
of the largest financial institutions to underperform as recent
developments in Europe increase concern the region will
experience “significant” damage.  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  jumped 5.1 percent to $12.24. The defense
contractor specializing in computer services was raised to
overweight from neutral at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL)  of 10 stocks slumped 2.2
percent. AMR Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  asked an
ad hoc bondholder group to study his plan for a stand-alone
 American Airlines  before reviewing a possible merger for the
bankrupt carrier, two people familiar with the matter said.
Horton expressed frustration with attention being given to a
pending  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  merger bid, the people said.  US Airways  US Airways  tumbled 3.6 percent to $12.03.  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  dropped 2.9 percent to $8.93.  Any multiyear rally in U.S. stocks may depend on a signal
that the bond market has yet to send, according to  Michael Hartnett , Bank of America’s chief global equity strategist.  Bond yields have to reach “an inflection point” before
shares can move into what’s known as a secular bull market if
history is any guide, Hartnett wrote this week.  Hartnett highlighted three inflection points in the past
century that foreshadowed stock-market booms during the 1920s,
after World War II, and throughout most of the 1980s and 1990s.  A comparable surge in share prices is unlikely, he wrote,
“until Treasury yields rise in response to stronger growth and
a healthier global economy.” The 10-year yield fell to a record
1.4387 percent this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  