-- U.S. June Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-06-15T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/u-s-june-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The June Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
manufacturing activity expanded slightly over the month. The
general business conditions index fell fifteen points, but
remained positive at 2.3. The new orders index declined six
points to 2.2, and the shipments index fell a steep nineteen
points to 4.8. Price indexes were markedly lower, with the
prices paid index falling eighteen points to 19.6 and the prices
received index dropping eleven points to 1.0. Employment indexes
also retreated, though they still indicated a small increase in
employment levels and a slightly longer average workweek.
Indexes for the six-month outlook were generally lower than last
month’s levels, suggesting that optimism was waning somewhat,
with the future general business conditions index falling to
23.1, its fifth consecutive monthly decline.  In a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers were
asked about their  capital spending  plans: 43 percent said that
they expected to increase capital spending over the next six to
twelve months, while just 16 percent planned reductions--a
somewhat more positive balance than in the August 2010 survey,
when the same questions had been asked. In the current survey,
high capacity utilization emerged as the most widely cited
factor contributing to higher capital spending; it had not been
identified as a leading factor in 2010. High expected sales
growth and a need to replace existing capital equipment
(especially non-IT equipment) were also widely cited in the
current survey as reasons for the increase in capital spending.  Business Activity Expands Slightly  The June general business conditions index fell a
significant fifteen points to 2.3, its lowest level since
November of 2011. This level suggests that activity expanded
over the month, but only slightly. Thirty-one percent of
respondents reported that conditions had improved over the
month, while 28 percent reported that conditions had worsened.
The new orders index fell six points to 2.2, indicating a slight
rise in orders. The shipments index fell a steep nineteen points
to 4.8. The unfilled orders index remained negative, and was
little changed at -5.2. The delivery time index held at zero,
while the inventories index fell thirteen points to -8.3,
indicating a modest decline in inventory levels.  Price Increases Continue to Slow  The prices paid index fell for a third consecutive month,
dropping eighteen points to 19.6 --a sign that the pace of
increase in input prices continued to slow. The prices received
index fell eleven points to 1.0, its lowest level in more than a
year, suggesting that selling prices were essentially unchanged.
Employment indexes, while lower, remained positive, indicating
higher employment levels and a longer average workweek. The
index for number of employees fell eight points to 12.4, while
the average workweek index fell nine points to 3.1.  Optimism Continues to Cool  Indexes for future activity continued to fall in June as
the level of optimism about the six-month outlook declined
further. The future general business conditions index fell for a
fifth consecutive month, edging down six points to 23.1. The
future new orders index dropped fifteen points to 15.5, and the
future shipments index fell thirteen points to 12.4. The future
prices paid index retreated twenty-four points to 34.0,
indicating that price increases were expected to continue but at
a slower pace than was anticipated last month. The future prices
received index fell five points to 17.5, indicating that selling
prices were expected to climb. The index for expected number of
employees rose to 16.5, while the future average workweek index
fell to 2.1. The capital expenditures index inched up to 21.7,
and the technology spending index was little changed at 12.4. 