-- Humala Approval Plunges Below 50% on Protests, Poll Shows
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-06-15T17:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/humala-approval-plunges-below-50-on-mining-protests-correct-.html
Peruvian President  Ollanta Humala ’s
approval rating dropped the most since he took office 10 months
ago as escalating social unrest threatens to derail economic
growth, a poll shows.  Humala’s approval rating dropped 12 percentage points to 43
percent from a month ago, according to the June 8-11 poll by
Datum Internacional, which was published in the Lima-based
newspaper  Peru21  today.  The president’s rating fell below 50 percent for the second
time since he took office on July 28 after a crackdown on anti-
mining protests led four congressmen to resign from his party.
On May 28, the government declared a state of emergency near
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s Tintaya copper mine after at least two people died
in demonstrations. Protesters against  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) ’s
Minas Conga gold project paralyzed the town of Cajamarca this
week, leading to clashes with riot police yesterday.  About $50 billion of mining investment is on stand-by
because of the unrest, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla told
state television on June 4. The protests threaten growth and may
weaken the government, increasing risks for bond holders, Bank
of America said on June 12.  Datum’s poll of 1,216 people had a margin of error of plus
or minus 2.9 percentage points.  Wildcat demonstrations blocked the Pan-American Highway for
three days last month to protest a government clampdown on
unregulated mining while teachers, nurses and judicial workers
have taken to the streets to demand pay increases.  Of those surveyed, 54 percent said Humala is managing
social conflicts badly and 10 percent said he was handling them
well, the poll showed.  Support for Minas Conga, the country’s biggest investment
project, rose to 60 percent from 48 percent in April, while 74
percent said mining investment in  Peru  should continue, Datum
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 