-- Uninsured Angst Rises as $1,000 Premiums Loom on Ruling
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-06-15T13:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/uninsured-angst-rises-as-1-000-premiums-looms-on-ruling.html
Barack Obama ’s political fortunes
may hang on the U.S. Supreme Court’s view of his health-care
law. For Joy Waldon, the stakes add up to a quarter of her
paycheck and some peace of mind.  A heart defect and a history of melanoma make it imperative
for the 56-year-old  New Yorker  to find an insurance plan to
replace coverage that runs out at the end of June. With the best
option so far costing $1,000 a month, Waldon says her hope lies
in the health law’s subsidies, online marketplaces and other
benefits that are supposed to kick in by 2014.  “I would be devastated, quite honestly, if the law was
thrown out,” said Waldon, an office manager who pays $700 a
month in premiums because her employer doesn’t offer insurance.
“It isn’t even like people talk about any alternatives to the
law. They just want to deny us the right to it.”  The 2010 law set in motion a contentious transformation of
health care to a system that guarantees cheaper services for
some, while imposing greater costs on others, a balancing act
meant to assist the  16 percent of the U.S. population who have
no insurance . Whether it’s Sarah Adkins, an underemployed 25-
year-old in Kentucky, or Barbara Kornblau, a Virginia mother
whose daughter is insured through the act’s high-risk pools, the
 Supreme Court ’s impending ruling is touching a nerve.  “The thought that those nine justices will be determining
this -- this is a person’s life we’re talking about,” said
Kornblau, whose 26-year-old daughter couldn’t get insurance on
her own because of pre-existing medical conditions. “This isn’t
like a search-and-seizure case where I don’t have to worry about
it because I don’t get arrested. This is very personal.”  Surgical Approach  Her angst and the fate of Obama’s $1.1 trillion overhaul
rest with the nine members of the Supreme Court who will rule
this month on whether key parts of the law are constitutional.
As many as 33 million people are poised to gain coverage under
the law starting in 2014, according to the Congressional Budget
Office. Measures that cut drug costs for seniors, cover children
with pre-existing illnesses and let young adults stay on their
parents’ plans already are being implemented.  “Fifty million people don’t have health coverage in the
U.S. and there are provisions that have already gone into
effect,” said Sara Collins, a vice president for affordable
health insurance in  Washington  with the Commonwealth Fund, a
research group that supported the law. “If those were to go
away, it would be very noticeable for a lot of people.”  Rebuilding Effort  The number of people without health insurance swelled to
49.9 million in 2010, just more than 16 percent of the  U.S.
population , from 36.6 million, or 13 percent, in 2000, according
to  Census Bureau data . The percentage of people covered through
their jobs decreased to 55.3 percent from 65.1 percent in 2000.  “I have not seen a court case in my lifetime that has this
much import,” said  Peter Newell , health insurance project
director at the United Hospital Fund, a New York-based
philanthropy that studies the health system. “If the court
strikes down all or even part of it, you just wonder how long it
will be before our elected leaders can reach an agreement like
this again.”  The court could let the law stand, overturn it in full or
take a more surgical approach, removing the mandate that all
Americans get coverage and related provisions requiring insurers
to take all comers regardless of prior medical conditions.
Traders on the online prediction market Intrade as of yesterday
saw a  68 percent chance  the court will strike down the mandate.  Insurer Pledges  The biggest U.S. health insurer, Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , said this week it would honor
some of the law’s features regardless of what the court does,
including the young-adult coverage and a ban on lifetime benefit
limits.  Some competitors, including Hartford, Connecticut-based
 Aetna Inc. (AET) , said they’d follow suit. Others, including
Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest plan, said
they hadn’t decided. None would commit to guaranteeing coverage
for pre-existing conditions.  Republicans were unanimous in opposing the law when it
passed through a Democratically controlled Congress in 2010. Now
in charge of the  House of Representatives , they are committed to
a full repeal, House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican,
said at a June 7 news conference. He declined to comment about
whether the party would offer a replacement, saying only that
his members favor a “step-by-step” approach.  Romney’s Plan  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican challenger to Obama
in this year’s presidential election, said in a speech this week
he’d repeal the law and replace it with tax breaks aimed at
helping the private sector cover the uninsured. The plan
wouldn’t mandate all Americans get insurance, unlike the system
that Romney signed into law as governor of  Massachusetts  in
2006. It would be paid for with money diverted from Medicaid,
the government program for the poor, he said.  For Waldon, the political infighting extends the
uncertainty she’s faced for three years, since losing her job on
the heels of the recession.  The U.K. native, who moved to the U.S. 28 years ago, is
paying $700 a month through the federal Cobra program, which
temporarily extends employer-sponsored benefits for workers who
lose their jobs as long as they pay for the premiums themselves.
It expires this month, and her new employer, a Manhattan
dermatology clinic, can’t afford to cover her, she said.  A lapse in coverage could cost Waldon. While  New York  state
law requires insurers to cover pre-existing conditions, it also
allows carriers to deny claims for up to a year if a person has
had a break in insurance.  Seeking Coverage  Waldon said she’s found plans available for about $300 in
monthly premiums that would cover catastrophic care. For the
more comprehensive coverage she wants, including  prescription
drugs  and office checkups, she’d pay at least $1,000, almost as
much as her monthly rent, she said. On her annual income of
about $50,000, “I can’t afford it,” she said.  “There is a lack of understanding about the plight of
people who can’t afford,” Waldon said. “People don’t realize
they are only one accident away from losing everything.”  Waldon makes too much for the law’s premium tax credits,
which start in 2014 for people making up to four times the
 federal poverty limit . She might be eligible for help with other
out-of-pocket expenses, said Collins, of the Commonwealth Fund.
And the mandate should bring younger, healthier people into the
insurance pool, holding down premiums for all, she said.  The online marketplaces, or exchanges, will also make it
easier for consumers to comparison-shop, Collins said.  Small Employers  The  Congressional Budget Office   estimated  in 2009 that the
proposed overhaul would lower costs as much as 59 percent for
the 18 million people who buy their own insurance. For 134
million Americans covered through employers, the law is likely
to have little effect on premiums, the CBO found.  As Waldon holds out for a Supreme Court ruling that would
keep the law intact, Keith Ashmus, a lawyer at Frantz Ward LLP
in  Cleveland , says the Affordable Care Act has increased his
firm’s insurance bill while doing little to tackle rising
medical costs in the U.S. He’s not alone. More than two-thirds
of those surveyed said they want the law overturned, according
to a poll released June 7 by  CBS News  and the New York Times.  Requirements like coverage for young adults and ending
benefit limits have added as much as $20,000 to the $700,000 in
annual premiums paid by the firm, according to Ashmus, who calls
himself a conservative Democrat and “reluctant opponent” of
the law. He said his firm’s health plan, which includes
deductibles of $5,000 to $10,000 to keep premiums down, may not
meet the law’s standards for affordability. If so, the business
may have to switch to a more expensive base plan.  Kidney Stones  “Mostly, the law’s just been a huge burden on small
employers to figure out,” Ashmus said in a telephone interview.
“I think more and more of them are just going to wash their
hands of offering coverage.”  For Sarah Adkins of Louisville,  Kentucky , the health law
has been her lifeline. Since graduating with a graphic-arts
degree in 2009, she has bounced between unemployment and jobs as
a retail clerk, substitute teacher and T-shirt designer. None
offered health insurance.  Adkins, who suffers from kidney stones, said she bought her
own coverage, only to drop the plan after her insurer refused to
pay $5,000 in medical bills from a 2010 hospitalization. The
insurer said her kidney problems were a pre-existing condition.  “I already had $45,000 in  student loans ,” she said in a
telephone interview. “I live at home with my parents, I’m
trying very, very hard to find a job.”  Life’s Burden  Last year,  the health law  allowed her to buy into the plan
of her father, an assembly-line worker. The move helped her nine
days later when another kidney episode landed her in the
emergency room. That coverage will run out in November, when
Adkins turns 26, potentially sooner if the health law is
overturned.  Adkins said she’s considering other options, from clinics
for the indigent to hospitals that offer charity care.  “Come November, I really don’t know what I’m going to
do,’” she said. “I have spent hours thinking about it. This is
the great burden in my life right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  