-- Turkey Yields Weaken as Bank Extends Lowest Rate for a 9th Day
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-06-15T14:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/turkey-yields-weaken-as-bank-extends-lowest-rate-for-a-9th-day.html
Turkish bond  yields  fell for a
second day after the central bank provided liquidity at its
lowest policy rate for a ninth day, extending its looser
monetary policy stance.  Yields on the two-year benchmark bond retreated five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 9.12 percent, lifting this
month’s slide to 34 basis points and bringing the weekly drop to
three basis points.  The central bank has lent at its so-called “normal” rate
-- its benchmark of 5.75 percent -- every day since June 5,
after inflation fell to 8.3 percent in May from 11.1 percent in
April, the biggest drop since January 2003. On May 31,  Turkey 
announced its trade deficit for April narrowed more than
expected, contracting for a sixth month and beating analyst
estimates. Its current-account deficit retreated in April for a
sixth month, the central bank said June 11.  “This is an easing signal from the central bank and we are
seeing the result in yields on short-term debt,” Selim Gulkan,
a fixed-income trader at  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  in Istanbul,
said by telephone.  The central bank provided 5 billion liras today for the
first time this week, the most it can offer on a daily basis in
its one-week repurchase agreements auction. It provided 1
billion liras in the past three days, the least it can lend
every day. The Ankara-based bank lent 4 billion liras in its
one-month repo sale conducted once a week on Friday.  The lira weakened less than 0.1 percent to 1.8164 per
dollar for the first time in four days, paring its rise this
week to 0.3 percent. It added less than 0.1 percent to 2.29 per
euro, raising this year’s gain versus the euro to 7 percent.  Lira Versus Euro  The lira advanced against the euro while its eastern
European peers lagged because “it is seen as a safer
alternative to those countries which are closer to the
Eurozone,”  Philip Roberts , chief European technical strategist
at  Barclays Capital , said in e-mailed comments.  Turkey’s exports to the EU fell 17.8 percent in April to
$4.77 billion, cutting the region’s share in the country’s
exports to 37.6 percent from 48.9 percent a year earlier.  The Turkish currency may be poised for further gains
against the euro after the pair closed below the so-called
“cloud” on its weekly ichimoku chart for the first time in 18
months, according to a Barclays report published June 14.
“EUR/TRY cloud break confirms downside extension toward
2.15/2.16,” according to the report.  Ichimoku analysis is used to predict a currency’s direction
through analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows.
The cloud refers to the area between the first and second
leading span lines on the chart and is used to show an area
where buy orders may be clustered.  “Momentum is less than 50 -- relative strength index --
but is not at extreme levels so it supports a more negative
outlook,” Roberts said.  Relative strength indexes show how rapidly prices have
advanced or dropped during a specified time period. Readings
above 70 indicate a price may be poised to fall, and readings
below 30 indicate it may be poised to rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  