-- TV’s Jim Parsons Heads Flatline ‘Harvey’ Revival: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/tv-s-jim-parsons-heads-flatline-harvey-revival-review.html
What can you say about a 68-year-old
rabbit that died?  Mary Chase’s “ Harvey ” opened on Broadway in 1944, won the
 Pulitzer Prize  for Drama and ran four years. The movie starred
 Jimmy Stewart  as Elwood P. Dowd, a pickled bachelor whose best
friend is an invisible, 6-foot-3-1/2-inch-tall rabbit that gives
the show its name.  The  Roundabout  revival stars  Jim Parsons , of TV’s “ Big
Bang Theory ,” and a fistful of Broadway stage veterans,
including Charles Kimbrough, Carol Kane and Larry Bryggman. It’s
deadly.  More than the frequent jaunts to watering holes near his
Denver townhouse, Elwood’s preoccupation with Harvey scandalizes
his live-in sister (Jessica Hecht) and niece (Tracee Chimo).
Both are on the make -- the former for social status, the latter
for marital status.  To help further their ambitions, sister and niece conspire
with a pliant judge (Bryggman) to have Elwood committed to the
local nuthouse.  Elwood is a paragon of gentlemanly virtues, if something of
a blockhead. “Harvey” anticipated by at least a couple of
decades that genre of play (“ A Thousand Clowns ”) and movie
(“ One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest ”) in which the mentally
challenged are revealed as merely different or eccentric and the
rest of us are crazy.  Today, the play seems slighter than slight. Director Scott Ellis brings nothing (beyond, perhaps, misplaced faith in the
material) to make it pop. The performances range from agreeable
(Parsons) to annoying (Hecht, Bryggman).  David Rockwell ’s oaky
townhouse and sterile waiting room sets are lovely, if standard-
issue. The result is enervating and hardly up to a Broadway
standard.  Through Aug. 5 at Studio 54, 254 W. 54th St. Information:
+1-212-719-1300;  http://www.roundabouttheatre.org . Rating: 1/2 *  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on movies and  Craig
Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 