-- Vietnam Bonds Drop 1st Week in Three on Higher Interbank Rates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-15T10:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/vietnam-bonds-drop-1st-week-in-three-on-higher-interbank-rates.html
Vietnam ’s bonds dropped this week,
sending benchmark five-year yields to the highest level since
June 1. The dong advanced.  “Demand for bonds is trimming down since increases in
interbank rates made funding more expensive,” said Vu Anh Duc,
a Hanoi-based senior fixed-income dealer at Vietnam Joint-Stock
Commercial Bank for Industry & Trade, also known as VietinBank.
“Bond yields may rise later this year on the government’s
demand for cash to boost the economy.”  The  yield  rose 15 basis points this week to 9.61 percent in
Hanoi, according to daily fixing prices from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield climbed four basis points today.  The  overnight interbank deposit rate  gained 11 basis points,
or 0.11 percentage point, to 4.40 percent today, the highest
since May 3, according to data from banks compiled by Bloomberg.  Vietnam will accelerate state spending and boost bank
lending to bolster the economy, Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen
Xuan Phuc told the National Assembly in Hanoi today. The
government expects to disburse about 21 trillion dong ($1
billion) a month for the rest of the year, with funds from the
state budget as well as loans and grants from organizations such
as the  World Bank  and donor nations, Phuc said.  The dong traded at 20,958 per dollar as of 4:30 p.m. in
Hanoi, unchanged from yesterday, according to data from banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency strengthened 0.2 percent
this week.  The central bank set the  reference rate  at 20,828 per
dollar, unchanged since Dec. 26, according to its website. The
currency is allowed to fluctuate by as much as 1 percent on
either side of that rate.  --Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen. Editor: Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  