-- Welspun to Secure Funds on $1.1 Billion Wind Plan This Year
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-15T15:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/welspun-to-secure-funds-on-1-1-billion-wind-plan-this-year.html
A unit of Welspun Group, India’s
largest solar photovoltaic company, will secure funding toward
its $1.1 billion wind project later this year as the country
seeks to double its clean energy capacity by 2017.  Welspun Energy Ltd. (WLCO)  will likely fund the project in the
southern state of Karnataka with 75 percent of debt and 25
percent of equity, Managing Director Vineet Mittal said this
week in an interview in London.  Companies including Welspun, Mytrah Energy Ltd. and
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  are developing clean-energy plants as
lenders shun new conventional power projects that face rising
fuel costs. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  plans to spend more
than $300 billion in the five years to March 2017 to expand
India’s electricity systems in an attempt to boost economic
growth without adding to emissions.  Welspun this week signed agreements with the government of
Karnataka for two wind farms that will have capacity of 100
megawatts and 750 megawatts respectively.  “Energy demand and job creation are driving states to sign
agreements for large renewable projects,” Mittal said. The
company has tendered for the turbines on the project and expects
to announce a supplier in the coming months, he said.  The wind projects will be developed in phases with work
starting at one site in the next six to 12 months, Mittal said.
Foreign lenders as well as Indian banks may be tapped for loans,
he said.  Cost Competitiveness  India  outpaced the rest of the world in investment in clean
energy in 2011 due to the improving cost competitiveness of wind
and solar projects, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “The costs of renewable-energy projects are coming closer
to grid parity,” Mittal said. “In some states, wind is cheaper
than grid parity and solar will reach parity in the next three
to five years,” Mittal said, referring to the point at which
power generation from renewables costs the same or less than
purchases from the transmission network.  India’s clean-energy investments were $10.3 billion last
year compared with $6.8 billion invested in 2010, the highest
growth figure of any major world economy.  “The cake is big enough,” Mittal said, given India’s
target to double its clean power capacity to almost 53,000
megawatts by 2017.  Welspun’s goal is to build 1.7 gigawatts of solar and wind
parks, or enough to supply power for as many as 9 million Indian
homes.  The developer will acquire so-called renewable energy
certificates for Karnataka, Mittal said. They require
electricity suppliers to get a portion of their power cleanly
either by producing it themselves or buying certificates from
others.  Mittal also wants to get a further subsidy called the
“generation-based incentive” which is likely to be restored by
the government after expiring in March, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  