-- Richest Man Faces Threats in Mexico as Rivals Team Up
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-15T16:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/world-s-richest-man-faces-threats-in-mexico-as-rivals-team-up.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim , who used
his telecommunications dominance in Mexico to become the world’s
richest person, faces mounting competition in his home market as
rivals team up to increase their power.  Grupo Iusacell SA, Mexico’s third-largest wireless carrier,
struck a deal this week with  Telefonica SA (TEF)  to share mobile-phone
networks. Yesterday, Iusacell also won antitrust approval to
sell a 50 percent stake to Grupo Televisa SAB, one of Slim’s
biggest adversaries, giving it more money to build out the
service.  Slim’s Mexican mobile-phone business,  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , is
counting on two advantages to protect its status. The company
can keep customers loyal by giving discounts for calling within
the network, and it’s poised to be the nation’s first carrier to
offer fourth-generation service. Even as a unified front,
Televisa, Iusacell and Telefonica have to overcome those hurdles
to threaten  America Movil ’s 70 percent share of the market.  “I’d still rather be America Movil than anybody else in
the telecommunications industry in Mexico,” said  Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. “I
don’t see Iusacell having a significant impact on America Movil
for a number of years, since they need to invest over the course
of the next year or two to become a viable competitor to
anyone.”  Slim’s Fortune  Mexico is America Movil’s largest and most profitable
market, accounting for about 40 percent of sales and more than
half of operating income. Mexico City-based America Movil
represents about 60 percent of Slim’s $66.5 billion fortune,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  America Movil declined to comment. Telefonica, based in
 Madrid , said in a statement that while its agreement with
Iusacell is to share infrastructure, the companies will remain
competitors.  America Movil’s shares have been outperforming those of
rivals this year. The stock gained 6.3 percent in 2012 through
yesterday, compared with declines of 26 percent for Telefonica
and 4.4 percent for Televisa.  America Movil fell 0.8 percent to 16.67 pesos at 10:56 a.m.
in Mexico City, while Televisa gained 0.6 percent to 56.48
pesos. Telefonica dropped 0.4 percent to 9.89 euros in Madrid.  Slim’s company today agreed to buy a 21 percent stake in
Telekom Austria AG from investor Ronny Pecik as part of Slim’s
strategy to establish footholds in  Europe  as the continent’s
debt crisis hurts the value of telecommunications assets.
America Movil in May made an unsolicited offer of 2.6 billion
euros ($3.28 billion) to increase its stake in Dutch operator
Royal KPN NV to 27.7 percent.  Adding Users  America Movil owns Mexico’s biggest fiber-optic network,
stretching almost 136,000 kilometers (84,500 miles) at the end
of 2011. Telefonica and Televisa participate in a joint venture
with cable carrier  Megacable Holdings SAB (MEGACPO)  to operate almost
20,000 kilometers of government-owned fiber, supplementing the
networks the companies already own.  Slim’s company plans to start offering 4G wireless service,
with faster download speeds for high-definition video and other
applications, in four or five Mexican cities by the end of this
year, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Hajj said in April.
Iusacell and Telefonica may have 4G networks running by next
year, Iusacell CEO Adrian Steckel said this week.  Iusacell’s subscriber base surged 39 percent to 5.4 million
customers from September 2010 to last December, the only dates
for which the company has disclosed its data. America Movil’s
subscriptions grew 5.2 percent in that span, and Telefonica’s
numbers were little changed, in part because both companies
cleaned up their books to get rid of customers who didn’t show
much calling activity.  ‘More Vulnerable’  While Telefonica and Iusacell are sharing a network to
improve coverage, Iusacell’s newfound ambition may end up
hurting Telefonica more than America Movil, said Alejandro Gallostra, an analyst at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   Gallostra forecasts that Iusacell’s subscriptions will
reach 11 million in four years, with some coming from new device
users and some from the customer rosters of Telefonica and
America Movil. Telefonica can’t offer the kinds of “triple
play” and “quadruple play” deals that bundle a number of
services in one package, he said.  “Telefonica is more vulnerable,” said Gallostra, who
advises buying America Movil and selling Televisa. “It has
never figured out a strategy to be able to compete with America
Movil.”  Iusacell and Televisa are reviewing the antitrust agency’s
decision, which approved Televisa’s $1.6 billion deal for a 50
percent stake in Iusacell with conditions attached. Some of the
conditions are “onerous,” Luis Nino, a spokesman at Iusacell,
said yesterday.  Airwaves  One condition would require the companies to dissolve their
partnership if  Mexico ’s government is unable to auction off
airwaves to create a new TV network in the next 24 months. That
condition is meant to eliminate the incentive for the companies
to use legal tactics to stall the auction, the antitrust agency
said.  Iusacell is owned by  Ricardo Salinas , who also controls
broadcaster TV Azteca SAB. Its partner Televisa is the nation’s
largest broadcaster. Nino says the requirement is unfair because
the companies can’t control the timing of the auction, which is
under the control of the Federal Telecommunications Commission.  “We shouldn’t lose sight of the fact that what we’re
trying to do is break up a monopoly,” Nino said yesterday,
referring to Slim’s company. “The Mexican market needs
competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  