-- World’s Richest Gain $16 Billion as Global Markets Rise
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   D e v o n   P e n d l e t o n
-- 2012-06-15T21:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/world-s-richest-gain-16-billion-as-global-markets-rise.html
The 40 richest people on the planet
added a combined $15.7 billion to their collective net worth
this week as markets rose on speculation that central banks will
take steps to boost the global economy.  Spanish retail tycoon  Amancio Ortega , 76, became Europe’s
richest man on June 13, after shares of Inditex, the world’s
largest clothing retailer, surged 12 percent in a day. The
company, which operates the Zara and Pull & Bear chains,
reported a 30 percent gain in first-quarter profit, elevating
Ortega to the fourth spot on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Ortega’s ascent came as Spain asked to borrow 100 billion
euros ($126 billion) from European Union rescue funds last
weekend to recapitalize its banking system. He is worth $40.1
billion.  “I don’t think the Spanish bailout was a positive factor
this week,” said Stephen Pendergast, first vice president and
investment officer at Wells Fargo Advisors, in a phone interview
from his office in Danbury, Connecticut. “A week ago, it looked
like the banking system was on the precipice. Now it looks like
there’s financial liquidity everywhere. Whatever the outcome of
the Greek vote is, the banking system and the E.U. look ready to
move on.”  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index climbed 0.94 percent during the
week after the Bank of England said it will provide billions of
pounds of emergency aid to U.K. lenders. Investors are awaiting
the results of Greece’s parliamentary elections this weekend.  The  S&P 500  rose 1.3 percent during the week to close at
1342.84 in New York June 15. U.S. stocks rose amid negative
reports on  consumer confidence  and industrial output. Federal
Reserve policy makers will meet next week to decide whether more
economic stimulus is needed.  Slim, Gates  Carlos Slim , 72, remains the world’s richest person with a
net worth of $66.5 billion. The telecommunications tycoon gained
$800 million after his Mexico City-based  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB said
it will increase its stake in Royal KPN NV, the biggest phone
operator in Holland.  Slim also disclosed in a regulatory filing that he controls
8.4 percent of Buenos Aires-based  YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s top oil
producer. The company’s shares rose 1.88 percent June 15.  Bill Gates  is $5.5 billion behind Slim. The 56-year-old
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder’s fortune rose more than $700 million
as shares of the Redmond, Washington-based company gained 1.25
percent.  No. 3 on the index is  Warren Buffett , who is worth $45.9
billion. The Berkshire Hathaway Inc. chairman agreed to buy the
Bryan-College Station Eagle newspaper from closely held Evening
Post Publishing Co. Berkshire stock closed up 1.13 percent for
the week.  Zuckerberg Returns  Eike Batista, Brazil’s richest man, lost $171.6 million
after saying he would sell off more of his natural-resources
empire. The 55-year-old said he’ll flip a $500 million stake in
his EBX Group Co. holding company to an Asian investor by next
month, and 49 percent of gold miner AUX for $2 billion by the
end of 2012, O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper reported June 14.  Batista told Bloomberg News he plans to sell as much as
half of coal producer CCX Carvao da Colombia SA this year. His
estimated net worth of $25.3 billion makes him the world’s 13th
richest person.  Two weeks after falling from the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index , Facebook co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  returned to the
ranking June 15, after shares of the world’s largest social
media company jumped almost 11 percent for the week. Zuckerberg,
28, added $868.2 million to his fortune on Friday, when Facebook
stock rose $1.72. Shares of the Menlo Park, California-based
company are down 21 percent from their May 17 offering price.  Hotels, Casinos  Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal’s net worth
soared 8.4 percent after Riyadh-based  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM)  had
its biggest weekly gain in more than two years. The company,
which is raising funds to pay for the construction of the
world’s tallest tower, sold a stake in the Movenpick Resort &
Spa Karon Beach Phuket in Thailand, for $90 million.  Alwaleed was also named the region’s most powerful person
by Arabian Business magazine.  Casino magnate  Sheldon Adelson , 78, lost $409 million as
shares of his Nevada-based  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  fell 2.06
percent. The casino operator continued his political giving
binge by donating $10 million to a super PAC supporting
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney . With a net worth
of $20.8 billion, Adelson is the 22nd richest person in the
world.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York and listed in U.S.
dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Devon Pendleton in New York at 
 dpendleton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  