-- Myanmar Clash Tests Politician Suu Kyi Before Nobel Speech
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-06-15T11:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/myanmar-fighting-tests-suu-kyi-as-politician-before-nobel-speech.html
Clashes in western Myanmar involving
Muslim Rohingyas are giving opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi
one of her first political tests since an April by-election win
that prompted Western nations to ease sanctions.  The fighting near the Bangladesh border claimed dozens of
lives this month and highlighted the plight of Rohingyas who are
denied citizenship in Myanmar and restricted from traveling
freely. Suu Kyi, who spent 15 years under house arrest and is
making her first trip to  Europe  since 1988, declined to say
whether they should be granted citizenship.  “A very broad segment of people in Myanmar are stridently
anti-Rohingya,”  Michael Montesano , a visiting research fellow
at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore , said
by phone. “We’re seeing her heed very ugly political realities
in Myanmar by being so cautious.”  Suu Kyi, who landed in Geneva two days ago, will tomorrow
accept the Nobel Peace Prize she won in 1991 on a trip that will
include an appearance with U2 singer Bono in Dublin and an
address to the U.K. Parliament. Calm has returned to Myanmar’s
Rakhine state, where President Thein Sein declared an emergency,
after six days of violence killed 29 people and displaced more
than 30,000, the  Associated Press  reported.  “We have to be very clear about what the laws of
citizenship are and who are entitled to them,” Suu Kyi told
reporters in Geneva yesterday when asked if Rohingyas should be
granted Myanmar citizenship. “All those who are entitled to
citizenship should be treated as full citizens deserving all the
rights that must be given to them.”  Coca-Cola Returns  The clashes highlight the difficulty in unifying the
country of 64 million people comprised of 135 official ethnic
groups, a list that doesn’t include Rohingyas. Thein Sein’s
moves to allow greater political freedom since his 2010 election
win has attracted companies that avoided the country during
about five decades of military rule.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  announced yesterday it would restart
operations in Myanmar after 60 years, weeks after the U.S. and
European Union suspended sanctions following Suu Kyi’s election
to parliament. Suu Kyi, 66, told the United Nations labor
organization yesterday that she welcomed investments that help
promote democracy.  The rioting is near offshore energy projects in Rakhine
state, the starting point of oil and gas pipelines to Yunnan
province being built by China National Petroleum Corp. A “high
risk” remains that communal violence will spread to other parts
of the country, according to a statement by Exclusive Analysis,
a London-based political risk firm.  Bangladesh Border  “More widespread violence would risk damaging
international investor confidence in Myanmar and would also
likely create spill-over humanitarian problems in neighboring
 Bangladesh ,” according to a statement issued yesterday.  Bangladesh has turned away hundreds of Rohingyas fleeing
the violence, dismissing calls from the UN refugee agency to
open its borders to those who need medical attention and safety.
Bangladesh Foreign Minister Dipu Moni told reporters on June 12
that allowing a large influx of refugees “is certainly not in
the best of our interests.”  Rohingyas descend from a mix of Rakhine Buddhists,
Chittagonian Bengalis and Arabic sea traders, and speak a
dialect of Bengali that is distinct from the form of the
language spoken in Bangladesh, according to New York-based  Human
Rights Watch .  Porous Border  They co-existed with Rakhine Buddhists for centuries before
the British demarcation of the border between India and Myanmar
left them caught between states, the group said in a 2009
 report . About 800,000 Rohingyas live in Myanmar, also known as
 Burma , and 200,000 are in Bangladesh, the group estimates.  “One of the greatest problems comes from the fear on both
sides of the border, that is to say Bangladesh as well as Burma,
that there will be illegal immigrants crossing all the time,”
Suu Kyi said yesterday, referring to her country by its former
name. “This is due to the porous border. We need more
responsible, uncorrupt border vigilance.”  In 2009, after reports that Thai authorities turned away
hundreds of Rohingyas fleeing in boats, Ye Myint Aung, then
Myanmar’s Hong Kong consul-general, wrote a letter to newspapers
and diplomats calling them “ugly as ogres.”  ‘Dark Brown’  “Rohingya are neither ‘Myanmar People’ nor Myanmar’s
ethnic group,” the  letter  said. “You will see in the photos
that their complexion is ‘dark brown.’ The complexion of Myanmar
people is fair and soft, good looking as well.”  Ko Ko Gyi, a former political prisoner who led student
protesters in 1988, told reporters this week that illegal
immigrants from Bangladesh were responsible for the violence.
Myanmar took them in based on sympathy and should not be
expected to automatically grant them citizenship, he said.  “If we are forced to relax our citizenship rules and
process and to deal with them unmindfully, we won’t tolerate it
at all,” he  said .  Bangladesh saw influxes of about 250,000 Rohingya refugees
from Myanmar in 1978 and in the early 1990s, followed by
repatriation efforts “that were not wholly voluntary,” the
UNHCR said in a December  report . The U.S. State Department  said 
in 2010 that designated terrorist organization Harakat ul-Jihad-
i-Islami/Bangladesh “had trained and fielded operatives in
Burma to fight on behalf of the Rohingya.” Bangladesh banned
the group in 2005, the report said.  ‘Victims’  Last year,  Eric Schwartz , a deputy to Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , called Rohingyas he visited in Bangladesh
refugee camps “victims guilty of nothing other than a desire to
flee repression and create a better life for themselves.”
Clinton said on June 11 Rohingyas should be included in talks to
halt the violence.  U.S. Charge D’Affaires Michael Thurston urged all sides to
remain calm after meeting today with representatives of Muslim
organizations and the Rakhine National Development Party in the
former capital of Yangon,  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  reported.  The latest unrest began after an alleged rape and murder of
a girl prompted a mob of about 300 Rakhine Buddhists to murder
10 Muslims on June 3, according to  Human Rights Watch . Myanmar
imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew in four towns in Rakhine and
prohibited more than five people from gathering in public areas
at a time, according to the state-run New Light of Myanmar
newspaper.  ‘Risky Position’  The fighting left 13 Rakhine Buddhists and 16 Rohingya
Muslims dead, AP reported yesterday, citing government officials
led by Rakhine state minister for border affairs Col. Htein Lin.
Nine Buddhist monasteries and seven mosques were also burned,
the report said.  Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party won 43 of 44
by-election seats it contested on April 1, giving it some
representation in the 664-member parliament still dominated by
Thein Sein and the military. The next nationwide election is
scheduled for 2015.  Suu Kyi’s emphasis on the rule of law “is probably the
best way to go” given her “risky position,” Sai Latt, a
Burmese-Canadian doctoral student at  Canada ’s Simon Fraser
University who studies state violence and displacement, said by
phone. “If she says something that appears to be supporting the
ethnic rights or the ethnic status of the Rohingya, a lot of
people -- her supporters -- will turn against her.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  