-- Young Obama Cheerfully Scarfed Burgers, Smoked Pot: Book Review
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-15/young-obama-cheerfully-scarfed-burgers-smoked-pot-book-review.html
It’s charming to read about a
friendly, chubby six-year-old named  Barack Obama , whose mother
married an Indonesian and whisked the boy from his native
Honolulu to a four-room house on a dirt road in a quarter of
Jakarta without sewers or gutters. He adapted easily.  And it’s amusing to learn about the cheerful pothead jock
who, back in Honolulu, graduated from the distinguished  Punahou
School  with no awards and no record of leadership:  “To the vast majority of his Punahou friends and
classmates, Barry did not seem destined to make history in
politics or anything else.”  David Maraniss’s “ Barack Obama: The Story ” takes the
president through the age of 26, when he left his job as a
community organizer in  Chicago  to enter  Harvard Law School .  But it starts in 1926 -- 35 years before Obama’s birth --
with the suicide of his great-grandmother in  Kansas .  Maraniss , an editor at the Washington Post, takes the
strictly chronological approach you would expect of a
biographer, but it doesn’t serve him all that well. Obama isn’t
born until Chapter 7 (of 18).  I advise readers to start there, read to the end, and then
return to the chapters about his grandparents and his parents.  The Dunhams  His mother’s parents, Stanley and Madelyn Dunham, were
probably as important in forming him as she was. His
grandfather, a small-potatoes salesman (furniture, then
insurance) who seldom held a job for long, gave him the
cautionary example of an unfulfilled life. But his love (and
love of fun) provided the boy with bedrock confidence.  His grandmother, who rose from escrow officer to vice
president at the  Bank of Hawaii , had a more recessive
personality -- Obama may have inherited her reserve -- and a
more dependable income. She gave him stability.  Maraniss is damning on the subject of Obama’s father, a
Kenyan economist who made a number of women unhappy before he
destroyed himself with a combination of heavy drinking and
psychotic driving.  “Barry could not know,” he writes, “that perhaps the
luckiest thing that happened to him in his young life was that
his father had left.”  Black Identity  He attended Punahou on a scholarship he received on the
strength of his grandparents’ connections.  One consequence of being raised by his white mother and
grandparents was that he knew few black people until he went to
college (two years at  Occidental , in  Los Angeles , and then two
at  Columbia , in  New York City ). His search for his black
identity became the theme of his 1995 memoir, “ Dreams From My
Father .”  Maraniss spends a lot of time showing where and how the
memoir embellished or compressed or otherwise reconfigured the
events of Obama’s life.  He is thorough to a fault. This is probably the first book
about Obama to reveal that the burgers his high-school
basketball team scarfed on the day of their final game contained
carrots, celery, onions, teriyaki sauce and wheat germ.  Although that tidbit, and hundreds like it, will doubtless
be of interest to future scholars, the general reader may find
this book, as I did, a slog.  Maraniss’s writing is clean and straightforward, his
analysis of personality astute and his subject obviously
important. I wish I could call his book exciting.  “Barack Obama: The Story” is published by  Simon &
Schuster (CBS)  (641 pages, $32.50). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  James
Pressley  on business books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 