-- L. Brian Holland, Nasdaq ‘Marketing Ace’ Behind Ads, Dies at 67
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-08-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/l-brian-holland-nasdaq-marketing-ace-behind-ads-dies-at-67.html
L. Brian Holland, the marketing
executive who fueled the growth of the  Nasdaq (NDAQ)  Stock Market by
harnessing the power of  television advertising  to build a brand,
has died. He was 67.  Holland died of a heart attack on Aug. 14 at his farm in
Greensboro,  Maryland , according to his daughter, Megan.  He arrived at  Nasdaq  in 1989 as senior vice president of
marketing after working at ad agencies J. Walter Thompson USA
and Wells Rich Greene and at Chase Manhattan Bank. Nasdaq -- the
National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations
-- had opened for business in 1971 as the first electronic stock
market, focusing first on over-the-counter shares.  In 1989, “the exchange was in the shadow of the 1987 crash
and had lost 10 percent of its companies,” Holland recalled in
a 2000  interview  with Industry Week. “My task was to stop that
outflow and to increase market share of new companies that were
listing.”  In particular, Nasdaq was trying to keep its much-better-
known competitor, the  New York  Stock Exchange, from luring away
any of its “fearsome foursome” listed companies, Microsoft
Corp., Cisco Systems Inc.,  Intel Corp . and Dell Inc., Charles
Gasparino wrote in his 2007 book, “King of the Club:  Richard
Grasso  and the Survival of the New York Stock Exchange.”  As the in-house “marketing ace” at the Washington-based
National Association of Securities Dealers, founder of Nasdaq,
Holland was asked by then-president Joseph Hardiman to devise
the first advertising campaign by an equity market, according to
Gasparino.  Ad Slogan  The ads, calling Nasdaq “the stock market for the next
hundred years,” focused on success stories of listed companies
such as Microsoft and depicted the  NYSE (NYX)  as yesterday’s news.  “It is said he is to computer software what Thomas Edison
is to the light bulb,” began one 30-second commercial that
spotlighted the achievements of Microsoft founder  Bill Gates .  It ended: “Where in today’s world do you find companies
capable of such astonishing growth? Actually, there’s a list of
them printed every day. Nasdaq -- the stock market for the next
hundred years.”  Holland worked with the New York advertising firm of
Messner Vetere Berger Schmetterer, which today is part of Euro
RSCG Worldwide Inc. Founding partner Tom Messner wrote in Adweek
in 2005 that Nasdaq was “the first great campaign the agency
did,” turning the market “into a brand that would drive the
economy of the 90s.”  On Broadway  Holland was also a driving force behind  MarketSite , the
seven-story cylindrical tower in New York’s Time Square that
serves as Nasdaq’s broadcast facility and high-tech advertising
billboard for its member companies.  Describing MarketSite to the trade publication Brandweek in
1997, Holland said: “As we have attracted numerous companies
which are definitely household names, like Staples, Starbucks,
Bed Bath & Beyond, and of course, technology names like
Microsoft and Intel, we saw an opportunity to demystify the
Nasdaq for a lot of people, as well as make us more appealing to
the news media.”  Lee Brian Holland was born on Jan. 8, 1945, in  Chicago  and
was raised in Hockessin,  Delaware , a suburb of Wilmington. He
graduated from  Georgetown University  in Washington, in 1967.  Growing Corn  After leaving Nasdaq in 2001, Holland worked for Pipeline
Trading Systems LLC, a New York-based broker-dealer that
specialized in electronic block-trading of securities. He
retired two years ago and lived at the Maryland farm that had
been his summer home since 1988, raising crops such as soybeans
and corn, his daughter said.  Nasdaq, the second-largest U.S. equity exchange, is
currently owned by Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., which went public in
2002.  Besides Megan, Holland is survived by a son, Christopher,
and a second daughter, Siobhan, from his first two marriages,
which ended in divorce, and by his third wife, Dianna Lawrence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  