-- ‘Green-on-Blue’ Attacks Show Need for Smaller Afghan Army
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-23T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/-green-on-blue-attacks-show-need-for-smaller-afghan-army.html
The surprising thing about the
“insider attacks” by Afghans against U.S. and coalition forces
is not their sudden increase. It’s that the coalition’s military
leadership didn’t anticipate the surge in the first place.  That blind spot points to the larger need to retool the
U.S. strategy for building up Afghan forces so they can take
over their nation’s security by 2014.  So far this year, 32 “green-on-blue” attacks (the phrase
comes from the colors that the U.S. military assigns in
exercises to “host nation” and “friendly” forces) have killed 40
members of coalition forces and wounded 69, versus 16 attacks
that resulted in 28 dead and 43 wounded during the  same period 
in 2011.  The Taliban have been quick to claim credit. And on
Wednesday, Aimal Faizi, spokesman for Afghan president  Hamid Karzai , blamed foreign spy agencies for the attacks. The truth
is more complicated. A recent Pentagon analysis suggests that
only about 11 percent of the attacks are the result of Taliban
infiltration. The majority had other causes, particularly
disputes or grudges between coalition and Afghan forces.  Addressing them is tricky, not least because of the range
of triggers for such animosities. Among the causes identified by
a 2011 Pentagon  study  involving interviews with hundreds of
Afghan soldiers and police officers was anger over everything
from U.S. convoy procedures, night raids and civilian casualties
to widespread cursing and shooting of livestock. Even something
as elemental as how to urinate while on patrol was a cultural
flashpoint. U.S. personnel, the same study found, had “extremely
negative” views of their Afghan counterparts.  The rapid buildup of Afghan security forces and the growing
interaction between forces as Afghans take on more
responsibility have only amplified those tensions. (As one
Afghan general commented to the report’s author, “Why didn’t the
U.S. Army do this study eight years ago?”) Since the beginning
of 2011, more than 70,000 personnel have  joined  the Afghan
security forces -- that would be a challenge for any developed
country to absorb, much less for one of the poorest countries in
the world.  Given the potential for mayhem, we welcome Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta ’s statement that the Pentagon will
strengthen its vetting and threat detection procedures.
Americans must also recognize that many Afghans view the
coalition as an occupying force, which will set off hatreds and
resentments when Korans are mistakenly burned, innocent
civilians are killed, and crops and livelihoods inadvertently
destroyed.  The U.S. has to take more sensible measures to improve
cultural sensitivity. No, we’ll never get soldiers to stop
swearing, but increasing the number of Muslim U.S. trainers and
interpreters and stepping up pre-deployment cultural training
make sense.  More fundamentally, President  Barack Obama ’s administration
needs to re-examine its goals in standing up an Afghan force of
352,000 military and police personnel. From 2002 through fiscal
year 2013, the U.S. has obligated about $60 billion to creating
and training Afghan security forces. Yet in April 2012, the
 Department of Defense   reported  that only about 7 percent of the
army and 9 percent of the police could operate independently,
“with advisers.” (That caveat was added after last year’s
rating, in which no unit was deemed capable of being
“independent.”)  As we have argued before, creating a hollow force serves
nobody’s interests -- especially when that force seems fiscally
unsustainable. In May, the international community pledged to
provide Afghanistan with $4.1 billion annually through 2017 to
support its security forces -- half what the Pentagon estimated
in May 2011 would be necessary. Afghanistan can barely afford to
pay a few hundred million of that amount on its own, especially
given its other  governance  and development challenges.  Why not focus now on creating a smaller, more effective
force that will better stand the test of time?  Afghanistan ’s
outgoing defense minister, Abdul Rahim Wardak, has suggested a
more practical 230,000 force.  The recent killings of coalition trainers are not just an
ugly tragedy, but also a warning of where unrealistic goals may
take us.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on fossil-fuel favoritism in
 Romney’s energy plan  and on the SEC’s dropping the ball on  money
market mutual funds ; Stephen L. Carter on when  the U.S. cared
about chess ; William Pesek on the  Bo Xilai show trial  in  China ;
Thomas Geoghegan on why Obama is lucky that  entitlements  are out
of control.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 