-- Wall Street Gets Its Way in Washington
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-23T22:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/a-case-study-in-wall-street-getting-its-way-in-washington.html
Every once in a while the financial
industry lives up to its critics’ worst expectations: that it
operates against the interest of the investing public, in
cahoots with captive regulators and  Washington ’s powerful elite.  This is exactly what happened Wednesday, when Securities
and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  had to cancel an
Aug. 29 vote on sensible new rules to make money-market mutual
funds safer. Although Schapiro had the support of Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and leading conservative
 economists , she knew that three of the five commissioners would
oppose her. This came after an intensive and often-misleading
campaign by the $2.6 trillion money-fund industry to gloss over
the inherent instability of the funds.  Among those swayed by the lobbying was  Luis Aguilar , a
Democratic commissioner (the other is Elisse Walter) who usually
sides with Schapiro. Aguilar, a former general counsel of
Invesco, one of the country’s major sponsors of money-market
funds, met 11 times with industry lobbyists this year. Among his
concerns was that  additional rules  might lead investors to
funnel cash into shadowy, unregulated funds.  This incidentally is a claim of the  Investment Company
Institute , a mutual-fund lobbying group, which never offered
persuasive evidence to back up the assertion. Enough had already
been done, the ICI argued, citing modest changes made in 2010
requiring the funds to hold investments that could be quickly
converted into cash.  Blow Ups  Quite to the contrary. Money-market funds are almost as
liable to blow up today as in 2008, when an investor run on the
funds sent the financial crisis into overdrive.  A quick reminder of the dangers: In September 2008, the
Reserve Primary Fund held $785 million in Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. debt. When Lehman failed, the fund suffered
losses.  If money-market funds operated like normal mutual funds,
the loss would have been reflected in the share price. Investors
could consider the stock price relative to other funds or even
other investments. But money-market funds promise that share
prices will never deviate from $1, ensuring that investors get a
dollar back for every dollar invested.  Once Lehman collapsed, Reserve Primary’s assets were worth
less than $1 a share, an event known as  breaking the buck .
Investors fled, hoping to get their money out, fearing there
wouldn’t be enough assets in the fund to cover their
withdrawals.  The panic infected much of the rest of the industry, which
provides much of the short-term credit corporations use to meet
payrolls and finance inventories. In a matter of days, investors
yanked $300 billion from the funds, freezing U.S. credit
markets. The run only ended when the Fed and Treasury Department
stepped in with a $1 trillion guarantee, which they have been
barred from doing again by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.  Schapiro’s solution was to require that money-fund share
prices reflect the market value of their underlying assets. This
would lower the hair-trigger incentive investors have to grab
their money at the first sign of distress. Recall that the
Reserve Primary run was kicked off because the losses on the
Lehman debt amounted to just  3 cents a share .  The other ideas Schapiro proposed would have limited how
much investors could withdraw on the spot and required funds to
hold capital as a cushion against losses, much like banks do
now.  These were reasonable proposals to enhance the funds’
soundness. Safer funds might be more attractive to investors,
not less, as the industry contends.  SEC Paralysis  With the SEC paralyzed, it may be up to the Financial
Stability Oversight Council -- a panel of financial regulators,
led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  -- to devise rules to
bolster the safety of the funds. One option for the council
might be to deem the biggest funds as systemically important,
along with the largest banks, leading to increased disclosure,
capital, oversight and stress testing.  Meanwhile, individual investors might want to consider
whether money funds are the ideal place to keep their cash. Big
institutional investors and companies are more attuned to the
vagaries of the market. In the panic of 2008, they were the
first to flee, leaving small investors behind. If the government
hadn’t stepped in, it’s clear who would have borne the brunt of
the losses.  If the ICI and its backers want an industry that can still
act as a tripwire for financial panic, they should be
congratulated. For the investing public, former SEC Chairman
 Arthur Levitt  say it all: The SEC’s inability to act is “a
 national disgrace .”  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on fossil-fuel favoritism in
 Romney’s energy plan  and on the case for  a smaller Afghan army ;
Stephen L. Carter on when  the U.S. cared about chess ; William
Pesek on the  Bo Xilai show trial  in  China ; Thomas Geoghegan on
why Obama is lucky that  entitlements  are out of control.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 