-- General Growth Surges After Investor Ackman Pushes Sale
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-08-23T22:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/ackman-s-pershing-square-asks-general-growth-to-consider-sale.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)  rose
the most in a year after investor  Bill Ackman  urged the mall
owner to consider a sale, saying the company’s largest rival and
biggest shareholder have both expressed interest in a takeover.  Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP, General
Growth’s No. 2 shareholder, has discussed a takeover of the
Chicago-based company with  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , according
to a letter Ackman filed today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM) , General
Growth’s largest investor, didn’t support the deal and said it
may pursue an acquisition on its own, Ackman said. Brookfield
said today that it isn’t trying to buy General Growth.  “Our goals are to ensure that a level playing field exists
so that Simon, Brookfield and potentially other parties can
compete to acquire the company,” Ackman said in the letter.
Brookfield should be stopped from “unfairly acquiring control”
of General Growth without paying a “premium in a competitively
negotiated transaction,” he wrote.  General Growth exited  bankruptcy protection  in November
2010 following a takeover battle between Indianapolis-based
 Simon Property , its larger competitor, and an investor group
that included Brookfield and Pershing Square. General Growth
filed for bankruptcy in 2009 after weighing itself down with $27
billion in debt that it was unable to refinance because of the
financial crisis and collapse of the commercial mortgage-backed
 securities market .  General Growth climbed 9.7 percent to $20.32 at the close
of  New York  trading. It was the stock’s biggest gain since Aug.
9, 2011, and its highest price in almost four years.  Stock Deal  Pershing Square and Simon Property discussed a deal in
which Simon would acquire its competitor for 0.1765 of a Simon
share for each General Growth share. Were that ratio used with
Simon’s closing stock price yesterday, General Growth would be
valued at about $28 a share.  General Growth’s board and management team “will carefully
review  Pershing Square ’s letter,” the company said in a
statement today.  Les Morris, a Simon Property spokesman, declined to comment
on Ackman’s letter. Ackman didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  “Brookfield is not taking any steps to acquire GGP nor is
it having any discussions with third parties in that regard,”
the Toronto-based real estate investment company said today in
an e-mailed statement. “Brookfield has no interest in selling
its stake in GGP. We are 100 percent supportive of the current
management team of GGP.”  ‘Not Continuing’  In the past year, Brookfield considered “a variety of
possible transactions which would facilitate Pershing Square’s
desire to maximize the value of and create liquidity for its
interest in GGP,” Brookfield said. Those discussions “are not
continuing,” according to the statement.  Simon has been “effectively handcuffed and gagged” from
pursuing a deal because of Brookfield’s influence over General
Growth, Ackman wrote in his letter to General Growth’s board.
Brookfield has gone from owning 29 percent of the mall owner to
42.2 percent through shares and warrants, Ackman said.  “To be clear, we are not accusing Brookfield or the
company of wrongdoing in connection with the company’s potential
sale,” Ackman wrote. “However, once Brookfield indicated that
it was interested in acquiring the company, its interests
diverged with those of other GGP shareholders.”  Simon is the most logical buyer for General Growth partly
because of cost savings it could achieve by purchasing its
competitor, Craig Guttenplan, an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in
 London , said in a telephone interview today.  ‘Activist Investor’  Ackman is “an activist investor,”  Guttenplan said.
“He’s looking for ways to maximize value.”  The hedge-fund manager may be using the letter “as a wedge
to get out of General Growth,” having made a large enough
profit in the investment and wanting to place the money
elsewhere, said  Rich Moore , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets 
in Solon,  Ohio .  General Growth’s shares have gained 56 percent in the past
12 months. Pershing Square has a 10.2 percent stake in the
company, including stock and warrants, Ackman said in today’s
letter.  Pershing met with  David Simon , chief executive officer of
Simon Property, last October to talk about the potential stock
deal, according to Ackman’s letter. Based on the share ratio
discussed, Simon would have paid a 65 percent premium over
General Growth’s closing share price the previous day.  Brookfield Meeting  In November, Pershing met with Brookfield officials
including Chief Executive Officer Bruce Flatt to discuss the
proposed Simon deal, according to Ackman’s letter. They
indicated that Brookfield didn’t support the transaction, and
instead was interested in buying General Growth itself, possibly
in partnership with Simon, Ackman wrote.  Brookfield in April proposed buying General Growth and
paying for the purchase with proceeds from the sale of 68 of the
company’s malls to Simon. Simon rejected the proposal because it
didn’t like the selection of malls and believed “the price was
too high,” Brookfield told Pershing Square.  Brookfield then decided to try to acquire General Growth
without Simon, according to the Ackman’s letter. As part of the
proposed deal, Brookfield would consider selling 14 of General
Growth’s best malls to Simon or other buyers to raise money.  In July, Brookfield officials including Flatt met with
Pershing Square and said they needed more time to prepare a
purchase, including a series of securities sales and a purchase
of Pershing Square’s General Growth shares. Pershing Square
“expressed concern” about the proposed transactions, Ackman
said in today’s letter.  “We also explained that Pershing Square was not interested
in selling GGP stock other than at a substantial premium,” he
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  