-- Advantage Oil Gains After Saying It’s Begun Sale Process
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-08-23T20:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/advantage-oil-gains-after-saying-it-s-begun-sale-process.html
Advantage Oil & Gas Ltd. (AAV) , the fifth-
largest producer in Canada’s Montney shale formation, rose the
most in more than three years after announcing it’s seeking a
buyer for some assets to simplify its structure and prepare the
company for a potential sale.  Advantage, based in Calgary,  gained  13 percent to C$3.69 at
1:45 p.m. in Toronto, the biggest climb since July 2009. The
shares have dropped 13 percent this year.  Advantage has retained  RBC Capital Markets  to sell its non-
Montney production assets, the company said in a statement
yesterday after the close of regular trading on North American
markets. Advantage expects to begin the process for a potential
sale of its Montney natural-gas and natural gas liquids holdings
by the end of the year.  “I’m not surprised there is some surprise in the market,”
Chief Executive Officer Andy Mah said in a phone interview
today. He declined to say if a potential buyer has approached
the company yet. A “large firm” may be interested in acquiring
Advantage and would have more money to spend in the Montney, Mah
said.  Advantage has 1.1 trillion cubic feet of proved and
probable gas reserves in the Montney formation, which stretches
across Alberta and British Columbia. The area is a potential
supply source for proposed liquefied natural gas export projects
along  Canada ’s Pacific Coast. Mitsubishi Corp. and  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd have recently bought into the Montney
shale, with an eye on exporting the fuel.  Birchcliff Caution  Investors are buying shares because Advantage is “cleaning
up the company,” said Robert Fitzmartyn, a Calgary-based
research analyst at FirstEnergy Capital Corp. who owns Advantage
shares and rates them the equivalent of a buy. “People should
be cautious based on the failed sale process nearby of
Birchcliff.”  Birchcliff Energy Ltd., another Calgary-based company with
holdings in the Montney, in March ended a sale process started
five months earlier after not receiving an acceptable offer.  Advantage is the fifth-largest producer after Encana Corp.,
Murphy Oil Corp., ARC Resources Ltd. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
according to a  July investor presentation  on its website.  The company, which last year created  Longview Oil Corp. (LNV)  to
hold its oil-rich assets, will retain its 45 percent stake in
the producer after the initial asset sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  