-- Ahold Shares Decline as Dutch Margins Miss Estimates
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-08-23T08:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/ahold-second-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-u-s-margins.html
Royal Ahold NV (AH) , the Dutch owner of
Stop & Shop grocery stores, fell the most in 11 weeks in
Amsterdam as a crunch in its domestic market offset improved
profitability in the U.S. in the second quarter.  Net income climbed 25 percent to 248 million euros ($311
million), Ahold said today. Analysts expected profit of 240
million euros, the average of 11  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The underlying operating margin in the Netherlands
dropped to 5.4 percent, falling short of the 6.1 percent
estimate.  “The Dutch margin was clearly disappointing,” James
Anstead, an analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote in note to clients.
“We think the Dutch market is clearly tougher, but the U.S.
market is not better or worse than before.”  Ahold has a program to cut costs by 350 million euros in
the three years through 2014 by standardizing systems and
contracting out some services. Chief Executive Officer Dick Boer
reiterated that 2012 will be a challenging year for the  food
industry  and said he is cautious on the impact of rising food
commodity costs especially in the U.S., where Amsterdam-based
Ahold’s Giant-Carlisle chain competes with  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   The stock declined as much as 4.2 percent, the biggest drop
since June 6, and traded down 2.4 percent as of 9:34 in
Amsterdam.  In the U.S., where Ahold makes almost 60 percent of sales,
the underlying operating margin rose to 4.3 percent from 4.1
percent. The Dutch retailer said total sales rose 12 percent to
7.69 billion euros in the second quarter, in line with analysts’
estimates.  Unsuccessful Campaign  Boer told journalists in a conference call today that he
expects some margin improvement in the Netherlands in the second
half of the year. He said the “unsuccessful’ campaign for the
Euro 2012 football championship was a ‘‘one-off’’ factor that
contributed to a drop in margins in the second quarter.  Ahold’s stock has fallen 2.6 percent this year. That
compares with a 23 percent slump for  Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the
owner of the Food Lion stores in the U.S., and a 13 percent
decline for  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer.  ‘‘We see continued intense competitive activity in all our
markets” for the rest of the year, Boer said, adding that Ahold
will continue to look at what further price reductions it can
achieve.  U.S. Focus  Boer said the company continues to monitor acquisition
opportunities, though focus on the company’s “current store
base” in the U.S. is “more important.”  Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , the
third-largest U.S. grocery chain, said in July that it will
review strategic alternatives as the company hasn’t turned an
annual profit in three years amid competition from Wal-Mart and
 Kroger Co. (KR)   The CEO said the company is still on track to open pick-up
points for online orders in the second half of the year in
 Europe . Boer, who took the helm in March 2011, is planning to
boost Ahold’s online business, expand in  Belgium  and add
 convenience stores  to reverse slowing sales growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  