-- New York Fed Unloads Last Debt From AIG’s 2008 Rescue: Mortgages
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-23T20:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/aig-gains-as-new-york-fed-ending-62-billion-auction-mortgages.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York ’s role in the $182.3 billion rescue of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  has ended on a high.  The central bank sold $3.4 billion in toxic mortgage debt
today that it inherited four years ago when it bailed out AIG,
once the world’s largest insurer. The assets were the last batch
from its Maiden Lane III LLC  portfolio  created to purchase $62.1
billion of collateralized debt obligations tied to risky
residential- and commercial-mortgage securities that helped sink
AIG when property markets tumbled.  Demand for subprime mortgage debt and CDOs has jumped this
year as the housing recovery strengthened and the Fed extended
programs to keep borrowing costs low. AIG has received more than
$6 billion in proceeds through July from the auctions and may
get another $1.9 billion this month, helping Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche , 68, buy back shares from majority
owner the U.S. Treasury Department. The insurer is now entitled
to receive one-third of the proceeds from sales since the
central bank fully recovered its investment in June and AIG’s
equity contribution was repaid last month.  “People will debate forever if the bailouts worked and how
they should have happened, but you can say the Treasury has been
a good owner of AIG,” Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. said in a telephone interview. “These auctions
are good for the Treasury because the Fed selling its interest
in Maiden Lane III has allowed AIG to raise liquidity, with
which it can support the Treasury by buying back stock.”  Public Benefit  The New York Fed’s management of Maiden Lane III will
result in a cumulative net gain to the public of about $6.6
billion, the district bank said today in a statement.  Banks that bought assets today include  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., Morgan Stanley and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, according to the New York
Fed’s  website .  Today’s sale “marks the end of an important chapter, our
assistance to AIG, that was undertaken to stabilize the
financial system in the midst of the financial crisis,”  William Dudley , president of the New York Fed, said in the statement.  Joe Norton , a spokesman for New York-based AIG, declined to
comment yesterday.  AIG’s rescue in 2008 swelled to include a $60 billion
 credit line  from the New York Fed, as much as $52.5 billion for
two Maiden Lane programs and a Treasury investment of up to
$69.8 billion. The Treasury has since cut its stake in AIG to 53
percent from 92 percent by selling shares, the credit line has
been repaid and  Maiden Lane II , created to buy about $39 billion
in residential-mortgage securities was unwound earlier this year
through asset sales.  ‘Backdoor Bailout’  Maiden Lane III was created to purchase CDOs to cancel
credit-default swaps that AIG had sold to protect counterparties
against losses, sparing firms including  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  from damages and sparking criticism
from lawmakers who called it a “backdoor bailout” of banks.  The debt was purchased at about half its face value,
reflecting markdowns AIG had already taken. AIG’s counterparties
were permitted to keep about $35 billion in collateral payments
the insurer had already posted, meaning they received face value
for the assets, according to a 2010 report by the Office of the
Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  The rescue was among measures the U.S. government and
central bank undertook in 2008 to try and thwart the deepest
financial crisis since the Great Depression. In total, they
spent, lent or committed as much as $12.8 trillion, including
the Troubled Asset Relief Program to bolster banks and
automakers.  ‘Unprecedented Tools’  “It was an unprecedented time and the Fed used
unprecedented tools,” said Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage
bonds at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc. which oversees about
$130 billion. “In hindsight some worked really well, some
really didn’t. This is one that worked fairly well.”  The Fed removed distressed assets from the market when
prices were tumbling and sold them when the market was able to
absorb them, said Whalen. The process could have been improved,
he said.  Last year, when the Fed began trying to sell the holdings,
it invited more than 40 broker-dealers to take part in a series
of auctions. It switched to a less open process this year after
traders blamed the regular, more public disposals for damaging
prices. It later resumed a process more similar to its original
program.  Home Sales  Hedge funds  and insurers including AIG have snapped up non-
government backed mortgage debt this year betting the housing
and commercial property markets are stabilizing.  Sales of previously owned homes rose to an annual pace of
4.47 million last month, up from 4.37 million in June, the
National Association of Realtors reported yesterday.  Home prices 
have risen for three straight months since February after
dropping more than 35 percent from the 2006 peak, according to
an  S&P/Case Shiller index .  “Trends in economic data indicate the worst of the housing
crisis may be past,” Joshua Anderson, a portfolio manager at
the  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s largest bond manager, and Emmanuel Sharef, a structured credit analyst, wrote in a commentary
posted on its website this week. “PIMCO believes that over the
coming years, housing related assets have the potential to
outperform the conservative assumptions embedded in their
current market valuations.”  Typical prices for the most-senior bonds tied to option
adjustable-rate mortgages, a type of non-agency debt, soared to
62 cents on the dollar last week, from 49 cents in November,
according to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  data.  AIG Purchased  AIG has already purchased $7.1 billion this year in
mortgage-related securities from Maiden Lane III auctions as
part of a plan to increase investment yields, the company said
Aug. 2. It reported its third straight quarterly profit this
month with net income of $2.33 billion.  The insurer rose 0.6 percent to $33.76 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York, the only gain among 22 companies in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Insurance  Index. (S5INSU)  AIG returned 46 percent this year, the
biggest advance in that benchmark.  The Fed’s sale of Maiden Lane III will help to support
prices of non-agency debt, according to Whalen.  “Last fall we were all very concerned about legacy supply
pushing prices down and Maiden Lane portfolios were a big part
of that legacy supply,” he said. “Now it looks like it’s all
going to be moved and it’s not going to lower prices, we’re
actually going to see prices rise into the sale.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 