-- Akin’s Run Reflects Missouri’s Flight From Political Moderation
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/akin-s-run-reflects-missouri-s-flight-from-political-moderation.html
Harry Truman ’s  Missouri  was a window
on the nation’s culture and politics. It gave its electoral
votes to eventual occupants of the White House for almost a
century, choosing wrong just twice.  The Missouri of Todd Akin, the U.S. Senate nominee running
against the wishes of Republican leaders after he said that
raped women are less likely to become pregnant, reflects the
might of anti-abortion forces and evangelical Christians who
have transformed the state.  Akin, a six-term congressman from suburban St. Louis who
unexpectedly won the Aug. 7 primary, is a beneficiary of the
culture wars in Missouri, a state of 6 million at the forefront
of legal battles over abortion, capital punishment, stem-cell
research and school desegregation. So are some of the same
Republicans calling for him to drop out, saying his remarks make
him unelectable in November. He is refusing to budge and,
through his campaign website, is asking supporters for $3
contributions.  “The Republicans have reaped what they sowed,” said  Terry
Jones , a political scientist at the University of Missouri-St.
Louis, saying the forces that fueled the party’s growth may now
undermine its electoral chances against Democratic U.S. Senator
Claire McCaskill.  The Missouri that was torn between the Union and the
Confederacy during the Civil War 150 years ago has definitively
become a Southern state, Jones said. Social conservatives
compose 37 percent of the electorate, he said, aligning it more
with the reliably Republican South, the citadel of the party.  Ever Whiter  Once the nation’s demographic mirror, Missouri is 81
percent white, compared with 63 percent nationally, and 4
percent Hispanic, one-fourth the percentage of the nation,
according to the Census Bureau. The southwestern portion of the
state, among the fastest-growing regions, is a Republican
bulwark, according to voting records.  Akin, an abortion opponent and home-schooling advocate
first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2000,
reflects the state’s Republican electoral mindset. While
Governor Jay Nixon, Secretary of State  Robin Carnahan  and
Attorney General Chris Koster are Democrats, Republicans have a
commanding grip on the Legislature, holding a 106-57 seat
advantage in the House and 26-8 in the Senate.  Three Missouri laws restricting access to abortion have
been decided by the U.S. Supreme Court, and opposition to the
medical procedure has raged in the state for four decades.  Defining Controversy  “It’s an issue in practically every race,” said Sam Lee,
president of the St. Louis-based anti-abortion group Campaign
Life Missouri. “A Republican has an automatic advantage because
people have a distrust of pro-life Democrats.”  The state’s voters were first in the nation to speak out
against Democratic President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law,
approving by an almost 3-to-1 margin in August 2010 a non-
binding referendum repealing the requirement that everyone buy
insurance. In 2004 voters in every county approved a ban on gay
marriage. The proposal was defeated only in  St. Louis , which is
independent of the surrounding county.  “The  Republican Party  has done a better job than the
Democrats in getting out the vote, especially in the rural parts
of the state,” said St. Louis University political scientist
Kenneth Warren. “Republicans are much better organized.”  McCaskill, Akin’s opponent, is viewed by Republicans as the
most vulnerable member of the U.S Senate, representing the best
chance for the party to take control of the chamber.  Gathering Storm  Ike Skelton , a Democrat who represented a western Missouri
U.S. House district for 34 years and was voted out of office in
2010, called that year’s election “a tsunami” in an interview.  That storm was no freak. Rather, it was the culmination of
the state’s populist bent and long-held suspicion of big
government, Jones said.  “Missouri has come a little later to what came to the old
Confederate states in the ’80s and ’90s,” Jones said. “They
removed conservative Democrats and replaced them with
conservative Republicans.”  Missouri is tight with the dollar. It has the nation’s
lowest-paid state employees, according to a 2010 measurement by
the Census Bureau. Its fiscal prudence has helped maintain a AAA
credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service since 1964.  Still, the state’s economy hasn’t thrived. The Bloomberg
Economic Evaluation of States, an index of factors that includes
growth in employment,  tax revenue  and personal income, ranked
the state 31st from the first quarter of 1995 through the first
quarter of this year.  Assassination Attempt  The state also has a history of turmoil and political
surprises. In 2010, Nixon missed an assassination attempt when
an attacker mistook a community-college dean in  Kansas City  for
the governor and stabbed him, not fatally. After Democratic U.S.
Senate candidate Mel Carnahan was killed in an October 2000
plane crash, voters posthumously chose him over former governor
John Ashcroft by 2 percentage points.  Statewide elections reflect an urban-rural political
divide, with Republicans carrying most of the state outside
Kansas City, St. Louis and Columbia, home of the  University of
Missouri .  Akin, who said after his surprise 2000 primary victory that
his “base will show up in earthquakes,” is again counting on
support from those social conservatives. He defeated St. Louis
businessman John Brunner and former State Treasurer Sarah Steelman in the primary.  Into Trouble  Then, on Aug. 19, he told a television interviewer that
rape rarely causes pregnancy because a woman’s body shuts down
her reproductive system. He later asked for forgiveness in a
television advertisement. Still, presumed Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  and other party members called
on him to quit.  Akin’s campaign communications director, Ryan Hite, didn’t
return a call seeking comment yesterday.  Polls paint conflicting pictures. A Rasmussen Reports
survey released yesterday had McCaskill leading 48 percent to 38
percent. A Public Policy Polling measurement Aug. 20 showed Akin
up 44 percent to 43 percent.  “It can sometimes be a hard state to read, but it is
trending Republican,” Warren said, citing the selection of  John McCain  over Obama in 2008. “However, the impact of the Akin
thing could be devastating for the Republicans.”  Akin has vowed to plow on.  “I’m in the fight to the end,” he said on his website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in St. Louis at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  