-- Probe Fuels More Bickering in Peru’s Presidential Family
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-08-23T19:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/allegations-fuel-more-bickering-in-peru-s-presidential-family.html
Graft allegations targeted at the
brother of President Ollanta Humala have sparked a new round of
bickering between members of  Peru ’s ruling family.  A congressional panel yesterday sought permission to
investigate Alexis Humala after a report alleged that he’s a
shareholder in  Krasny del Peru , a pharmaceuticals company that
won more than 500 million soles ($191 million) of government
contracts. Peruvian law bars relatives of public officials from
bidding in state tenders.  Cabinet Chief Juan Jimenez said Aug. 21 that any public
officials who favored the company should be severely punished,
while congressmen from the president’s own party called for a
probe. President Humala’s parents and siblings have become his
harshest critics since he took office a year ago and the latest
outbreak of family squabbling may damage his popularity, Bank of
America said in a note to clients yesterday.  Humala’s father, Isaac, a lawyer and a one-time communist,
this week described the allegations against Alexis as
“exaggerated” and vowed to defend him. He told Lima-based ATV+
the first lady Nadine Heredia was “drunk on power” after she
called for her brother-in-law to be reprimanded if he’s found
guilty of wrongdoing. He also called Jimenez an “idiot” for
backing the investigation.  ‘Same for Everyone’  In a statement on its website, Lima-based Krasny said
Alexis Humala is no longer a shareholder in the company and
denied winning any contracts illegally. Humala sold his shares a
year ago, La Republica  reported  on its website today.  Still, Alexis Humala will be called to appear before
Congress’ health panel, which is also looking into the case.  The president said yesterday he regretted his father’s
comments. “The law is the same for everyone. I govern for
everyone and not for personal interests,” he told reporters in
 Lima .  Humala’s first year in office has been peppered with spats
with his father and his siblings, who have criticized the one-
time ally of  Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez  for continuing the
investor-friendly policies of previous governments.  Isaac Humala said in May the government’s pro-business
stance would flounder and urged the president to reject foreign
mining investment and boost the state’s role in the economy.  His family has also voiced support for the community
protests against  Newmont Mining Corp (NEM) ’s Minas Conga project which
the government has spent the last 10 months trying to resolve.  Jailed Brother  Even Ollanta Humala’s jailed brother has launched jibes
against him.  In comments to Peru21 newspaper in March, Antauro Humala, a
former army major who was imprisoned in 2009 for the killing of
four policeman during a failed uprising, referred to his brother
as “the palace watchman” and said he’d run for the presidency
himself in 2016.  Antauro was moved to Peru’s highest security prison weeks
later after images that showed him smoking marijuana and using a
smart phone threatened to undermine his brother’s popularity.  Isaac Humala alleges that Antauro was tortured during the
prison transfer and plans to file a complaint with the
Washington-based Inter-American Commission on  Human Rights .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  