-- Amkor, LG, Amazon, Goa, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-23T11:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/amkor-lg-amazon-goa-google-intellectual-property.html
Amkor Technology Inc. (AMKR)  won an appeals
court ruling that revives its patent-infringement case against
Malaysia’s Carsem M Sdn Bhd over integrated circuits at the U.S.
International Trade Commission.  Amkor, based in Chandler,  Arizona , is a provider of
semiconductor packaging and test services.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit  said 
yesterday that the agency applied an erroneous legal standard to
determine an Amkor patent is invalid and sent the case back to
the ITC for further review.  The case is Amkor Tech v. ITC, 10-01550, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  LG Electronics Sues Toshiba-Samsung Venture Over Patents  LG Electronics Inc. of South Korea sued a joint venture of
 Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in federal court in
 Delaware , alleging infringement of four U.S. patents for
optical-disc technology.  LG said in yesterday’s complaint that Toshiba Samsung
Storage Technology Corp. of Tokyo knew about the inventions
because it licensed the patents until the end of 2010.  The defendants “have failed to renew their license to the
patents-in-suit, and defendants therefore knowingly remain
unlicensed,” officials of Seoul-based LG said in court papers.  The inventions, patented since 2000, cover rewritable and
record/playback media used in computers, camcorders and video
recorders, according to court papers.  LG is asking for a  jury trial , unspecified damages based on
lost profits and “no less than a reasonable royalty” for use
of the inventions.  A Toshiba spokeswoman, Rebecca Bueno in  Irvine ,  California ,
didn’t immediately return voice and e-mailed messages seeking
comment on the lawsuit. Kasia McManamon, representing Samsung in
Ridgefield Park,  New Jersey , didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail and phone call seeking comment.  In dispute are patents 6,101,162, 7,380,159, 7,380,178, and
6,477,126.  The case is  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  v. Toshiba Samsung Storage
Technology Corp., 12-cv-1063, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  For Apple-Samsung Jury, More Than 600 Questions Need Answers  The jurors who will decide the outcome of the intellectual-
property trial between Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.
must answer more than 600 questions simply to get to the end of
their verdict form.  The trial over smartphone and tablet patents, which
concluded Aug. 21 in federal court in  San Jose , California,
produced dozens of exhibits, 50 hours of argument and testimony
over three weeks, and a multitude of calculations to arrive at
estimated potential damages of billions of dollars.  That was before U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh started
reading 109 pages of instructions to guide the nine-member jury
through the labyrinthine 20-page verdict form. The exercise,
done yesterday before lawyers gave closing arguments, required
more than two hours, including court-ordered “stand up” breaks
to make sure everyone stayed alert.  The verdict form is a “whopper,” Stanford Law School
professor  Mark Lemley  said in an interview. Asking jurors to
parse three different sets of legal rules for the claims at
issue -- utility patents, design patents and trade dress, or how
a product looks -- “will be particularly hard,” he said.  “The jury needs to figure out what category to put each
patent in, and then remember to apply some of the rules”
contained in the judge’s instructions “to some of the patents,
and other rules to other patents,” he said.  The jury started deliberating yesterday. Federal rules
require that for either side to win, the jury verdict must be
unanimous.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sued Samsung in
April 2011, and Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung countersued.
The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a battle
being waged on four continents for dominance in a smartphone
market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion.  Apple alleges infringement of seven of its patents and
seeks $2.5 billion to $2.75 billion in damages. The world’s most
valuable company also seeks to make permanent a preliminary ban
it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung tablet computer, and extend
the ban to Samsung smartphones.  At least 28 Samsung products are accused of infringement,
and the verdict form requires jurors to specify which corporate
entity -- the Samsung parent company and two U.S. units -- is
responsible for copying and how much in damages, if any, Samsung
owes for each infringing device.  Samsung claims infringement of five of its patents and
seeks as much as $421.8 million in royalties.  The trial, which began July 30, wrapped up yesterday with
two hours of closing arguments by each side.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Grace Digital Switches to ‘MatchStick’ in Lieu of ‘FireDock’  Grace Digital Inc. , a San Diego electronics company, said
in a March  statement  that it had designed a docking system for
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire e-reader and that the item would
be available in mid-July.  “FireDock” is the name Grace Digital gave the device,
which was to sell for $130.  The name is no longer Grace Digital’s. According to a July
11 filing with the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office , the
application was transferred to Seattle-based Amazon, the world’s
largest online retailer. The database of pending trademark
applications now lists only Amazon as the owner of the mark, and
gives a July 11 application date.  According to that filing, Amazon plans to use the mark with
audio speakers and carrying cases.  Meanwhile, Grace Digital lists a new docking device for the
Kindle Fire. This time it’s called the “ MatchStick .” While
there are a number of pending applications to register the term
as a trademark, to date none of them are for audio equipment,
according to the patent office database.  Anti-Tobacco Group Urges Goa to Register Name, India Blooms Says  An organization aimed at ending the use of tobacco in  India 
suggested that the state of Goa register its name to halt its
unauthorized use by commercial entities, the India Blooms news
service reported.  The impetus for the suggestion is a commercial promoting a
betel nut product, “ GOA gutka ,” which the anti-tobacco group
said creates the false impression that gutka, a combination of
crushed betel nut with tobacco and other substances, isn’t
illegal in the state, according to India Blooms.  Shekhar Salkar, general secretary of the National
Organization for Tobacco Eradication, said in a statement that
the government should “come up with norms restraining the usage
of the name for commercial purpose without the prior consent and
permission of the state,” the news service reported.  Manohar Parrikar , chief minister of the state of Goa, said
his government will consult with legal authorities about how
best to protect Goa’s name and that some legal action will be
taken against the makers of GOA gutka.  Burnt-Out New Orleans Baker Tells Helpers Thanks But No Thanks  Hubig’s Pies , a New Orleans business whose factory was
 destroyed in a fire  on July 27, asked those who want to help the
100-year-old company rebuild to stop using its name.  In a  statement  posted on the company’s website, Hubig’s
said that “many” unsolicited campaigns have begun and “they
take precious time to manage.”  So the company, which is famed for its hand-held sweet
pies, is requesting that all who are using the Hubig’s name or
likeness “cease their campaign.”  Hubig’s said its brand “is of utmost importance to the
future of the company, and until we are making pies again it is
our most important asset.”  The statement isn’t receiving a uniformly warm response.  After a  story about Hubig’s request  ran in the Times-
Picayune newspaper, readers held forth in a comments section,
saying, “Hubig’s should be thankful for the free publicity,”
and “Is the problem that these people are using your logo to
give you free publicity, and helping you solidify regional brand
loyalty? Or is the problem that you want to be monetarily
compensated for its usage?”  One reader said “Imagine if Campbell’s (soup) sent a
letter to (Andy) Warhol.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Government Says It Acts Against Android App Piracy Websites  Three Internet domain names of websites accused of
distributing pirated copies of Android mobile-phone applications
were seized, the U.S. Justice Department said in a  statement .  Visitors to the sites -- applanet.net, appbucke.net and
snappzmarket.com -- will find a banner that notifies them of the
domain’s seizure by the U.S. and “educates them that willful
copyright infringement is a federal crime, according to the
statement.  During the investigation leading up to the seizure, agents
of the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation downloaded “thousands”
of applications for Google Inc.’s Android system, the government
said. Search warrants were executed in six different judicial
districts as part of the process.  The government said this is the first time domains
involving mobile-phone applications have been seized in an
action against copyright infringement.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  South Africa Agriculture Minister Says Secrets Compromised  South Africa’s Agriculture Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson
said concern over  trade secrets  is among the reasons she has
replaced many staff members at her ministry with people she
considers trusted confidants, the Johannesburg Sunday World
 reported .  The minister told the Sunday World she feared some
employees were being paid by companies to ferret out sensitive
information.  The newspaper reported that Joemat-Pettersson claimed to be
receiving death threats from people she said want to halt her
anti-corruption efforts.  As a result of some of the firings, one former staffer is
suing for constructive discharge, claiming to have served
“diligently and loyally,” according to the Sunday World.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  