-- Angola’s Opposition Planning Protest Over Election
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-08-23T15:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/angola-s-opposition-planning-protest-over-election-correct-.html
(Corrects date of protest in first paragraph)  Opposition parties in  Angola ,
 Africa ’s second-largest oil producer, plan to demonstrate on
Aug. 25 against conditions for the country’s general election
next week.  Unita, a former rebel movement, and Casa-Ce, a party
started this year by a former Unita leader, have objected to
aspects of the ballot in Luanda, the capital. Angola’s electoral
commission is expected to meet tomorrow and may issue a ruling
on the complaints.  “On Saturday, we’re going to the electoral commission
building,” Lindo Tito, a spokesman for Casa-Ce leader Abel
Chuvukuvuku, said by telephone from Luanda. “It’s about the
campaign.”  The election for parliament will be the nation’s second
since the end of a 27-year civil war in 2002 and the first in
two decades that could produce a new president. The biggest
party in parliament chooses the president of the former Marxist
state that pumps 1.8 million barrels of a crude a day.  Unita has asked the commission to revise how and where
votes are counted. They have also complained about how some
voters weren’t registered in areas of the country that have
traditionally favored the opposition, while registrants in some
ruling-party strongholds exceeded the usual population. They
have criticized the electoral commission for meeting at night
without opposition party delegates.  With more than 6 million registered members, President Jose Eduardo dos Santos’s ruling  Popular Movement  for the Liberation
of Angola, or MPLA, captured 82 percent of the votes in a 2008
ballot. Dos Santos is Africa’s longest-serving ruler after
Equatorial Guinea’s president, Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo.
Both came to power in 1979.  Demonstrations in Luanda and some other cities in the past
year against the dos Santos administration have resulted in
arrests and beatings by security forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  