-- Apple Appeals Kodak Bankruptcy Court Patent Case Ruling
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-08-23T20:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/apple-appeals-kodak-bankruptcy-court-patent-case-ruling.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is appealing a bankruptcy
judge’s ruling in favor of Eastman Kodak Co. that blocked the
iPhone maker’s claims to two patents.  Apple said in a court filing yesterday that it is
challenging U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper’s decision that
gave Kodak a partial victory in a lawsuit over ownership of 10
patents.  The assets are among more than 1,000 patents that Kodak put
up for sale as part of its bankruptcy restructuring. The
Rochester, New York-based company sued Apple after Apple
asserted claims to the patents.  Gropper ruled in favor of Kodak on two of the patents,
saying Apple waited too long to assert its claims. The judge
denied Kodak’s request for a pretrial ruling known as summary
judgment on the eight other patents and said Kodak could renew
its request.  “Apple believes a prompt appeal of this order is necessary
in view of the prospect that Kodak will seek to sell the patents
at issue free and clear of Apple’s interests prior to full
adjudication of Apple’s appeal,” Apple attorney  Brian Lennon 
wrote in a letter yesterday to Gropper.  Stefanie Goodsell, a Kodak spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
comment about the appeal. Kodak said today in a statement that
it hasn’t made a decision about selling the digital-imaging
patents and may keep the portfolio.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, said the U.S.
District Court in Manhattan may not allow its appeal to proceed
at this stage or may ask for arguments on the issue.  The lawsuit is  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  v.  Apple Inc. (AAMRQ) , 12-01720,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  