-- Target Cheaper Than Wal-Mart as Gap Widest in Two Years
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/target-cheaper-than-wal-mart-as-gap-widest-in-two-years.html
Target Corp. (TGT)  is living up to the
second half of its “Expect more. Pay less.” slogan by winning
the latest round in its pricing battle with  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Target this month had lower prices than Wal-Mart for the
first time since October, according to research conducted by
Bloomberg Industries. The Minneapolis-based chain also led by
its widest margin since the monthly study began two years ago.
The study examined the gap in average price across a basket of
150 like items at stores within five miles of each other.  The discounters are fighting for U.S. customers who are
still dealing with high unemployment and slow wage growth. The
chains also are facing more competition from online retailers
such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which offers free shipping and is
adding distribution centers to speed up delivery time.  Consumers who shop at discount chains “are trying to
stretch their budgetary dollars as much as possible,” Jennifer Bartashus, an analyst for Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New
Jersey , said in an interview. “They will be driven to whatever
store offers the better value.”  The second-largest U.S. discounter won this month by
cutting into Wal-Mart’s lead in food prices. Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart’s advantage in groceries fell to 1.35
percentage points from 4.5 percentage points in July. Target’s
improvement in food may have come because of more promotions
tied to back-to-school shopping, Bartashus said.  Wal-Mart also lost ground on food prices to Bottom Dollar,
a grocery store chain owned by  Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , according to a
separate Bloomberg Industries study released Aug. 20.  ‘Some Differences’  Wal-Mart is still the price leader, and if a rival shows
lower prices, it is either because of a temporary sale or
promotion, Deisha Galberth Barnett, a company spokeswoman, said
in a phone interview.  “Anytime there’s an environment with high-low retailers,
pricing surveys will reflect some differences,” Galberth
Barnett said in an e-mailed statement. “Walmart is delivering
everyday low prices -- not pricing gimmicks -- every day, 365
days per year, not just during a single week or during a
particular season. Our customers don’t have to wait for a sale
or look for an ad.”  Wal-Mart also has its Ad Match Guarantee, through which it
will match local competitors’ advertised prices on identical
products, Galberth Barnett said.  Save Money  Wal-Mart, which has “Save money. Live better.” in its
logo, has focused on cutting prices and adding items to bring
consumers back to its stores after same-store sales in the U.S.,
its largest market, declined for more than two years. Revenue by
that measure has since rebounded with gains in four straight
quarters for the world’s largest retailer.  “Wal-Mart has been rolling out 88-cent deals and very
publicly communicating its ad-match campaign, so it’s a real
blow that Target has managed to trump them on price,” Natalie Berg, an analyst with London research firm  Planet Retail , said
in an e-mail. “When it comes to seasonal, nobody does it better
than Target. This year, they’ve gone in all guns blazing,
getting more aggressive on price and creating a far more
compelling in-store environment than Wal-Mart.”  The price leadership by Target is a surprise because the
retailer doesn’t try to beat Wal-Mart on price across the entire
store, said Patrick McKeever, managing director with MKM
Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The two retailers will battle
on key categories, he said.  ‘Most Visible’  “Target is very focused on being priced on par with Wal-
Mart, especially in things like consumables and cleaning
products,” McKeever said in a phone interview. “They try to be
competitive with Wal-Mart on items that are the most visible.”  Target, which only has locations in the U.S., has become a
stronger competitor in food by adding grocery sections to more
than 1,000 of its 1,772 stores in the past three years. That has
helped boost sales while the company slowed store openings
before expanding to  Canada  next year.  Target fell 0.7 percent to $63.68 yesterday in  New York  and
has gained 24 percent this year. Wal-Mart gained 0.5 percent to
$71.77 yesterday and has advanced 20 percent this year.  Target has traded at a discount to Wal-Mart on a price-to-
earnings basis since May 3 and was 16 percent cheaper as
recently as July, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Target closed at a 30 percent discount to the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Retailing Index (S5RETL)  yesterday.  Price Study  The discounters study showed that prices at Target were
0.46 percentage point cheaper than Wal-Mart this month. That
means for every $100, Target was 46 cents less expensive. Wal-
Mart led by 2.01 percentage points in July.  “Consistent with our long-time practice, Target regularly
shops competitors to ensure we are at price parity on like and
identical items in local markets,” Amy Reilly, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The research also included  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ’s Kmart
chain, where prices were higher than Target and Wal-Mart by more
than 23 percentage points.  While losing to Target, Wal-Mart still can claim an
advantage over Amazon, according to a study conducted in June by
Kantar Retail, a London-based research firm. It compared prices
on a range of 36 items and found that on average goods are 20
percent more expensive at Amazon than at Wal-Mart. On the
companies’ websites, Wal-Mart’s advantage fell to 7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  