-- Argentina-Style Default Not Belize’s Model, Prime Minister Says
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-08-23T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/argentina-style-default-not-belize-s-model-prime-minister-says.html
Belize hired the same  law firm  as
Argentina when deciding to push for its second bond
restructuring in five years. Prime Minister Dean Barrow wants
the comparisons between the countries to end there.  Barrow sought yesterday to assuage the concerns of Greylock
Capital Management, TCW Group Inc., and other holders of $544
million in bonds after it missed an Aug. 20 coupon payment. His
administration is open to all restructuring proposals put
forward by investors as long as they lead to “sustainable”
debt payments for the $1.4 billion Central American economy, he
said in a national address.  The 61-year-old premier sent a team of finance officials to
 Washington  to meet with representatives of the U.S. Treasury
Department, the  International Monetary Fund  and  Inter-American
Development Bank  to discuss funding options after missing the
$23 million coupon payment. The government is working with New
York-based law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLC, which
advised Argentina on its two debt restructurings following a
2001 default on $95 billion of bonds.  “We really don’t want things to get to that point,”
Barrow said in an interview in  Belize City  yesterday when asked
about the possibility of facing lawsuits and being blocked from
international credit markets, as Argentina has been since 2001.
“We determined from the start that it would never deteriorate
into us proactively saying ‘take it or leave it’” to investors,
he added.  The price on Belize’s so-called superbond maturing in 2029
rose 0.49 cent yesterday to 34.99 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  estimates the
government’s three proposed restructuring options give the
securities a net present value of 20 cents, the least among 16
sovereign debt restructurings since 1998.  Significant Gaps  Wedged between Mexico and  Guatemala  on the Caribbean coast,
Belize says it can’t afford to pay its debt after the coupon on
the securities jumped to 8.5 percent from 6 percent as part of
an accord reached with bondholders in 2007.  Barrow, speaking to reporters in Belize City in his first
national address since the missed payment, said the
restructuring scenarios the government published Aug. 8 “are
intended to serve as a basis for detailed discussions” with
creditors that have yet to take place. He said that his
government isn’t prioritizing payments to holders of the
nationalized telecommunication and electricity companies over
bondholders.  “We face significant and persistent financing gaps,”
Barrow said in his speech. “It may appear Belize is asking for
a lot, but we aren’t asking for more than the circumstances
require.”  Two of the  three restructuring scenarios  call for a 45
percent principal reduction, a lower coupon and a maturity
extension to 2042 from 2029. The third option includes the
reduction of the 8.5 percent coupon rate to 2 percent with a 15-
year principal grace period and a maturity date extension to
2062, the central bank said Aug. 8.  Argentine Example  Argentina ,  South America ’s second-biggest economy, offered
bondholders securities valued at 30 cents on the dollar in a
debt exchange in 2005 following its default, Scotiabank said,
citing data from Moody’s Investors Service. A subsequent debt
swap in 2010 hasn’t helped the country end lawsuits by creditors
seeking full payment on the notes. Argentina hasn’t sold bonds
abroad since the default.  “All sides want the same thing,” said AJ Mediratta, a
partner at Greylock who is leading a group of investors holding
about $300 million of Belize’s bonds, in an Aug. 20 interview
from  New York . “At some point the committee and Belize are
going to sit at a round table and come up with a solution.”  Belize’s economy may get an unexpected boost as tourism and
banana production beat the government’s estimates this year,
Barrow said. Economic growth may reach 3 percent in 2012, a full
percentage point more than the administration expected, he said.  The tourism and services-dependent economy expanded 2
percent in 2011. Manufacturing and construction made up 21
percent of the economy, while agriculture and fishing’s
contribution fell for a sixth consecutive year, to 11 percent,
according to the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Faries in Belize City at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  