-- Asian Stocks Advance on U.S., China Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-23T08:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/asian-stocks-rise-as-fed-minutes-show-stimulus-support.html
Asian  stocks  advanced, with the
region’s benchmark index set for its highest close since May, on
speculation central banks in the U.S. and  China  will ease
monetary policy amid signs growth is slowing.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , the mainland’s biggest producer of the
metal, climbed 3.6 percent in  Hong Kong  after the People’s Bank
of China left the door open to more interest-rate cuts.
Sinopharm Group Co. jumped 6.2 percent after first-half profit
rose 22 percent at the nation’s No. 1 pharmaceuticals
distributor. QR National Ltd. added 2.3 percent after
Australia’s largest coal-train operator beat profit estimates.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 0.9 percent to 121.73 as
of 5:29 p.m. in Tokyo, with almost two shares rising for each
that fell. The gauge, which is headed for its highest close
since May 4, extended its advance after U.S. Federal  Reserve
Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans  urged more accommodative
policy by central banks around the world.  “Some form of quantitative easing is coming soonish,”
said Matthew Sherwood, Sydney-based head of markets research at
Perpetual Investments, which manages about $25 billion. “U.S.
policy makers are frustrated with the anemic pace of the
recovery and this increased the odds that some form of
additional Fed easing will be implemented at the central bank’s
September meeting.”  Stimulus Bets  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has risen more than 11 percent
from a June low on bets monetary authorities in the U.S., Europe
and China would take action to boost slowing growth. Stocks on
Asia’s benchmark index were  valued  at 12.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.7 for the S&P 500 and 11.7
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 1.2 percent. PBOC Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  yesterday said adjustments to  interest rates  and
banks’ reserve requirements are still possible even after the
central bank stepped up temporary cash injections this month.
Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 0.5 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.2 percent and South Korea’s Kospi
Index both increased 0.4 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 0.3 percent, having
swung between gains and losses at least seven times, after a
report showed China’s manufacturing may contract at a faster
pace in August, signaling more stimulus is needed by the world’s
second-largest economy.  The preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’ index
for China released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics was 47.8 after July’s final 49.3 figure. If confirmed,
it would be the weakest level since November. It would also mark
the 10th month the gauge was below the 50 threshold that signals
contraction, the longest run of such readings in the index’s
eight-year history.  Bad News?  “It’s probably one of these occasions when bad news is
good news,” said  Garry Evans , Hong Kong-based head of global
equity strategy at HSBC, Europe’s biggest lender. “Slightly
weak China data maybe says we are going to get more policy
response.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent today. The gauge rose less than 0.1 percent yesterday,
reversing a 0.5 percent drop after minutes of the  Federal
Reserve ’s most recent meeting showed many policy makers favored
further stimulus measures unless the economy shows signs of
sustainable recovery.  Jackson Hole  Fed policy makers said after the July 31-Aug. 1 meeting
that they will step up record stimulus if needed to spur growth
and cut a jobless rate stuck above 8 percent since February
2009. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will have an opportunity to
clarify his views in an Aug. 31 speech at a forum for central
bankers in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , where he signaled a second
round of bond buying by the Fed in 2010. Fed officials next meet
on Sept. 12-13.  Raw material producers and information-technology companies
advanced the most among the  10 industry groups  in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. Jiangxi Copper climbed 3.2 percent to HK$18.80 in
Hong Kong.  Glencore International Plc (805) , the world’s largest
publicly traded commodities supplier, rose 2 percent to
HK$43.85.  China Telecom Corp. (728)  surged 6.7 percent to HK$4.45,
extending gains for a second day, after the country’s biggest
fixed-line carrier yesterday posted second-quarter profit that
beat analyst estimates. JPMorgan Chase & Co. today raised its
rating to overweight from neutral, citing rising mobile users.  Sinopharm Jumps  Of the 458 companies in the Asia-Pacific index that have
reported  quarterly earnings  since July 1, and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, more than half failed to meet
projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sinopharm jumped 6.2 percent to HK$24.80 after saying
first-half profit increased 22 percent from a year earlier to
959.1 million  yuan  ($151 million) as broader health insurance
coverage and higher subsidies spurred demand for medicines in
China.  Henderson Land Development Co. advanced 4.7 percent to
HK$49.05 after the Hong Kong builder controlled by billionaire
Lee Shau-kee reported underlying profit of HK$3.59 billion ($463
million) for the first half, topping the median estimate of
HK$2.7 billion of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Wharf Holdings Ltd. rose 4.7 percent to HK$48.90. The Hong
Kong developer expanding in at least 14 Chinese cities said
first-half profit excluding exceptional items rose 49 percent
from a year earlier to HK$5.43 billion on sales from a Shanghai
project and climbing rental income.  QR National (QRN)  rose 2.3 percent to A$3.55 in Sydney after
posting full-year net income of A$440.9 million ($464 million),
exceeding the A$372.5 million average estimate by eight analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Among stocks that fell, Fairfax Media Ltd. slumped 9.7
percent to 51 Australian cents, the most on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. The publisher of the Australian Financial Review
posted a record annual loss after writing down the value of
newspaper titles by A$2.8 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  