-- Astral Foods Cuts 150 Jobs as Grain Prices Rise to Record
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-08-24T15:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/astral-foods-cuts-150-jobs-as-grain-prices-rise-to-record.html
Astral Foods Ltd. (ARL) , South Africa’s
second-biggest chicken producer, cut 150 jobs as it reduced
output after the price of grains, the biggest cost, surged to a
record and cheaper imports of the birds increased.  The reductions are “directly related to ‘cutbacks’ on
production,” Chief Executive Officer Chris Schutte said in an
e-mailed response to questions Aug. 21. “Further cutbacks and
possible retrenchments will follow.”  Local prices of grains, which comprise as much as 75
percent of the cost of producing chickens, rallied to a record
last month as the worst U.S. drought in almost 50 years damaged
crops and raised world prices. Poultry imports to South Africa
are at a record according to Astral, which employs more than
12,000 full-time and contract employees.  Poultry producers may have to cut more positions as
companies struggle to pass expenses onto consumers, the South
African Poultry Association said.  “Some of them have already retrenched, but they are
planning to retrench in the order of 3,000 people over the next
month or so,” association Chief Executive Officer Kevin Lovell
said in an Aug. 7 interview. “Disposable incomes are stretched
for consumers. As much as we know we need to raise prices, we
also know that the chances of being able to do that are rather
limited.”  Jobs, Growth  The nation’s economy, the continent’s biggest, will
probably expand 2.6 percent this year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , less than the National Treasury’s
February estimate of 2.7 percent. The government has said it
needs 7 percent annual growth to cut the jobless rate to 15
percent by 2020 from 25 percent currently, the highest of more
than 60 nations tracked by Bloomberg.  South Africa ’s per-capita chicken consumption was forecast
at 31.2 kilograms (68 pounds) by the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  last year, compared with 59.4 kilograms in the
 United Arab Emirates , the biggest per-capita consumer in the
study, and 2.3 kilograms in  India , the least per person.  Rainbow Chicken Ltd. (RBW) , the nation’s biggest poultry producer
by volume, on Aug. 15 said earnings per share in the year
through June probably fell as much as 35 percent compared with
the previous 15-month period. Astral’s profit for the six months
through March dropped 17 percent, it said on May 14.  Rainbow hasn’t cut any jobs as a result of the state of the
chicken industry, it said in an e-mailed response to a query on
Aug. 22.  Import Tariffs  Country Bird Holdings Ltd. (CBH) ’s Supreme Poultry unit also
hasn’t cut jobs, Managing Director Jack Searle said.  “Uncontrolled cheap chicken that is been dumped into South
Africa from  Brazil ,  Argentina  and the European Union is
detrimental to the local poultry industry and if left unchecked
by the South African government will lead to job losses,” he
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  South Africa in February imposed additional import tariffs
of as much as 63 percent on certain cuts of chicken from Brazil.
The Latin American nation filed a dispute against South Africa
with the  World Trade Organization  over the taxes on June 21,
seeking consultations under the dispute settlement system. The
tariffs were due to expire on Aug. 10.  The International Trade Administration Commission of South
Africa, which calculated the charges, presented Trade Minister
 Rob Davies  with a final report on its investigation on the
imports before the deadline, spokesman Thembinkosi Gamlashe said
on Aug. 8. The department of trade and industry didn’t answer
calls or respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  The local price of yellow corn, mainly used as  animal feed ,
reached an intraday record of 2,841 rand ($342) a metric ton on
July 31. White corn climbed to a record 2,879 rand a ton on July
23.  “Input costs cannot be recovered from the consumer via the
trade due to an imbalance in supply and depressed demand,”
Astral’s Schutte said in an e-mailed response to questions on
Aug. 3. “Local supplies are negatively impacted upon by the
year-on-year increase of about a 40 percent increase in poultry
imports.”  Astral shares declined 0.5 percent to 109.50 rand by the
close in Johannesburg, taking its drop over the past 12 months
to 6.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  