-- Australian Dollar Drops to Lowest This Month on Mining Concern
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-08-24T21:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/australian-n-z-dollars-remain-lower-on-global-stock-declines.html
Australia’s dollar declined,
touching the lowest level this month, after Reserve Bank of
Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the currency would
probably fall if the nation’s mining boom were to collapse.  The so-called Aussie slid to a six-week low against its New
Zealand counterpart as Asian stocks declined, sapping demand for
higher-yielding assets. The New Zealand dollar erased an earlier
gain versus its U.S. peer after Finance Minister  Bill English 
said the currency is above the desirable level.  “Sentiment is still being influenced to some extent by all
of these negative news reports regarding the resources sector,”
said Ray Attrill, global co-head of foreign-exchange strategy at
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  in Sydney. He is “moderately
bearish” on the Australian and New Zealand currencies.  The Australian dollar slid 0.4 percent to $1.0403 as of 5
p.m. in New York, after earlier touching $1.0376, the lowest
since July 12. The currency hit NZ$1.2818, the weakest since
July 12, before trading down 0.2 percent at NZ$1.2826.  The  New Zealand dollar , known as the kiwi, fell 0.2 percent
to 81.12 U.S. cents after earlier climbing as high as 81.42.  Australia’s currency is “a bit on the high side,” the
RBA’s Stevens said today in testimony to a parliamentary panel.  The governor also spoke about the nation’s resources
bonanza, saying “if you really think the whole thing’s going to
go away, imminently, the mining boom, this thing is going to
completely crash, the relative price shift isn’t there, the
whole thing’s not really going to persist, then the Aussie
dollar in that scenario presumably would need to be much lower
than it is.”  New Zealand’s English said the  exchange rate  for his
nation’s currency “is higher than we want it to be.” The
kiwi’s strength reflects weakness in the  U.S. dollar  after
Federal Reserve policy makers reduced  interest rates  to near
zero, he said in an interview today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  