-- Australia’s Gillard Lashes Out at ‘Defamatory’ Newspaper Article
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-23T06:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/australia-s-gillard-lashes-out-at-defamatory-newspaper-article.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard said a newspaper report on her career as a lawyer that
was published and then retracted today was “false and
defamatory.”  The Australian newspaper, owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News
Corp. (NWSA) , issued an apology and retracted the story that called
into question Gillard’s professional conduct in the 1990s.  “The Australian newspaper republished a false and highly
defamatory claim about my conduct in relation to these matters
17 years ago,” Gillard said in a press conference in Canberra.
“In these circumstances, where I am seeing, recycled again,
false and defamatory material attacking my character, I have
determined that I will deal with these issues.”  Australia ’s first female prime minister is trailing in
opinion polls ahead of elections that must be held by November
2013. The press conference, which lasted more than an hour as
Gillard took questions from reporters on why she left the  law
firm  Slater & Gordon, comes as she bids to focus voter attention
on her Labor government’s economic credentials.  “An article in today’s The Australian reported that Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  had set up a  trust fund  for her then
boyfriend 17 years ago,” the newspaper  said on its website 
today. “This is wrong. The Australian apologizes for the
error.”  Gillard today said she answered questions at an internal
inquiry by Slater & Gordon in 1995 after establishing a legal
entity for the Australian Workers Union. She resigned from the
law firm of her own accord, she said.  ‘Smear Campaign’  The first Australian prime minister who isn’t married,
Gillard has no children and lives in the capital Canberra with
her partner, hairdresser Tim Mathieson. Since winning the
leadership in a backroom party coup in June 2010, she has faced
protesters bearing placards reading “Ditch the Witch.” Today
she said there were sexist overtones to allegations of
misconduct at the law firm.  “For a number of months now there has been a smear
campaign circulating on the Internet relating to events 17 years
ago,” Gillard said. “Much of the material in circulation is
highly sexist.”  The Labor government was favored by 35 percent of voters in
a Newspoll survey published in the Australian newspaper Aug. 21,
up 2 percentage points from two weeks earlier, compared with 45
percent for  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National opposition coalition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  