-- Australia’s Mining Bonanza Is Over, Resources Minister Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-23T06:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/australia-s-mining-bonanza-is-over-resources-minister-says.html
Australian Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said the nation’s mining boom has ended as  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  delayed approval of its Olympic Dam expansion that Deutsche
Bank AG estimated at A$33 billion ($34.7 billion).  “You’ve got to understand, the resources boom is over,”
Ferguson told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “It
has got tougher in the last six to 12 months.”  Australia’s economy has been powered by the biggest
resource bonanza since a gold rush in the 1850s as Chinese-led
demand for iron ore, coal and natural gas brought investment
projects the government estimated to be worth A$500 billion.
BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, said yesterday it
doesn’t expect to approve any spending on major projects this
fiscal year as metal prices decline amid sluggish global growth.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government is seeking to end
four years of budget deficits and return to surplus by mid-2013,
and weaker resource investment may threaten that goal ahead of
elections due next year. The opposition Liberal National
coalition has attacked Gillard’s new taxes on carbon emissions
and mining profits, saying they have created investor
uncertainty and risk stifling economic growth.  Gillard’s Labor Party is trailing in opinion polls, on 35
percent in a Newspoll survey published in the Australian
newspaper on Aug. 21, up 2 percentage points from two weeks
earlier, compared with 45 percent for the coalition.  “The investment environment is nowhere near as healthy as
before this government came into office and implemented these
policies,”  Julie Bishop , deputy leader of the Liberal-National
opposition, told reporters in Canberra today.  RBA’s Outlook  Ferguson’s suggestion that the boom has run its course
contrasts with a forecast from the  Reserve Bank  of Australia,
which said in its quarterly statement on monetary policy Aug. 10
that “it is estimated that the peak in spending on resource
investment will be sometime in 2013-14.”  There is a “very large stock of work in the pipeline,”
the RBA said in minutes released this week of its Aug. 7 policy
meeting, when it left the benchmark  interest rate  at 3.5
percent. “This had occurred despite some mining companies
adopting a more cautious approach to potential, but yet to be
approved, investment projects.”  The Australian dollar advanced for a fourth straight day,
trading at $1.0518 at 3:44 p.m. in Sydney. The currency has
jumped about 50 percent since the end of 2008.  The local dollar’s strength has contributed to what policy
makers have called a two-speed Australian economy, led by the
resource-rich regions in the north and west, while tourism and
manufacturing in the south and east struggle.  Woodside, BHP  The  unemployment rate  in Western Australia state that’s a
hub of  iron-ore  mining was 3.6 percent in July, compared with
5.4 percent in  South Australia , where BHP’s Olympic Dam project
is located, according to government figures.  A proposed expansion of  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ’s A$15
billion Pluto project in Western Australia is on hold after the
company said yesterday it failed to find enough gas to support a
second phase.  “There’s no doubt that it’s a more cautious time,
particularly the short-term outlook is indeed more cautious,”
Lance Hockridge, chief executive officer of  QR National Ltd. (QRN) ,
Australia’s biggest rail freight operator, told Bloomberg
Television today.  Gillard told parliament today that while the commodity
price boom was over, the investment boom wasn’t. Those comments
were echoed by Finance Minister  Penny Wong .  “We’ve still got a long way to run when it comes to this
investment boom,” Wong told ABC radio today. “The doom and
gloom that some are putting about isn’t appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  