-- Autodesk Tumbles on Reduced Sales Forecast and Job Cuts
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-08-24T20:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/autodesk-lowers-annual-forecast-cuts-jobs-in-restructuring-plan.html
Autodesk Inc. (ADSK)  shares plunged the
most in more than four years after the software maker lowered
its annual sales forecast and said it plans to cut jobs as it
restructures to focus on cloud and mobile computing.  The company will post fiscal 2013 revenue growth of 4
percent to 6 percent, less than a prior projection of at least
10 percent, as a slow economic recovery in Europe hampers sales,
 San Rafael , California-based Autodesk said in a statement
yesterday. Autodesk slumped 16 percent to $30.13 at the close in
 New York , for the biggest drop since February 2008. The stock
has lost 0.7 percent this year.  Autodesk, a maker of architectural and engineering
software, in March unveiled new design tools and a revamped
cloud-computing platform called Autodesk 360 that lets customers
use programs over the Internet. The company said it will
consolidate some leased facilities and reduce staff in the
“near-term” as it expands in the cloud.  “Our own execution challenges, combined with an uneven
global economy, resulted in disappointing revenue results for
the quarter” ended July 31, Autodesk Chief Executive Officer
Carl Bass said in the statement. “This restructuring is
squarely focused on our continued transformation and shift to
more cloud and mobile computing.”  Forecast Miss  The new forecast implies fiscal 2013  revenue  of as much as
$2.35 billion. Analysts anticipated $2.43 billion, the  average 
of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Autodesk also said that its
operating margin will fall 2.1 percent instead of rising by 1.2
percent as previously forecast.  Sales in the second quarter increased 4.1 percent from a
year earlier to $568.7 million, trailing the company’s forecast
of $580 million to $600 million. Net income of $64.6 million, or
28 cents a share, fell short of its prediction of 29 cents to 34
cents.  Restructuring will result in a pretax charge of $50 million
to $60 million, with the bulk of that coming in the third
quarter ending in October. The company is eliminating 500
positions soon and then intends to hire about that many workers
over the next year as it pushes into cloud computing, said Greg
Eden, an Autodesk spokesman.  Sales in the Europe region, which is suffering from a
sovereign debt crisis, fell 1 percent from a year earlier to
$210 million. Revenue in the Americas rose 4 percent to $199
million.  “Essentially all territories and product areas were
light,” Walter Pritchard, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote
in a note to clients. The report is “uncharacteristic of a
company that generally executes well,” he wrote.  Web Applications  Autodesk is shifting away from traditional desktop-based
computing and toward applications that can be delivered over the
Web. As the largest seller of engineering software, its products
have been used in everything from bridge design to the special
effects in the movie “Avatar.”  Last month, the company said it’s spending $60 million to
purchase Socialcam Inc. as it expands in the consumer market.
Socialcam offers a smartphone application and Web-based service
that lets users capture, edit and share videos.  “Despite our second quarter results, the changes better
position Autodesk to meet the needs of our customers,” Bass
said.  Autodesk also builds software for smartphones and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, such as its SketchBook app, which can create
drawings and paintings on touch screens. The company’s customer
base includes about 12 million professionals and 80 million
consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  