-- Aviva to Cut Up to 800 Jobs as McFarlane Reshapes Insurer
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-24T09:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/aviva-to-cut-up-to-800-jobs-as-mcfarlane-reshapes-insurer.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the second-largest U.K.
insurer, said it may cut as many as 800 jobs in the country as
Chairman John McFarlane scales back operations to limit the
impact of further turmoil in the euro region.  “The vast majority of our employees will be placed into
roles with little change” as part of the reorganization, Andrew Reid, a spokesman for the London-based insurer, said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. “Up to 800 roles could be at risk,
although in practice it will be fewer than this because of
natural turnover” and because some staff will take new
positions with the company.  Financial firms including banks and insurers may eliminate
about 3,000 jobs across greater  London  as  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis pressures results, researcher Oxford Economics Ltd.
said this month. McFarlane, 65, announced plans on July 5 to
exit 16 divisions including U.K. bulk-purchase annuities, its
South Korean unit and some partnerships in  Italy .  The insurer briefed staff yesterday about new “team
structures” and its plans to make the company more “efficient
and agile,” steps that are related to the previous
announcements, Reid said. The insurer had about  40,800 employees 
worldwide as of Dec. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The cuts were previously reported by the Telegraph.  Strategic Review  McFarlane began a strategic review of Aviva on May 8, the
same day that Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Moss  stepped down
following a shareholder protest over pay. The insurer’s new
leader inherited a company with 18 billion pounds ($28.6
billion) of European government debt, more than any other U.K.
insurer, lower and more volatile capital reserves than
competitors, and a share price that plunged about 60 percent
during Moss’s five-year tenure.  “Our members face being asked to pay the price of
boardroom failure and Unite is dismayed that what started out as
a shareholders’ revolt on executive pay will result in a jobs
cull,”  David Fleming , national officer for Unite, a labor
union. “This is totally unacceptable.”  The insurer  declined  0.5 percent to 325.3 pence at 10:28
a.m. in London today and has gained 8.1 percent this year.  Aviva said last month it will reduce 2011 expenses by 400
million pounds by cutting management layers within the
organization to five from nine. The cost-cutting program may be
complete by 2014, Aviva said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  