-- AZ Electronic Considers Acquisitions After Carlyle Exit
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-08-23T14:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/az-electronic-materials-considers-purchases-after-carlyle-exit.html
AZ Electronic Materials SA (AZEM) , a
supplier of chemicals used in devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad,
is considering acquisitions following the exit of private-equity
owners  Carlyle Group  and Vestar Capital Partners this year.  “We now have the opportunity to look at M&A that we didn’t
have under private equity,” Chief Executive Officer Geoff Wild
said in an interview. There are no big plans, acquisitions wise,
he said.  Any consideration of takeovers would be balanced with the
need to fund research and development and a progressive dividend
policy, Wild said. Luxembourg-based AZ, which has a net debt to
earnings ratio of 1.3 times, is also reducing borrowing after
Carlyle and Vestar sold their remaining stake in March following
an initial public offering in 2010.  AZ, whose materials allow smartphone and tablet PC makers
to shrink electronics, is focused on $500 million markets where
it can be the principal supplier and is eyeing assets as they
become available, Wild said. The niche nature of the business
means larger global chemical companies and engineers such as
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  are less focused on competing in
this field than startup companies including those in  South Korea 
and Taiwan, Wild said.  Wild, a former Nikon and Johnson Matthey Plc executive, is
considering an extra plant in  China  to increase capacity for
materials used in liquid-crystal displays as demand for
smartphones and tablet computers grows. AZ plans to switch on an
additional plant in South Korea in the fourth quarter.  Debt Refinancing  The company is “watching for the right time” to refinance
some of its $329.5 million in debt, Chief Financial Officer Mike Powell said. AZ doesn’t foresee problems among lenders, which
include large Japanese banks, he said.  “Third-quarter revenues will be around the same levels as
the second quarter,” AZ said in a statement today. That
compares with the company’s previous forecast for sequential
quarterly growth throughout 2012. AZ’s second-quarter sales
climbed to $199.6 million from $184 million in the previous
three months.  AZ shares dropped 2.1 percent to 297.7 pence at 2:16 p.m.
in  London .  Memory customers have reduced utilization rates while
prices are weak, yet markets will pick up again in the final
three months of the year, Wild said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  