-- Azarenka Is Top Women’s Seed at U.S. Open Tennis Championship
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-23T04:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/azarenka-is-top-women-s-seed-at-u-s-open-tennis-championship.html
Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus is the
top women’s singles seed for the U.S. Open tennis championship,
where fellow 2012 Grand Slam winners Maria Sharapova and  Serena Williams  are seeded third and fourth respectively.  The last of the season’s four major tournaments, the U.S.
Open begins Aug. 27 at the National Tennis Center in New York.  Azarenka this year won the Australian Open and is No. 1 in
the WTA Tour rankings, which determine the U.S. Open seedings.
Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland is seeded second, followed by
Sharapova, whose 2012 French Open win completed a career Grand
Slam. Next is Williams, a three-time U.S. Open champion who won
at Wimbledon last month and then captured singles and doubles
gold medals at the London Olympics.  The top 32 women in the WTA rankings earned seeds at the
U.S. Open and Samantha Stosur of Australia will defend her title
as the seventh seed in the women’s draw.  Kim Clijsters , a three-time U.S. Open champion who has a
21-match winning streak at the tournament, is seeded 23rd in her
final career appearance at the year’s final major, while two-
time winner Venus Williams enters the event unseeded.  Roger Federer  of Switzerland, a five-time U.S. Open
champion, earned this year’s top men’s seed two days ago as the
No. 1 player in the ATP Tour rankings. A 17-time Grand Slam
champion, Federer is followed by No. 2 Novak Djokovic of Serbia,
the defending U.S. Open champion, and No. 3 Andy Murray of
Britain, who won the Olympic gold medal.  John Isner  is the highest-seeded American in the men’s draw
at No. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  