-- Bank of China Profit Growth Slows to 5.3% as Economy Wanes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-24T02:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/bank-of-china-profit-growth-slows-to-5-3-as-economy-decelerates.html
Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s
third-largest lender by assets, posted the slowest quarterly
profit growth in three years as loan demand weakened and lower
interest rates squeezed margins.  Net income  climbed 5.3 percent to 34.8 billion  yuan  ($5.5
billion) in the three months ended June 30, from 33.1 billion
yuan a year earlier, based on figures published by the Beijing-
based lender yesterday. That was in line with the 34.3 billion-
yuan average  estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
stock fell 1.3 percent to HK$2.95 as of 9:32 a.m. in Hong Kong.  Bank of  China  bolstered first-half earnings by setting
aside fewer provisions for bad debt, as the first cut in
benchmark interest rates since 2008 eroded profitability of
lending operations. China’s  biggest banks  are trading at close
to record-low valuations in Hong Kong on concern bad loans will
increase as the economy slows.  “After two rate cuts, net interest margins will definitely
narrow in the second half,” said Timothy Li, an analyst at Core
Pacific-Yamaichi International  Hong Kong  Ltd. “That’s the
utmost concern.”  Bank of China advanced 411 billion yuan of new loans in the
first half, compared with 556 billion yuan during the same
period last year. Non-performing loans, or those overdue for at
least three months, rose to 63.6 billion yuan at the end of June
from 63.3 billion yuan at the beginning of the year.  So-called special-mention loans, or those at risk of going
bad, fell 514 million yuan to 192 billion yuan.  Losing Streak  Soured debts  at the nation’s 3,800 banks increased for a
third straight quarter to 456.4 billion yuan by June, the China
Banking Regulatory Commission said last week. The longest streak
of deterioration in eight years highlights pressures on asset
quality and profit growth.  Most of the increase in the industry’s bad loans came from
the eastern Chinese province of Zhejiang, where bankruptcies
among small businesses caused soured debt to increase by more
than 50 percent in the first half, the Shanghai Securities News
reported last week.  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank (600000)  Co. and
Ping An Bank Co. this month both blamed the city of Wenzhou for
piling up bad loans.  “We are a bit worried about the industry’s asset quality
as bad loans may climb” if the economic slowdown deepens, Li
said. “Loan growth is another concern.”  Industry Profits  China’s economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter,
the slowest pace in three years.  Industrial companies’  profits
fell 2.2 percent in the first half, compared with a 29 percent
gain in the same period last year.  Bank of China earned 71.6 billion yuan in the first half,
an increase of 7.6 percent from a year earlier, according to
yesterday’s statement. BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the  Bank
of China  unit that’s the sole yuan clearing bank for Hong Kong,
said yesterday first-half net income fell 6.3 percent to HK$11.2
billion, beating the HK$10.2 billion average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Net interest income at Bank of China rose 13 percent to 124
billion yuan in the first half, as the net interest margin
narrowed to 2.1 percent. Income from fee-based services such as
trade finance and custodial services dropped 2 percent to 34.3
billion yuan in the first half. The lender set aside 9.2 billion
against bad assets, 25 percent less than a year earlier.  Bank of China’s capital adequacy ratio rose to 13 percent
as of June 30 from 12.98 percent at the end of December. Its
core capital adequacy ratio stood at 10.15 percent, according to
yesterday’s statement.  ‘Bumpy Road’  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988) , the nation’s first privately
owned lender, said yesterday first-half profit rose 37 percent
from a year earlier to 19.1 billion yuan, beating analysts’
estimate of 18 billion yuan. Bad loans grew 19 percent to 9
billion yuan in the first half of the year. Shares of the bank
dropped 2.2 percent to HK$7.01 in Hong Kong trading.  First-half profit growth at Chinese banks will be their
“last solid results with a bumpy road ahead,” according to
Deutsche Bank AG analysts led by Tracy Yu. They expect the
nation’s 16 publicly traded lenders to post a 16 percent gain in
net income in the first six months, followed by a 1.5 percent
drop in the second half and then a sustained decline.  More Stimulus  China’s manufacturing may be  contracting  at a faster pace
this month, according to a preliminary reading of 47.8 for a
purchasing managers’ index released yesterday by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics. That signaled more monetary and fiscal
stimulus may be needed to secure a second-half rebound in
economic growth.  “A few more cuts would help asset quality and also help
loan demand,” said Alexander Lee, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
DBS Vickers. “But it will hurt margins if there are more
interest rate cuts.”  Standard Chartered Plc analysts Lawrence Chen and Hans Fan
expect forecasters to cut their estimates for the industry after
first-half results, prompted by a margin squeeze, according to a
note on Aug. 9.  China’s central bank in June allowed banks to charge less
for loans as it liberalizes rules on how lenders set  interest
rates . After widening the discount on borrowing costs to 20
percent below the benchmark rate that month, it increased the
gap to 30 percent in July.  The  weighted average lending rate  charged by banks fell to
7.06 percent in June, down by 0.56 percentage point from three
months earlier, according to the central bank. About 8 percent
of loans were priced below the benchmark rate in June, the most
in 11 months.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  