-- Bini Smaghi Battles Twitter for Ex-ECB Official Impostor
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-08-24T07:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/bini-smaghi-battles-twitter-for-ex-ecb-official-impostor.html
Former European Central Bank
Executive Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said he’s frustrated
at Twitter Inc.’s failure to remove an impersonator from the
website of the microblogging service.  “I really wish to make it clear that the Twitter account
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi @BiniSmaghi20 is not me,” Bini Smaghi, who
left the ECB’s Executive Board at the end of last year and isn’t
a Twitter user, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It is
totally false and it is extremely frustrating for me to have an
impersonator commenting on ECB business on my behalf.”  The remarks prompted the user of the account @BiniSmaghi20,
which has Bini Smaghi’s full name and photograph on its profile
page, to post that he’s “not the real Bini Smaghi.” The user
has posted more than 1,000 Twitter messages including comments
on  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and ECB policy. The account
has 428 followers, down one from yesterday, and is a follower of
322 other users.  Unlike obvious spoof accounts mimicking German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ,  Queen Elizabeth II  and  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King , the @BiniSmaghi20 user regularly engages in
seemingly serious Twitter conversations about Spanish and
Italian budget policy. On Aug. 20, the day after German magazine
 Der Spiegel  reported the ECB may impose yield caps on sovereign
bonds, the user posted messages saying “ECB will act” and
“the market is manipulated.”  ‘Particularly Frustrating’  Bini Smaghi, 55, said he has asked Twitter a number of
times to close down the account, as yet to no avail. Helen
Prowse, a spokeswoman for Twitter, said in an e-mail yesterday
that the company doesn’t comment on individual cases.  The Twitter messages are “particularly frustrating in the
current environment as people may assume this impersonator
reveals any inside information from the ECB,” he said before
the user changed his profile details.  Bini Smaghi left the ECB at the end of 2011 to take up a
position at Harvard University’s Weatherhead Center for
International Affairs. He is also now chairman of Italian
utility company Snam Rete Gas.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  faced a similar issue after he
took the helm at the central bank in November 2011, forcing the
ECB to state twice, on Jan. 17 and Feb. 13, that the
@MarioDraghiECB account was a fake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  