-- BlackRock’s Rieder ‘Comfortable’ Owning Italian, Spanish Debt
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n
-- 2012-08-23T18:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/blackrock-s-rieder-comfortable-owning-italian-spanish-debt.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  is “comfortable”
holding Spanish and Italian bonds amid optimism that European
policy makers will resolve the region’s financial crisis,
according to Rick Rieder, the firm’s chief investment officer of
fundamental fixed-income.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager with $3.68
trillion in assets, is buying sovereign debt of the nations
after taking comfort in European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi ’s statement on Aug. 2 that the central bank may buy the
securities in conjunction with euro-area bailout funds.  Policy makers are “moving toward a coordinated plan,”
Rieder said during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack” with Deirdre Bolton “And what Dragi said, we
thought it was a very big deal.”  Spanish and Italian 10-year bond yields have fallen since
Draghi’s pledge, with Spain’s 10-year yield sliding 75 basis
points, or 0.75 percentage point, to 6.43 percent, and
comparable Italian debt falling 65 basis points to 5.63 percent.  German 10-year bunds dropped as  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
signaled support for the ECB’s plan to help reduce indebted
countries’ borrowing costs and attach conditions to the
providing the support. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
reiterated that he is considering requesting purchases.  BlackRock’s Rieder said he expects a lot of volatility in
the news cycle as policy makers work their way through the
regions problems.  “We are not going to straight line to nirvana in terms of
where we are going,” Reider said “You can’t add much, but we
are adding at the margin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  