-- BofA Names Ex-Deloitte Chairman Allen Among 4 New Directors
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-08-23T20:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/bofa-names-ex-deloitte-chairman-allen-among-4-new-directors-1-.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. lender, named four new directors including former
Deloitte LLP Chairman Sharon Allen to replace board members who
will reach or exceed retirement age by next year.  BAE Systems Inc. Chief Executive Officer Linda Hudson, 62,
Jack Bovender, 67, who led HCA Inc., and R. David Yost, 65, who
was CEO of  AmerisourceBergen Corp. (ABC) , are also joining the board
immediately, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank said today
in a statement. The appointments of Allen and Hudson double the
number of women on the panel.  Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  is adding to his
firm’s board as directors Donald Powell, Charles Rossotti and
Virgis Colbert approach or exceed the retirement age of 72. D.
 Paul Jones , former CEO of Birmingham, Alabama-based Compass
Bancshares Inc., retired in May. Jones and Powell were among
four directors appointed in 2009 amid regulatory pressure to
improve governance after U.S. bailouts of $45 billion.  “The people they’re adding are very much your typical
directors -- large-firm CEOs,” said  Charles Elson , director of
the  John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance  at the
University of Delaware and a Bank of America shareholder. “That
suggests the bank is falling into a more normalized operating
environment, which isn’t a bad sign.”  Board Overhaul  In June 2009, then-CEO  Kenneth D. Lewis  revamped Bank of
America’s board with a former Federal Reserve governor, an ex-
chairman of the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  and a pair
of former bank CEOs. The risk committee of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s board came under fire this year for not having enough
expertise in the industry after the bank, the largest in the
U.S. by assets, lost at least $5.8 billion on bad trades.  The pick of new directors from non-financial firms may mean
that Bank of America’s nominating committee “doesn’t think that
the board’s highest priority is obtaining input or fresh
perspectives on banking issues,” said Jonathan Macey, a law
professor at Yale University in New Haven,  Connecticut . “This
corresponds to the public perception that the Bank of America
culture is one that does not lack faith in their own
abilities.”  Allen, 60, has served as chairman of audit firm Deloitte
from 2003 to 2011, leading governance and succession planning,
Bank of America said. She was the first woman in that role. The
addition of Allen and Hudson means women will get a larger voice
on the lender’s board, which swells to 16 members until the
retiring directors leave next year.  Defense Chief  Hudson, who was appointed in 2009 as president and CEO of
BAE Systems, the U.S.-based subsidiary of  BAE Systems Plc (BAE)  in
London, was the first female to run a major U.S. defense
company, Bank of America said. She has held various defense and
aerospace positions over her 40-year career.  Bovender served as chairman and CEO of Nashville,
Tennessee-based  HCA Inc. (HCA) , the largest for-profit U.S. hospital
operator, from 2002 to 2009, Bank of America said. The North
Carolina native is vice chairman of Duke University’s trustees
and leads its  audit committee .  Yost served as CEO of AmerisourceBergen Corp., a drug
distributor to health-care providers and pharmaceutical firms
based in Chesterbrook, Pennsylvania, from 2001 to 2011, the
lender said.  “The management team will benefit from the addition of
these directors and their unique skills and leadership
qualities,” Moynihan, 52, said in the statement.  Each new director will be granted restricted stock and cash
awards on Sept. 1, the bank said in a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  