-- BP Said to Seek Brazil Field Sale to Focus on Deep Water
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d ,   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-08-23T18:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/bp-said-to-seek-brazil-field-sale-to-focus-on-deep-water-finds.html
BP Plc (BP/) , the energy company that paid
$3.2 billion last year to start exploring off the coast of
Brazil, plans to sell its only producing oil field in the
country, said two people with knowledge of the sale.  BP wants to focus on its discoveries in the deep waters of
the Campos Basin and exit Polvo, a field closer to the coast of
Rio de Janeiro, one of the people said, citing comments made by
Guillermo Quintero, the head of BP in Brazil, at a private lunch
in Rio yesterday. Another person with knowledge of the planned
sale said BP started notifying other oil companies of its plans
to sell Polvo about a month ago. Both people declined to be
named as BP hasn’t made a public announcement yet.  Mark Salt, a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment about the status of Polvo when contacted today by
telephone. Polvo, which BP operates with a 60 percent stake,
yielded 9,791 barrels a day of oil and natural gas for the
company in June, according to the website of  Brazil ’s oil
regulator.  The Polvo sale is part of BP’s global strategy to reduce
oil-exploration acreage, Quintero said yesterday, according to
the person present. Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley has
completed about 70 percent of the $38 billion of asset disposals
targeted by the end of next year, shrinking BP after the
accident at its Macondo well, the worst offshore spill in U.S.
history, wiped out a third of its market value.  Production Assets  “There haven’t been many production assets on the market,
so that’s what is unique about it,” Bob Fryklund, vice
president of energy consulting firm IHS CERA Upstream Research,
said in a telephone interview from Houston. “With no bid rounds
you have a fair amount more demand than supply.”  Brazil hasn’t auctioned any offshore permits since
announcing the potential of the so-called pre-salt zone in 2007,
the largest discoveries in the Americas since 1976. The country
hasn’t sold any blocks at all since 2008, when it sold tracts on
land.  BP paid  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  $3.2 billion last year for
exploration areas in Brazil’s Campos, Camamu-Almada and Parnaiba
basins. This year BP acquired stakes in four blocks off the
northeastern coast from  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company, according to the country’s oil
regulator. Terms of the deals weren’t made public.  Maersk Oil, a unit of A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, is BP’s
partner at Polvo with a 40 percent stake that it bought as part
of a $2.4 billion acquisition of SK Energy Co.’s assets in
Brazil. Maersk announced the SK Energy purchase in December
2010. Polvo is near shallow-water blocks controlled by
Billionaire  Eike Batista ’s  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA .  BP dropped 0.4 percent to 445.45 pence at the close in
 London . The stock has fallen 3.3 percent during 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  