-- Brazilian Real Drops to One-Week Low on Intervention Speculation
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-08-23T22:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/brazil-real-heads-for-weekly-loss-on-central-bank-intervention.html
Brazil ’s real fell to a one-week low
as speculation the central bank will intervene further to weaken
the currency outweighed bets policy makers will add stimulus to
bolster the global economy.  The real depreciated 0.4 percent to 2.0238 at 6 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo , the lowest on a closing basis since Aug. 14. Swap rates
on the contract due in January 2014 rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 7.96 percent, the highest since June
22. The swap rates have increased 10 basis points since Aug. 17.  Brazil’s central bank auctioned reverse currency swaps this
week for the first time since March, reviving wagers the
government will keep the rate weaker than 2 reais per dollar to
protect local exporters and support growth. The prospect of
further intervention drove the real’s decline even as most other
major currencies gained on speculation rising U.S. jobless
claims and signs of manufacturing weakness in Europe and China
will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to adopt more stimulus.  “The real is fleeing a bit from the behavior of the
external market,” Jose Carlos Amado, a currency trader at
Renascenca DTVM Ltda., said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The
central bank made it clear that it won’t let the dollar fall
below 2, so this is stimulating dollar purchases.”  Brazil’s central bank on Aug. 21 sold 7,000 reverse swap
contracts due on Sept. 3 of 50,000 offered. The central bank
last sold reverse currency swaps March 26.  Economic Reports  The number of Americans filing applications for
 unemployment benefits  climbed by 4,000 last week to a one-month
high of 372,000 in the period ended Aug. 18. Other reports
showed that euro-area services and manufacturing output
contracted for a seventh straight month and  China ’s
manufacturing may be shrinking at a faster pace.  Brazil’s policy makers have cut the target lending rate by
4.5 percentage points since August 2011 to a record low 8
percent to support growth. Rate futures yields indicate traders
are projecting a reduction to as low as 7.5 percent by the end
of this month. As recently as Aug. 21, they were betting on 75
basis points of cuts by October.  The Treasury said in a statement posted on its website that
it sold all 5.8 million of zero-coupon bonds offered today,
worth 4.6 billion reais ($2.3 billion). The government sold
810,000 of 1 million fixed-rate notes offered, worth 831 million
reais.  Today’s auction was larger than usual to meet demand from
investors wanting to buy fixed-rate debt instead of floating-
rate securities, said Andre Ikeda, a trader at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in  New York .  “This trend is going to continue for a while,” he said in
a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  