-- Brazil’s Richest Woman Unmasked With $13 Billion Fortune
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-08-23T21:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/brazil-s-richest-woman-unmasked-with-13-billion-fortune.html
Dirce Navarro de Camargo’s discreet
ownership of one of Brazil’s oldest industrial empires makes her
the richest woman in the country.  A grandmother whose birth date could not be confirmed,
Camargo controls Sao Paulo-based conglomerate Camargo Correa SA,
which has interests in cement, electricity and Havaianas flip-
flops. Her net worth is $13.1 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. She is the 60th-richest person in
the world, and doesn’t appear on any other international wealth
ranking.  Founded by her late husband Sebastiao Camargo in 1939,
Camargo Correa is controlled through the Participacoes Morro
Vermelho SA holding company. Morro Vermelho’s shares are held in
equal proportion under the names of Camargo’s three daughters,
Regina, Renata and Rosana. According to incorporation documents
published in 2002, some of the shares were issued in lifetime
 usufruct  in favor of Camargo, meaning she is their beneficial
owner until her death. The rest can’t be sold, transferred or
borrowed against by her daughters.  “You never see them in the society pages,” said  David Fleischer , a political analyst at the University of Brasilia,
speaking about the Camargo family. “They allow professional
administrators to do all the management.”  Batista, Safra  When Sebastiao Camargo died in 1994, he was one of Brazil’s
few billionaires, renowned for his role in building dams and
highways across the country after World War II. His widow’s
fortune has only grown since then, with Brazil pouring money
into infrastructure ahead of the  World Cup  in 2014 and the
 Summer Olympics  two years later. This year, the group spent
almost 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) to acquire 95 percent of
Cimpor Cimentos de Portugal SGPS, a publicly traded cement maker
based in Lisbon.  A spokesman for the company confirmed that Dirce Camargo
controls the family fortune, and declined to comment on her net
worth. She now ranks as the third-richest person in Brazil,
displacing banker Joseph Safra, who has a fortune of $10.3
billion, according to Bloomberg’s daily ranking. Commodities
tycoon  Eike Batista  remains No. 1 with $20.8 billion, followed
by Anheuser-Busch InBev NV investor  Jorge Paulo Lemann  with
$17.2 billion.  The Camargo family’s other public holdings include 26
percent of electricity company  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3) , a stake worth
$2.8 billion; a 17 percent interest in Sao Paulo-based toll-road
operator  CCR SA (CCRO3) , valued at $2.6 billion; and a controlling
interest in footwear manufacturer  Alpargatas SA (ALPA4)  worth $1.1
billion. The group’s flagship construction arm, which is helping
to build the Belo Monte and Jirau hydroelectric dams in Brazil’s
Amazon region, generated about 30 percent of the group’s  total
revenue  of 17.3 billion reais ($8.6 billion) last year.  Donkey Carts  Born in 1909, Sebastiao Camargo started out carting sand by
donkey when he was a teenager. He opened a construction business
in 1939 with two partners, whose stakes the Camargo family later
bought out. They won government contracts for roads and railways
over the decade that followed. In the 1950s, their company
participated in the construction of Brazil’s new capital,
Brasilia.  Camargo -- who was awarded an honorary diploma from the
government’s High College of War in 1967 -- expanded the
business into cement during the two-decade military dictatorship
that took power in a 1964 coup. It was a “fat cow” period of
increased state investment, according to Fleischer. Camargo took
on ever-larger infrastructure projects, including subway lines
in  Sao Paulo , the Trans-Amazonian Highway and the bridge
connecting  Rio de Janeiro  and neighboring Niteroi.  “Brazil’s greatest progress was in the military
government,” Camargo told the Folha de S.Paulo newspaper in
December 1990.  General Goncalves  In the 1970s, Camargo pushed deeper into  Latin America .
General Leonidas Pires Goncalves told the Sao Paulo-based oral-
history archive  Museu da Pessoa  that Camargo once asked him to
secure the assistance of the Brazilian government to mediate a
labor dispute at a project in  Venezuela . Goncalves agreed. When
democracy returned in 1985, the general was named minister of
the army.  Camargo’s business continued to prosper under civilian
rule. During the privatization wave of the 1990s, the
conglomerate acquired electricity company CPFL, and won toll-
road concessions that were later bundled together into publicly
traded CCR. Sebastiao Camargo led the company until his death in
1994, when control passed to his wife, Dirce.  “Sebastian was daring,” former President  Fernando
Henrique Cardoso  said in a December 2002 address at the Tucurui
dam, one of Camargo Correa’s many projects. “And the results of
his daring are left in concrete in Brazil and abroad.”  Today, Camargo Correa continues to benefit from government
projects. Financing from the state development bank, known as
the BNDES, accounts for about 24 percent of the company’s debt,
according to Jose Vertiz, the director of Latin American
corporate finance at  Fitch Ratings . The conglomerate operates in
17 countries and employs 58,400 people.  Cement, Shipbuilding  Dirce Camargo briefly acted as chairman after her husband’s
death. The company is now led by professional administrators,
including Chairman Vitor Hallack. The husbands of two of the
founder’s daughters sit on the board: Carlos Pires Oliveira and
Luiz Roberto Ortiz Nascimento. The third, Fernando Arruda
Botelho, died in an  airplane crash  in April.  After the conglomerate’s $9.5 billion in public holdings,
its construction operation is its largest asset. The unit posted
5.2 billion reais in revenue and 166 million reais in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization last year,
according to the company’s annual report. The division is valued
at $2.2 billion based on the average enterprise value-to-sales
and enterprise value-to-Ebitda multiples of four publicly traded
peers: Peru’s Grana & Montero SAA, Chile’s  Besalco SA (BESALCO) , China
State Construction International Holdings Ltd. and Dubai-based
Arabtec Holding Co.  Golf Courses  Leaving out publicly traded Cimpor, Camargo Correa posted
1.1 billion reais in cement sales last year. Based on the
average enterprise value-to-sales multiple of Cimpor and four
peers -- Colombia’s  Cementos Argos SA (CEMARGOS) , Mexico’s Cemex SAB, PT
Holcim Indonesia and Mumbai-based  Ultratech Cement Ltd. (UTCEM)  -- the
closely held slice of the cement division is valued at $1.3
billion.  The group’s shipbuilding operations posted 609 million
reais in revenue, negative Ebitda of 449 million reais and a
loss of 188 million reais last year. The division is valued at
$265 million based on the average enterprise value-to-sales
multiple of four Singaporean shipyard owners: Nam Cheong Ltd.,
JES International Holdings Ltd., Yangzijiang Shipbuilding
Holdings Ltd. and  STX OSV Holdings Ltd. (SOH)   Political Donations  A 5 percent liquidity discount was applied to each of the
company’s closely held units. A liability of $3.2 billion was
added to Camargo Correa’s balance sheet to reflect the
conglomerate’s closely held net debt, as estimated in a June
2012 report by Fitch’s Vertiz.  Camargo Correa has reported more than $4.2 billion in net
income in the past decade, according to its annual reports.
Based on the company’s statutory dividend of 15 percent of net
income, and adjusting for estimated market performance and
lifestyle costs, the family probably holds more than $3 billion
in cash, real estate and other outside assets, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Included in those holdings are
multiple golf courses near Sao Paulo, as reported by the
magazine Veja in July 2002. The family also owns a ranch in
sparsely populated Mato Grosso state, near the border with
Bolivia.  In the presidential elections of 2010, Camargo Correa was
one of the largest campaign donors -- for both sides of the
contest. According to data from Brazil’s High Electoral Court,
the company’s various units gave at least 15 million reais to
the ruling Workers’ Party and PMDB, and 8.5 million reais to the
opposition PSDB.  “You split your bets,” said Fleischer, of the University
of Brasilia. “All of these governments need construction
projects, be it a military regime or a civilian regime. They
don’t have any ideology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  