-- Brocade Seen Delivering 32% Deal Gain After CEO Departure
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-08-23T20:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/brocade-seen-delivering-32-deal-gain-after-ceo-s-exit-real-m-a.html
Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD) ,
which has been trying to sell itself for more than two years, is
a step closer to unlocking a 32 percent gain for shareholders
now that its chief executive officer is on his way out.  The maker of computer switches for data-storage networks
said last week that Michael Klayko will step down after more
than seven years as head of Brocade, which has disappointed
investors as it struggled to integrate an Ethernet business it
acquired in 2008. Brocade’s stock fell this month to the lowest
price relative to free  cash flow  in three years, and yesterday
the shares were still cheaper than 90 percent of similar-sized
computer-storage firms, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even after working with  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners
to find a buyer, Klayko failed to come to terms on a deal, and
ZK Research said the CEO’s departure might help smooth
negotiations with suitors. Private-equity firms could be
attracted to the cash flow generated by the $2.7 billion
company’s main storage business, according to Robert W. Baird &
Co., while JMP Group Inc. said  Dell Inc. (DELL)  also may be among
suitors. Wunderlich Securities Inc. said Brocade could fetch
$7.75 a share, 32 percent more than yesterday’s closing price.  “At the end of the day, Mike probably wanted a role for
himself and a very high price, and on both those counts I
suspect that the hurdle has been lowered,” Ben Nahum, a New
York-based fund manager for Neuberger Berman Group LLC, which
oversees $194 billion including 3.3 million Brocade shares, said
in a telephone interview. “People could tell you that it’s been
shopped and nobody wants it, but I don’t buy that.”  John Noh, a spokesman for Brocade, said he couldn’t comment
when asked about the prospects for a sale of the company.  Storage Networks  Founded in 1995, Brocade makes switches that connect
servers to so-called storage-area networks. Its competitors
include  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and Juniper Networks Inc.  The company, which specializes in switches using a
technology called Fibre Channel, acquired Foundry Networks Inc.
for $2.6 billion in December 2008 to enter the market for
Ethernet switches that are gaining popularity in data centers.
After profit fell 57 percent last year, Brocade is  projected  to
more than triple net income in its fiscal year ending in
October, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Brocade had been looking for potential buyers with
Qatalyst’s assistance since 2009, a person familiar with the
matter said last year. During that time, Dell bought competitor
Force10 Networks Inc.  Sally Palmer, a spokeswoman at San Francisco-based
Qatalyst, didn’t return phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the firm’s work with Brocade.  ‘Not Them’  “It’s an interesting story,” Tony Trzcinka, a Portsmouth,
New Hampshire-based fund manager at Pax World Management LLC,
which oversees $2.6 billion including Brocade shares, said in a
phone interview. “They’ve been up for sale for three years and
there have been other purchases within this space, but still not
them. My hope is that somebody could unlock the value of the
businesses.”  In February,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest
private-equity firm, ended talks to buy Brocade because the
price was too high for a leveraged buyout, a person with
knowledge of the situation who declined to be identified because
the matter was private, said at the time.  Brocade announced last week that Klayko, who has worked at
the company for almost a decade in top sales and marketing
roles, plans to resign and will stay on until a successor is
identified. His departure may revive takeover interest, said
Zeus Kerravala, an independent analyst for ZK Research in
Westminster,  Massachusetts .  In Play  “Klayko really thought they were the next big thing, and
when they were not I don’t think he was going to let that
company go” without demanding a high price, Kerravala said in a
phone interview. “Having him leave brings them back into play
as an acquisition target, and I certainly think there are
companies out there that could use them.”  Private-equity shoppers may be lured by the cash flow that
Brocade’s storage business generates, according to  Jayson Noland , a San Francisco-based analyst for Baird.  With a free-cash-flow yield of about 19 percent, Brocade
produces almost twice as much  cash  from its operations, after
deducting capital expenses, relative to its stock price than the
median of computer-storage companies with more than $500 million
in market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A private-equity firm could divest the Ethernet business,
Noland said. To help pay down debt used to take Brocade private,
it also could sell Brocade’s headquarters and rent the space
back through a sale-leaseback arrangement, he said.  Net Cash  “The storage side of Brocade generates a really high level
of free cash,” he said in a phone interview. “They own their
own building in the Silicon Valley and it’s a really nice
building. That’s unlocked value right there, too.”  Analysts also  project  that Brocade will end fiscal 2012
with more cash than debt on its balance sheet, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company hasn’t had a net
cash position since 2008, before the acquisition of Foundry
Networks, the data show.  Brocade’s  stock , which closed yesterday at $5.85, trades at
5.3 times free cash flow, less than the median multiple of 9.6
times for its peers, data compiled Bloomberg show.  “It’s a very inexpensive stock, especially in terms of
cash flow metrics,” Matt Robison, a San Francisco-based analyst
at Wunderlich, said in a phone interview. “You could have what
you would consider a very normal private-equity valuation with
quite a change-of-control premium.”  Today, Brocade shares gained 0.5 percent to $5.88.  Good Fit  The company’s product line and market position could make
it a good fit for companies such as Oracle or Hewlett-Packard,
as well as non-U.S. suitors, said  Erik Suppiger , a San
Francisco-based analyst at JMP.  “I wouldn’t rule out strategic buyers,” Suppiger said in
a phone interview. “The footprint that Brocade has with its
fiber capacities could be pretty attractive to players that are
trying to come into the U.S.”  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle, wouldn’t
comment on whether the  Redwood City , California-based company
was interested in Brocade. Michael Thacker, a spokesman for  Palo
Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard, also declined to comment
on the possibility of a Brocade takeover.  Still,  Joanna Makris , a New York-based analyst with Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. said Brocade may have lost its window of
opportunity for finding a buyer after potential acquirers such
as Dell chose other targets instead.  Different Signal  Even so, Brocade could be complementary to Dell after the
Force10 acquisition, Wunderlich’s Robison said.  David Frink , a spokesman for  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell,
said the company doesn’t comment on speculation about potential
acquisition activity.  Bill Choi, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in  New
York , said Klayko’s departure could signal that Brocade may be
looking to refocus its efforts on improving its existing
business under a new leader, rather than seek a sale.  “To me it shows a change in direction in the opposite
way,” he said. “They’ve been trying to sell the company and
now they’re not. The shift is more toward execution now.”  Elliott Management Corp., the hedge fund that pushed Novell
Inc. to sell itself in 2010, amassed a stake in Brocade a year
ago and is now the company’s second-biggest shareholder.  The investor could persuade the company to be more flexible
in price negotiations with a potential acquirer, Wunderlich’s
Robison said.  Peter Truell , a spokesman for New York-based
Elliott, said the company wouldn’t comment on the investment.  The presence of the activist investor probably contributed
to Klayko’s departure, JMP’s Suppiger said.  “The conventional wisdom is that his departure is a signal
that the auction is coming again,” Robison said. “There are
still some potential buyers out there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 