-- Bullard Opposes Fed Bond Buying as U.S. Economy Improves
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-08-23T14:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/bullard-opposes-fed-bond-buying-as-u-s-economy-improves.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said recent signs of improvement in the
economy would prompt him to oppose any new program by the Fed to
buy bonds to reduce borrowing costs.  “I wouldn’t do it right now,” Bullard said today in a
CNBC interview. “If it was just me and we just have the data up
until today I wouldn’t take a decision right now.”  Many Fed policy makers said additional stimulus would
probably be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a
durable pickup, according to minutes of their July 31-Aug. 1
meeting released yesterday. Bullard said “the minutes are a bit
stale” because “we have some data since then that is
stronger.”  Retail sales increased 0.8 percent in July, more than
forecast by economists, and companies hired 163,000 workers, the
most in five months.  “It would be unusual for the Fed to take action based on
this data constellation,” said Bullard, 51, who doesn’t vote on
policy this year.  A report today showing the number of Americans filing
applications for  unemployment benefits  rose to a one-month high
last week is “consistent with moderate payroll growth” and
doesn’t indicate a deterioration, Bullard said.  U.S. and European stocks fell as investors weighed whether
central banks will ease monetary policy further amid concern
over the euro-area crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
0.5 percent at 10:07 a.m.  New York  time.  Differing Views  Fed officials have offered differing policy views this
week, with Fed Chicago Bank President  Charles Evans  endorsing
more easing and Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  saying there are risks
to moving “too aggressively.”  “I don’t need to see any more data to know that I think
we should have more accommodation,” Evans told reporters today
in Beijing, referring to the U.S. “I certainly would applaud
anybody who takes action in order to strengthen their
economies” around the world, including China, he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who last month said a third
round of bond buying was an option, will update his policy
outlook on Aug. 31 with a speech to the Kansas City Fed’s annual
symposium at  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Bullard said he might favor easing if the  U.S. economy  were
to deteriorate. In that case, asset purchases should be done
“month by month” in an open-ended program whose size would
depend on the course of the economy, he said.  First Call  Bullard was the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a
second round of asset purchases. In speeches this year, he has
said he sees no need for additional easing and has urged the
FOMC to “pause” to assess developments.  Bullard’s speeches and interviews moved the two-year
Treasury yield more than any other FOMC member last year,
according to a Macroeconomic Advisers report released Jan. 27.  In the first round of bond purchases starting in 2008, the
Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed securities, $175
billion of federal agency debt and $300 billion of Treasuries.
In the second round, announced in November 2010, the Fed bought
$600 billion of Treasuries.  The St. Louis Fed official said that he and other Fed
policy makers were disappointed in growth of about 1.5 percent
in the first half of the year. A resumption of 2 percent or
greater growth seems likely in the second half, he said.  ‘Good Enough’  “That’s not a great outcome but to me that is a good
enough outcome to keep us on hold,” Bullard said on CNBC. Asked
if “a major” program of buying assets, or quantitative easing,
is warranted, he said, “I don’t think so.”  “The committee has said and would be determined to act if
things deteriorated further,” he said.  Reducing the  interest rate  paid on excess reserves that
banks keep with the Fed remains an option, Bullard said. “I’d
be willing to consider or get more thought” about the idea, he
said.  Bullard, who has said this year he expects the FOMC to
begin tightening policy in late 2013, said he might need to push
back his date for the first interest-rate increases. “For right
now I am sticking with it, but we’ll see,” he said.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  