-- Carlos Slim Subject of Speculation as Hawe Raises Capital
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2012-08-24T14:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/carlos-slim-subject-of-speculation-as-hawe-raises-capital.html
Hawe SA (HWE)  said it plans to raise 350
million zloty ($107 million) by selling shares to an investor
amid speculation that billionaire Carlos Slim’s  America Movil 
SAB may seek a stake in the Polish fiber-optic network operator.  Hawe, based in Warsaw, will ask for shareholders’ approval
on Sept. 18 to issue 50 million to 100 million new shares in a
private transaction, according to a regulatory filing yesterday.
The company will use proceeds to buy TK Telekom Sp z o.o., a
Warsaw-based phone unit of Polish state railway Polskie Koleje
Panstwowe SA, according to a statement.  The company has identified four or five potential buyers
for the shares, Marek Falenta, who controls 45 percent of Hawe,
said yesterday in a phone interview. He declined to name them.
 America Movil (AMXL)  may seek a stake in Hawe, newspaper Puls Biznesu
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  “My preference is to sell shares to a big company from the
telecommunications sector,” Falenta said. “I cannot confirm if
 Carlos Slim ’s company is among them or not.”  An official at Mexico City-based America Movil declined to
comment on whether the company would seek a stake in Hawe.  Slim, 72, is pushing America Movil into  Europe  to take
advantage of phone company valuations that have fallen during
the euro-region crisis. In June, America Movil, the biggest
wireless carrier in the Americas by subscribers, agreed to buy a
21 percent stake in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  and acquired 28 percent
of Dutch carrier Royal KPN NV’s shares.  World’s Richest  Slim’s net worth of $72.2 billion makes him the world’s
richest person, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Puls Biznesu didn’t name the other bidders for Hawe, saying
they are two private-equity funds and a global phone company.  Hawe fell as much as 5.6 percent to 4.06 zloty today in
Warsaw, retreating from a 15 percent gain yesterday on  Puls
Biznesu ’s report. America Movil was unchanged at 16.53 pesos at
9:14 a.m. in Mexico City.  America Movil is also interested in Poland’s fourth-largest
mobile phone operator P4 Sp. z o.o., according to the newspaper.
Marcin Gruszka, a spokesman for P4, didn’t answer a call to his
mobile phone seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  