-- Chelsea Rejects City’s $47. 7 Million Luiz Bid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-23T06:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/chelsea-rejects-city-s-47-7-million-luiz-bid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Luiz Bid Rejected  Chelsea rejected a 30 million-pound ($47.7 million) bid
from  Manchester City  for defender  David Luiz , the  Sun reported .  Luiz, who was omitted from last night’s 4-2 win against
Reading while the clubs tried to work out a deal, is still part
of manager Roberto Di Matteo’s plans and City will need to
significantly up its offer to sign him, the Sun added.  Final Offer  Tottenham Hotspur is preparing a final 20 million-pound bid
for Brazil striker Leandro Damiao after having had numerous
offers rebuffed by Internacional, the  Daily Mail reported .  “Internacional are fortunate enough to be in a position
where they do not need to negotiate unless it’s an extraordinary
offer for the club,” the Mail cited Giovanni Luigi, the
Brazilian club’s president, as saying.  Cazorla’s Counsel  Arsenal is set to offer 12 million pounds for Sevilla
winger Jesus Navas, who was recommended to manager Arsene Wenger
by new signing Santi Cazorla, the  Daily Express reported .  Navas, 26, has played 26 times for world champion  Spain  and
helped the national team retain its European Championship title
this year, the newspaper said.  Dempsey Fund  Liverpool owner  John Henry  is willing to sanction the sale
of midfielders  Charlie Adam  and Jay Spearing to fund a bid for
Fulham’s U.S. international forward  Clint Dempsey , the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Adam is being offered to Fulham in part-exchange for
Dempsey and is valued at 5 million pounds in the deal, although
the Scotland international is reluctant to move to  London , the
Mirror said. Spearing will be valued at about 3 million pounds,
the newspaper added.  Loan Liberty  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  said he would “have to
be a nutcase” to consider Newcastle’s offers to take Andy Carroll on a one-year loan deal or a permanent transfer for 12
million pounds, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “There is no way they will do a number on us,” the
newspaper cited Rodgers as saying. “Newcastle got 35 million
pounds for this player last year. To even consider wanting to
take him on loan is a liberty.”  Mexican Standoff  Manchester United  is ready to match Liverpool’s 10 million-
pound offer for Pachuca midfielder Hector Herrera, who helped
Mexico win the gold medal at the London Olympics soccer
tournament, the  Sun reported .  “Manchester United and Liverpool have talked to us,” the
Sun cited Andres Fassi, Pachuca’s sporting director, as saying.
“We want him to continue with Pachuca. But when he decides to
leave, the club will give him the opportunity to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  