-- Chicken Industry May Face Losses on Feed, Koch Foods Says
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-08-23T13:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/chicken-industry-may-face-losses-on-feed-koch-foods-says.html
The U.S. chicken industry may become
unprofitable in the fourth quarter because feed costs have
surged as a drought wilts cornfields across the Midwest, said
Koch Foods Inc. Chief Executive Officer Joseph Grendys.  “Costs have gone up so much due to the drought that the
industry will be forced to get price increases of 10 to 15
percent across all product lines” for 2013 over this year,
Grendys said in a telephone interview yesterday from Koch’s
headquarters in  Park Ridge ,  Illinois .  The closely held company, which says it’s the fourth-
largest U.S. chicken producer by sales, is starting to talk to
customers about 2013 prices. Koch expects to sign one-year
supply contracts with clauses allowing for quarterly adjustments
according to grain costs, Grendys said. The last time the
company sought quarterly adjustments was in 2008, he said.  The U.S. chicken industry returned to profitability in
January after months of losses amid a supply glut, according to
investment bank Stephens Inc. Production has declined in the
first half of 2012 and rising feed costs now threaten to erode
margins.  Most-active corn futures in  Chicago  rose to a record $8.49
a bushel on Aug. 10 and soybeans reached a record $17.4475 a
bushel today as the worst drought in five decades reduced crop
yields. U.S. corn yields may be even lower than the 123.4
bushels per acre that the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
forecast on Aug. 10, Grendys said.  Cost Analysis  While demand for Koch’s chicken products is “extremely
strong,” uncertainty caused by the drought is leading the
company to analyze its sales against the cost of raising
chickens, Grendys said. The industry has reduced production
costs over the last decade and can’t count on lower input costs
in the future, he said.  “The industry needs to be smart” and focus on pricing to
ensure it remains profitable, he said. Even if it does become
unprofitable in the fourth quarter, the industry may resume
making money after the first quarter of 2013, he said.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. chicken producer, said
Aug. 6 that its chicken unit will be profitable in fiscal 2013
based on current grain prices because of operational
improvements and cost cuts. Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson has
reduced the volume of its poultry under annual fixed-price
contracts to less than 15 percent.  Prices for most of Tyson’s birds are either tied to
specific markets or “allow for conversations about adjusting
prices” to offset higher inputs, Chief Operating Officer Jim Lochner said on a conference call with analysts on Aug. 6.  JBS SA (JBSS3) ’s  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. (PPC)  and closely held Perdue
Farms Inc. are the second- and third-biggest U.S. chicken
producers, according to Koch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  