-- Chile Wine in Asia Boosts Concha & Toro as Europe Shrinks
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-08-23T04:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/chile-wine-in-asia-boosts-concha-toro-as-europe-shrinks.html
Vina Concha & Toro (CONCHA)  SA’s effort to
reduce its  reliance on Europe  is helping the maker of Casillero
del Diablo merlot rebound from its cheapest valuations in eight
years as analysts predict the stock will outperform peers.  Concha & Toro shares have climbed 0.4 percent since July
19, when the vintner’s price-to-earnings ratio reached its
biggest  discount  to the benchmark IPSA index since 2004. The
stock will jump 21 percent over the next 12 months, according to
the average of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg,
the most among 10 Latin American beverage companies.  Chile’s biggest wine exporter will report a second
consecutive quarterly decline in earnings after Europe’s debt
crisis cut sales in its biggest market and a drought reduced
grape yields last year, according to analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales in  Asia  tripled in the past five years,
part of a strategy to reduce dependence on Europe that helped
prompt Rodrigo Rojas, who manages Chile’s best performing equity
fund this year at Santiago-based Celfin Capital SA, to buy the stock.  “I like what Concha & Toro is doing to reduce exposure to
developed markets and increase sales to  emerging markets ,”
Rojas, whose $17 million  Celfin Chile Accion (CCHIABA)  fund has gained 13
percent this year, said in an interview yesterday. “With the
shares near 900 pesos, it showed an interesting entry point.”  The fund doubled its Concha & Toro holdings in July to
536,000 shares, from 253,000 at the end of June, according to
data from Chile’s securities regulator.  40% Discount  The stock, which retreated 0.2 percent yesterday to 931.35
pesos, trades at 13.8 times trailing 12-month earnings, 28
percent below its four-year average of 19.2 times. The stock
traded on July 19 at a 40 percent discount to the benchmark Ipsa
stock gauge, the biggest since 2004, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Concha & Toro got 33 percent of its sales from Europe in
the first quarter, down from 38 percent in the same period a
year earlier. It increased the percentage of sales to Asia to
8 percent from 6.8 percent. The  International Monetary Fund 
forecasts emerging Asian economies will expand 7.1 percent this
year, compared with a 0.3 percent contraction for the euro area,|
where a sovereign debt crisis is curbing growth.  The company sold 1.8 million cases in Asia last year, up
from 573,000 in 2005, according to a presentation on its
website. It opened an office in  Singapore  in 2010 to oversee
sales in the region, the website shows.  California Wines  The vintner’s $234 million acquisition of California
winemaker Fetzer Vineyards last year bolstered its U.S. revenue
to 22 percent of total sales in the first quarter from 12
percent a year earlier.  The press office at Concha & Toro declined to make Chief
Executive Officer Eduardo Guilisasti or Chairman Alfonso Larrain
available to comment. The company said by e-mail that it will
report second-quarter results tomorrow or Aug. 27.  Earnings and profit margins will begin to improve in the
third quarter as a bumper harvest leads to lower prices for
fruit and bulk wine and the company recovers from an 8.8-
magnitude temblor in 2010 that smashed casks holding 125 million
liters of wine industrywide, according to Ramon Lagos, a
Santiago-based analyst at Banco Penta SA who says Concha & Toro
is part of its portfolio of favorite stocks.  Chile ’s grape harvest rose 20 percent in 2012 to produce a
record 1.26 billion liters of wine, Chile’s agricultural
statistics agency Odepa, said in July. Concha & Toro relies on
external grape producers for 65 percent of its premium, varietal
and sparkling wines, according to a regulatory report.  “Concha & Toro is a well-liked company in Chile, but it
was affected in the last two years by the earthquake,” Lagos
said in an interview. “Margins are expected to improve as this
year’s harvest has been much better.”  Buy Recommendations  Five analysts have made new or reiterated buy
 recommendations  for Concha & Toro shares or American depositary
receipts within the last three months, while two have hold
ratings and one a sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With higher sales volumes and if the  exchange rate 
remains stable, Concha & Toro should show efficiency
improvements,” Ignacio Spencer, an analyst at Santiago-based
brokerage IM Trust, said in a phone interview Aug. 20. He rates
the stock buy with a price target of 1,149 pesos.  Concha & Toro is the biggest winemaker in Chile, with about
30 percent of the market in 2011, according to a company
presentation. The company said in April that it planned to
invest $60 million to add 540 hectares (1,334 acres) of grape
plantations this year.  Concha & Toro’s earnings excluding certain items  probably 
fell 19 percent in the second quarter to 7.74 billion pesos ($16
million), according to the average estimate of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Profit Margins  Concha & Toro said July 6 that preliminary second-quarter
sales rose 6.8 percent from a year ago to 108 billion pesos,
with a 6.3 percent increase in export volumes to 42.2 million
liters.  Publicly traded Chilean wine producers have reported an
average 58 percent drop in operating margins since the third
quarter of 2008, when the financial crisis began, to the first
quarter of this year.  The strength of the Chilean peso may continue sapping
profits of exporters, including Concha & Toro, according to
Gabriela Clivio, an equity strategist at Santiago-based asset
management firm Vantrust Capital. The peso is the world’s
second-best performing currency this year, rallying 7.8 percent.  “The stock is still near historic minimums, so some can
say it’s cheap, but I don’t see a short term catalyst as there
still is just too much concern about the situation in  Europe ,”
Clivio said in a phone interview Aug. 20.  Celfin’s Rojas said that even with the European headwinds,
as long as second-quarter sales aren’t “drastically” below
forecasts, the stock will be poised for gains.  “At this price it remains as one of the bets in our
portfolio,” Rojas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  