-- Chile Peso Rises as Copper Climbs on Global Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-08-23T19:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/chile-peso-rises-as-copper-climbs-on-global-stimulus-speculation.html
Chile’s peso gained for a third day
as copper rose to a five-week high on speculation officials will
try to stimulate growth in the U.S. and China.  The currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 480.38 per  U.S.
dollar , after earlier strengthening through 480 per dollar for
the first time since Aug. 14. The peso has rallied from a low of
486.24 per dollar reached on Aug. 20. Copper for December
delivery rose as much as 1.6 percent on the Comex in  New York  to
$3.517 a pound.  The U.S. dollar dropped against most of its major
counterparts after Federal Reserve minutes released yesterday
showed that many members favored more stimulus unless the
economic recovery accelerates. People’s Bank of China Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday adjustments to  interest rates  and
banks’ reserve requirements are still possible. China is the
biggest buyer of Chilean copper, which makes up more than half
the country’s exports.  “The expectation of QE3 or Treasury buying or more
stimulus in  China  means that commodities have rebounded,” said
Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile Corredores de Bolsa in
Santiago, referring to a third round of bond purchases known as
quantitative easing. “It’s time to sell dollars.”  Should the peso appreciate through 479 per dollar, it may
jump to 473 or 474 per dollar, Donoso said.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
had an $8.6 billion short peso position on Aug. 21. Local
investors, which exclude banks and brokers, had a $17 billion
long peso position, the highest since Aug. 2, according to
central bank data published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  