-- China Trade Imbalance Costs 2.7 Million U.S. Jobs: Report
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-08-23T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/china-trade-imbalance-costs-2-7-million-u-s-jobs-report.html
A $295 billion trade deficit with
 China  resulted in the loss of 2.7 million U.S. jobs in the past
decade, with the biggest impact in California’s Silicon Valley,
according to a report from the  Economic Policy Institute .  China’s failure to let its currency appreciate while also
repressing labor rights and keeping wages down has led to more
than 2.1 million lost manufacturing jobs, according to the
report released today in Washington. That total includes more
than a million jobs in the computer and electronics parts
industry. Industries including apparel, textiles and fabricated
metal-products lost about 600,000 jobs, according to the report.  “The onus is on the U.S. and other nations to do something
about currency manipulation,”  Robert Scott , who wrote the
report and is a former economist the  University of Maryland ,
said in an interview.  President  Barack Obama  and Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  have pledged stronger enforcement of trade
actions against China ahead of the U.S. elections in November.
In recent months, the Obama administration has imposed duties on
several types of products from China, prompting retaliation and
an escalation of trade tensions between the world’s two largest
economies.  The most populous U.S. states have hit hardest, according
to the EPI, a group that describes itself as dedicated to
policies to improve conditions for low-and middle-income
workers.  California lost 474,700 jobs, or almost 3 percent of its
workforce, from the trade imbalance, according to the report.
Texas lost 239,600 jobs and  New York  lost 158,800, according to
the report.  A representative from the Chinese embassy in Washington
didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.  The jobs that remain pay less as U.S. producers try to
compete with the cheaper imports, further hurting the economy,
according to the report. China’s growth has been “unbalanced
and unsustainable” as inflation continues to increase and the
nation remains too dependent on exports rather than domestic
demand, the institute said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  