-- China Leading Economic Index Rises 0.7%, Conference Board Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-23T02:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/china-leading-economic-index-rises-0-7-conference-board-says.html
A leading index for  China’s economy 
rose in July after a little-changed June reading, signaling that
the nation’s economy may be stabilizing.  The gauge increased 0.7 percent from June to 236.4, the
Conference Board, a New York-based research group, said in a
statement today, citing a preliminary reading. Government loans
to help finance infrastructure investment were behind the gain,
the Conference Board said.  The report indicates  China ’s six-quarter economic slowdown
may be abating even after  export  growth slid in July and
industrial output and new loans missed estimates. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week that easing inflation allows more room to
adjust monetary policy and positive signs are emerging in the
economy.  “Although other leading indicators, such as real estate,
exports and consumer sentiment, remained weak through July, the
leading and current indicators point to a modest rebound in the
second half of 2012,” Andrew Polk, an economist for the
Conference Board in Beijing, said in the statement.  Separately today, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
will give a preliminary August reading for a purchasing
managers’ index of manufacturers in China.  The Conference Board’s Leading Economic Index, first
published in May 2010, has successfully captured turning points
in China’s economic cycles if plotted back to 1986, according to
the group.  The index’s components, which include loans, a gauge of
raw-material supplies, export orders, consumer expectations and
floor space started, use data from the central bank and the
National Bureau of Statistics.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  