-- China Stocks Rise on Stimulus Prospects After Manufacturing Data
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-08-23T07:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/china-s-stock-futures-rise-on-fed-outlook-before-flash-pmi-data.html
Chinese stocks rose, led by material
producers, on speculation the U.S. and China will increase
economic stimulus after a report from the Asian nation showed
manufacturing may be contracting at a faster pace this month.  Zijin Mining Group Co. and Jiangxi Copper Co., the nation’s
biggest gold and copper producers, led a rally for  metal stocks 
after minutes from a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting showed many
policy makers favored more monetary easing. People’s Bank of
China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said adjustments to interest rates
and banks’ reserve requirements are still possible.  “The Fed’s favoring of easing is definitely a boost to
shares today,” said  Zhang Gang , a strategist at Central China
Securities Holdings Co. in  Shanghai . “Investors hope this may
stimulate the global economy like the last time U.S. had
quantitative easing. Governor Zhou’s talk of policy easing also
boosted optimism.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.3 percent to 2,113.07
at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  advanced 0.3 percent to
2,302.20. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in  Hong Kong  rose 1.6 percent. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, advanced 0.4 percent in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 14 percent from this
year’s high on March 2 amid concern the economic slowdown is
worsening.  China ’s export growth collapsed to 1 percent in July
from a year earlier after an 11.3 percent gain in June, while
industrial production and lending missed economists’ forecasts,
data released earlier this month showed.  Flash PMI  The preliminary reading of 47.8 for a purchasing managers’
index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics called
the flash PMI compares with a final 49.3 for July. A number
below 50 indicates contraction. If confirmed, it would be the
weakest level since November and extend to 10 months the longest
run of readings below the expansion-contraction dividing line of
50 in the index’s eight-year history. The government’s own
monthly index, due to be released on Sept. 1, had a July reading
of 50.1, the weakest in eight months.  The data signal more monetary and fiscal stimulus may be
needed to secure a second-half rebound in economic growth.
Policy makers lowered  interest rates  in June and July after two
reductions in reserve-requirement ratios for lenders this year
as the economy expanded at the slowest pace since 2009.  “Use of either tool can’t be ruled out,” PBOC’s Zhou said
in Beijing when asked whether the recent use of reverse-
repurchase transactions means the central bank will make less
use of reserve-ratio and interest-rate tools.  Fed Outlook  A gauge of  material producers  in the CSI 300 climbed 1.7
percent, the most among the 10 industry groups. Jiangxi Copper
rose 2 percent to 21.59 yuan. Aluminium Corp of China Ltd.
gained 1.2 percent to 5.90 yuan.  Zijin Mining, the biggest Chinese gold producer, rose 2.4
percent to 3.92  yuan . Shandong Mining gained 3.9 percent to
36.54 yuan. Gold futures for December delivery reached $1,655.90
an ounce on the Comex, the highest for a most-active contract
since May 2.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.1 percent after
minutes from the Fed’s last gathering released yesterday showed
that “many members” believed more monetary accommodation would
be needed fairly soon unless the pace of the economic recovery
picks up.  In Beijing today, Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles
Evans  urged easier monetary policy around the world, including
in China, to guard against economic shocks, broadening his call
for more stimulus in the U.S.  “I don’t need to see any more data to know that I think we
should have more accommodation,” Evans said to reporters,
referring to the U.S. “I certainly would applaud
anybody who takes action in order to strengthen their
economies” around the world, including China, he said.  Rare Earth  Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel  Rare-Earth  Hi-Tech Co., China’s
biggest producer of rare earth, advanced 2.4 percent to 37.61
yuan. The State Bureau of Material Reserve under the National
Development and Reform Commission may start stockpiles of 18,000
tons of light rare earths early next month, the Economic
Information Daily reported, citing an unidentified person.  Haitong Securities Co., the country’s second-largest listed
brokerage by market value, advanced 0.7 percent to 8.58 yuan.
Hong Yuan Securities Co. increased 1.6 percent to 16.86 yuan.  China may no longer require approvals to start asset
management businesses, China Securities Regulatory Commission
said in a statement yesterday. Asset management units may be
allowed to trade on margin and short sell, as well as invest in
banks’ wealth management products, it said.  Property Stocks  A gauge of  property stocks  in the Shanghai Composite
slipped 0.2 percent, the only industry group to decline. Poly
Real Estate Group Co., the second-biggest developer, dropped 0.8
percent to 9.41 yuan after first-half net income slid 10.2
percent to 2.51 billion yuan. China Vanke Co., the largest
developer, retreated 0.4 percent to 8.11 yuan.  Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  called for local governments to
continue curbs on property speculation, the official Xinhua News
Agency quoted him as saying yesterday. The construction of low-
cost housing must continue to curb excessively high  home prices ,
Li said.  The Shanghai Composite is  valued  at 9.5 times estimated
profit, compared with the 17.5 average since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 2006. Thirty-day volatility on the
Shanghai gauge was at 12.2 yesterday, compared with this year’s
average of 18.6. About 5.9 billion shares changed hands in the
gauge, 26.5 percent lower than the average volume this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  