-- Chiquita Slips on Salad Bet as Cash Dwindles: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-08-23T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/chiquita-slips-on-salad-bet-as-cash-dwindles-corporate-finance.html
Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB) 
is burning through cash faster than any U.S. packaged-foods
company after its $855 million 2005 purchase of Fresh Express
Inc. in a bid to diversify into salads failed to raise profit.  The owner of the namesake banana label is consuming funds
at a rate that would exhaust its $53 million of cash in fewer
than eight months, down from 131 months two years ago, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm’s $200 million 4.25
percent convertible securities, which traded above face value
last year, have dropped to 79 cents on the dollar.  Chiquita, which agreed in June to limit  capital spending  in
exchange for loosened loan covenants, is working to trim costs
as declining earnings raise leverage to the most since 2007.
Sales of $953 million by the salads and healthy snacks unit in
2011 are down 20 percent since the purchase of Fresh Express as
 customers  such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. favor their own brands.  “I threw in the towel,” said  James Lee , an analyst at
Bethesda, Maryland-based Calvert Investment Management Inc.,
which oversees about $12.5 billion and sold its Chiquita bonds
last year. The company’s salad business is “the biggest
disappointment. You’d just think that if you’ve been in one line
of business for a number of years, you’d be better at it,” he
said.  ‘Cash Burn’  The estimated time Chiquita can operate using existing cash
without additional financing is less than the median cash burn
rate of 12 months for the six packaged foods and meats companies
with negative free cash flows and market values bigger than $50
million, Bloomberg data show. Chiquita had  negative free cash 
flow of $83.6 million in the 12 months through June 30.  “We do have a bit of cash burn” that reflects costs
linked to debt repayment, moving the company’s headquarters to
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , and a weakening euro, Chief Financial
Officer Brian Kocher said in a telephone interview. “Our number
one priority is paying down our debt.” The euro has fallen 8.2
percent against a basket of currencies over the past year,
Bloomberg data show.  The company repaid $50 million of its 7.5 percent senior
unsecured notes due November 2014 in December, cutting its ratio
of total debt to earnings before taxes, interest, depreciation
and amortization to 4.09 at the end of last year, Bloomberg data
show.  Chiquita has  missed  earnings estimates for the past two
quarters and said a weakening euro cost the company $26 million
in the three months ended June 30, Kocher said during an Aug. 7
teleconference to discuss earnings with analysts and investors.
 Analysts expect  Chiquita to post a $27.9 million loss this year.  Total Debt  The company’s $589 million of total debt is the most
relative to earnings among 31 packaged foods and meats companies
in the U.S. with more than $100 million owed, Bloomberg data
show. Leverage of 7.55 times in the three months ended June 30
was up from 4.09 a year ago and higher than 5.71 at similarly-
rated  Dole Food Co. (DOLE)   Grocers such as Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart and
Kroger Co. are increasing sales of packaged salads through so-
called private labels, the marketing of another company’s
products under their own brand, as consumers purchase cheaper
goods amid a sputtering economic recovery, according to Bryan Hunt, a high-yield debt analyst at Wells Fargo & Co.  Chiquita avoided selling private label salads out of
concern that it would curb sales under its own brand even as
competitors such as Dole entered the market, Hunt said. Chiquita
said in February that it would sell private-label salads.  ‘Losing Share’  “Retailers’ desire to expand their private label offerings
has made it very difficult for the brands in the bag lettuce
business,” Hunt, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, said in a
telephone interview. Chiquita’s unit “has been losing share for
a very long time due to growth in the consumption of private
label,” he said.  Equity investors  are paying less for Chiquita’s revenue
than 95 percent of its peers, Bloomberg data show. A price to
sales  ratio  of 0.09 has declined from 0.15 in February and is 12
times less than the 1.05 industry average. The stock has dropped
26 percent this year to $6.14 yesterday.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Fernando Aguirre said
in a June 2005 statement that buying Fresh Express would “help
us diversify our business and improve the quality of our
earnings” as Chiquita worked to trim its dependence on bananas.  Salad Business  “We expect this to result in increased sales, reduced
costs and strong bottom-line performance,” Aguirre said.  Operating income  for the salad business last year fell 93
percent from 2010 to $7 million as capital expenditures at the
unit increased 18 percent to $33.4 million, Bloomberg data show.
Banana revenue accounted for 64 percent of the company’s $3.1
billion total in 2011, the highest portion since at least 2003.  While operating income from Chiquita’s  banana  unit rose 58
percent last year to $127.2 million, it remains below the $182
million recorded in 2005.  Buying Fresh Express “hasn’t introduced any stability into
their earnings stream,”  Heather Jones , an equity analyst at
BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,  Virginia , said in a telephone
interview. “It levered up the balance sheet, it worsened the
company.”  Chiquita, which said in an Aug. 7 statement it would search
for a new CEO, may save at least $60 million per year by cutting
more than 300 jobs and reducing research and development
expenses in a bid to become a “high volume, lower cost
operator,” the company said in the statement.  ‘A Disaster’  “This year, in terms of their profitability, it’s a
disaster,” Mary Ross Gilbert, a managing director and equity
analyst at Imperial Capital LLC in  Los Angeles , said in a
telephone interview. “But the brands are very good. We’re
starting to see an improvement in execution.”  Chiquita, rated five levels below investment-grade at B2 by
Moody’s Investors Service and an equivalent B by  Standard &
Poor’s , agreed with lenders June 26 to amend the covenants on
its $330 million senior secured  term loan  and $150 million
revolving credit facility to allow increased leverage levels
while limiting  capital expenditures  to $125 million in 2012 and
$85 million next year, according to a regulatory filing.  The company spent $75.5 million investing in its business
last year, Bloomberg data show.  Chiquita has an average maturity of 3.4 years for its $306
million of bonds outstanding that include $106 million of the
7.5 percent notes. Those bonds traded at 98.5 cents on the
dollar on Aug. 8 to yield 8.25 percent, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  While Chiquita’s ratio of debt to Ebitda may approach 4
times if its projected cost cuts are successful, only $53
million of cash on hand contributes to “tight” liquidity
despite the relaxed covenants, Kim Noland, an analyst at debt
research firm Gimme Credit LLC, wrote in an Aug. 14 report.  “At least the company is making debt reduction a priority
now rather than using free cash flow for innovation and
diversification,” Noland wrote. “Chiquita needs to address the
2014 maturity of its bonds soon, but the frothy high yield
market could permit a refinancing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  