-- Citigroup Urges SEC to Block Nasdaq Facebook Compensation
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-23T16:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/citigroup-urges-sec-to-block-nasdaq-facebook-compensation.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , whose market-making
unit suffered millions of dollars of losses trading  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  in its public debut, urged U.S. regulators to reject  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s proposal to make up for its errors.  The third-biggest U.S. bank said New York-based Nasdaq
OMX’s claims that its liability should be limited by immunity
afforded to exchanges is unsupported by legal precedent.
Decisions made by the second-largest U.S. equity trading venue
in the May 18 initial public offering were aimed at protecting
its profits rather than member firms, the company said.  Citigroup’s assertions, contained in a 17-page  letter  to
the Securities and Exchange Commission, came one day after rival
market-maker Citadel LLC said  Nasdaq  OMX’s proposal should be
approved. The New York-based bank said its losses exceed its
portion of the pool proposed by Nasdaq OMX last month, which
would compensate Wall Street firms that lost money after a
design flaw in its computers delayed Facebook’s open and left
traders confused about how many shares they owned.  “Market participants suffered hundreds of millions of
dollars of losses as a result of Nasdaq’s profit-driven conduct
prior to and during the Facebook IPO, not as a result of
protected regulatory activity by Nasdaq, or routine system
failures,” Citigroup wrote. “Nasdaq should not be permitted to
hide behind regulatory immunity.”  Court Bound  Joseph Christinat, a Nasdaq OMX spokesman, declined to
comment. Its stock slipped 0.4 percent to $23.09 at 12:21 p.m.
in New York. Citigroup fell 1 percent to $30.19.  The opposition is another sign Nasdaq’s responsibility will
be determined in court rather than by regulators. UBS AG,
Switzerland’s largest bank, said last month that it is examining
legal options after losing as much as $350 million in the IPO.  Citigroup, Chicago-based Citadel, UBS in Zurich and  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  in Jersey City, New Jersey, operate equity
wholesaling groups, brokers that execute orders for individual
investors sent by securities firms such as Charles Schwab Corp.,
TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. and Fidelity Investments.  Nasdaq OMX last month increased its planned payout to
brokers that lost money trading Facebook to $62 million from $40
million in cash and credit. The decision was made despite
protections it possesses as a so-called  self-regulatory
organization , Nasdaq Stock Market said. The cap on Nasdaq’s
liability stemming from technology errors it causes is $3
million, according to the exchange’s rules.  $350 Million  The proposed plan is “inadequate to address the magnitude
of Nasdaq’s unprecedented failures,” UBS told the SEC in a
separate letter dated yesterday. The bank entered multiple
orders for Facebook shares because it didn’t receive
confirmations, leading to losses of more than $350 million, UBS
said. It asked the SEC to work with Nasdaq to reformulate the
proposal to increase the amount paid and cover a broader range
of trading losses.  Delays and malfunctions on Nasdaq were the first signs of
trouble in the Facebook IPO, which prompted lawsuits against the
company, its exchange and the underwriters. At yesterday’s close
of $19.44, Facebook was  down  49 percent from the $38 price set
by underwriters on May 17.  The pricing of the first public transaction on May 18, a
trade known as the IPO cross, took a half hour longer than
Nasdaq planned because of technical malfunctions. In May, Nasdaq
OMX Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld acknowledged “poor
design” in software put the opening auction into a loop that
delayed its completion.  ’High Risk’  Citigroup said Nasdaq should have halted the IPO when it
realized the auction process wasn’t working as planned. Instead,
the exchange encouraged firms to continue submitting orders and
updates, “adding new pricing information for the system to
digest at a time when it was having difficulty with the
information received as of 11:05 a.m.,” the bank said.  “In a hasty, high-risk move, Nasdaq unilaterally gambled
that its systems would function properly, despite the issues
that it was beginning to experience at the time,” Citigroup
wrote. “Nasdaq’s failure to notify market makers like Citi of
what was going on behind the scenes is inexcusable.”  Nasdaq told market makers “to make their clients whole,
with assurances that they would be reimbursed for client
accommodations that were made at Nasdaq’s direction,” Citigroup
said.  Citadel, run by Ken Griffin, lost as much as $35 million in
trading related to the offering in its market-making unit,
according to a person with knowledge of the firm. Knight  lost 
$35.4 million in  Facebook  trading, it said on July 18.  Average Price  Citigroup disputed the formula Nasdaq said it would use to
determine how much to reimburse firms, saying the benchmark
price selected for determining the level of losses should
reflect trading before noon on May 21.  Nasdaq told the SEC it would determine how much to pay by
comparing firms’ executions for Facebook to the average price,
weighted by the number of shares traded, from 1:50 p.m. to 2:35
p.m. on May 18. That price was about $40.53, Nasdaq said. The
average price Citigroup suggested was $34.36, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup’s opinions were echoed in a letter dated Aug. 22
sent to the SEC by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, a Wall Street trade group. Sifma, as the
organization is known, warned regulators against the precedents
that might be set from a decision affirming that Nasdaq OMX’s
actions on May 18 fell under exchange protections.  Liability Curbs  “Sifma does not believe that Nasdaq is entitled to
regulatory immunity in connection with the  Facebook IPO , because
Nasdaq was acting as a for-profit market participant, not in its
capacity as a self-regulatory organization,” the group wrote.
“We note that Nasdaq received the Facebook listing, and its
attendant listing fees, after a hard-fought competition with the
New York Stock Exchange to gain Facebook’s listings business.”  Curbs on exchange liability were developed to keep member-firm owners, who used to own the exchanges, from having to pay
another broker for losses caused by technical breakdowns. Nasdaq
OMX, a publicly traded company, makes money from  fees  levied on
firms that trade on its systems and use its technology
infrastructure. It also makes money from the sale of quotation
and trade data and from payments by companies that go public or
maintain listings under its auspices.  Business Decisions  “The hundreds of millions of dollars of losses suffered by
market participants in connection with the Facebook IPO resulted
from a series of hasty, self-interested and high-risk business
decisions by Nasdaq, which did not take full account of the
negative downstream effects,” Citigroup said. “Nothing about
these profit-driven actions reflects a concern for the integrity
of the market or otherwise suggests that Nasdaq was acting in a
regulatory capacity.”  Brokers are concerned that exchanges have too much leeway
to avoid culpability for trading mishaps that are their own
fault, T.R. Lazo, Sifma’s managing director and associate
general counsel, said in a telephone interview.  “Broker-dealers take on a lot of liability and they
question why exchanges, given their capacity as for-profit
market participants, essentially have a regulatory liability
protection,” Lazo said. “This is a good time to take a look at
those rules and the purpose they serve and whether they ought to
be changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  