-- Colorado DA Seeks Accused Shooter’s Movie School Records
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2012-08-23T21:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/colorado-da-seeks-accused-shooter-s-movie-school-records.html
Prosecutors argued for access to
about 100 pages of school records for James Holmes, the man
accused of a shooting at a  Colorado  movie theater that left 12
people dead and dozens injured.  Holmes was in court in Centennial, Colorado, today as Karen
Pearson, an assistant district attorney for Arapahoe County,
said prosecutors should see the records from the University of
Colorado Denver because the school revoked his privileges after
he made threats to people. She also said Holmes failed an oral
exam on June 7, six weeks before the shooting.  Holmes allegedly opened fire on the audience at a midnight
screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” in Aurora on July 20,
killing 12 and injuring at least 58. Holmes sat silently at the
defense table today, his hands chained to his waist, while his
attorney Daniel King accused prosecutors of going on a “fishing
expedition” in search of a motive for the attack.  “It’s irrelevant what the motive is,” King told Judge
William Sylvester. King also asked why the prosecutors needed
full access to the records if they knew so much about his client
already. A representative of the university, where Holmes was a
graduate student in neuroscience, delivered the educational
records to the court last week.  Holmes is charged with 24 counts of first-degree murder and
116 counts of attempted murder. First-degree murder is
punishable by death or life in prison under Colorado law.  Sylvester, who didn’t rule on whether he or prosecutors can
fully review the documents, has also scheduled an Aug. 30
hearing to discuss whether Holmes’s correspondence with
psychiatrist Lynne Fenton was privileged. Defense lawyers have
said Holmes saw Fenton, medical director of the student mental
health service at the university, according to court papers.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kass in Colorado District Court in Centennial at
 kassj@msn.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  