-- Colombia Peso Bonds Drop as Rebound Tempers Rate Cut Outlook
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-08-23T19:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/colombia-peso-bonds-drop-as-rebound-tempers-rate-cut-outlook.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds fell, pushing
yields up the most in seven weeks, after bigger-than-forecast
gains in retail sales and factory output led traders to pare
bets that the central bank will cut borrowing costs tomorrow.  The yield on the government’s 6 percent notes due in April
2013 increased ten basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to
4.80 percent at the close of trading in Bogota, the biggest jump
since July 3, according to the central bank. The price decreased
0.064 centavo to 100.714 centavos per peso.  Colombian industry expanded for the first time in four
months in June, ending the contraction the central bank cited as
one of the reasons for its decision to reduce borrowing costs
last month. Industrial production rose 2.8 percent and retail
sales expanded 4 percent from a year earlier, more than all the
forecasts among 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Some investors will be willing to bet the central bank
won’t be cutting rates,” William Florez, an analyst at  Helm
Bank SA (PFBHELMB) ’s brokerage unit in Bogota, said by phone.  Yields on the bonds due in April 2013 had fallen 65 basis
points since July 27, when the central bank unexpectedly cut the
overnight lending rate by a quarter-percentage point to 5
percent, through yesterday.  Policy makers will lower the overnight lending rate at
tomorrow’s meeting by a quarter-percentage point to 4.75
percent, according to 28 of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The rest predict no change.  After yesterday’s data showed a rebound in production and
retail, “Colombia again stands out in the region, and the peso
will appreciate as capital flows into the country,” Florez
said.  The peso gained 0.2 percent to 1,809.35 per  U.S. dollar ,
extending its gain this year to 7.1 percent, the best
performance among the world’s currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the Hungarian forint and the Chilean currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in  New York  at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  