-- Colombia Treasury Will Buy Dollars Next Week, Echeverry Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-08-23T23:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/colombia-treasury-will-buy-dollars-next-week-echeverry-says-1-.html
Colombia ’s Treasury will continue to
buy dollars next week to try to weaken the peso, said Juan Carlos Echeverry, who resigned as finance minister today.  The dollars are not for a repurchase of debt, Echeverry
said in an interview in Bogota after his resignation. Echeverry
said he will urge his successor,  Mauricio Cardenas , to continue
lobbying the central bank to step up its own dollar purchases.  The central bank “still has a very precise way of looking
at intervention,” Echeverry said. “But we can change their
minds, so we will keep trying.”  The peso has rallied 7.1 percent this year, the biggest
gain of 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Hungarian
forint and the Chilean peso. Cardenas’ main challenges are to
keep the economy growing above 4 percent amid the  European debt
crisis , and to help industry and agriculture weather exchange
rate appreciation, Echeverry said.  Echeverry declined to say how many dollars the Treasury
will buy in total.  “Part of the strategy is to have room for maneuver to
intervene when it’s necessary,” Echeverry said.  ‘Narrow Path’  The dollar purchases don’t form part of any debt repayment
plan, Echeverry said.  “This is just placing liquidity abroad, and we have excess
liquidity domestically because tax collection was better than
expected,” Echeverry said. “It’s not that we are using that
money to repay debt, it’s a strategy basically domestically
geared to supporting the  exchange rate .”  Colombia’s so-called fiscal rule, which determines a path
for spending and the deficit, means the country will pursue
similar policies whoever is finance minister, Echeverry said.  “We created the fiscal rule which determines a very narrow
path for the minister to make it foreseeable for the markets
what the fiscal behavior of Colombia will be,” Echeverry said.  Cardenas holds a doctorate in economics from the  University
of California , Berkeley. He has headed the Mines and Energy
Ministry since September after leaving a post as director at the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington . The minister has previously
held government positions including transport minister and
national planning director.  Cardenas is politically and economically conservative,
Echeverry said.  “Economically, he is a conservative, but nobody is
perfect, he’s from Berkeley and I studied at  New York 
University,” Echeverry said. “His flaws come from his West
Coast education.”  Echeverry, a former teaching assistant for Fed Chair  Ben Bernanke , said he is looking for a university to employ him in
the United States, and will also work on his consultancy firm
and spend more time with his three children, aged 2, 4 and 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  