-- Company Credit Swaps Increase in U.S. After Jobless Claims Rise
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-23T21:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/company-credit-swaps-increase-in-u-s-after-jobless-claims-rise.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
increased by the most in three weeks after the number of
Americans filing applications for  unemployment benefits 
unexpectedly climbed.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on company debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added 2.3 basis points to a mid-price of 101.7
basis points at 5:15 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest increase since Aug. 2.  The swaps index jumped after a Labor Department report
showed jobless claims rose by 4,000 to 372,000 in the week ended
Aug. 18, stoking concern the recovery is slowing. Economists in
a Bloomberg survey called for 365,000. In  Europe , German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said allowing Greece more time to
meet debt obligations wouldn’t solve its problems and would
increase costs for creditors.  “With soft global data as a backdrop, confirming a
precarious global economic environment, the market was also set
off by comments from the Germans which seem opposed to extending
Greece additional latitude,” said  Adrian Miller , director of
global markets strategy at GMP Securities LLC in New York.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  hosted French President
Francois Hollande today as the leaders of Europe’s two biggest
economies seek common ground on Greece and the wider euro-area
debt crisis. The meeting “did not deliver a consensus view,”
Miller said.  Raining on Bond’s Parade  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said recent signs of improvement in the economy would prompt him
to oppose any new program by the central bank to buy bonds to
reduce borrowing costs. The comments “rained on the  bond market 
somewhat,” Miller said.  The credit-swaps index, which typically increases as
investor confidence deteriorates, has climbed from an intraday
level of 96.9 basis points on Aug. 21, the lowest since May 4.
The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 3.5 basis points to 145.2,
and the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index tied to 50 companies with
mostly speculative-grade credit ratings added 12.8 to 587.9.  Stress Measure  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate  swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, narrowed 0.72 basis points to 18.5.
The measure, which falls when investors favor assets such as
corporate bonds and rises when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities , has dropped from 54.7 in November.  Credit swaps tied to  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  jumped after the
 Palo Alto , California-based company posted a  record  quarterly
loss and reported slumping sales for personal computers and
services aimed at businesses.  Contracts tied to the company’s HP Enterprise Services unit
climbed 3.4 basis points to 42.5 basis points, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Swaps tied to the parent company rose 13.5 to 277.  The company, whose fiscal third-quarter loss of $8.86
billion includes a 10 percent decline in PC revenue, pared the
high end of its full-year forecast for profit excluding some
items to $4.07 a share, from $4.10, missing the average $4.08
analyst  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  