-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Slumps to Lowest Level Since January
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-23T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-slumps-to-lowest-level-since-january.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S. fell
last week to the lowest level since January as Americans’ held
more pessimistic views on their finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index decreased to minus
47.4 in the period ended Aug. 19, the sixth consecutive drop, from
a minus 44.4 the prior period. The series of declines is the
longest since 2008, when the U.S. was in recession.  Higher  gasoline prices  are taking a bigger chunk out of
Americans’ paychecks, and an increase in food prices caused by a
drought in parts of the country may further hurt finances. In
addition, job growth hasn’t proceeded fast enough to bring the
 unemployment rate  below 8 percent, indicating incomes may fail
to keep pace with escalating expenses.  “Rising food and gas prices have stoked a bout of
discomfort among a broad section of the American public,” said
 Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York. “The pain has been especially evident down the income
ladder in households that will bear the disproportionate burden
of adjustment to higher prices. The result will likely be a net
slowing in discretionary spending.”  Readings below minus 40 put the comfort gauge “in the zone
associated with deep economic discontent,” according to  Gary
Langer , president of New York-based Langer Research Associates,
which compiles the index for Bloomberg. The index has lost 16
points since peaking this year in April.  A Labor Department report today showed the number of
Americans filing  first-time claims  for  unemployment benefits 
climbed last week to a one-month high. Jobless claims rose by
4,000 to 372,000 in the period ended Aug. 18.  Stocks fell amid speculation whether central banks will
ease monetary policy further and European leaders will be able
to solve the region’s debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 0.4 percent to 1,408.48 at 9:39 a.m. in  New York .  Index Components  All three of the Bloomberg index’s components deteriorated
last week. The gauge of Americans’ views on the current state of
the  economy  fell to minus 77.3 last week from minus 75.6 in the
prior period, and the  buying-climate  index declined to minus
48.9 from minus 46.4, both the weakest since January.  A barometer of  personal finances  slid for a fourth week, to
minus 15.9, the lowest since November, from minus 11.1. About
six of every 10 respondents said their finances were in bad
shape.  The comfort index has been painting a picture that’s
different from other indicators of consumer health. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment index  rose  last week to
the highest level in three months, and the Conference Board’s
confidence gauge  climbed  in July for the first time in five
months.  Gasoline Prices  An almost 40-cent jump in gasoline prices since July 1 puts
the average cost of a gallon at about $3.72, within 22 cents of
this year’s high of $3.94, according to AAA, the country’s
biggest motoring organization.  The potential for higher food bills may also hurt
consumers’ outlooks and their ability to spend. The worst U.S.
drought in 56 years has sent corn futures traded in  Chicago  up
about 65 percent since mid-June. Tyson Foods Inc., the largest
U.S. meat processor, said Aug. 6 profit will be lower after the
company was forced to pay more for grain to feed animals.  “Consumers clearly continue to feel pressed by the
economy, and we don’t expect overnight reversals in consumer
confidence,” Richard Smucker, chief executive officer of J.M.
Smucker Co., the maker of jams and other food products, said
during an Aug. 17 earnings call. “The impact of the current
U.S. drought will not be fully understood and realized by the
industry for a number of months.”  Today’s Bloomberg index showed confidence among men fell to
minus 48.4, the lowest level since October. The measure of
women’s sentiment dropped to minus 46.4.  Income Groups  Those making less than $15,000 a year also became more
pessimistic. At minus 83.2, the group’s sentiment index was the
lowest since December. Moods also darkened among Americans
earning at least $100,000, with the gauge dropping to the
weakest since January.  Movements in confidence may play a more prominent role as
the presidential election draws nearer. The measure of
confidence among Democrats was higher than that of Republicans
for a record 22nd week. At the same time, Democratic sentiment
dropped 3.8 points last week to the lowest level since February.  Presidential Election  The gauge for political  independents , a key swing group in
this year’s presidential election, was the lowest of all. It
fell to minus 52.2, the weakest since December.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  