-- Coutts Sells Emerging-Market Bonds, U.S. Shares After Rallies
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-08-23T04:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/coutts-sells-emerging-market-bonds-u-s-shares-after-rallies.html
Coutts & Co. , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s wealth management unit, says it is selling emerging-
market bonds and U.S. shares and may boost holdings of
developing-nation stocks should the global economy improve.  Local-currency government securities in  emerging markets 
handed investors a 9.1 percent return this year through Aug. 21,
while dollar notes gained 12 percent, according to indexes
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
rallied 12 percent in that time, compared with a 6.1 percent
gain in the  MSCI World Excluding United States Index (MXWOU)  of shares.
That’s the biggest outperformance since 1998, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are looking to take profits in risk assets that have
done well,” Gary Dugan, the Singapore-based chief investment
officer for Asia, said in an interview yesterday. “U.S.
equities have done particularly well,” he said, without giving
specific figures about the amount the  fund manager  was selling.
Coutts, which counts  Queen Elizabeth II  among its clients, had
86 billion pounds ($137 billion) of customer assets and
liabilities on June 30, according to the company.  Many Federal Reserve policy makers favor a third round of
asset purchases that would boost the supply of dollars unless
the  U.S. economy  shows signs of a durable pickup, according to
minutes of the Fed’s latest meeting released yesterday. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande 
meet in Berlin today to try to find common ground on Greece and
the wider euro-area debt crisis.  Under Loved  Coutts is waiting for the Group of Seven countries to
become more stable before it lifts its holdings of developing-
nation stocks, said Dugan. The G7 comprises Canada, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan, the U.K. and the U.S.  “When we feel more comfortable with the G7, we would be
big buyers of emerging-market shares,” he said. “They are very
undervalued, very under-loved, a lot of people just sold out to
be risk averse,” Dugan said. The equities could outperform
developed-nation shares by 10-to-15 percent in “normal market
circumstances.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of stocks has gained 6.4
percent this year, trailing a 9.2 percent increase in the  MSCI
World Index of developed nations.  Emerging-market shares are
valued at 10.4 times estimated profit, compared with 13.1 for
advanced-economy equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Pleasant Surprises’  Dugan said he favors Indonesian and Malaysian stocks.
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak’s ramped-up spending ahead
of a general election that must be called by early 2013 has
bolstered Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy, allowing the
central bank to keep rates unchanged for more than a year.  Gross
domestic product  increased 5.4 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, beating the median estimate
for a 4.6 percent rise in a Bloomberg  survey , official data
showed last week.  Indonesia’s economic growth is forecast to accelerate to
6.8 percent in 2013 from an estimated 6.3 percent to 6.5 percent
this year, President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said on Aug. 16.  The two countries will “continue to give pleasant
surprises without downside risks and they don’t have exaggerated
international investment,” Dugan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  