-- ATP Profit Drops 52% as Danish Fund’s Investment Income Falls
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-23T14:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/danish-pension-fund-atp-reports-52-decline-in-first-half-profit.html
ATP, Denmark’s biggest pension fund,
said net income in the first six months of the year declined 52
percent after profit from investments plunged.  Net income fell to 3.93 billion kroner ($660 million) from
8.13 billion kroner a year earlier, the Hilleroed, Denmark-based
fund  said  today in an e-mail. Investment profit after tax
declined to 4.44 billion kroner from 8.41 billion kroner.  ATP, whose Chief Executive Officer Lars Rohde will take
over as Danish central bank governor in February, lost money on
stock hedges -- bets designed to guard against market declines -
- and its commodity portfolio slumped under falling oil prices.
The fund’s investments in bonds and stocks returned about the
same as respective general indexes.  “The  European debt crisis  continues unabated, and the
first half of 2012 was generally marked by great financial
market uncertainty,” Rohde said in a statement. “Low interest
rates also present a challenge for a pension provider such as
ATP.”  The fund’s portfolio of Danish and German government bonds
returned 1 percent, ATP said. Benchmark Danish government bonds
with maturities longer than one year gained 1.1 percent in the
first six months of the year, including reinvested interest,
according to EFFAS Indexes available on Bloomberg.  The fund, the biggest investor in Danish shares, got a
return of 12.3 percent, or 1.68 billion kroner, on its Denmark
stock portfolio, compared with a 12.5 percent advance in the
 all-share OMX Copenhagen Index  in the period.  Gains in the stock portfolio were hurt by a 1.48 billion-krone loss on financial hedging instruments, while the commodity
portfolio lost 700 million kroner after oil-indexed bonds gave a
negative return of 9 percent, ATP said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  