-- Debt Defaulting Most Delivers Biggest Market Return: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/debt-defaulting-most-delivers-biggest-market-return-muni-credit.html
The riskiest revenue debt in the
$3.7 trillion municipal market has provided the best returns
this year, as the quest for extra yield masks the segment’s
likelihood of default.  Industrial-development revenue bonds, issued by local
agencies on behalf of companies, have returned 10 percent this
year, the most among 16 revenue-debt types tracked by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. That compares with a 5.4 percent
gain for the broader market.  About 28 percent of muni defaults from 1958 to 2011 were on
the development securities, the most of any area of local debt,
according to a Federal Reserve Bank of New York  blog post  that
combined rated and unrated failures to pay. Investors are
looking past the trend, pouring money into high-yield funds with
 interest rates  near the  lowest  in a generation.  “Some of the purposes of industrial-development revenue
bonds were nebulous,” said  Peter Hayes , head of municipal bonds
at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which oversees about $105
billion in local debt. “People have to understand there’s more
inherent risk in that sector, and they have to understand what
they own. Clearly there’s a reach for yield taking place.”  Risk Demand  The Fed’s policy of keeping its key lending rate near zero
has caused investors to flock to riskier assets. High-yield muni
funds have attracted about $5.6 billion this year, Lipper US
Fund Flows data show. That compares with $32.5 billion in
outflows for high yield over the same period last year following
Meredith Whitney’s December 2010 prediction of “hundreds of
billions of dollars” of defaults within a year.  Industrial-development debt poses the most risk among
revenue bonds, according to Bank of America data. The average
rating is equivalent to Baa1 from Moody’s Investors Service,
three levels above junk. The  penalty  on 10-year debt with a
similar rating narrowed to about 1.2 percentage points above
top-rated bonds this week, the least since December 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors are gaining more from industrial-revenue debt
than from similarly rated company borrowings. Corporate bonds
rated BBB have returned 7.5 percent this year, trailing their
muni counterparts by the most since at least 2005, Bank of
America data show.  Default Difference  U.S. corporate securities rated BBB+, Standard & Poor’s
third-lowest investment grade, have an average default rate of
6.05 percent after 15 years, compared with 0.19 percent for
similarly rated munis, according to the New York-based rating
company.  Still, the bonds are the most-volatile revenue debt, making
the returns only sixth-best on a risk-adjusted basis, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of America. When
factoring in volatility, the gain this year is 3.9 percent,
trailing single-family housing, tobacco, hospital, multifamily
housing and health.  The New York Fed’s Aug. 15 posting, “The  Untold Story  of
Municipal Bond Defaults,” analyzed data on rated bonds from
S&P, Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings , along with unrated debt tracked
by Mergent Inc. and S&P Capital IQ. The researchers said
municipal failures-to-pay “happen much more frequently than
most casual observers are aware.”  Challenged Projects  Industrial-development defaults occur most often with
projects that use new technology or that lack a track record,
according to the blog post.  Buying the securities is “identical to investing in a
corporate bond,” said Matt Fabian, managing director at
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors. The
most-frequent issuers to default are smaller ones that would
finance their projects through private investments or local
banks if not for economic-development agencies, he said.  Bigger corporations have also sold the development debt and
come under distress. American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , which
filed for bankruptcy in November, sold municipal securities
through airports and local authorities to pay for gates and
hangars.  The average yield on an AMR bond maturing in 2029 issued by
AllianceAirport Authority Inc. in  Texas  rose to 28.4 percent
after the filing from 11.6 percent before, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The interest rate has declined since,
touching 8.86 percent in July.  Collateral Benefit  “Unlike a traditional municipal bond, in many industrial-
development bonds we have collateral, which helps with the
recovery in the event of a problem,” said Mark DeMitry, a
senior portfolio manager at OppenheimerFunds Inc. in Rochester,
New York. He helps run the $6.8 billion  Oppenheimer Rochester
National Municipals (ORNAX)  fund, which holds speculative-grade debt.  “These entities are more suspect to the ups and downs of
economic cycles,” DeMitry said. “It certainly goes to show you
how strong traditional municipal credit is.”  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The
returns aren’t annualized.  Following are pending sales:  NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE AUTHORITY plans to sell about $810
million in revenue bonds as soon as next week, according to an
offering document. The proceeds will be used for refunding.
Moody’s rates the debt A3, seventh-highest. (Added Aug. 23)  COLUMBUS, OHIO, is set to issue about $197 million in
taxable and tax-exempt general-obligation debt as soon as next
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fitch assigned
the bonds its top grade. (Added Aug. 23)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  