-- Defense Cut’s Full Impact Not Immediate, Analyst Finds
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-24T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/defense-cut-s-full-impact-not-immediate-analyst-finds.html
The defense industry wouldn’t feel
the full impact of automatic budget cuts immediately, with
weapons programs facing only a 3.5 percent reduction next year,
budget analyst  Todd Harrison  said.  While most  defense programs  would be reduced by 10.3
percent under the cuts known as sequestration, they would take
time to implement, Harrison, of the Center for Strategic and
Budgetary Assessments in  Washington , said yesterday.  “It will not mean an immediate reduction of 10 percent for
the defense industry,” Harrison said in an interview with Mark
Crumpton on Bloomberg Television’s “Bottom Line” in advance of
a report on the cuts scheduled to be released today.  The delayed impact is the result of the “natural lag
time” from when money is authorized by Congress to when it’s
scheduled to be spent, Harrison said. Cuts in “budget
authority,” or authorized spending levels, may not show up on
industry accounting books until years later.  The most immediate effect of the automatic cuts may be on
civilian Defense Department employees, Harrison said. They may
be hit with 100,000 “layoffs or furloughs” in the weeks after
Jan. 2, when sequestration would take effect if Congress fails
to come up with an alternative deficit-reduction plan, he said.  The Obama administration has exempted military personnel
from the cuts.  The defense reductions are part of $1.2 trillion in
automatic, across-the-board cuts to domestic and national-
security programs over a decade that will start in January
unless Congress and President  Barack Obama  act to avert them.  The cuts were imposed after talks failed last year on a
bipartisan plan to curb the nation’s increasing debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  