-- Distressed Fund Led by Alp Ercil Said to Raise $940 Million
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-08-23T06:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/distressed-fund-led-by-alp-ercil-said-to-raise-940-million.html
Alp Ercil, who used to head
New York-based hedge fund Perry Capital LLC’s Asian operations,
raised $940 million for his own distressed-asset fund, according
to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Asia Research & Capital Management Ltd. told investors
yesterday it won’t accept new capital, after capping the fund’s
size at $1 billion, the person said on condition of anonymity
because the information is private. Bill Wong, the Hong Kong-based company’s head of operations, declined to comment by e-mail today.  Ercil’s fundraising reflects increasing interest in
alternatives to a traditional hedge-fund strategy in Asia of
betting on rising and falling stocks, which has contributed to
the region falling behind global returns in the industry,
according to data compiled by Eurekahedge Pte.  The focus on distressed debt also follows a reduction in
competition in the market due to commercial banks shutting
proprietary trading desks, according to Richard Johnston, Asia
head of Albourne Partners, which advises investors on hedge
funds and other alternative investments.  The Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index gained 1.34 percent
in the first seven months, trailing the 2.49 percent advance of
the global Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index. Fifty-nine funds that
opened in Asia in the first five months this year raised an
average $23.5 million at the start, according to the Singapore-based data provider.  Attracting Money  The Asia Research & Capital fund invests in distressed
assets such as credit and equity securities in the region,
including Australia and  Japan , three people with knowledge of
the matter said in May. It attracted $440 million for the fund
by its first subscription deadline then.  The fund has since drawn an additional $500 million, the
person said today. About 10 percent of the money in the fund
came from Asia Research & Capital’s partners, he added.  Reuters reported the fund size today.  Ercil, 39, is leading a team of 18 people, including the
entire 14 staff from Perry Capital’s Hong Kong office, in the
new venture. The fund charges a management fee, yet unlike a
hedge fund, performance fees will be levied when investment
gains are realized, the people said in May.  Ercil had been with Perry Capital for more than 10 years
before leaving last year to plan his own fund. He moved to Hong
Kong in 2005 to open Perry Capital’s office in the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  