-- Dollar Falls as Rising Jobless Claims Spur Stimulus Bets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-23T21:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/dollar-declines-as-fed-signals-it-s-prepared-to-stimulate.html
The dollar fell to the weakest level
against the euro in seven weeks as jobless claims rose to a one-
month high, increasing speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will
seek to stimulate economic growth.  The greenback declined earlier against the majority of its
most-traded counterparts as Fed and  China  officials signaled
they were prepared to ease monetary policy to expand economic
growth.  Europe ’s shared currency pared gains after German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said “it’s important to me that we all
stand by our obligations” as Germany and France held debt-
crisis talks in Berlin. Australia’s dollar fell after a report
indicated manufacturing will contract at a faster pace in China,
its largest trading partner.  “It certainly isn’t the direction we want to be headed in,
with jobless claims moving higher,” Eric Viloria, senior
currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York , said
in a telephone interview, pointing to the August payrolls report
due Sept. 7 as key to Fed thinking. “If the data continues to
show improvement, then that could reduce the likelihood of
additional stimulus.”  The U.S. currency fell 0.3 percent to $1.2564 per euro at 5
p.m. New York time, after reaching $1.2590, the least since July
4. It declined 0.1 percent to 78.49 yen. The euro was 0.2
percent stronger at 98.62 yen.  Jobless claims  rose by 4,000 for a second week to reach
372,000 in the period ended Aug. 18, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 41 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for 365,000.  Employers added 163,000 workers last month, the biggest
gain since February, according to the Labor Department jobs
report issued earlier this month. The figures showed the jobless
rate climbed to a five-month high of 8.3 percent.  Euro Rally  Minutes of the U.S. central bank’s latest policy meeting
released yesterday showed officials remain supportive of a third
round of asset purchases under quantitative easing, or QE, as
unemployment has been mired at more than 8 percent since 2009.  “It’s the hope for more progress in Europe and the
adjustment in monetary policy expectations from the Fed that is
fueling the rally in the euro,”  Kathy Lien , managing director
of foreign exchange at BK Asset Management, an investment
advisory firm in New York, wrote in a research note. The
increase in jobless claims and smaller rise in new home sales
come “at a terrible time for the  U.S. dollar , because investors
are already readjusting their QE3 expectations.”  Short euro  positions, or bets the currency will fall
against the dollar, have climbed, according to Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data. Futures traders increased their
speculative euro short positions to 137,810 contracts on Aug.
14, compared with 131,711 the prior week.  ‘More Aggressive’  There’s a 50 percent chance that the Fed will announce a
form of quantitative easing at their September meeting, and it’s
increasingly likely for the central bank to ease further later
in 2012 or next year, Rick Rieder, chief investment officer of
fundamental fixed-income at New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s largest money manager, said in an interview with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s “In The Loop.”  “Employment is going to take a very long time to get to
the Fed’s mandate of full employment, which means they’re going
to be on hold for a long time,” Rieder said. “Their comments
yesterday were more aggressive than I think people would have
thought.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will have an opportunity to
clarify his views in an Aug. 31 speech at a forum for central
bankers in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , where he signaled a second
round of bond buying by the Fed in 2010. Fed officials next meet
on Sept. 12-13.  ‘Provide Confidence’  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and
Treasury debt between 2008 and 2011 in two rounds of
quantitative easing to cap borrowing costs. Policy makers have
held the Fed’s  key rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent  A third round of asset purchases would “provide confidence
to markets that we are intending to be accommodative for quite
some time,” Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  told reporters
in Beijing today. More accommodative policies are needed around
the world, from China to the U.S., he said.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six U.S. trading
partners, dropped as much as 0.3 percent today to 81.221, the
lowest since June 20.  Home Sales  The greenback remained lower even after a separate report
showed purchases of new U.S. homes climbed 3.6 percent to a
372,000 annual pace, following a 359,000 rate in June that was
higher than previously estimated. The median estimate of 72
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a rise to 365,000.
The rate was the same in May, which was the strongest since
April 2010.  The dollar has fallen 3.4 percent in the past month, the
second-worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The yen posted the biggest decline, dropping 3.8 percent, while
the euro climbed 1.1 percent.  The greenback is likely to gain against its biggest
counterparts over the longer term as central banks in Europe,
 Japan  and the U.K. also commit to loose monetary policy, UBS AG
currency strategists said today in a research note.  The firm raised its forecast for the euro to $1.25 from
$1.20 in the next month and kept its call for the yen against
the dollar unchanged at 78 yen during that period. The euro will
decline to $1.15 in the next year “as austerity in Europe leads
to prolonged loose monetary policies,” UBS said.  Merkel, Hollande  Merkel told reporters before talks with French President
 Francois Hollande  she expects  Greece  to fulfill the terms of its
bailout and is waiting for the next report by international
inspectors.  “We and I will encourage Greece to pursue the path of
reform that demands a lot from the people,” said Merkel, adding
she would convey that message to Greek Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras when she hosts him for talks in Berlin tomorrow.  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
yesterday that adjustments to  interest rates  and banks’ reserve
requirements are still possible after the central bank stepped
up temporary cash injections this month.  The preliminary reading of 47.8 for a China purchasing
managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics, called the  flash PMI , compares with a final 49.3 for
July. A number below 50 indicates contraction. If confirmed, it
would be the weakest level since November and extend to 10
months the longest run of readings below the expansion-
contraction dividing line of 50 in the index’s eight-year
history.  Aussie, Real  Australia’s dollar weakened against 14 of its 16 major
peers. The so-called Aussie fell 0.6 percent to $1.0441,
snapping three days of gains.  “Aussie this morning was pretty vulnerable on the back of
the Chinese PMI data,”  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA, said in a telephone interview
“We’ve remained pretty bullish on Aussie because we do expect
quantitative easing and we do expect policy stimulus from
China.”  Brazil ’s real declined against the greenback as speculation
the central bank will intervene further to weaken the currency
outweighed bets policy makers will add stimulus to bolster the
global economy.  The real depreciated 0.4 percent to 2.0238 per dollar and
was poised for a weekly loss of 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  