-- Dutch Elections Risk Muddying Merkel’s Crisis-Fighting Efforts
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-08-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/dutch-elections-risk-muddying-merkel-s-crisis-fighting-efforts.html
Next month’s Dutch elections risk
complicating Europe’s efforts to resolve its debt crisis, with
the coalition government that emerges likely to reflect both
anti-European sentiment and resistance to more austerity.  A third of Dutch voters in the run-up to the Sept. 12 vote
back the Socialists, who oppose more spending cuts and refuse to
hand over more sovereignty to Europe, or the  Freedom Party ,
which seeks an exit from the European Union and the euro. That
will make it tough for caretaker Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s
Liberals to find support from perhaps three or four parties for
a majority in parliament and keep cutting the deficit.  Rutte has been a loyal ally to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  as she staves off calls to provide more aid to cash-
strapped southern European countries. A new Dutch government
less willing to pursue austerity or readier to see the euro
break up might make Merkel’s task more complex at a time when
the chancellor is striving to find common ground with French
Socialist President  Francois Hollande .  “The September election outcome will be an important
indicator of the willingness of one of Germany’s most important
pro-austerity allies to continue to support euro-zone rescue
measures,”  Juergen Michels , chief euro-region economist at
Citigroup Inc. in  London , said in a telephone interview. The
Liberals “may struggle to find coalition partners who support
their pro-austerity, pro-Europe program.”  Poll Tie  The Socialists, led by Emile Roemer, and Rutte’s party,
known as the  VVD  in Dutch, are tied in first place at 34 seats
each out of the 150 in parliament, according to a  TNS-NIPO poll 
published Aug. 21. The survey gave the Freedom Party 14 seats,
fifth behind Labor and the  Christian Democrats . TNS-NIPO
questioned 1,308 people between Aug. 19 and Aug. 21 and the poll
had a margin of error of 2.2 percentage points.  Under the  Dutch electoral system , parties’ vote shares
translate directly into seats in parliament. Just 0.67 percent
of the nationwide vote is needed for a single seat.  That leads to a proliferation of parties -- 11 are set to
win seats, according to TNS-NIPO. Unless the next coalition
involves both the Socialists and the VVD, at least four parties
will be needed for a majority.  Elections were called after Rutte’s Cabinet resigned on
April 23, when  Freedom Party  leader  Geert Wilders , who’d been
backing a minority government of Liberals and Christian
Democrats, withdrew support for spending cuts and tax increases.  Austerity Deal  Rutte’s administration and three opposition parties struck
a deal three days later on an austerity package to make sure
that the  budget deficit  next year stays within 3 percent of
gross domestic product. The 2013 deficit is now forecast at 2.7
percent, the government’s planning agency said Aug. 22.  The five parties that signed the austerity deal are two
seats short of a majority in the TNS-NIPO poll.  The election, which takes place on the same day that
Germany’s Constitutional Court rules on the legality of the
permanent euro-area rescue fund, adds to the uncertainty over
 Europe ’s anti-crisis efforts almost three years after the
turmoil emerged in  Greece .  With contentious decisions looming in the 17-nation euro
region on whether to grant Greece more leeway to keep it in the
currency area and on European Central Bank bond purchases to
keep down borrowing costs in Italy and  Spain , the Dutch may not
have a functioning government before Christmas.  Coalition Talks  It has taken an average of almost three months to set up a
coalition since World War II. The Rutte Cabinet took 127 days of
negotiations following the 2010 election, the third-longest
ever. The record was set in 1977 when it took 208 days to form a
two-party government led by Christian Democrat Dries van Agt.
The quickest was in 1948, at only 31 days.  “We expect to see an inconclusive outcome followed by
weeks, if not months, of coalition negotiations before an
unstable and possibly more euro-skeptic new government
emerges,” Alastair Newton, senior political analyst at Nomura
International Plc in London, said by phone. “Although we doubt
that either a Socialist or a VVD-led coalition would assure
government stability, we believe that the latter would be the
better outcome from the perspective of euro-zone cohesion.”  Almost three years after the crisis started in Greece, the
country remains at the heart of the turmoil even as contagion
has spread to Italy and Spain, prompting ECB President  Mario Draghi  to announce proposals on Aug. 2 to re-enter the  bond
market  to help lower government borrowing costs.  ‘How Quickly?’  “In the event of a sudden Greek exit before the new
government was in place, how quickly could the  Netherlands 
respond in agreeing to emergency measures which the euro zone
might wish to put in place to contain the contagion risk?”
Newton said.  With Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras seeking more time
from his European partners to meet the terms of its
international rescue, Roemer said Aug. 19 that the Socialists
would be willing to consider a request for more aid to Greece
only under very strict conditions. Saying he “can’t tell
whether we will be able to preserve the euro,” Roemer told
reporters that “the pace of austerity measures implemented
throughout Europe isn’t working.”  Rutte and Christian Democrat Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager say Greece must overhaul its finances and go ahead with
privatizations without delay.  Skeptic Tone  Any more bailouts would threaten to fuel anti-Europe
sentiment, which has been simmering since 2005, when Dutch
voters rejected the EU constitution. Under Rutte, who took
office in October 2010, the government has taken a more euro-
skeptic tone, including opposing moves to let Romania and
 Bulgaria  join the Schengen passport-free travel area.  Wilders has made Europe the key issue of his election
program under the slogan “Their Brussels, our Netherlands.”
He’s demanding a return to the guilder, after a report
commissioned by the party said in March that the Netherlands
would eventually profit from abandoning the euro.  A TNS-NIPO poll in June found that only 58 percent were in
favor of EU membership, down from 76 percent in May 2010. In a
de Hond poll, 48 percent said the economy would suffer too much
if the Netherlands took the steps needed to meet the 3 percent
deficit limit.  Even amid the uncertainty, investors have shown renewed
confidence in Dutch politicians’ attempts to tackle their budget
difficulties.  After the government’s collapse in April, they demanded as
much as 79 basis points of extra yield to lend to the
Netherlands for 10 years rather than to  Germany , the highest
premium in three years. The extra yield, or spread, that
investors get for holding Dutch 10-year bonds instead of
similar-maturity German bunds narrowed 40 basis points to 39
basis points after Rutte got his emergency austerity package.  “I’ve argued for a long time that the Netherlands is
Germany’s key partner in its endeavor and that Merkel will want
to keep the Netherlands on board with her vision,” Nomura’s
Newton said. “This election is a hugely important event for
Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  