-- Heavy Shipping Poised for Takeovers as Financing Fades: Freight
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-08-24T12:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/heavy-shipping-poised-for-takeovers-as-financing-fades-freight.html
Shipping lines that carry generators
and giant trucks for  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
are becoming takeover targets amid a lack of funding for the
vessels needed to tap one of the most resilient cargo markets.  The withdrawal of lenders such as Commerzbank AG,  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  from maritime finance
as credit policies tighten is making life tougher for specialist
lines that dominate heavy-lift shipping, while arousing interest
from potential consolidators including private-equity firms.  A merger last week between U.S-based Intermarine LLC, owned
by  New York  buyout specialist New Mountain Capital, and Scan-
Trans Holding of  Denmark  created the world’s No. 2 heavy-lift
shipper and may herald a spate of takeovers in the sector,
according to Al Stanley, who will head the enlarged company.  “If you’ve got a strong balance sheet and the ability to
act quickly, opportunities come up when you’re in a turbulent
industry,” Stanley, currently Intermarine’s chief executive
officer, said in a phone interview from its base in Houston.  Heavy-lift shippers, which transport everything from giant
trucks used in Colombian mines to General Electric generators
and 75-meter (245-feet) blades for  Siemens AG (SIE)  wind turbines, are
luring investors as big-ticket items prove less dependent on the
economy than the container market, which varies according to
demand for Asian  consumer goods  in  Europe  and  North America .  Smaller Operators  As of 2010 there were only nine lines operating 10 or more
vessels with heavy-lift gear, according to Dirk Visser, an
analyst at Dutch maritime consultant Dynamar BV. It’s the
preponderance of smaller operators that makes the segment ripe
for consolidation, according to Intermarine’s Stanley, who spent
eight years at buyout firm Morgenthaler Partners and 10 at GE.  A Panamax container vessel -- of a size able to pass
through the Panama Canal -- would have been making about $55,000
a day in 2008, more than twice the $20,000 from a multipurpose
craft such as a heavy-lift ship, according to analyst Peter Sand. While following the global slump a Panamax vessel might
now be earning only $10,000, revenue in the multipurpose segment
is almost as high, at about $9,000 a day.  “It’s much more stable,” said Sand, who works for Danish
shipping association Bimco, which accounts for 65 percent of
global tonnage. “That’s why some private equity funds are
looking at that segment -- because the investment horizon might
be shorter than for more-mainstream shipping companies.”  China, Croatia  The business formed from Intermarine and Scan-Trans, which
will keep the U.S. company’s name, will be No. 2 in the industry
by fleet size, according to Visser, who defines heavy-lift ships
as those with at least 100 metric tons of lifting capability.  The most powerful deck-mounted cranes are able to load
items in excess of 2,000 tons and vessels can have a deadweight
-- a measure of cargo capacity -- of 25,000 tons or more. Of 142
multipurpose ships delivered last year, two-thirds were made in
 China , where the leading manufacturers are China Shipbuilding
Industry Corp. and China State Shipbuilding Corp., Visser said.  European yards also compete in the market, according to Jan
de Pooter, head of new-build at Rotterdam-based Jumbo Shipping,
which has a second 3,000-ton-capable vessel under construction
at Brodosplit in  Croatia . The ship will be fitted with cranes in
the Netherlands, the second-largest builder of heavy-lift craft.  Oaktree Investment  Market leader  BBC  Chartering & Logistic GmbH, based in the
German North Sea port of Leer, has 118 such ships, according to
its website. That compares with 45 at the enlarged Intermarine
and 22 at Hamburg-based Hansa Heavy Lift GmbH, the successor to
defunct operator Beluga Shipping of Bremen and owned by Los
Angeles-based buyout firm Oaktree Capital Management.  Other companies with at least 10 ships capable of hoisting
100 tons or more include Hamburg’s Rickmers Linie, Copenhagen-
based Clipper Group A/S and Spliethoff Bevrachtingskantoor BV of
Amsterdam, parent of BigLift. While most major operators are
closely held, Safmarine is a unit of Copenhagen-based  A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the world’s largest container carrier.  Scan-Trans posted a record profit in 2008 before the impact
of the credit crunch and recession pushed the company to its
first and greatest loss in 2009, followed by another deficit in
2010. It has since returned to profit, though overcapacity
created as companies expended fleets in the boom years continues
to weigh on industry margins, CEO Lars Juhl said by telephone.  Shippers are still seeking to add vessels and boost crane
capabilities to meet anticipated demand, according to Visser’s
study, with the average lifting capacity increasing from 250
tons for the current fleet to 560 tons for craft on order. That
may also drive consolidation as bank funds dry up.  ‘Technically Bankrupt’  Commerzbank, the third-largest maritime lender, said June
26 that its ship-finance unit will close as the focus is
narrowed to business that is “sustainably profitable.” That’s
after Lloyds and  Societe Generale  quit an industry where margins
are generally burdened by high fuel costs and low freight rates.  Purchases across the whole industry will require some $249
billion of debt and equity in the next three years, shipping
fund manager Tufton Oceanic Ltd. said in a Jan. 26 presentation.  Consolidation may take other forms as indebted operators
return fleets to banks which will sell them off at a discount,
according to Scan-Trans CEO Juhl. Some German ship-owners are
“technically bankrupt, kept alive because the banks allow them
to kick the can down the street forever,” he said from the
company’s former base in Naestved, southwest of Copenhagen.  ‘Bunch of Ships’  “If there are larger deals where a bank comes along and
asks us to take a whole bunch of ships off the balance sheet,
then New Mountain could step in,” said Juhl, who will become
chief operating officer at the merged company. “They have
expressed their willingness to fund us for the right projects.”  Oaktree Capital Senior Vice President Roger Iliffe, a
London-based former CEO at Hansa Heavy Lift, said his buyout
firm, too, is actively seeking opportunities for consolidation
and the purchase of distressed assets.  “The longer-term market for heavy lift is good,” he said.
“We have our list of vessels we’d like and are waiting for the
banks to come back. If they call you, you get a good price -- if
you call them, it’s less good.”  Still, heavy-lift fleets mustn’t get too big, given the
specialist nature of the industry, according to Iliffe, who said
that market leader BBC, while “an excellent business,” sometimes
has to consolidate shipments from 15 or 20 customers per voyage.  “We end up with two or three,” he said. “But very large
pieces.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  