-- ECB Could Seek to Hold Bond Yields in Set Band, Rabobank Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-08-23T11:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/ecb-could-seek-to-hold-bond-yields-in-set-band-rabobank-says.html
A European Central Bank plan that
seeks to keep government bond yields within a set band may be
more successful than imposing a secret outright yield cap or
target spread over German bonds, Rabobank said.  “The ECB could look to hold yields within a pre-defined
band of reasonable width,” Utrecht, Netherlands-based Rabobank
said in an e-mailed note today. “This could bring together the
advantages of an outright cap but also have the benefit of
allowing the ECB to reward or punish a country with regards to
the implementation of its reform program.”  An outright, unannounced cap would require the ECB to buy
more bonds in total as markets test for the central bank’s
target yield, Rabobank said. A target spread over benchmark
German bunds would be less effective as those securities would
fall due to investors pulling money out of safe assets, it said.  The ECB is working to complete a design to help reduce
government borrowing costs and win nations time to implement
budget measures. While Spanish and Italian bond yields fell to
the lowest in more than two months this week after Der Spiegel
magazine reported the ECB was mulling yield caps, the Frankfurt-
based central bank said on Aug. 20 that it hadn’t made any
decisions yet.  In a separate note,  Juergen Michels , managing director of
Western European Economic Research at Citigroup Global Markets
Ltd. in  London , said ECB President  Mario Draghi  may seek to
address market concerns over the central bank’s seniority in
bond markets by restricting its future purchases to securities
with a maturity of less than a year, which are typically exempt
from debt restructuring.  “This would allow the ECB to claim that it will not have a
seniority position to existing holders of bills, although the
ECB de facto probably would gain a seniority position versus
existing bond holders,” Michels said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  