-- Mega Bets in $7 Trillion Market by BTG Upstage Macros: Mortgages
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-08-24T12:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/mega-bets-in-7-trillion-market-by-btg-upstage-macros-mortgages.html
Louis Moore Bacon told investors
it’s too hard to make money with macro  hedge funds  as government
intervention and declining trading volumes limit the ability of
managers to make large bets. He should consider the $7 trillion
U.S. mortgage bond market.  Macro funds, which typically invest in bonds, currencies,
commodities and stocks, have lost 1.9 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. An exception: BTG
Pactual Global  Emerging Markets  and Macro Fund, which has
returned 16 percent, primarily from wagering on U.S. home loans
and emerging-market rates, according to copies of client letters
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The $3 billion fund has embraced central bank action,
targeting government-backed agency mortgage debt that’s gained
as the Federal Reserve has held interest rates near zero and
signaled it may expand its holdings of the securities to bolster
the economy. The fund has also bought non-agency debt that’s
returned more than 20 percent this year, in some cases, as
housing rebounds from a six-year slump and central bank policies
push bond buyers to seek out higher returns.  “The  Federal Reserve  is the most important account in the
world in terms of driving prices,” said  David Martin , co-chief
investment officer of BTG Pactual’s GEMM Fund. “Because people
earn so little on their money, investors have been increasingly
looking for ways to add yield. It just so happens that the
mortgage market has a lot of products that fit our theme of
investors’ search for yield.”  Macro Funds  Macro funds, which typically don’t invest in mortgages, have
underperformed this year as regulations prohibiting banks from
trading for their own accounts reduced liquidity and government
action made timing trades harder.  Ray Dalio , who runs Bridgewater Associates LP, lost 2
percent in his $54 billion macro fund through July 20, according
to investors.  Alan Howard , who runs Brevan Howard Asset
Management LLP, has lost about 0.9 percent this year through
Aug. 10 for investors in his Master Fund.  Bacon, whose fund has advanced more than 18 percent a year
since starting the Moore Global Investments fund in 1989, said
in a letter to clients earlier this month there are fewer
opportunities and less liquidity in global markets. His main
fund oversees $8 billion and the firm manages $15 billion.  Bacon returned a “disappointing” 0.35 percent in the
first half and a “tolerable” 6 percent in the past year, he
said in the letter.  Return Money  The multibillion-dollar macro-fund manager plans to give
back $2 billion, or 25 percent of his main hedge fund, to
investors, saying it may be too big for him to achieve past
returns as “liquidity and opportunities have become more
constrained.” Shawn Pattison, a spokesman for Moore Capital
Management LLC, declined to comment.  BTG Pactual’s GEMM Fund, run by Martin, based in  New York ,
and Antoine Estier, in  London , rose 1.6 percent last month,
according to a report to investors obtained by Bloomberg News.  The biggest gain was from U.S. mortgages with government
backing. Martin estimated there’s about $7 trillion of
securitized debt, split between agency and non-agency RMBS.
Trading totals about $100 trillion a year in the agency market,
according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a
clearinghouse for that debt.  BTG Pactual purchased securities, such as  Fannie Mae ’s 3
percent bonds, which it expects the Fed will buy under a third
round of quantitative easing. It’s also sought debt that
benefits when the pace of homeowner refinancing remains
constrained by banks’ unwillingness to lend and borrowers’
weakened finances.  Tight Credit  “We’ve been very opportunistic there, primarily in agency
mortgages around the potential of QE III being priced into the
market and still lingering issues with people’s ability to re-
finance in the U.S. because of tight credit conditions,” said
Martin.  The Fed acquired $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of
quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to boost the
economy. Many participants at the Fed’s meeting this week said a
new large-scale asset-purchase program “could provide
additional support for the economic recovery,” according to the
minutes. QE III refers to what would be a third round of debt
purchases.  In contrast to  global macro , mortgage funds have risen 15
percent this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Cerberus RMBS Opportunities Fund LP, with $1.2 billion
in assets, gained 10 percent this year through July, according
to a letter to investors dated Aug. 17 that was obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The residential mortgage-backed strategy is
managed by Cerberus Capital Management LP’s Josh Weintraub.  Metacapital Gains  Deepak Narula’s Metacapital Management LP posted gains of
about 25 percent in its main, mortgage-focused hedge fund
through July, according to a person familiar with the firm’s
returns. The $1.2 billion vehicle invests in both agency and
non-agency debt.  Betting on slow borrower refinancing in the agency market
“continues to be the most attractively priced risk in the
mortgage market,” Narula wrote last month in an investor
letter.  BTG Pactual GEMM fund, which has 45 traders and eight
strategies, from U.S. markets to foreign exchange trading and
global equities, also made money this year on emerging-market
rates, Martin said.  The fund profited from bets that  Brazil  would lower
interest rates, he said, which paid off as the country cut its
benchmark  interest rate  by 4.5 percentage points since August
2011 to a record low 8 percent in July.  Prices ‘Bottomed’  Martin is also CIO of the $200 million BTG Pactual
Distressed Mortgage Fund, which started in 2010 and focuses on
U.S. residential mortgage securities that lack government
backing. It’s risen 22 percent in the first seven months of 2012
after declining 4.7 percent in 2011.  “The notion that  home prices  in the U.S. have bottomed is
growing and we believe as well that this isn’t a false bottom,”
Martin said.  Sales of previously owned homes rose to an annual pace of
4.47 million last month, up from 4.37 million in June, the
National Association of Realtors reported Aug. 22.  Home prices 
have risen for three straight months since February after
dropping more than 35 percent from the 2006 peak, according to
an S&P/Case Shiller index.  Others profiting include D.E. Shaw & Co. and Canyon
Partners LLC that have been lured to the $1.1 trillion market by
property prices that are stabilizing after the biggest real-
estate crash since the 1930s, projected yields that exceed
corporate debt even with record defaults priced in, and
expectations that  Europe ’s banks will sell to preserve capital.  Less Attractive  Demand from rivals buying this kind of mortgage debt has
made pricing a little less attractive, said Martin. “It was a
heck of a lot easier to buy non-agency RMBS six months ago.”  Steve Jacobs, based in London, runs BTG Pactual’s money
management business, in which it oversees hedge funds. BTG
Pactual also has a wealth management division and investment
bank categorized under the company’s broker-dealer arm. BTG
Pactual’s chief executive officer is billionaire  Andre Esteves .  In May 2006, UBS AG purchased Banco Pactual, which had been
an independent Brazilian bank. Its main shareholders became UBS
employees, including Esteves, who later left with roughly 15
others to found BTG in August 2008. In 2009, BTG agreed to buy
Banco Pactual from UBS, forming BTG Pactual.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 