-- Egypt’s Mursi Bars Detaining Journalists Awaiting Trial
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 2012-08-24T13:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/egypt-s-mursi-bars-detention-of-journalists-awaiting-trial-1-.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
issued a decree barring the detention of journalists awaiting
trial, the state-run Middle East News Agency reported, citing
presidential spokesman Yasser Ali.  In response to Mursi’s action yesterday, Egypt’s public
prosecutor ordered the release of Islam Afifi, editor-in-chief
of the independent newspaper Al-Dostour, MENA reported, citing
Deputy Prosecutor General Adel el-Saeed. He was freed late
yesterday, the  Associated Press  reported.  Egyptian journalists and rights groups have described the
prosecution of Afifi, whose newspaper has been critical of the
Muslim Brotherhood, as a benchmark of press freedom under Mursi
and the most aggressive action by Islamists against what they
portray as biased media coverage.  Afifi was earlier ordered to be held in custody pending the
resumption of his trial Sept. 16 in Giza. The decision prompted
protests in the courtroom, the state-run Ahram Gate reported.  With the appointment of a Brotherhood member as information
minister and the prosecution of a television anchor, the case
has sparked concern that Mursi’s administration will replicate
curbs on press freedom that were common under ousted President
 Hosni Mubarak .  The court’s decision to hold him was “a huge surprise,”
Afifi said in a phone interview while he was in detention.
“It’s unprecedented. I didn’t commit any crime, and there was
no risk of my fleeing. Where was I going to go? I’m already
barred from traveling.”  ‘Old Scenario’  “I’m worried about everything now -- my freedom as a
journalist and my freedom as a citizen,” he said. “This is an
old scenario that has been rehearsed before many times” under
Mubarak. What’s happening now, he said, is an “attempt to
silence the voice of freedom again.”  Mursi, who was the Brotherhood’s candidate for president,
and Information Minister Salah Abdel-Maqsoud have promised to
protect media freedom while saying journalists must be accurate
and unbiased in their reporting.  Afifi is charged with publishing false information deemed
insulting to Mursi, an offense that can carry a jail sentence of
several years.  ‘Troubling, Backward’  “This is a troubling and backward step that  Egypt ’s newly
elected president should not be taking,” Robert Mahoney, deputy
director of the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists,
said in an Aug. 16 statement. “We urge President Mursi to
reverse this course immediately and demonstrate his commitment
to press freedom.”  Another journalist, Tawfiq Okasha, who heads the Al-Faraeen
satellite channel, faces charges of inciting violence against
Mursi, and his station has been pulled from the air. Okasha was
seen as close to the military council that ruled Egypt before
handing over power to Mursi at the end of June.  Investment Minister Osama Saleh told reporters at the
Cabinet yesterday that there is a plan to set up a council that
will monitor satellite channels to ensure they are abiding by
acceptable media practices and guidelines.  Mursi is struggling to restore order in a country whose
economy is battered and population is protesting almost daily
over such problems as tainted water, power cuts, jobs and
surging crime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  