-- Egypt’s Press Freedom Under Mursi Spotlighted at Trial
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-08-23T17:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/egypt-press-freedom-under-mursi-spotlighted-at-editor-trial-1-.html
An Egyptian court ordered the
editor-in-chief of an independent newspaper critical of the
Muslim Brotherhood to be detained pending trial, in a case seen
as a benchmark for press freedom under President Mohamed Mursi.  Egyptian journalists and rights groups have described the
prosecution of Al-Dostour’s Islam Afifi as the latest and most
aggressive push by Islamists against what they say is biased
media coverage. Afifi was ordered held in custody pending the
resumption of his trial on Sept. 16 in Giza, the court said in a
faxed statement. The decision prompted protests in the
courtroom, the state-run Ahram Gate reported. Mursi later
ordered the release of journalists held while awaiting trial,
Mena reported.  Following the appointment of a Brotherhood member as
information minister and the prosecution of a television anchor,
the case has sparked concern that Mursi’s administration will
replicate curbs on press freedom that were common under ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak .  The court’s decision is “a huge surprise,” Afifi said in
a phone interview from detention. “It’s unprecedented. I didn’t
commit any crime and there was no risk of my fleeing. Where was
I going to go? I’m already barred from traveling.”  ‘Old Scenario’  “I’m worried about everything now -- my freedom as a
journalist and my freedom as a citizen,” he said. “This is an
old scenario that has been rehearsed before many times” under
Mubarak. What’s happening now is an “attempt to silence the
voice of freedom again.”  Mursi, the Brotherhood’s candidate for president, and
Information Minister Salah Abdel-Maqsoud have promised to
protect media freedom while stressing that journalists must be
accurate and unbiased in their reporting.  Afifi was charged with publishing false information deemed
insulting to Mursi, an offense that can carry a jail sentence of
several years.  “This is a troubling and backward step that  Egypt ’s newly
elected president should not be taking,” Robert Mahoney, deputy
director of the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists,
said in an Aug. 16  statement . “We urge President Mursi to
reverse this course immediately and demonstrate his commitment
to press freedom.”  Another journalist, Tawfiq Okasha, who heads the Al-Faraeen
satellite channel, faces charges of inciting violence against
Mursi, and his station has been pulled from the air. Okasha was
seen as close to the military council that ruled Egypt before
handing over power to Mursi at the end of June.  Rally Planned  The court’s order comes a day before several groups stage a
mass rally against the Brotherhood. Some activist groups
including the April 6 youth movement and the Revolution Youth
Union are boycotting the protest, which they say has the backing
of Mubarak supporters.  Mursi is struggling to restore order in a country whose
economy is battered and population is still protesting almost
daily over issues ranging from tainted water and power cuts to
jobs and surging crime.  Investment Minister Osama Saleh told reporters at the
Cabinet today that there is a plan to set up a council that will
monitor satellite channels to ensure they are abiding by
acceptable media practices and guidelines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  