-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise on China, U.S. Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-23T20:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/emerging-stocks-rise-on-u-s-china-monetary-easing-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose as
investors speculated Chinese and U.S. policy makers will take
steps to boost growth in the world’s largest economies as
applications for U.S. unemployment benefits climbed.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets   Index (VXEEM)  climbed 0.5 percent to
974.09. Russia’s Micex Index added 0.5 percent with United Co.
Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer, leading the gains.
Chinese shares posted the biggest advance in almost three weeks.
Brazil’s Bovespa stock index slid with Vale SA, the world’s
largest iron-producer, among the decliners.  Chinese data signaled the nation’s manufacturing may
contract at a faster pace this month, fueling speculation the
People’s Bank of China will ease monetary policy a day after
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said adjustments to borrowing costs
can’t be ruled out. Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President
 Charles Evans , speaking to reporters in Beijing, urged looser
monetary policy around the world. Jobless claims in the U.S.
climbed to a one-month high last week.  “The optimism in the market carries from expectation that
central banks are moving toward a position of policy easing and
stimulus support,” Aryam Vazquez, an economist for global
emerging markets at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said by phone from Miami.
“The job number today was far from great, and that plays into
the very dovish tone from the Fed.”  EM ETF Slides  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, dropped 0.9
percent to a three-week low. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets  ETF (EEM)  Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, climbed 4.6
percent.  Jobless claims rose by 4,000 for a second week to reach
372,000 in the period ended Aug. 18, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington.  Consumer confidence  dropped last
week to the lowest level since January, according to the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  The Bovespa fell 1.5 percent, the most since Aug. 14. Vale,
based in Rio de Janeiro, lost 3.2 percent.  Eight of the 10 industry groups in the MSCI index advanced.
Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s biggest gold producer, jumped
6.7 percent, the largest gain in more than two months.  The MSCI developing-nation gauge has advanced 6.3 percent
this year, trailing an 8.7 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
of developed countries. The emerging stocks measure trades at
10.4 times estimated earnings, compared with 13 times for the
developed-nations index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 316, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  China Manufacturing  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 1.4 percent.
The preliminary reading in a purchasing managers’ index for
China released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
was 47.8, after July’s final 49.3 figure. If confirmed, it would
be the weakest level since November.  “China has room to maneuver in terms of providing more
liquidity to the market,” said Pankaj Kumar, chief investment
officer at Kurnia Insurans. “With slowing economic numbers that
we are seeing there, the Chinese need to act to ensure growth is
sustained at a reasonable level.”  Fed policy makers said additional stimulus would probably
be needed soon unless the  U.S. economy  shows signs of a durable
pickup, according to minutes of their most recent meeting
released yesterday.  Sinopharm, China Telecom  Sinopharm Group Co., China’s biggest pharmaceutical
distributor, advanced 6.2 percent to its highest close since
July 2011. Net income rose to 959.1 million  yuan  ($151 million)
in the six months ended June 30, from 784.5 million yuan a year
earlier, as broader health insurance coverage and higher
subsidies spurred demand for medicines, the Shanghai-based
company said in a statement today.  China Telecom Corp. (728) , the country’s biggest fixed-line
carrier, advanced 6.7 percent to a five-month high in  Hong Kong 
after JPMorgan upgraded the stock to overweight. The company is
likely to increase its dividend payout in 2013, analyst Lucy Liu
wrote today.  Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  slumped 4.2 percent on speculation the
detention of a banking tycoon this week will lead to further
arrests in the financial industry, extending a three-day plunge
to 10 percent.  Nguyen Duc Kien, who helped found Asia Commercial Bank, was
arrested on Aug. 20 after he allegedly “conducted business
illegally,” according to a central bank statement. The Supreme
People’s Procuracy of Vietnam approved a warrant to detain Ly
Xuan Hai, Asia Commercial’s chief executive officer, online
newswire Petrotimes reported yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  