-- Energy-Mining Disclosure, RBS Probe, FDIC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-23T12:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/energy-mining-disclosure-rbs-probe-fdic-compliance.html
U.S.-listed energy and mining
companies must report what they pay each country in which they
tap resources in a rule adopted by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  SEC commissioners voted 2-1 yesterday to compel public
disclosure of taxes, royalties and fees paid to any government,
including the U.S., by so-called extractive industries companies
for access to resources. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who
formerly served on the boards of  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and Cinergy
Corp., and Republican Commissioner Troy Paredes recused
themselves from voting on the final rule.  The initial disclosures must be filed for fiscal years
ending after Sept. 30, 2013.  For more, click here.  Separately, U.S. manufacturers and companies that contract
with them must file reports starting in May 2014 identifying
where they obtained any of four minerals associated with human-
rights abuses in central Africa, according to an SEC rule.  SEC commissioners voted 3-2 yesterday to adopt a so-called
conflict minerals rule requiring companies to make reasonable
efforts to trace sources of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold in
their products and a deeper search if the metals may have come
from mines that have helped fund armed groups in the Democratic
Republic of Congo.  Metals certified as scrap or recycled would automatically
be considered conflict-free under the SEC rule.  Compliance Policy  FSA Mulls Ban on Marketing Complex Products to Retail Consumers  The U.K.  Financial Services Authority  intends to ban the
marketing of complex investment products involving assets such
as wine, crops and timber to retail consumers.  The regulator found “high levels of unsuitable advice”
and the “potential for customer detriment,” in a review into
products known as Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes, the
FSA said today. Around 85,000 retail investors already have
direct holdings in UCIS, according to the agency.  The FSA has increased pressure on banks to be transparent
in their dealings with retail customers.  SEC’s Schapiro Cancels Money-Fund Vote as Opposition Prevails  Mary Schapiro, chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, canceled a vote on a proposal to tighten money-
market fund rules amid opposition from fellow commissioners and
a lobbying campaign by fund companies.  Three of the five commissioners told her they wouldn’t
support her proposal, Schapiro said in a statement yesterday.
Other policy makers should address “one of the pieces of
unfinished business from the financial crisis,” Schapiro said.  Schapiro, backed by the Federal Reserve, has worked to make
money funds more stable since the collapse of the $62.5 billion
Reserve Primary Fund in September 2008. Its closing triggered a
wider run on money funds, helping to freeze global credit
markets.  The announcement marks a victory for the mutual-fund
industry, which has lobbied against the Schapiro proposal. The
plan called for funds to abandon their traditional $1 share
price, or to adopt capital buffers and redemption restrictions,
changes executives said would destroy products that manage $2.6
trillion for U.S. companies and households.  A vote on the proposal was expected to happen as early as
Aug. 29, though it hadn’t been formally scheduled. The New York
Times reported Schapiro’s decision to cancel the vote earlier
yesterday.  German Price Controls Cover EU Suppliers, High Court Rules  German price controls are binding for mail-order suppliers
of prescription drugs from across the European Union, a German
high court panel ruled yesterday.  A joint panel of Germany’s Federal Court of Justice, the
country’s highest civil court, made the decision yesterday after
a German pharmacy owner challenged a Dutch competitor who
offered bonuses for prescription drugs by mail for German
consumers, the court said in a statement.  Compliance Action  RBS Said to Be Probed by U.S. Regulators Over Iran Sanctions  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
taxpayer-owned lender, is being probed by the Federal Reserve
and Justice Department over whether it violated sanctions
against Iran, two people briefed on the talks said.  The investigation was triggered after the bank disclosed
information to the U.S. authorities following a review of the
business Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  started after he
joined the Edinburgh-based bank in 2008, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the probe isn’t public. The
Financial Times reported the negotiations earlier yesterday.  RBS opened “discussions with U.K. and U.S. authorities to
discuss its historical compliance with applicable laws and
regulations, including U.S. economic sanctions,” the bank said
in an Aug. 3  filing  that didn’t mention the regulators or Iran.
“Although the group cannot currently determine when the review
of its operations will be completed or what the outcome of its
discussions with U.K. and U.S. authorities will be, the
investigation costs, remediation required or liability incurred
could have a material adverse effect.”  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  paid $340 million this month to New
York’s Department of Financial Services to settle claims it
helped Iran launder about $250 billion in violation of federal
laws. Regulators are investigating four European banks,
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , for alleged violations involving oil
trading and Iran, an attorney with knowledge of the matter said
earlier this month.  Benjamin Lawsky , the DFS superintendent who investigated
London-based Standard Chartered, isn’t looking into RBS, the
people said.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman,  David
Neustadt  at the DFS and Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the
Justice Department, declined to comment. Sarah Small, an RBS
spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond the bank’s regulatory
disclosure.  Courts  Ex-Polly Peck CEO Asil Nadir Gets 10 Years for Theft From Firm  Asil Nadir, the former Polly Peck International Plc chief
executive officer, was sentenced to 10 years in jail by a London
judge for stealing from the company.  Nadir fled the U.K. in 1993 for Northern Cyprus to avoid
trial. He returned in 2010 to face the charges and was convicted
this week of theft.  Nadir was convicted Aug. 20 on three counts of theft and
cleared on one, Jina Roe, a spokeswoman for the U.K. Serious
Fraud Office, which prosecuted the case, said in an e-mail. The
10-member jury was told to continue deliberating on nine further
theft counts for which they hadn’t been able to reach a verdict,
she said. Judge Timothy Holroyde said he would accept majority
verdicts of nine-to-one on the remaining counts.  Nadir, who testified he fled Britain as a “broken man”
with no hope of receiving a fair trial, returned to the country
after prosecutors said he would be granted bail. He has been on
trial since January. The jury deliberated for more than a week
at London’s Central Criminal Court, known as the Old Bailey.  Prosecutors alleged that, between 1987 and 1990, Nadir and
his associates withdrew money from the now-defunct food-
packaging firm’s U.K. accounts, funneling it to Swiss and
Bahamian firms. When London-based  Polly Peck  collapsed in 1990,
administrators found more than 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion)
owed to creditors was unrecoverable from units of the company,
which Nadir built up during the 1980s by expanding into
electronics and hotels and acquiring the Del Monte fruit brand.  Under Nadir’s leadership, Polly  Peck  loaned hundreds of
millions of pounds to its subsidiaries in Turkey  and Cyprus in
the years before the company’s collapse. Nadir later said the
money was for a capital expenditure program and advance payments
to citrus growers, according to the SFO.  FDIC Sues Goldman, JPMorgan Over Mortgage-Backed Securities  Goldman Sachs & Co. and units of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Ally Financial  Inc. overstated the quality of loans underlying
mortgage-backed securities they sold to the failed Guaranty Bank
in Austin, Texas, according to lawsuits brought by the FDIC as
its receiver.  In three separate complaints filed in state court in Austin
on Aug. 17, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. alleged those
institutions and others sold about $5.4 billion worth of
certificates to Guaranty Bank.  Guaranty Bank, which had 103 branches in Texas and 59 in
California, was closed by the  Office of Thrift Supervision  three
years ago yesterday. Its branches were acquired by BBVA Compass
of Birmingham, Alabama, the FDIC said in a  statement  issued
then.  BBVA Compass also acquired almost all of Guaranty’s $12
billion in deposits, the insurer said, while entering into a
loss-share transaction with the FDIC on about $11 billion of the
bank’s assets.  Claiming the certificate sellers breached Texas securities
law by making misleading or untrue statements about loans
backing those certificates, the FDIC said in one complaint that
it seeks at least $900 million in damages from Goldman Sachs,
Ally Financial’s Residential Funding Securities LLC and from
units of Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase.  A separate complaint seeks damages of more than $677
million in damages from JPMorgan Securities LLC,  Bank of America 
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Inc. securities unit
and a brokerage unit of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc .  Finally a third complaint seeks almost $560 million in
damages from  Bank of America , its Countrywide Securities unit
and other defendants.  Thomas Kelly  and  David Wells , spokesmen for JPMorgan and
Goldman Sachs, respectively, declined to comment. Shirley
Norton, a spokeswoman Bank of America, and Gina Proia, a
spokeswoman for Ally Financial, didn’t immediately reply to
voice-mail and e-mail messages, respectively, seeking comment.  The cases are Federal Deposit Insurance Co. as receiver for
Guaranty Bank v. Ally Securities LLC, D-1-GN-12-002522; FDIC v.
Countrywide Securities Corp., D-1-GN-12-002516 and FDIC v.
JPMorgan Securities Inc., D-1-GN-12-002517, Travis County,
Texas, District Court (Austin).  Arizona Regulator Sues NMI Showing Watchdog Influence: Mortgages  NMI Holdings Inc., which raised $550 million in April to
open a mortgage insurer, faces a lawsuit from an Arizona
regulator, highlighting the role of state watchdogs as the
industry seeks to recover from years of losses.  Arizona officials, acting as receivers for PMI Mortgage
Insurance, which they seized last year, sued NMI and at least
six of its employees on Aug. 8, saying some PMI workers stole
information and did tasks for NMI over at least seven months
before joining the upstart. Along with damages, the state wants
NMI to be forced to withdraw any applications with insurance
agencies and mortgage financiers  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac that
relied even partly on material taken from PMI.  State commissioners have stopped PMI,  Triad Guaranty Inc. (TGIC) 
and  Old Republic International Corp. (ORI)  from selling new mortgage
insurance after claims costs drained funds. Some regulators,
along with government-sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, have pressured remaining companies to maintain
capital standards. Upstarts such as NMI need the blessing of
states and the GSEs as they seek to take market share.  Germaine Marks, the acting director of the Arizona
Department of Insurance, declined to comment on regulatory
approval of NMI. Wisconsin, where the insurer is domiciled, is
in the process of reviewing the company.  “NMI denies that we have used any information over which
PMI has any rights in any way whatsoever in connection with any
application,” Glen Corso, NMI’s general counsel, said in an e-
mail. The company is working toward completing regulatory
approvals in the fourth quarter and “will not let this lawsuit
distract us,” he said.  The case is Marks v. NMI Holdings, Inc., California
Superior Court, RG12642872 (Alameda County).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Knight’s $440 Million Loss Spurs Questions on Trade Cancel Rules  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s $440 million loss from a
computer malfunction this month highlights the dangers of
limiting human input in decisions about canceling trades,
according to two industry executives.  Regulators should have discretion to reverse transactions
when the outcome puts a firm’s survival at risk, said Neal
Wolkoff, former chairman and chief executive officer of the
American Stock Exchange and ex-head of ELX Futures LP. They
should allow “do-overs” in extreme cases, said R. Cromwell
Coulson, CEO of  OTC Markets Group Inc. (OTCM)  in New York in a phone
interview.  Knight was forced to accept the loss on Aug. 1 when
Chairman and CEO Thomas Joyce failed to persuade the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to let NYSE Euronext relax
rules on voiding trades. While officials of the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association and New York Stock
Exchange said the regulations worked as planned, Coulson said
there should be provisions for system breakdowns.  “We really need, as an industry, to have some points when
the trade tape could be rolled back if something is going
haywire and is not working right,” Coulson, whose firm operates
marketplaces for equities not listed on U.S. exchanges, said.
“This needs to be an option in the regulator’s toolbox to
correct mistakes.”  For more, click here.  Carney Says Canada May Need Higher Rates Due to Demand  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  talked about the
country’s economy, the central bank’s monetary policy and
banking regulation.  He spoke to the Canadian Auto Workers union at the
Constitutional and Collective Bargaining Convention in Toronto.  For the audio, click here.  Pandit Says Citi’s Exposure to Europe Banks Negligible  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit spoke
in Singapore about capital levels, global banking regulation and
the impact of the European debt crisis on Citigroup.  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 