-- Mercuria Bids for Forties Oil; Vitol Sells Urals at Lower Price
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-08-23T16:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/mercuria-bids-for-forties-oil-vitol-sells-urals-at-lower-price.html
Mercuria Energy Trading SA failed to
buy  North Sea  Forties crude at a higher price than its previous
bid. Vitol Group sold two Russian Urals cargoes in Europe at
bigger discounts to Dated Brent than its last offer.  CPC Corp., a Taiwan state-run oil company, bought via a
tender 4 million barrels of Angolan crude for loading in
October, said three traders who participate in the market.  Asian refiners will reduce imports of West African crude in
September by 9.4 percent from August to near the lowest level
this year, a survey of six traders and an analysis of loading
programs obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  North Sea  Mercuria failed to buy 600,000 barrels of Forties for
loading on Sept. 15 to Sept. 17 at 65 cents a barrel more than
Dated Brent, 5 cents above its bid yesterday, according to a
Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts
trading window.  Total SA didn’t manage to buy a cargo for Sept. 15 to Sept.
17 at 60 cents more than Dated Brent, while Vitol bid for a
shipment for Sept. 2 to Sept. 4 at parity to the benchmark, the
survey showed.  Mercuria failed to sell a consignment of the blend for
Sept. 10 to Sept. 12 loading at 80 cents more than Dated Brent,
according to the survey.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Before the session,
Forties loading in 10 to 25 days was 2 cents a barrel more than
Dated Brent, up from parity yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Brent for October settlement traded at $116.15 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London at the close of the
window, up from $114.84 yesterday. The November contract was
$115.47, a 68 cent discount to October.  Forties lot F0901 will be shipped on Aug. 31 to Sept. 1,
one day earlier than planned, two people with knowledge of the
export program said.  One Ekofisk cargo for loading in September was added to the
program, bringing total shipments to 15, said two people who
declined to be identified because the information is
confidential. The consignment will be exported on Sept. 24.  Mediterranean/Urals  Vitol sold 100,000 metric tons of Urals for Sept. 2 to
Sept. 6 loading to Eni SpA at $1.35 a barrel less than Dated
Brent on a delivered basis to Rotterdam, compared with its offer
yesterday at a discount of $1.10, according to the survey.  Vitol also sold 80,000 tons for Sept. 3 to Sept. 7 loading
to Eni at a discount of 70 cents on a delivered basis to
Augusta,  Italy , 10 cents less than its offer yesterday,
according to the survey.  Urals was at 61 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent in the
Mediterranean, the lowest since July 3, compared with a discount
of 20 cents in the previous session, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Upcoming refinery turnarounds in Europe and the
anticipation of a longer September loading schedule, on the back
of higher Russian refinery maintenance, took some steam out of
Urals values,” Vienna-based researcher JBC Energy GmbH, said
today in an e-mailed report.  Further declines in Urals will be limited, it said.
“Missing Iranian, Buzzard and Syrian barrels and ongoing delays
with Kirkuk supplies will ensure that the market remains short
on sour crude,” according to JBC Energy.  Iraq plans to increase exports of its Kirkuk crude in
September from the Turkish port of Ceyhan to 18 cargoes, four
more than this month, according to a loading program obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  Exports will total 12 million barrels, or 400,333 barrels a
day, next month, the plan showed. That compares with 196,774
barrels a day planned for August.  West Africa  Nigerian benchmark Qua Iboe fell 1 cent to $1.52 a barrel
more than Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CPC bought via a tender 3 million barrels of Cabinda and 1
million barrels of Palanca grade, according to the people, who
declined to be identified because the information is
confidential. CPC purchased the crudes from Chevron Corp.,
Sonangol Holdings and Total, they said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Vitol sold a total of 2 million
barrels of Nigerian crude for October loading to Bharat
Petroleum Corp. said two traders involved in the region’s oil.  Shell sold 1 million barrels of  Bonny Light , while Vitol
will supply 1 million barrels of Akpo grade, they said.  Nigeria plans to increase daily crude exports for October
by 2 percent from September, according to shipping schedules.  The country will export 74 cargoes totaling 66.5 million
barrels, or 2.15 million barrels a day, in October, loading
programs showed. This compares with 69 shipments amounting to
2.1 million barrels for September.  Exxon Mobil  Corp. will shut the Zafiro oil field in
 Equatorial Guinea  for about 15 days in October for planned
maintenance, said two traders with knowledge of the matter.
Adelfa Novaria, a Houston-based official at Exxon Mobil, which
operates the 120,000 barrel-a-day offshore field, wasn’t able to
comment on the matter when reached by phone today.  Exports of Zafiro crude will be reduced to two cargoes of 1
million barrels each in October, one less than September,
according to a loading program.  Ghana will ship three cargoes of 950,000 barrels each of
Jubilee crude in October, compared with one in September, a
revised loading program showed.  The September plan was reduced to one cargo from two after
one lot was brought forward to end-August, according to another
revised schedule.  Chad plans to export four 950,000 barrel cargoes of Doba
crude in October including one lot deferred from September,
according to a loading plan. Shipments in September were revised
down to three consignments from four, the plan showed.  Asian refiners bought 51 cargoes totaling 1.6 million
barrels a day from West Africa, the survey showed. This is less
than the 59 shipments amounting to 1.76 million barrels a day
planned for this month, and close to the year-low of 1.41
million barrels in July. Exports from  Angola  fell below one
million for the first time in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in  London  at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  