-- Merkel Seeks to Keep Greece on Path in Hollande Talks
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-08-24T08:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/merkel-seeks-to-keep-greece-on-reform-path-in-hollande-talks.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
 Germany  and  France  will keep pressure on  Greece  to overhaul its
economy when she meets Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, who is
seeking more time to fix his debt-ravaged country.  “We, and I, will encourage Greece to pursue the path of
reform that demands a lot from the people,” Merkel said late
yesterday before hosting French President  Francois Hollande  for
a working dinner in Berlin to coordinate positions on Greece.
Merkel receives Samaras at the Chancellery today and a joint
news conference is scheduled for about 1 p.m. Berlin time.  Merkel and Hollande agreed that Greece must meet the
commitments it has made as a condition of its international
bailouts, a German government official said on condition of
anonymity after the talks because they were private. Both will
make that point to Samaras in a bid to strengthen the euro
area’s credibility, the official said. Samaras is due in Paris
tomorrow to meet with the French president.  Samaras has used interviews this week with German and
French newspapers to call for more time to meet program targets
as European officials look for ways to stave off an immediate
crisis after international monitors report on the health of the
country’s  finances . Greece is dependent on outside funds to
remain in the 17-nation euro area, where the debt crisis has led
nations including  Spain  to seek bailouts.  Troika Wait  “It’s important to me that we all stand by our obligations
and wait for the troika report and see what the result is,”
Merkel said yesterday, referring to the report due next month on
Greece’s progress in meeting its bailout terms by the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund .  “We want, I want, Greece to be in the euro zone,”
Hollande told reporters. “It’s up to the Greeks to make
responsible efforts to achieve this objective.”  The euro pared the biggest weekly gain versus the dollar
since February today before Samaras and Merkel met. The 17-
nation single currency declined 0.2 percent to $1.2543 at 9:07
a.m. in Berlin.  “The statements from the creditor countries highlight that
the room for Greece to renegotiate the terms of the MoU is very
small,” Citigroup analysts in  London  led by Juergen Michels
said in a note.  Merkel and Hollande said policy makers must move forward on
agreements made at a summit of European Union leaders in June,
including plans for closer cooperation between banking
authorities.  ‘Flesh It Out’  “We favor going faster on banking union, with the ECB,”
Hollande said. “We have a road map, we now have to flesh it out
both in a financial sense and in an economic one.”  Greece’s struggle to meet the terms of its financial rescue
has been a catalyst for criticism and ultimatums by politicians
in Germany, the biggest country contributor to euro-area
bailouts that began with Greece’s first rescue in 2010.  Germany can’t make more money available for Greece and
neither the content nor the timeframe of the aid program can be
renegotiated,  Volker Kauder , the parliamentary caucus leader of
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said today.  An exit of Greece from the euro region would “not be a
problem for the euro” because the region’s financial backstops
can help prevent contagion, Kauder said on ZDF television.  German Gain  German 10-year bonds were set for the biggest weekly gain
in almost two months amid signs of slowing growth in the euro
region. Spain’s 10-year bond yields rose 2 basis points to 6.34
percent at 10:12 a.m., while Italian 10-year yields were little
changed at 5.69 percent. Equivalent German debt yielded about
1.4 percent, down 2 basis points.  Spain and  Italy  are deciding whether to make formal
requests for help from Europe’s rescue funds after  Mario Draghi 
said the ECB will consider entering bond markets to help lower
borrowing costs. The Spanish and Italian governments are both
holding Cabinet meetings today as they struggle with crisis
contagion from Greece.  Holding Europe together is “worth every hardship and
effort” as policy makers grope for ways to preserve the joint
currency which arrived in people’s wallets only a decade ago,
Merkel said yesterday.  “Amid all the quarreling and the searching for the best
way on the details, we shouldn’t forget one thing: Europe isn’t
just a matter of the mind, it has been and remains a matter of
the heart,” she said in a video message at the start of a pro-
 Europe  media campaign sponsored by German foundations, companies
and celebrities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  