-- Ethanol Stays in Gasoline Even If Mandate Ends
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-08-23T20:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/ethanol-stays-in-gasoline-even-if-mandate-ends-energy-markets.html
Ethanol, the best-performing energy
commodity this year, is cheaper than gasoline, encouraging
refiners to use the biofuel even if President  Barack Obama ’s
administration ends a requirement to do so.  A 49 cent-per-gallon  discount  to gasoline provides
companies including Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  an
opportunity to profit by blending the corn-based additive into
fuel, while easing prices at the pump for consumers. Marketers
may use ethanol as they look for the cheapest way to boost
engine performance and reduce pollution.  The most severe U.S.  drought  in 56 years has prompted
lawmakers from both parties to ask the Obama administration to
suspend the mandate because of the potential impact on food
costs. Ethanol will consume 42 percent of this year’s corn crop,
according to government estimates, up from 41 percent last year.
The biofuel has been blended into more gasoline than ever this
year, Energy Department data show.  “It’s just ingrained in the supply and distribution and
it’s having a moderating effect on pump prices,”  John Kilduff ,
a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy, said by phone. “As long as they were still
allowed to use it, most would. The lower price and just the
logistics of taking it out, most would still use it.”  Denatured ethanol for September delivery slipped 3.6 cents,
or 1.4 percent, to settle at $2.628 a gallon on the Chicago
Board of Trade. It’s climbed 19 percent this year, more than the
16 percent gain for gasoline on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Cheaper Than Gasoline  Still, the biofuel is 16 percent cheaper than gasoline with
which it’s mixed, known as RBOB, or reformulated blendstock for
oxygenate blending. Nymex gasoline extended a 16-week high,
rising 1.16 cents to $3.1158 a gallon.  A 2007 U.S. law enacted under President  George W. Bush ,
known as the Renewable Fuels Standard, or RFS, requires refiners
to mix 13.2 billion gallons of renewable fuels, such as ethanol,
with gasoline in 2012 and 15 billion gallons by 2015.  On an annualized basis, production has averaged 13.6
billion gallons so far this year, above the target. Output has
 fallen  15 percent from a record 963,000 barrels a day, or a 14.8
billion gallon pace, as of Dec. 30.  The U.S. had the hottest July ever, the government said
Aug. 8. Just 23 percent of the  corn crop  was in good or
excellent condition on Aug. 19, the worst assessment for this
time of year since 1988, the Agriculture Department said Aug.
20. One bushel of corn makes at least 2.75 gallons of ethanol.  Waiver Requests  Twelve Republican and 13 Democratic senators asked
Environmental Protection Agency Administrator  Lisa Jackson , who
enforces the program, to suspend or reduce the country’s ethanol
targets in an Aug. 7 letter because of the drought.  That followed an Aug. 2 letter in which a bipartisan group
of 156 U.S. lawmakers, led by Republican Representative Bob Goodlatte of  Virginia , asked the EPA to cut the requirements.
Governors of  North Carolina ,  Arkansas ,  Maryland ,  Delaware  and
 Georgia  have also called on Obama to halt the RFS.  The EPA asked Aug. 20 for public comments on the waiver
requests, and said it has 90 days to make a decision.  “This notice is in keeping with EPA’s commitment to an
open and transparent process to evaluate requests the agency
receives under the  Clean Air Act  and does not indicate any
predisposition to a specific decision,” the agency said in the
Aug. 20 statement.  Alisha Johnson, an EPA spokeswoman, said yesterday that the
statement stands.  Economical Fuel  “From the ethanol blending perspective, it puts ethanol
back on the footing that it’s a fuel used only if it’s
economical,” said  Sander Cohan , a global transportation fuels
analyst and principal with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “It wouldn’t be a complete crash. If
you’re an ethanol producer, you’re a little nervous right now.”  The profit for making ethanol has tumbled as corn prices
surged to $8.49 a bushel Aug. 10. The so-called crush spread, or
profit from making ethanol from corn, for September contracts
was minus 31 cents today from 17 cents in May.  Producers including Valero have idled or slowed at least
four plants since June. Ethanol stockpiles have fallen 8.9
percent from then to 18.5 million barrels as of Aug. 17.  Gasoline output that  includes ethanol  increased to 92
percent so far in 2012 from 88 percent last year, according to
Energy Department data.  Gasoline Infrastructure  It would be “extremely difficult” to eliminate ethanol,
because it is so entrenched in the gasoline mix and
infrastructure, Valero Chief Executive Officer Bill Klesse said
on a July 31 conference call with analysts and investors. Valero
is the largest independent U.S. refiner and third-biggest
ethanol producer.  In addition to meeting the government mandate, it’s
combined with gasoline to boost octane, a measure of engine
performance, allowing refiners to spend less on the crude-oil
refining process, Klesse said.  Alternatives to ethanol for boosting octane include
alkylate and toluene. Toluene cost $4.205 a gallon on the U.S.
Gulf Coast as of Aug. 17, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “U.S. blenders have an undeniable economic incentive to
maximize the amount of ethanol in U.S. gasoline,” Vincent Andrews and  Hussein Allidina , analysts at Morgan Stanley, wrote
in an Aug. 7 report.  Political Pressure  Obama is facing pressure to waive the mandate as gasoline
has jumped 15 percent since the end of June, reviving Republican
accusations that he hasn’t done enough to rein in fuel costs at
a time when  unemployment  remains above 8 percent.  Ethanol is blended into gasoline in some regions of the
country as an oxygenate, which allows the fuel to burn more
thoroughly, reducing emissions. It emerged as the primary
oxygenate as the U.S. phased out use of methyl tertiary butyl
ether, or MTBE, which leaks into groundwater and may pose health
risks, according to the EPA.  The industry last year decided not to fight to keep a 45-
cent tax credit that refiners received for each gallon of the
fuel blended into gasoline, saying the mandate would be
sufficient.  Companies don’t have to produce all the ethanol required
under the rule. Each gallon of ethanol made is assigned a
Renewable Identification Number, or RIN, which helps the agency
track whether obligated parties, or refiners, are complying with
the blending rules.  Buying Credits  Refiners can buy RINs in lieu of blending a physical gallon
of ethanol and because of the over-production over the past two
years there are ample supplies from which refiners can draw,
Geoff Cooper, vice president of research and analysis at the
 Renewable Fuels Association , a Washington-based trade
organization, said in an interview in Bloomberg’s Chicago
bureau.  Ethanol companies have produced beyond the government
mandates each year that it’s been in effect, squeezing margins
from time to time with gluts, while also dumping excess RINs
into the market, Cooper said.  The value of a RIN jumped to 5 cents on July 25 from 1.15
cents on June 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
cost has since slipped to 3.75 cents.  “You’re not going to stop blending ethanol,” said  Ian Horowitz , an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets Inc. in  New York .
“If ethanol’s under gasoline, people are going to blend it
anyway. They’re not going to leave money on the table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  