-- Euro Fringe Town Gets Irish Border Gain as Shoppers Spend Pounds
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-08-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/euro-fringe-town-gets-irish-border-gain-as-shoppers-spend-pounds.html
On the euro region’s western edge, a
small town is determined to benefit from the debt crisis.  The Irish border town of Dundalk, where economic recession
has left about one in five stores vacant or for sale, is
erecting 10-feet-high billboards with a message for its
neighbours in the U.K. province of Northern Ireland five miles
away: “Your Pound Goes Further in Dundalk.” Parking meters and
shopkeepers are already accepting British money.  “I’d rather it wasn’t this way,” said Paddy Malone, head
of Dundalk’s  chamber of commerce . “But it’s tough times, really
tough times. Sterling will help.” Northern Ireland still uses
sterling after being partitioned from the rest of the country in
1922 and kept under U.K. control.  The euro has slid 10 percent against the pound during the
past 12 months as European leaders struggle to contain the
sovereign debt crisis that threatens the single currency.
Ireland was the second euro country to need an international
bailout, after  Greece . Its economy has shrunk about 15 percent
since 2008, the worst recession in its modern history.  For Dundalk, where the jobless rate is around 19 percent,
the weaker euro is providing a boon as cash-strapped Northern
Irish travel to buy cheaper goods.  “We’ve seen an uplift in Northern customers over the past
couple of months,” said Laura Corry, manager of Sally West, a
ladies fashion store in Dundalk’s main street offering 50
percent reductions to shoppers. “It’s definitely because of the
euro. It’s great. Things have been tough here for a long time.”  Charity Stores  Irish retail sales have fallen by almost 20 percent since
June 2008, according to data from the country’s central
statistics office.  In Dundalk, a town of 35,000 people centred around a square
which was redesigned in 2011, charity stores selling used goods
proliferated as retailers went out of business, according to the
town’s commercial manager, Andrew Mawhinney. Small traditional
Irish pubs sit next to derelict store units with retailers
offering as much as 70 percent discount to lure shoppers.  “There has been a notable difference with  Northern Ireland 
shoppers over the past couple of months,” says Harry Trainor,
manager of Marshes, the town’s main mall. “It’s probably up
around 7 percent. It all helps.”  Still not all of Dundalk’s retailers are confident of
feeling the benefits of the euro’s decline.  Border Life  “Even with the drop in the euro we haven’t seen much of a
change in trading,” said Jacqueline McParland, whose shop, The
Gift & Art Gallery, sells giftware and home items such as
scented candles. “It’s probably as tough as I remember it. I’ve
been here for 20 years. Of course any extra help is welcome.”  Dundalk’s campaign to entice Northern Irish shoppers
mirrors Newry, a town on the U.K. side of the border that in
2008 had a boom when Irish shoppers went North looking bargains
when the pound fell 23 percent against the euro that year.  “There has always been a trade-off,” said Orla Jackson,
head of Newry’s chamber of commerce. “The  exchange rate  is part
of the cycle of living on the border.”  Malone at the Dundalk chamber of commerce will be
overseeing the erection of the signs this weekend and
shopkeepers will be given miniature versions of them to display
in their windows. He is confident the town can benefit.  “This could be very good for us,” Malone said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  