-- European Stocks Fall on Schaeuble Comments
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-23T16:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/european-stock-futures-climb-on-stimulus-speculation.html
European stocks  dropped for a second
day as German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  damped
optimism that  Greece  will get more time to cut its debt and as
bond yields climbed in  Spain .  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  slid 1.8 percent as
lenders retreated across  Europe . Royal Ahold NV lost 3.6 percent
after the retailer reported earnings that missed some analysts’
estimates.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG)  tumbled 16 percent after the miner
of gold in  Russia  reported a slump in profit.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  retreated 0.6 percent to 267.69
at the close. The gauge earlier advanced as much as 0.6 percent
on speculation central banks from the U.S. to  China  will further
ease monetary policy to support growth. The equity benchmark has
still  rallied 14 percent  from this year’s low on June 4.  “There are many negative factors weighing on the market,
notably the uncertainty associated with the sovereign-debt
crisis and a weak outlook for earnings,” Nathalie Benatia and
Christopher Jeffery, strategists at BNP Paribas, wrote in a
report to clients. “However, these are currently being offset
by market anticipation of further policy assistance. We expect
this anticipation to build over the coming weeks.”  Stocks fell as Germany’s Schaeuble said that allowing
Greece more time to meet its debt obligations would not solve
the country’s problems and would increase costs for creditors.
He spoke on SWR2 radio.  Bilateral Meetings  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meets French President
Francois Hollande today as the leaders of Europe’s two biggest
economies seek common ground on Greece and the wider euro-area
debt crisis. They will give statements at 7 p.m. in Berlin.  Greece’s Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, will follow
Hollande to Berlin tomorrow and travel on to Paris on Aug. 25.
He used an interview published yesterday in Germany’s Bild
newspaper to call for more time to carry out policy changes to
address his country’s debt woes.  Stocks climbed earlier today after minutes from the Federal
Open Market Committee’s July 31-Aug. 1 meeting showed many
members judged that additional stimulus “would likely be
warranted fairly soon” unless the pace of the U.S. economic
recovery picks up.  In China, a preliminary report today indicated that
manufacturing will contract at a faster pace in August,
signaling the country’s economy needs more monetary and fiscal
stimulus to secure a second-half rebound in growth.  Equity Volumes  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was 15
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. National benchmark indexes declined
in 15 out of 18 western-European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index rose less than 0.1 percent, while France’s CAC 40 Index
slid 0.8 percent and Germany’s DAX Index fell 1 percent.  Spain’s  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  dropped 0.8 percent as the nation’s
benchmark bonds fell, pushing  10-year yields  up by the most in
almost three weeks.  BBVA retreated 1.8 percent to 5.71 euros.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  tumbled
2.1 percent to 1.33 euros.  Ahold fell 3.6 percent to 10.07 euros after the Dutch owner
of Stop & Shop grocery stores reported second-quarter earnings
before interest and taxes of 326 million euros ($410 million),
4.7 percent below Oddo & Cie’s  estimate  of 342 million euros.
The underlying operating margin in the Netherlands dropped to
5.4 percent, falling short of the 6.1 percent that analysts had
predicted.  Petropavlovsk Sinks  Petropavlovsk plunged 16 percent to 394 pence, its biggest
slide since 2008, after reporting a 90 percent drop in  first-
half net income  to $11 million as interest payments and
depreciation costs dragged down earnings. Interest charges more
than doubled to $34.6 million and the company took a
depreciation charge of $106.9 million.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., the parent
company of Airbus SAS, lost 2.4 percent to 29.92 euros after
 Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  canceled an order for rival Boeing Co.
planes worth $8.5 billion at list prices. Australia’s largest
airline posted its  first annual loss  in at least 17 years today.  Mining companies limited the Stoxx 600’s slide.  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  climbed 1.7 percent to 1,941.5 pence after the
company reached an agreement with Codelco to end a 10-month
dispute over the world’s fifth-largest copper mine, an official
at the Chilean state-owned company said.  Codelco lawyers will inform a court in Santiago today that
the two companies have reached an out-of-court settlement, said
the official, who declined to be named citing company policy.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  climbed with copper, rising 2.9 percent to
1,152 pence.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  increased 1.1 percent to 926.6 pence
and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  gained 1 percent to 940.5 pence.  Heineken NV (HEIA)  advanced 1.8 percent to 44.79 euros after Bank
of America Corp. upgraded  the Dutch brewer  to buy from neutral.
Societe Generale SA also raised its recommendation to buy, while
Nomura Holdings Inc. lifted its rating to neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  