-- Yen Set for Gain as Stock Declines Boost Safety Demand
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-24T06:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/euro-set-for-weekly-advance-as-europe-leaders-meet.html
The yen gained versus most of its 16
major peers this week as declines in Asian stocks and weakening
global economic data boosted demand for haven assets.  Japan’s currency headed for its biggest five-day advance
against the dollar in 12 weeks after reports yesterday showed
U.S. jobless claims increased while manufacturing gauges in
Europe and  China  signaled contraction. Australia’s dollar
touched a one-month low versus its New Zealand counterpart after
Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the bigger nation’s
currency would probably fall if a mining boom ends.  “There are still concerns about the global economy,” said
Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast Pte in
Singapore. Investors are “selling currencies against the yen.”  The yen fetched 78.59 per dollar at 7:06 a.m. in  London 
from 78.49 yesterday. It was at 98.67 per euro from 98.62.
Europe’s shared currency bought $1.2555, from $1.2564 at the
close in  New York .  The yen has strengthened 1.2 percent since Aug. 17 versus
its U.S. peer, the biggest advance since the period ended June
1. The euro has gained 1.8 percent, the most since the five days
through Feb. 24.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares lost 1.1 percent
today.  A preliminary reading yesterday of a manufacturing
purchasing managers’ index for China by HSBC Holdings Plc and
 Markit Economics  showed the gauge was at 47.8 this month, after
a final figure of 49.3 last month. If confirmed, the August
figure would extend to 10 months the longest run of readings
below 50, the dividing line between contraction and expansion,
in the index’s eight-year history.  Europe Slowdown  This month’s reading for a  similar measure  in the euro
area, released by Markit Economics yesterday, was at 45.3,
indicating the 13th-straight period of contraction.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras will meet German
Chancellor Angela Merkel today and travel to Paris tomorrow for
talks with French President  Francois Hollande .  “It’s important to me that we all stand by our obligations
and wait for the troika report and see what the result is,”
Merkel said in a prepared statement late yesterday before
hosting the French leader, referring to a report from the
European Commission,  European Central Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund  due next month on  Greece ’s progress in meeting its
bailout terms.  “We, and I, will encourage Greece to pursue the path of
reform that demands a lot from the people,” Merkel said.  Jobless Claims  The U.S. Labor Department said yesterday  applications  for
 unemployment benefits  rose by 4,000 for a second week to reach
372,000 in the period ended Aug. 18. A Commerce Department
report today may show orders for  durable goods  probably climbed
2.5 percent last month, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That would be the biggest
increase since December.  Minutes  of the Fed’s latest policy meeting released this
week showed officials remain supportive of a third round of
asset purchases under quantitative easing, or QE, as
unemployment has been mired at more than 8 percent since 2009.
Policy makers will next meet on Sept. 12-13.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said in a CNBC
interview yesterday that recent signs of improvement in the
economy would prompt him to oppose any new program by the Fed to
buy bonds to reduce borrowing costs. Chicago Fed President
 Charles Evans  endorsed more accommodation in a separate
interview on CNBC.  Best Performer  The yen has advanced 6.5 percent in the past six months,
the best performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
gained 2.7 percent, while the euro declined 4.9 percent in the
same period.  Australia’s dollar headed for a drop versus most of its
peers this week after RBA head Stevens said in testimony to a
parliamentary panel today that the nation’s resource investment
boom will peak “within the next year or two.”  The so-called Aussie fell 0.2 percent to NZ$1.2822 after
earlier touching NZ$1.2820, the weakest since July 12.  Australia’s currency was little changed at $1.0439. Should
it fall below the support area at $1.0411 to $1.0413, it “will
likely have strong bearish implications going forward,”
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB analysts Anders Soderberg and
Dag Muller wrote in a research note today. Support is an area on
a chart where buy orders may be clustered. The $1.0413 level was
last seen as the low reached on Aug. 22, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  