-- Euro-Area Services, Manufacturing Contracted in August: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-08-23T10:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/euro-area-services-manufacturing-contract-for-seventh-month.html
Euro-area services and manufacturing
output contracted for a seventh straight month in August, adding
to signs of a deepening economic slump as European leaders
struggle to contain the fiscal crisis.  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries in the 17-nation euro area rose to 46.6 from
46.5 in July, London-based Markit Economics said today in an
initial estimate. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.
Economists had forecast an unchanged reading, the median of 19
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  showed.  Europe’s economy is edging toward a recession as budget
cuts from Spain to Ireland undermine  consumer spending  and
company investment just as global demand shows signs of cooling.
In  China , manufacturing may be contracting at a faster pace this
month, a preliminary reading showed today. A U.S. report will
probably show the number of claims for jobless benefits was
little changed last week, according to a  Bloomberg survey .  “The combination of financial market tensions and fiscal
austerity remains an important drag on domestic demand in the
 euro zone , with external demand too weak to have an offsetting
impact,” Julien Manceaux, an economist at ING Group in
Brussels, said in an e-mailed note. “A turnaround in sentiment
can only be expected when the future of the euro zone starts to
look more secure. Unfortunately, that does not seem to be
happening anytime soon.”  Germany, France  The euro pared gains after the report, trading at $1.2551
at 11:23 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.2 percent on the day. It has
gained 3.6 percent against the dollar over the past month. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.2 percent.  A gauge of euro-area  manufacturing  rose to 45.3 from 44 in
July, today’s report showed. An indicator of  services output 
slipped to 47.5 from 47.9, Markit said. In Germany, a
manufacturing gauge jumped to 45.1 from 43, while the service
indicator fell to 48.3 from 50.3.  France ’s manufacturing and
services indicators both showed an improvement from July.  European leaders are returning from vacation with agreement
still elusive on measures to support  Greece  and prevent Spain
and Italy being shut out of sovereign debt markets. French
President  Francois Hollande  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
will meet in Berlin today.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, who requested a two-
year extension of the nation’s fiscal adjustment program, will
travel to Berlin tomorrow before heading to Paris.  Creditor Limits  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told SWR2 public
radio today that while there has to be understanding for the
difficult situation of Greece, giving the country more time to
meet its obligation under the international aid program would
not be a solution. Creditors “went to the limits” of what’s
economically justifiable, he said.  With investors growing more concerned about a euro breakup,
the economy may enter a recession in the current quarter after
contracting 0.2 percent in the previous three months. In
Germany, Europe’s largest economy,  business confidence  fell more
than economists forecast in July to the lowest in more than two
years. Euro-area  consumer confidence  probably dropped for a
third month in August, a Bloomberg survey shows ahead of a
European Commission report at 4 p.m. in Brussels.  ‘Reverse Gear’  “Hopes that German economic strength will aid recovery in
the broader currency union were dealt a blow by its rate of
economic contraction accelerating and further signs that its
export engine has slammed into reverse gear,” said Rob Dobson,
an economist at Markit. “France may be edging closer to
stabilization, while conditions outside the big two remain weak
overall.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, on Aug. 1 reported its first drop in quarterly
operating profit in almost three years and said the fiscal
crisis could cause “the global economic climate to cloud over
further.”  Hochtief AG (HOT) , Germany’s biggest builder, said on Aug.
14 that full-year profit targets have become more challenging.  Euro-area unemployment held at 11.2 percent in June, a
record high, with companies from  Belgium  to Ireland and Italy
cutting jobs to weather the slump. At least six euro member
states are in recessions, with Greece projected to shrink for a
fifth straight year in 2012.  “Severe fiscal consolidation, rising unemployment, strict
lending conditions as well as ongoing uncertainty about the euro
crisis are increasingly weighing on domestic spending,” said
Joost Beaumont, a senior economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. We
expect “to see another modest contraction in gross domestic
product in the third quarter.”  China Slowdown  Economies around the globe are also showing signs of
slowdown. A preliminary reading of 47.8 for a  purchasing
managers’ index  in China released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit compared with July’s final 49.3 figure. If confirmed, it
would be the lowest since November and the 10th month with a
reading below 50. In  Taiwan , industrial production had a fifth
annual decline in July.  In the U.S., minutes from the Federal Open Market
Committe’s July 31-Aug. 1 meeting showed many members judged
that additional stimulus “would likely be warranted fairly
soon” unless the pace of the economic recovery picks up. The
Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt from 2008
to 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing, or QE,
seeking to cap borrowing costs.  U.S. Unemployment  The Labor Department may report the number of initial
applications for unemployment insurance payments fell by 1,000
to 365,000 last week, according to a Bloomberg survey. While a
decline in firings signals the job market is stabilizing, a
pickup in hiring is needed to reduce a jobless rate that has
topped 8 percent for 42 straight months.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said on Aug. 8 that
asset purchases remain the central bank’s main stimulus
instrument. The U.K. central bank earlier this month maintained
its bond-buying program at 375 billion pounds ($596 billion).  The  European Central Bank , which in July cut borrowing
costs to a record low of 0.75 percent, said on Aug. 2 that it’s
ready to purchase  government bonds  in tandem with Europe’s
rescue funds to fight the turmoil. While Germany’s Der Spiegel
reported the central bank’s new program may set yield caps, the
ECB responded by saying it’s “misleading to report on decisions
which have not yet been taken.”  ‘Unable, Unwilling’  Germany’s Bundesbank in its monthly report on Aug. 20
stepped up its criticism of the ECB plan, saying any government
bond purchases would “entail significant stability risks.”  “For far too long, the ECB has been unable and unwilling
to demonstrate that it will stand behind the single currency
through thick and thin,” said Michael Derks, chief strategist
at FXPro Group Ltd. in London. “If the ECB does decide to go it
alone on this, itself a tall order, it will need to show
enormous willingness and firepower, or else the market will
shred their credibility again very quickly.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank will hold its next policy
meeting on Sept. 6 and also publish its latest economic
projections. In June, it forecast the euro-area economy would
shrink 0.1 percent in 2012 before expanding 1 percent in 2013.  David Blanchflower , a professor at  Dartmouth College  told
 Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Movers” on
Aug. 20 that Germany will eventually be overruled on bond buys.  “In essence what we’ve seen on a number of occasions is
that the ECB had to act when the market forced is to act,” he
said. “Eventually you’d think that the 16 would outvote the one
and tell them to go shove it and we need a central bank to act
like a central bank as the Fed and the Bank of England. This is
really coming to the final battle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  