-- Levitt Says SEC Money-Fund Punt a ‘National Disgrace’: Tom Keene
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-08-23T17:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/levitt-says-sec-inaction-on-funds-national-disgrace-tom-keene.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro ’s abandonment of her quest to
impose tougher rules on money-market mutual funds is a
“national disgrace,” said former SEC Chairman  Arthur Levitt .  “There’s clearly a need to do something about money-market
funds,” Levitt, 81, said today in a Bloomberg Radio interview
with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “Everything else is marked to
the market. This should be marked to the market in the interest
of investors. The fact that Mary Schapiro couldn’t get her three
members of the commission to support this is really a national
disgrace.”  Three of the four other SEC commissioners didn’t support a
four-year effort to make money funds more stable, Schapiro said
in a statement that urged other policy makers to take action.
That could move the fight over how to regulate the industry’s
$2.6 trillion in funds to the Financial Stability Oversight
Council, a panel of regulators created by the Dodd-Frank Act.  “This is a national issue,” Levitt said. Protecting
investors “is a matter that the president should weigh in on.
The Federal Reserve Board took that position. The Treasury
Department is supportive of money-market regulation.”  Schapiro has worked to make money funds safer since the
collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund in September
2008. She has argued that the funds’ stable share price
encourages investors to flee at the first sign of trouble
because it allows those who react quickly to sell their shares
at $1 each even if the net asset value has dropped below that.  Buck Breaking  “We’ve had a number of instances where funds have broken
the buck, and the funds have made up for it because they know
that the whole faith and confidence in the fund market would be
damaged,” said Levitt, a board member of Bloomberg LP, parent
of  Bloomberg News . “Today, the margin of error is narrower than
it’s ever been.”  Schapiro’s plan was supported by one other commissioner,
Democrat Elisse B. Walter. Republicans Troy Paredes and Daniel M. Gallagher opposed it, while Democrat Luis A. Aguilar, a
former attorney for Atlanta-based fund manager  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , had
signaled he didn’t support the plan without saying whether he
would at least approve that it be put out for public comment.  Schapiro “agrees it’s tragic and will work with other
government agencies on money-market fund reforms to better
protect investors and taxpayers,” said  John Nester , an SEC
spokesman.  Levitt sits on the advisory board of  Promontory Financial
Group LLC , a risk management and regulatory compliance
consulting firm in  Washington  focusing on the financial-services
industry. He said companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  would probably oppose the regulation because
they have their own money-market funds.  “The sponsors of money-market funds simply don’t want this
regulation,” Levitt said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  