-- Texas Official Sees Civil Unrest If Obama Is Re-elected
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-08-23T16:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/texas-official-sees-civil-unrest-if-obama-is-re-elected.html
A Republican county emergency-
management official in  Texas  says unrest may erupt if President
 Barack Obama  is re-elected, that the president would respond by
sending in United Nations troops, and that he needs more
sheriff’s deputies to deal with it.  “He’s going to hand over the sovereignty of the  United
States  to the UN,” Lubbock County Judge Tom Head said this week
on a Fox News television station in the north Texas Panhandle
region. “Then what happens? I’m thinking worst-case scenario --
civil unrest, civil disobedience, civil war maybe.”  “We’re talking take up arms and get rid of the guy,” he
said. Obama’s response? ``He’s going to send in UN troops. I
don’t want them in Lubbock.”  The White House didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  Head elaborated in a video interview yesterday with the
Lubbock Avalanche-Journal, which serves the county of about
284,000 people that is the home of 1950s rock pioneer Buddy
Holly, Texas Tech University and the  Prairie Dog Town  tourist
attraction.  As the county’s chief emergency-management official, Head
told the newspaper, he must prepare for worst-case scenarios,
which he said included Obama’s re-election and Democrats
retaining control of the  U.S. Senate  and a category 5 hurricane.  “Do I think UN troops are going to be rolling into
Lubbock? Probably not going to happen,” he said. “F-5
hurricane? Probably not going to happen.”  Head offered the scenarios as partial justification for a
1.7 percent property-tax increase to hire more deputies and add
other law-enforcement resources.  Head has been the top elected official in Lubbock County
since 1999, according to the county website. Head is a former
police officer and SWAT team member at Texas Tech.  He didn’t return messages left at his home yesterday night
or at his office this morning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  