-- Mexico Early August Consumer Prices Rise Less Than Forecast
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-08-23T14:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/mexico-early-august-consumer-prices-rise-less-than-forecast-1-.html
Mexico ’s  consumer prices  rose less
than expected in early August, while annual inflation remained
above the central bank’s target range, reinforcing expectations
policy makers will keep  interest rates  on hold.  Prices climbed 0.14 percent in the first two weeks of
August, pushing annual inflation to 4.45 percent from 4.42
percent at the end of July, the national statistics agency said
on its website today. The median estimate of 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for prices to increase 0.17 percent.  The annual  inflation  rate climbed to a 28-month high in
July as a bird-flu outbreak and drought pushed food prices,
including poultry, eggs and corn. Policy makers say the increase
will slow to their target range of 2 percent to 4 percent by
year-end, while economists see inflation ending the year at 4
percent, according to a survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.
Egg prices rose 4.07 percent in the first two weeks of August,
compared with 15.2 percent in July, today’s report showed.  “The increase in the price of eggs was much more moderate
than what might have been feared,”  Alonso Cervera , an economist
at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a phone interview from Mexico
City. “The annual inflation figure is very close to the
scenario predicted by the central bank for the third quarter.”  The central bank, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, kept
its key interest rate at 4.5 percent on July 20, saying short-
term risks to inflation had increased while mid-term risks had
lessened on the worsening outlook for the global economy.  Egg Prices  Mexico’s Economy Ministry yesterday said the government
plans to permit the duty-free import of eggs to lower prices
after they soared due to speculation following a bird flu
outbreak in the western state of Jalisco.  “This measure is intended to stabilize the market,
complement the current supply, reduce the price and guarantee
the delivery of the product to the public,” Economy Minister
Bruno Ferrari said at a press conference yesterday.  Carstens said in a July 26 interview that the effects of
higher food prices will be temporary and isolated, allowing
inflation to return to the bank’s target range in the fourth
quarter. A 1.76 percent drop in the price of fruits and
vegetables in the first two weeks of August helped offset the
increase in egg prices, Cervera said.  Core inflation  climbed 0.16 percent in the first two weeks
of August, matching the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg, and at a 3.7 percent annual rate, today’s report
showed.  Market Reaction  The peso maintained its loss after today’s report, falling
0.7 percent to 13.1655 per dollar at 9:22 a.m. in Mexico City.
The peso has strengthened 5.9 percent this year, the steepest
advance among 16 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Yields on inflation-linked bonds due in 2013, known as
Udibonos, fell two basis points to 0.27 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Corn prices have soared as the La Nina weather pattern
triggered excessive heat and dryness in parts of  Brazil ,
 Argentina  and Mexico at the beginning of the year, damaging
crops. The worst drought since 1956 in the U.S., the world’s
largest corn producer and exporter, has also driven up corn
costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 