-- Facebook Doubles Speed of IPhone and IPad App With Update
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-23T21:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/facebook-updates-application-for-iphone-ipad-with-faster-speeds.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the world’s
most popular social-network, is updating its application for
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad to make it faster for users who
access the service via mobile devices.  The new software aims to double the speed for starting the
application and scrolling through the News Feed, according to
Mick Johnson, mobile-product manager at Facebook. Speeds also
should double for opening photos from News Feed.  Facebook has lost about half its value since an initial
public offering in May as the company struggles to generate
advertising revenue from the growing slice of users who access
the service on mobile devices. More than half of Facebook’s 955
million users visit the site on smartphones and tablets.  “We’re going to be launching a major update,” Johnson
said. “It’s focused on one thing: speed.”  Facebook was little changed at $19.44 at the close in  New
York . The  stock  has lost 49 percent since it started trading at
$38 on May 18.  Last month, the company reported narrower profit margins
for the second quarter, in its first earnings release as a
public company. Operating margin, excluding some costs, was 43
percent in the period, down from 53 percent a year earlier.
Revenue rose 32 percent, the slowest pace on record.  Advertising Sales  Facebook said in May that advertising sales growth wasn’t
keeping pace with user expansion as more members accessed the
service with mobile phones. The number of ads delivered in the
U.S. in the second quarter decreased 2 percent even as the
number of daily users increased 10 percent, Chief Financial
Officer  David Ebersman  said on a conference call.  “Ad impressions continued the recent trend of growing more
slowly than users as more of our usage is on mobile devices,”
Ebersman said. “This trend is particularly true in markets such
as the U.S., where smartphone use is expanding rapidly.”  Facebook has had little time to gain traction in mobile
advertising, having just announced its inaugural mobile-
advertising platform in February.  The mobile application, which now gets a two-star rating
out of five in Apple’s  App Store , will receive other
improvements, including a single finger swipe for closing
photos, Facebook said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  