-- Gina Rinehart Seeks to Cut Fairfax Stake After Loss
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-23T08:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/fairfax-reports-record-a-2-73-billion-loss-on-charges.html
Billionaire  Gina Rinehart  is seeking
to sell a 5 percent stake in  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  after the
newspaper publisher posted a record annual loss, the Australian
Financial Review reported today.  Morgan Stanley is managing a sale of 117 million Fairfax
shares through a book-build offer at 50 Australian cents each,
according to a person familiar with the sale, who asked not to
be identified as the matter is private. The stake is being sold
by Rinehart, the Financial Review reported, without saying where
it got the information.  Rinehart, whose Hancock Prospecting Pty. is Fairfax’s
largest  shareholder , has clashed with management over her
request for board seats. The publisher of the Financial Review
and Sydney Morning Herald wrote down the value of its newspaper
titles by A$2.8 billion ($2.9 billion) as it reported a record
loss of A$2.73 billion in the 12 months ended June 24 today.  Fairfax  shares  slumped 9.7 percent to close at 51
Australian cents today. The stock has declined 29 percent this
year, while the  benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 index has risen 8.1
percent.  John Klepec, chief development officer for Hancock
Prospecting, and Mark Bickerton, a spokesman for the closely-
held mining company, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
requesting comment.  Hancock owns 15 percent of Fairfax, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Job Cuts  The publisher is cutting 22 percent of jobs, closing print
sites, charging for online access and plans to convert its main
broadsheets to tabloids as it battles slumping advertising and
paid circulation. Today’s charge follows more than $3 billion of
write-offs announced this year by rivals  News Corp. (NWS)  and  APN News
& Media Ltd (APN) , and more than A$600 million of impairments Fairfax
took last year.  “Unfortunately the 2013 outlook for Fairfax does not look
much brighter,” Ben Le Brun, market analyst at OptionsXpress in
Sydney, said in an e-mail. “The short term future revolves
around Fairfax and other publishers’ online aspirations and how
best to monetize their sites. There are still many uncertainties
surrounding these plans.”  Hancock Prospecting said in a statement July 5 it had cut
its stake in Fairfax from about 19 percent to resolve an issue
around an insurance policy for Fairfax directors. While Hancock
Prospecting is not seeking control of the publisher, it wants
two seats on the board, it said in the statement.  Jack Cowin, who describes himself as a friend of Rinehart,
was appointed as a director July 19.  Rinehart, with a $19.2 billion fortune according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , has been pushing the company to
address a slumping share price, declining newspaper circulation
and record losses.  Fairfax Earnings  Fairfax reported revenue fell 6 percent to A$2.3 billion
from a year earlier and underlying earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization dropped 17 percent to A$506
million.  Revenue in the first part of the 2013 financial year is
tracking 10 percent below the same period 12 months earlier,
Fairfax said today. Advertising spending on newspapers in July
fell 30 percent from a year earlier, according to research group
Standard Media Index.  “Frankly, I’ve never seen an advertising environment like
this,” Chief Executive Officer Greg Hywood told reporters on a
conference call today. “It is prudent to manage a company in
this environment without hoping or wishing for an upturn.”  Declining Circulation  Circulation of the Sun-Herald, Fairfax’s best-selling
newspaper, fell 19 percent from a year earlier in the three
months through June, according to the Audit Bureau of
Circulation, while editions of the Sydney Morning Herald and
 Melbourne ’s Age were down more than 13 percent.  “Clearly our main markets are Melbourne and Sydney.
There’s plenty of evidence that there’s virtually zero growth in
these markets at the moment,” Hywood said. Management will
assume that those conditions will continue rather than “base
the company on wishful thinking,” he said.  Total impairments to Fairfax’s metropolitan division,
including the Sydney Morning Herald, Age and Financial Review
newspapers, came to A$948 million, while A$972 million was
written off its regional newspaper network and A$619 million was
cut from the value of New Zealand newspapers including the
Dominion Post.  News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company controlled by  Rupert Murdoch ,
announced writedowns of $2.8 billion Aug. 9, saying they were
principally related to its newspapers in  Australia  without
giving more precise figures.  APN News & Media, in which  Independent News & Media Plc. (INM) 
has a 30 percent stake, wrote A$485 million off the value of its
New Zealand publications Aug. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  