-- Fed’s Bullard Says FOMC Minutes ‘Stale,’ Economy Stronger
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-08-23T12:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/fed-s-bullard-says-fomc-minutes-stale-economy-stronger.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the Federal Open Market Committee
minutes released yesterday are no longer as relevant because the
 U.S. economy  has picked up in the past month.  “The minutes are a bit stale,” Bullard said in a CNBC
interview. “We have some data since then that is stronger.”  Bullard said he opposes a new asset-purchase program right
now. In contrast, many Fed policy makers said additional
stimulus would probably be needed soon unless the economy shows
signs of a durable pickup, according to minutes of their most
recent meeting released yesterday.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who last month said a third
round of bond buying was an option, will update his policy
outlook on Aug. 31 with a speech to the Kansas City Fed’s annual
symposium at  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  “It would be unusual for the Fed to take action based on
this data constellation,” Bullard said. U.S. equity markets are
“looking at all-time highs.”  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, was
the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases. In speeches this year, he has said he sees no
need for additional easing and urged the FOMC to “pause” to
assess developments.  The St. Louis Fed official said the he and other Fed policy
makers were disappointed in growth of about 1.5 percent in the
first half of the year. A resumption of 2 percent or greater
growth seems likely in the second half, he said.  ‘Good Enough’  “That’s not a great outcome but to me that is a good
enough outcome to keep us on hold,” Bullard said on CNBC. Asked
if “a major” program of buying assets, or quantitative easing,
is warranted, he said, “I don’t think so.”  “But I think the committee has said and would be
determined to act if things deteriorated further,” he said.  Bullard, who has said this year he expects the FOMC to
begin tightening policy in late 2013, said he might need to push
back his date for the first interest rate increases. “For right
now I am sticking with it but we’ll see,” he said.  Fed officials have offered differing views this week, with
Fed Chicago Bank President  Charles Evans  endorsing more easing
and Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  saying there are risks
to moving “too aggressively” on problems that can only be
fixed by fiscal policy.  “I don’t need to see any more data to know that I think we
should have more accommodation,” Evans said to reporters today
in Beijing, referring to the U.S. “I certainly would applaud
anybody who takes action in order to strengthen their
economies” around the world, including China, he said.  Moves Markets  Among Fed policy makers, Bullard, 51, has been viewed as a
bellwether for investors. His speeches and interviews moved the
two-year Treasury yield more than any other FOMC member last
year, according to a Macroeconomic Advisers report released Jan.
27.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  Some U.S. economic reports have exceeded expectations since
the last FOMC meeting, with retail sales increasing 0.8 percent
in July and companies hiring 163,000 workers in the same month,
the most in five months. That’s helped push the  S&P 500  to six
straight weekly gains and to almost a four-year high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  