-- Fed’s Evans Urges More Accommodation From U.S. to China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-23T08:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/fed-s-evans-urges-more-accommodation-globally-from-u-s-to-china.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  urged easier monetary policy around the
world, including in China, to guard against economic shocks,
broadening his call for more stimulus in the U.S.  “I don’t need to see any more data to know that I think we
should have more accommodation,” Evans said to reporters today
in Beijing, referring to the U.S. “I certainly would applaud
anybody who takes action in order to strengthen their
economies” around the world, including China, he said.  Many Fed policy makers said additional stimulus would
probably be needed soon unless the  U.S. economy  shows signs of a
durable pickup, according to minutes of their most recent
meeting released yesterday. Evans, who doesn’t vote on the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  this year, has been
among the most vocal proponents of more accommodation.  “This is a time where the most vibrant economies possible
would be a good defense against unanticipated negative shocks,”
Evans said in a press briefing at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing.  A  private survey  today indicated that China’s manufacturing
is weakening, adding pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to introduce
more stimulus to secure a second-half economic rebound. China
cut  interest rates  in June and July and has lowered the reserve-
requirement ratio for banks three times from November to May.
Central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday that more
adjustments to rates and the ratio can’t be ruled out.  Stocks advanced around the world today and gold climbed to
a 16-week high on speculation central banks in the U.S. and
China will ease monetary policy to support growth.  Bernanke Speech  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who last month said the
central bank may buy more bonds to cut borrowing costs, has an
opportunity to clarify his views in an Aug. 31 speech to the
Kansas City Fed’s annual symposium at  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . The
FOMC is scheduled to next meet on Sept. 12-13.  While U.S. employment data picked up in July and was better
than anticipated, it was still “not nearly good enough,” Evans
said. The economy needs to generate 300,000 to 400,000 new jobs
a month “to get back to where we ought to be,” compared with
163,000 in July, he said. Last month’s rise in the jobless rate
to 8.3 percent may have been “transitory,” Evans said.  A third round of asset purchases by the Fed would “provide
confidence to markets that we are intending to be accommodative
for quite some time,” Evans said today.  Explicit Commitment  The Chicago Fed chief has repeatedly called on his
colleagues to make their commitment to low  interest rates  more
explicit, arguing that that the central bank should say it won’t
raise rates until the  unemployment rate  falls below 7 percent or
inflation rises above 3 percent.  Bernanke has said options include more asset purchases and
cutting the interest rate the Fed pays on reserves banks keep
with the central bank. The Fed has held its  benchmark interest
rate  near zero since 2008 and has bought $2.3 trillion in
securities.  The FOMC extended a program known as Operation Twist on
June 20 that lengthens the average maturity of bonds held on the
Fed’s balance sheet. On Aug. 1, the committee said it’s prepared
to do more to support growth to reduce unemployment.  “There’s an awful lot of uncertainty when I talk to
business people about the global economy, European situation,
the fiscal-cliff risk,” Evans said. Fiscal cliff refers to
higher taxes and spending cuts in the U.S. that will take effect
at year-end unless Congress acts to avoid them.  Evans is visiting  China  to “gain a better understanding of
broader economic issues” in the nation, according to the U.S.
Embassy. He was scheduled to meet with officials including Liu
He, vice president of the State Council’s Development Research
Center, and Lian Weiliang, vice chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission.  Evans, 54, was the only member of the FOMC last year to
cast a dissenting vote in favor of more accommodation. He became
the president of the Chicago Fed in 2007.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  