-- Federer Starts U.S. Open Against Young, Williams Gets Vandeweghe
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-08-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/federer-starts-u-s-open-against-young-djokovic-to-face-lorenzi.html
Top seed  Roger Federer  begins the
bid for his sixth U.S. Open title next week against American
Donald Young, who has lost 20 of 22 matches this year.  Defending champion Novak Djokovic of Serbia will face
Italy’s Paolo Lorenzi in the first round, according to the draw
for the year’s final Grand Slam tennis tournament. The U.S. Open
begins Aug. 27 at the National Tennis Center in New York.  Djokovic said yesterday at the draw ceremony that players
try to avoid the temptation to look beyond the early rounds.  “Thinking about the semifinals at this point is not a good
idea,” he said. “You try to focus on what is in your hands.”  Federer, 31, of Switzerland, who won the  U.S. Open  title
every year from 2004 to 2008, is 56-7 this year with six
tournament titles. Young, 23, has slipped to 80th in the ATP
World Tour Rankings after being No. 38 at the end of February.  Federer faces a possible fourth-round match against
American Mardy Fish, the 23rd seed, and a potential semifinal
against No. 3  Andy Murray  of Britain, who defeated Federer in
the London Olympics gold-medal match two weeks ago after losing
to him in the Wimbledon final in early July.  Juan Martin Del Potro, the 2009 champion and the seventh
seed this year, faces perhaps the toughest first-round match
among the top seeds in David Nalbandian, a fellow Argentine who
is 45th in the world after reaching No. 3 in 2006.  Williams-Vandeweghe Match  In the women’s draw, No. 4  Serena Williams , the even-money
favorite among Las Vegas oddsmakers, will face Coco Vandeweghe,
20, in the first round. The two Americans met in the final of a
tournament at Stanford, California, in mid-July, with the 30-
year-old Williams winning 7-5, 6-3. Top seed  Victoria Azarenka ,
of Belarus faces Alexandra Panova of Russia in a battle of 23-
year-olds.  Kim Clijsters , a three-time champion who has said the U.S.
Open will be her final Grand Slam tournament, is seeded 23rd and
could play  Li Na  of China in the third round in a rematch of the
2011 Australian Open final won by Clijsters. If the 29-year-old
Belgian reaches the fourth round, she could face defending-
champion Samantha Stosur of Australia, the seventh seed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  