-- First Solar to Build India Farms as Outages Propel Sun Power
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-23T07:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/first-solar-to-build-india-farms-as-outages-propel-sun-power.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the only
profitable panel-maker among the 10 biggest in the world, plans
to develop solar farms in India as chronic outages drive demand
for electricity derived from sun power.  The target is to take at least a 20 percent share of
India’s photovoltaic sales by expanding beyond First Solar’s
role as a supplier, said Sujoy Ghosh, the new India head of the
world’s biggest thin-film panel maker. Demand will probably come
from industrial and commercial consumers without any government
subsidies involved, he said.  The Tempe, Arizona-based company is betting that building
plants and selling solar power is a better way to make money
than competing with Chinese competitors on panel sales after
prices fell  47 percent  in the past year. India, which suffered
the world’s biggest blackout this month, has a 30 gigawatt
backup power market, created by factories and businesses that
switch to diesel generators when power goes out, according to
the Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy .  “Our focus really is to create a new stream of demand in
the market from industrial and commercial businesses,” Ghosh
said by phone. “That would require us to do a lot of the
development” of projects, including building, arranging
financing and supplying modules, he said.  Power Hedge  India’s  1,030 megawatts  of solar capacity, almost all built
in the past year, was driven by government contracts under which
state distribution utilities buy power at above-market rates.
First Solar plans to sign contracts to sell solar power directly
to businesses seeking to lock in their own sources of power to
hedge against the shortfall of electricity and surging prices in
the nation.  “As that self-generation market opens up in a country like
 India  with an 18 percent deficit, it would create a natural need
for investing into a manufacturing facility here to serve needs
of the market locally,” Ghosh said. “Once we turn on the
switch, we don’t want to turn it off.”  The most important factor determining whether to invest in
a factory is “predictable demand,” which would come from large
industrial companies and privately owned distribution utilities
buying solar for commercial reasons, he said.  In contrast, solar installations in  Europe , the world’s
largest solar market, are going through a boom-and-bust cycle as
government subsidies are withdrawn. Demand in Germany and  Spain 
may fall by about 75 percent next year, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  First Solar on Aug. 2 reported an 81 percent jump in
second-quarter net income to $111 million after making a
strategic shift toward building solar farms with its modules.
The nine other biggest solar panel makers, including  Suntech
Power Holdings (STP)  and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , reported losses in their
last quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 