-- Florida Storm Decision Rests with Republican, Scott Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-08-23T22:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/florida-s-scott-says-storm-decision-rests-with-republicans-1-.html
Florida Governor  Rick Scott  said his
fellow Republicans will decide whether to call off the party’s
national convention in Tampa if Tropical Storm Isaac hits the
area.  Convention organizers “make their own decisions,” Scott
said at a morning news conference today in Tallahassee, the
state capital. He added: “We must take every precaution.”  More than 50,000 people are expected to visit the Tampa Bay
area as Republicans hold a four-day convention starting Aug. 27
to nominate  Mitt Romney  as their presidential candidate, said
James Davis, a convention spokesman. The storm is forecast to
become a hurricane as it approaches Florida.  Scott spoke with Romney today as forecasts showed the storm
continuing to move west of the state, the governor said in an
evening news conference.  “I told him the state is ready,” Scott said.  There were no plans to cancel the convention, Scott said.  “There’s not an anticipation that there will be a
cancellation,” Scott said. “The state is more prepared than
any state in the country for hurricanes.”  Scott declined to disclose contingency plans. Davis
referred questions about back-up plans to the Secret Service,
where spokesman Brian Leary declined to comment on details.  Hotels and convention centers will provide guests with
information, Scott said. The  Florida  Republican Party told its
delegates they will be notified with “important updates,” said
Kristen McDonald, a party spokeswoman.  ‘A Nightmare’  “It’s going to be a nightmare if it hits Tampa,” said
Russ Walker, an Oregon delegate, who will be staying at a beach-
front hotel. “We are out on an island” and delegates would
“have to be evacuated” from their hotels, he said.  Mary Anne Christie, 77, a former mayor of Madeira,  Ohio ,
and an alternate delegate, said she’s not worried.  “I’m fine,” Christie said. “I’m in hotel, and they’ll
have all the windows boarded up, and it will be an adventure.”  Scott said it’s too soon to say where the storm may make
landfall. He activated the state emergency operations center and
ordered Florida’s emergency response team to issue briefings
twice daily to the public and the media.  The National Guard is prepared to provide additional
security if needed, Scott said. The  Federal Emergency Management
Agency  has moved prepared meals, generators and other supplies
into the state, said Bryan Koon, director of the state Division
of Emergency Management, at the afternoon news conference.  Information Sharing  Scott said he is coordinating with government officials and
convention leaders twice a day to share storm information.  Scott and local emergency officials told convention
organizers “that they have the resources in place to respond to
this storm should it make landfall, as our primary concern is
with those in the potential path of the storm,” said William
Harris, the convention’s chief executive officer, in a
statement.  Isaac is expected to cross Hispaniola tomorrow, possibly
without reaching hurricane level, as it travels west on a path
watched by commodity markets and officials preparing for the
convention. The storm is forecast to cross Haiti and Cuba before
passing near the western Florida coast Aug. 27, the first day of
the convention, the National Hurricane Center said.  Computer forecast models, which had disagreed about Isaac’s
track, are starting to “show a little more convergence” and
are predicting a path into the eastern  Gulf of Mexico , said
Travis Hartman, a forecaster with MDA EarthSat Weather.  Evacuation Zone  The Tampa Bay Times Forum, site of the gathering, is in an
evacuation zone once the storm reaches 96 miles per hour, a
Category 2 on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, according to
the Hillsborough County Hurricane Guide.  Tampa Mayor Bob Buckhorn, a Democrat, said he’s prepared to
order an evacuation of the city if a major storm approaches.  “If we took a direct hit with all that water being pushed
up Hillsborough Bay, the bulk of downtown would be underwater,”
Buckhorn said in an interview.  “There are contingency plans in place” in case of a
hurricane and Republican National Committee officials are
“monitoring the situation,” said Kirsten Kukowski, a spokesman
for the national party committee, in an e-mail. Kukowski said
Buckhorn “has no jurisdiction over our convention.”  Hurricane Concerns  Republicans passed over Florida as the site for their past
three conventions pointing to hurricane concerns, said Tampa
developer Al Austin, a Republican fundraiser who led efforts to
bring the convention to his home state.  The Tampa metropolitan area, the second largest in Florida,
includes about 2.8 million people.  Scott is scheduled to arrive at the convention on Aug. 26
and address delegates on Aug. 27. He said he would skip the
speech if necessary. In 2008, as a hurricane made landfall in
 Louisiana , Republicans made changes to their convention 1,300
miles away in  Minnesota .  “Hopefully it’s not going to happen,” Scott said of a
potential hurricane hitting the state. “Hopefully it will go
further west or dissipate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  