-- Fortescue Reports Record Profit on Higher Iron Ore Output
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-08-23T07:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/fortescue-books-record-profit-on-output-meets-expectations.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,
 Australia ’s third-biggest  iron ore  producer, said full-year
profit rose 53 percent to a record, meeting expectations, after
an increase in output countered declining prices.  Net income  climbed to $1.56 billion, or 50.06 cents a
share, in the 12 months ended June 30 from $1.02 billion, or
32.83 cents, a year earlier, the Perth-based company said today
in a statement. The average of 15 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was $1.55 billion.  Fortescue is spending $9 billion to almost triple
production by the middle of next year at its operations in
 Western Australia ’s Pilbara region. Expansion beyond 155 million
tons of annual capacity will depend on when iron ore prices
recover as the company focuses on reducing debt, Fortescue Chief
Executive Officer Neville Power said today.  “The concern and focus for us is the debt while the iron
ore price is heading down,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts
Matthew Hope,  Michael Slifirski  and Sam Webb wrote in a report
today. The results offer “no huge surprises,” they said.  Shares in Fortescue gained 2.2 percent to A$4.24 at the
close in Sydney. The benchmark  stock index  gained 0.2 percent.  Junk Bonds  Fortescue, which has $10.6 billion of debt based on data
compiled by Bloomberg, earlier this month borrowed $1.5 billion
after reporting a 7.1 percent project cost overrun. The biggest
seller of mining  junk bonds  needs iron ore prices to average
more than $115 a metric ton for the next 18 months to avoid
raising more funds, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a July 26 note.  Power said today he has no plan to raise additional debt
although the company has the ability. Fortescue also announced a
final dividend of 4 cents a share, in line with analyst
estimates.  The price of  iron ore  for immediate delivery to the Chinese
port of Tianjin, a benchmark for  Asia , averaged about $150 a ton
in the 12 months to June 30, about 8 percent lower than a year
earlier. It dropped a further 22 percent since June 30.  Domestic production of iron ore in  China , the biggest
consumer, is falling, while seaborne imports are rising, the
company said. Power said he expects iron ore prices to recover
to about $120 a metric ton in “the medium term.”  Fortescue reiterated its goal to lower its gearing ratio to
between 30 percent and 40 percent by the end of fiscal 2014
before committing to new projects. Growth in China, the world’s
biggest importer of iron ore, has decelerated to the slowest
pace in three years as the government sought to cool inflation
and investment in certain sectors, including real estate.  “With this period of consolidation we really have to
change to review all of our further expansion option,” Peter Meurs, director of development, said on a conference call with
analysts and media today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  