-- LG Display Starts Touch Screens Output Before New IPhone
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-08-23T03:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/lg-display-starts-touch-screens-output-before-new-iphone.html
LG Display Co. (034220) , a supplier to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , started mass production this month of screens with built-
in touch sensors, components speculated to be used in the next
version of the iPhone.  “There were a lot of trials and errors as we tried a
technology that hadn’t been used,” LG Display Chief Executive
Officer Han Sang Beom said yesterday in response to a reporter’s
question, without identifying the customer. “We’re all cleared
now.”  Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, declined
to comment on plans for the next iPhone.  The screens’ so-called in-cell technology embeds touch
sensors directly into displays instead of adding them
separately, allowing devices to be thinner. The new iPhone,
expected to be introduced next month, will probably be the first
to use this approach, said Hwang Joon Ho, a Seoul-based analyst
at Daewoo Securities Co.  LG’s  production  of the screens is “largely in line with
the release schedule of the new iPhone,” Hwang said today.  The new iPhone will have a larger screen and thinner body,
according to analysts such as Piper Jaffray Cos.’  Gene Munster .
Cupertino, California-based Apple is preparing to introduce the
device on Sept. 12 in what will be a design overhaul of its top-
selling product, two people with knowledge of the company’s
plans said in July.  LG Display rose 0.2 percent to 27,000 won as of 11:23 a.m.
in  Seoul , while  South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index climbed 0.1
percent. The stock has advanced 10 percent this year, compared
with a 6.1 percent gain for the Kospi.  Touch-Screen Patent  Apple acquired a  patent  related to incorporating touch
capabilities into displays this month, according to the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  Producing displays with built-in touch sensors is more
difficult than using the current technology, which may result in
a higher rate of defects and eat into LG Display’s
 profitability , Hwang said.  A shortage of such displays may limit availability of the
new iPhone in September,  Ben Reitzes , a New York-based analyst
at Barclays Plc, wrote in an Aug. 13 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  