-- MGA Entertainment Withdraws Motion in Lady Gaga Dolls Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-23T21:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/mga-entertainment-withdraws-motion-in-lady-gaga-dolls-suit-1-.html
MGA Entertainment Inc. withdrew a
request for a court order forcing pop star Lady Gaga to approve
a line of dolls in her image, saying progress has been made
toward settling a dispute with the singer.  MGA sued Stefani Germanotta, whose stage name is Lady Gaga,
her management company,  Culver City , California-based Atom
Factory, and Los Angeles-based Bravado  International Group , a
merchandising company that works with musicians, in  New York 
State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  last month, seeking more than
$10 million in damages.  MGA Entertainment, based in  Van Nuys ,  California , said in
the complaint that it agreed to produce dolls in the singer’s
image in December 2011 at Bravado’s “request and insistence”
and paid the company a $1 million fee in anticipation of
shipping the products to retailers this summer in time for the
holiday selling season.  MGA had sought a preliminary injunction ordering Bravado,
Atom Factory and Lady Gaga to immediately provide final written
approval of samples of the dolls, and the two sides were
scheduled to argue the matter in court next week,  MGA said in a court document filed yesterday that it was
withdrawing its motion “in view of the progress which the
parties have made towards settlement, and in order to afford the
parties the opportunity to focus their efforts on further
pursuit of settlement in the upcoming days.”  Michael R. Patrick, an attorney with Grimes & Battersby LLC
in New York who is representing MGA Entertainment, and Seth D.
Fier, an attorney with  Proskauer Rose  who is representing
Germanotta and Atom Factory, didn’t immediately respond to
telephone messages seeking comment on the court filing.  Universal Music Group  Peter Lofrumento , a spokesman for Vivendi SA’s  Universal
Music Group , the parent company of Bravado, also didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment.  In April, Bravado Chief Executive Officer Tom Bennett, told
MGA’s chief executive officer, Issac Larian, that Germanotta
wanted to delay production and shipping of the dolls until her
new album is released in 2013, according to the complaint.  MGA said in the complaint that the defendants have
continued to withhold final approval to delay marketing the
dolls until next year and instead sell a licensed Lady Gaga
perfume called “Fame.”  MGA Entertainment estimated the Lady Gaga line of dolls
would yield $28 million in revenue for the fall 2012 retail
season, and had agreements with at least six distributors, with
orders coming from at least 10 countries, according to the
complaint.  MGA Entertainment last year won $310 million in damages and
fees from  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  in a trial over ownership of the rights of
the Bratz line of dolls. Mattel in February asked a federal
appeals court to reverse the judgment.  The case is MGA Entertainment Inc. v. Bravado International
Group Merchandising Services Inc., 652547/2012, New York State
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  