-- GCL-Poly Posts First Loss Since 2009 as Wafer Sales Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-23T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/gcl-poly-posts-first-loss-since-2009-as-wafer-sales-decline.html
GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , the
biggest maker of polysilicon and wafers for solar cells,
reported its first loss since the second half of 2009 as
Europe’s financial crisis curbed the solar-energy business.  The loss was HK$330 million ($43 million) in the six months
ended June 30 compared with HK$3.55 billion profit a year
earlier, GCL-Poly said yesterday in a filing to the  Hong Kong 
stock exchange. Revenue fell to HK$11.8 billion from HK$15.2
billion.  “Due to factors such as cyclical oversupply of the
industry, the  European debt crisis  and the European subsidy
policy changes, the Company’s performance was affected,” Hong
Kong-based GCL-Poly said.  The loss underscores the challenges facing the solar
industry as companies deal with an oversupply that’s depressed
prices and trimmed profit margins. The 17-member  BI Global Large
Solar (BISOLAR)  index has fallen 64 percent in the past year.  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) , the second-largest U.S.
polysilicon maker, reported its fourth consecutive quarterly
loss on Aug. 8 due to lower prices.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the third
biggest solar module maker, reported a second-quarter net loss
of $92.1 million as industry overcapacity and demand constraints
contributed to falling prices.  Wafer prices have dropped 44 percent this year while the
average spot price of polysilicon, the raw material for most
solar panels, is down 23 percent, Bloomberg New Energy Finance
data shows.  “We expect the core business of the company to remain at a
loss given the persistent pricing pressure” because of the
supply glut, ICBC International Securities Ltd. said in a Aug.
13 note to clients.  The price decline has prompted 80 percent of Chinese
polysilicon factories to suspend production, Liu Hanyuan, board
chairman of Tongwei Co., said this week in Beijing.  GCL-Poly, along with  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) ,  Daqo New Energy Corp. (DQ) 
and  China  Silicon Corp., have asked the government to start a
probe to determine whether exporters from the U.S. and  South
Korea  sold solar-grade polysilicon below costs.  The company is increasing development of its solar-power
business. GCL-Poly said on Aug. 2 that it agreed to partner with
China Merchants New Energy Group to develop at least 973
megawatts of solar power plants in China in the next three
years.  The stock rose 2.5 percent to close at HK$1.23 in Hong Kong
yesterday before the announcement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  