-- Gene Detectives Find New Tool to Contain Deadly Bacteria
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/gene-detectives-find-new-tool-to-contain-deadly-bacteria.html
Scientists using rapid genetic
testing to track the path of a deadly bacterium in a  Maryland 
medical center discovered unsuspected ways pathogens can spread
and learned a new tool to combat hospital-acquired infections.  The DNA screening allowed staff at the  National Institutes
of Health ’s research hospital in Bethesda, Maryland, to link
infections with a multidrug resistant strain of  Klebsiella
pneumoniae  weeks after the first case was found, even though
there were no obvious ties among the patients. Uncovering the
way the bacteria moved silently though the hospital for weeks
confirmed an outbreak was under way and prompted aggressive
measures to control the pathogen that infected 18 people.  “This has changed the practice of medicine in our hospital
and we hope it will change the way other hospitals would control
a similar outbreak,” said Julie Segre, a senior investigator at
the National Human Genome Research Institute.  Advances in genetic sequencing allowed researchers to map
minute differences in the DNA of the bacterium in less than a
week, proving all 18 cases began with a single patient in June
2011.  The first patient, a 43-year-old New York woman, was
isolated as soon as she arrived at NIH’s 243-bed  hospital  in
Bethesda. Infection-control procedures, such as gloves and gowns
for all staff and visitors, were used to contain the dangerous
bacteria.  More Infections  The effort was unsuccessful. Seventeen other patients
subsequently fell ill, at an alarming rate of one a week. Eleven
people died, six from K. pneumoniae and five from underlying
diseases that were exacerbated by the bacteria, which evaded all
commonly used antibiotics, including  carbapenem , one of the most
potent germ-killers.  “It’s an emerging pathogen, but we’ve never had a patient
with it in our hospital or in this area that we were aware of,”
Segre said.  Hospital-acquired infections aren’t new, occurring in more
than 1 million patients each year in the U.S. The mystery of the
K. pneumoniae case,  detailed  yesterday in the journal Science
Translational Medicine, arose because the second case of
infection didn’t emerge until three weeks after the first
patient was treated and discharged. The bacteria turned up in a
trachea of an immune-compromised patient, who had never been in
the same hospital ward as the woman from New York.  After the first patient was released, “we did routine
surveillance to see if anyone in the hospital was exposed and
the tests came back negative for weeks,” Segre said. “On
August 5, we got our second patient with a Klebsiella infection.
We were stunned.”  Finding Links  The staff needed to know if the bacteria had spread from
the isolated  New York  woman to the second patient. The time gap
between the two cases would have required an infection with no
symptoms in the second patient, an unlikely event in someone
with a weakened immune system, Segre said. Alternatively, it
could have been a new case, suggesting the infection control
methods used for the New York patient would work again. At the
same time, other patients also were getting sick.  The  National Human Genome Research Institute  was already
developing tools to track and diagnose ailments based on their
molecular makeup. Segre led a team that ran whole-genome testing
on samples of bacteria taken from all the infected patients,
proving that the entire outbreak stemmed from the  New Yorker .  Mystery Solved  The  genetic testing  showed she had infected the third
person identified with the bacteria, who was in the intensive
care unit with her at one point. That patient passed the
pathogen to the person who was diagnosed second, showing that
they both had infections with no symptoms at one point.  “We didn’t expect that a patient who was immune-
compromised could harbor a Klebsiella infection without showing
signs of being sick or infected for three or four weeks,” Segre
said. “That seemed inconsistent with what we knew from talking
with other experts in the field.”  The pathogen causes about 15 percent of gram-negative
infections that occur each year in U.S. intensive care units,
mainly infecting patients with weakened immune systems. The
development of drug-resistant strains of the bacteria has
contributed to its lethality, with death rates of 50 percent or
more, the researchers said.  The germ can survive in the hospital environment and live
for hours on people’s hands and skin, making it easier to
spread. It can creep into the gastrointestinal tract of patients
and healthy individuals without causing symptoms or revealing
its presence, allowing the bacteria to multiply and act as a
reservoir for subsequent infections for long periods of time.  Prevention Practices  The hospital ultimately contained the infection by
segregating patients with the bacteria, literally opening a new
wing of the hospital and cloistering patients from outsiders.
They were treated with the same staff and equipment, which
wasn’t allowed to be used on other patients even after it was
disinfected. Doctors weren’t allowed to carry pagers, and a
person was assigned to monitor everyone in the wing to make sure
hand-washing and other safety measures were observed.  Rectal swabs identified the last two patients with the
bacteria in December, before either started showing symptoms.
There have been no new cases discovered since then.  “By marshaling the ability to sequence bacterial genomes
in real time to accurately trace the bacteria as it spread among
our Clinical Center patients, our researchers successfully
elucidated what happened, which in turn has taught us some
important lessons,” said  Eric Green , director of the National
Human Genome Research Institute. “This study gives us a glimpse
of how genomic technologies will alter our approach to microbial
epidemics in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  