-- Genel Expands Into North Africa After Kurdistan Acquisitions
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-08-23T16:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/genel-expands-into-north-africa-after-adding-to-kurdistan-stakes.html
Genel Energy Plc (GENL) , the Iraq-focused
oil company run by former  BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , expanded into North Africa including offshore areas of
Morocco and Malta after building up its position in Kurdistan.  The deals add about 25,000 square kilometers (9,700 square
miles) of acreage to Genel’s portfolio and follow a $450 million
deal to boost its position in the Miran gas field. The company
still has about $1 billion to spend on acquisitions.  “This is a high-impact exploration portfolio to pursue
outside of Kurdistan,” Chief Financial Officer Julian Metherell
said in a telephone interview. “We’re playing in a huge
geography and we continue to see huge opportunities.”  Genel is targeting production of about 200,000 barrels of
oil a day in Kurdistan by the time a new export pipeline is
completed next year. The company says it will expand further
outside of Kurdistan, with more exploration acreage, as well as
drilling seven wells in Iraq this year and next.  Genel rose 0.8 percent to 700 pence in London.  The African assets are Hayward’s first venture outside of
Kurdistan with Genel and the first offshore acreage. In Morocco,
Genel gets 60 percent of the Sidi Moussa block from  Serica
Energy Plc (SQZ) ,  San Leon Plc (SLE)  and Longreach Oil & Gas Ventures Ltd.
for $1.3 million and as much as $50 million of drilling costs.  North Africa  The company acquired 75 percent of Area 4 Offshore Malta
from  Mediterranean Oil & Gas Plc (MOG)  and bought into blocks in
Somaliland and Ivory Coast. Metherell declined to comment on
where the company may buy next, while saying  East Africa  has
become too expensive after the sale of Cove Energy Plc, which
holds an interest in a gas field off Mozambique.  Genel said Aug. 6 it’s increasing its stake in the Bina
Bawi field, and earlier this week reported a deal with  Heritage
Oil Plc (HOIL)  to boost its interest in Miran, which holds about 10.5
trillion cubic feet of gas. Genel purchased part of Heritage’s
interest in Miran yesterday.  Metherell said it’s “very likely” that Genel will end up
owning more of Miran and the field will provide natural gas to
Turkey. Genel reported a profit before tax in the first half of
$22.3 million, after a $5.7 million loss a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  