-- German Quarterly Growth Driven by Exports, Households
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-08-23T08:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/german-growth-driven-by-exports-households-in-second-quarter.html
Germany ’s economic expansion in the
second quarter was driven by exports and household spending, a
breakdown of the data shows.  Exports rose 2.5 percent from the first quarter and private
consumption increased 0.4 percent, the  Federal Statistics Office 
in Wiesbaden said today. Economic growth slowed to 0.3 percent
from 0.5 percent in the first three months of the year, the
office said, confirming an initial estimate published Aug. 14.
Germany posted a  budget surplus  of 8.3 billion euros ($10.4
billion), or 0.6 percent of gross domestic product, in the first
half, the office said in a separate statement.  Europe ’s largest economy is outperforming its euro-area
neighbors as the sovereign debt crisis continues to batter
nations from Greece to Spain. Exporting companies are
benefitting from demand in faster-growing markets outside Europe
and unemployment at a two-decade low is bolstering domestic
spending. At the same time, the Bundesbank said this week that
growth may slow further in the second half due to the prevailing
uncertainty.  “German growth remains well balanced but signs of waning
strength are increasing,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior
economist at ING Group in Brussels. “The sharp drop in new
orders from other euro-zone countries since the beginning of the
year shows that the euro crisis has already reached the German
economy.”  Export Markets  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-biggest sporting-goods maker,
this month reported second-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates and raised its full-year forecast as revenue increased
in China,  North America  and European  emerging markets .  German exports rose more than the 2.1 percent increase in
imports in the second quarter so that net trade added 0.3
percentage point to growth, today’s report shows. Private
consumption contributed 0.2 percentage point. That helped to
offset a drop in company spending.  Capital investment  fell 0.9 percent in the quarter, cutting
0.2 percentage point from growth, with spending on plant and
machinery down 2.3 percent and construction spending falling 0.3
percent from the first quarter. Domestic demand cut 0.1
percentage point from growth.  Still, Germany’s “good economic development” helped it
post its first half-year budget surplus since 2008 in the six
months through June, the statistics office said. Revenues rose
2.9 percent while spending increased 0.8 percent.  Second-Half Outlook  “German GDP in the second half of the year is likely to
stagnate,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  London . “Domestic consumption will remain too
weak to offset slowing foreign demand.”  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest bank, said Aug. 9
that profit will fall “significantly” in the second half of
2012 as slowing economic growth results in higher loan-loss
provisions and mutes clients’ demand for services.  While the 0.3 percent increase in German GDP in the second
quarter beat economists’ initial estimate of a 0.2 percent gain,
it wasn’t enough to prevent a decline in the euro area.  The 17-nation economy shrank 0.2 percent in the quarter,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said on
Aug. 14, as GDP in at least five countries fell. The statistics
office didn’t release quarterly data for Ireland or Malta, which
both suffered contractions in the first quarter.  Waning demand in the euro region, Germany’s biggest export
market, is damping business confidence, which fell for a third
month in July.  “The business climate in Germany isn’t exhilarating at the
moment,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Bank AG
in Munich. “There are clearly more downward risks now than
before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  