-- German Insurers Buy Junk Corporate Loans to Overcome Low Rates
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-08-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/german-insurers-buy-junk-corporate-loans-to-overcome-low-rates.html
German insurers, which came through
the subprime mortgage crisis largely unscathed, are seeking to
boost investment returns by buying junk loans to corporate
borrowers.  Senior secured loans, which are repaid first in a default,
are originated by banks for borrowers considered high yield or
high risk as they usually have a significant level of debt
relative to equity. The loans are then are sold on to investors.  Those loans, with interest margins of as much as 700 basis
points above benchmark lending rates, are attracting German
insurers struggling to improve investment returns amid the low
interest-rate environment. For Gothaer Finanzholding AG and
Versicherungskammer Bayern, the risks are outweighed by the
interest paid by borrowers typically rated below investment
grade by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  “Against the backdrop of low  interest rates  and
historically low corporate default rates, we consider leveraged
loans as an attractive and well diversified asset class and
would be ready to invest more,” said Klaus-Michael Menz, head
of credit investments at Gothaer. “As long as there is no
global recession, we don’t see major risks in this asset
class.”  Yields are currently 450 to 700 basis points above the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, said Menz, adding that
the Cologne-based insurer has invested about 100 million euros
($126 million) in the asset class over the past three years. The
portfolio is managed by Pramerica Financial, the asset
management unit of  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , and focuses on
U.S. issuers. A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage
point.  Default Rates  The trailing 12-month global speculative-grade default
rate, which includes bonds and loans, fell to 2.8 percent in
July from a revised 2.9 percent in June, according to a Moody’s
report on Aug. 7. Moody’s expects the rate to rise to 3.1
percent by the end of the year. The historical average was 4.8
percent since 1983, Moody’s said in July.  “We are receiving a lot of interest from other insurers as
the investment appeals by being secured by the borrower’s assets
and by offering a hedge against rising interest rates” because
the coupon adjust to changes in the benchmark rate, said Jeffrey Bakalar, co-head of  ING Investment Management (INGA) ’s senior loan
group, which received a mandate from Munich-based insurer
Versicherungskammer Bayern to manage 100 million euros of this
debt.  Further Investment  Versicherungskammer Bayern,  Germany ’s biggest public-sector
insurer, holds its senior loans as part of a fund set up by
Munich-based BayernInvest, the asset manager owned by  Bayerische
Landesbank . The fund is allowed to invest as much as 30 percent
of its assets in senior secured loans, which include financing
used to back private equity firms’ leveraged buyouts.  “We like senior loans as they are an asset class that’s
between lower-risk, lower-return investment grade loans and
high-risk, high-return high-yield bonds,” said Anja Leibold, a
fixed-income portfolio manager at Versicherungskammer Bayern,
which has more than 40 billion euros in investments.  The insurer would consider increasing its investments to a
“mid-three digit million-euro amount,” Leibold said, adding
that the portfolio returned about 6 percent between the
beginning of this year and mid-August.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer and owner of
Germany’s second-biggest insurer Ergo Versicherungsgruppe,
doesn’t buy leveraged loans “as we clearly prefer their twin
sister, high yield corporate bonds,” said Alexander Frey, a
portfolio manager at Munich Re’s MEAG asset management unit,
adding that bond returns are more predictable.  Investment Alternatives  MEAG has invested about 1 billion euros in high-yield
corporate bonds since 2006 and is seeing an increasing number of
issuers as part of a general “loan to bond shift in  Europe  as
banks deleverage and companies seek to reduce their dependence
on bank financing,” Frey said.  Munich-based  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest insurer, is
“only active in loans related to the German medium-sized
company universe,” said Nikhil Srinivasan, chief investment
officer at Allianz Investment Management.  “We are actively looking to increase our exposure to loans
backed by commercial real estate and have also recently funded a
team to invest in infrastructure debt,” he said.  Leveraged loan prices plunged to 59.2 cents on the dollar
in mid-December 2008 as investors dumped risky debt two months
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. They
 averaged  95.12 cents on Aug. 22, which was the highest since
June 2011, according to the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100
Index. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-
denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has climbed from 90.75
at year-end.  BaFin Approved  While subprime and financial crisis-related losses at
German banks totaled almost $105 billion, losses at the
country’s insurers, including Allianz and Munich Re, were less
than $7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Talanx AG isn’t evaluating senior secured loans, said Julia
Thiem, a spokeswoman for Germany’s third-biggest insurer. HUK-
Coburg Holding AG, Debeka,  Wuestenrot & Wuerttembergische AG (WUW)  and
Axa Konzern AG said they are not invested in the asset class.  That may change after German financial market regulator
BaFin approved such investments, said Bakalar of ING.  “While in the U.S. insurers and pension funds are already
a consistent investor in the asset class, the market in Europe
is still dominated by banks and structures such as
collateralized loan obligations,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  