-- German Bunds Rise for 2nd Day as Surveys Show Growth Has Stalled
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-23T16:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/german-bunds-rise-a-second-day-as-report-confirms-slowing-growth.html
German government bonds rose for a
second day after industry reports added to signs growth in the
euro area has stalled, boosting demand for safer assets.  Ten-year  bund yields  dropped to the lowest in a week after
purchasing managers’ indexes showed the region’s service sector
contracted in August as German manufacturing shrank for a sixth
month. Spanish bonds dropped, widening the extra yield investors
demand to hold the country’s 10-year bonds instead of German
ones beyond five percentage points. Losses in Spanish bonds were
tempered after Reuters reported the nation was in talks with
European officials over the terms of sovereign aid.  “They are very sluggish figures for  Europe ,” said
 Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income analyst at Investec Bank Plc in
 London . “They are below that magical 50 level on the PMIs. It
highlights the problems there are in Europe and the general
weaknesses. It favors the safe havens more than anyone else.”  Germany’s 10-year bund yield fell eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 1.38 percent at 5 p.m. London time,
after falling to 1.36 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 10.
The 1.75 percent bond due in July 2022 rose 0.775, or 7.75 euros
per 1,000-euro face amount, to 103.405.  The 10-year yield is likely to decline to 1.30 percent by
year-end, Afseth said.  A gauge of  services  in the euro-area fell to 47.5 this
month from 47.9 in July, London-based Markit Economics said. A
 composite index  based on services and manufacturing rose to 46.6
from 46.5, Markit said. Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  German Output  A German manufacturing index was at 45.1 in August, Markit
said, a sixth month of contraction. German  economic growth 
slowed to 0.3 percent in the second quarter, from 0.5 percent in
the previous three months, the Federal Statistics Office said,
confirming an initial estimate published on Aug. 14.  Spanish 10-year bonds declined for a second day, widening
the extra yield investors demand to hold the securities instead
of similar-maturity German bunds to as much as 505 basis points,
the most since Aug. 17.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield increased seven basis points to
6.35 percent after rising as much as 17 basis points.  The country is negotiating with the  euro zone  over
conditions for aid to bring down borrowing costs, Reuters
reported, citing three sources with knowledge of the matter.  Blackrock Buys  Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  has started to buy shorter-dated Spanish
notes and longer-maturity Italian debt, Rick Rieder, chief
investment officer for fundamental fixed income in  New York ,
said in an interview with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg
Television. The company was increasing its holdings of the
securities amid speculation the ECB will buy the bonds of both
countries to contain the debt crisis, he said. Blackrock is the
world’s largest asset manager with $3.56 trillion in assets.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel hosts French President
 Francois Hollande  in Berlin today as officials look for ways to
stave off an immediate crisis before a report due next month
from Greece’s international creditors on the health of the
country’s finances.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is due to follow
Hollande to Germany’s capital tomorrow then travel to Paris on
Aug. 25. The nation needs more time to carry out policy changes
to address its debt woes, he said in an interview published
yesterday in Germany’s Bild newspaper.  Greek bonds maturing in February 2023 rose, with the yield
falling 15 basis points to 23.70 percent.  Irish Sale  Ireland sold 1.02 billion euros of amortizing bonds, as the
nation took another step back into credit markets.  The National Treasury Management Agency sold five
amortizing bonds maturing from 15 years to 35 years at a
weighted average yield of 5.91 percent. An amortizing facility
is where the principal of the bond is paid in installments over
the life of the security instead of in full at maturity.  The yield on Ireland’s bond maturing in October 2020 fell
eight basis points to 5.92 percent, after dropping below 6
percent for the first time in 22 months on Aug. 21.  Volatility on German  government bonds  was the third highest
in euro-region markets today behind the Netherlands and  Austria ,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two-
and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Bunds also rose as Treasuries extended a rally after
minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s most recent meeting showed
policy makers are ready to boost record stimulus unless they are
convinced the  U.S. economy  is poised to rebound.  Members of the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee 
said further action would probably be needed fairly soon without
evidence of “substantial and sustainable” improvement in the
recovery, according to minutes of the July 31-Aug. 1 meeting
released yesterday in  Washington .  Germany’s bonds returned 3.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities fell 1.8 percent, and Ireland’s gained 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  