-- German Energy-Tax Benefits May Violate EU Law, Green Group Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-08-23T11:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/german-energy-tax-benefits-may-violate-eu-law-green-group-says.html
Germany’s plan to offer industrial
producers 20 billion euros ($25 billion) of energy-tax benefits
in the next decade may violate European Union competition law,
according to environmental group Deutsche Umwelthilfe.  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet  this month  agreed to
extend tax benefits through 2022 in return for companies raising
 energy efficiency . The target of a 1.3 percent expansion in
efficiency a year through 2015 is too low because it would
automatically be achieved because of a German program to replace
its nuclear plants with renewable generators, Umwelthilfe said.  “That means the government will hand more than 20 billion
euros to at least one fifth of producing companies in return for
little to no effort,” probably violating EU laws and unfairly
burdening consumers, Gerd Rosenkranz, the campaign group’s
policy chief, said in Berlin. “We will file a complaint with
the European Commission if the bill is passed unchanged.”  Merkel is shifting  Germany  to renewables from atomic power
after the Fukushima nuclear meltdown in  Japan  last year. The
plan is estimated to cost 200 billion euros, the DIW economic
institute in Berlin says. Companies have voiced concern that it
will raise power prices for users in  Europe ’s biggest economy.  Industry officials argue the tax benefits are important to
soften the effect of “international competition distortions,”
due to costs linked to renewable-energy subsidies, said Michael Basten, the head of Germany’s building-materials lobby, BBS.  “We have the second-highest industrial power prices in
Europe,” Basten told reporters in Berlin. “I’d say 1.3 percent
is quite ambitious and we expect the EU to permit this plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  