-- GM Falls After Opel Reports Plan to Cut Work Days
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-08-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/gm-falls-after-opel-reports-plan-to-cut-work-days.html
General Motor Co. (GM)  shares slid
yesterday after saying it plans to reduce work at two Opel sites
in  Germany  starting in September as the automaker seeks ways to
stem losses in the region.  Opel agreed with unions to cut 20 days out of its schedule
at operations in Ruesselsheim, Germany, and at a component plant
in Kaiserslautern through the end of the year, Ulrich Weber, an
Opel spokesman, said today in an e-mail. GM has too much
inventory in Europe, where sales are heading toward a fifth year
of sales declines  The automaker lost $361 million in Europe before interest
and taxes in the second quarter bringing total losses in the
region to $16.8 billion since 1999. The announcement is “a bit
part” in GM’s effort to restructure its European operations,
Matthew Stover, an analyst with Guggenheim Securities LLC in
 Boston , said.  “That’s inventory management,” he said in a telephone
interview. “If you look at their results in the second quarter,
they over-built versus what they shipped to dealers so they had
a backlog of inventory that they have to work through.”  Sales in  Europe  by the GM unit, including the Vauxhall
brand in the U.K., dropped 15 percent in the first half, more
than double the market’s 6.3 percent decline, according to data
of the European trade association ACEA. The industry group
predicts that car deliveries in the region will fall 7 percent
this year to the lowest level since 1995.  Addressing Inventory  Dan Ammann, GM chief financial officer, acknowledged GM’s
inventory issue in Europe during a conference call with analysts
Aug. 2.  “We still have work to do on both the dealer and the
company on inventory, and we expect to address that through the
third and fourth quarters,” he said.  The schedule changes help secure jobs, Wolfgang Schaefer- Klug, Opel’s works council leader, said in the statement.  The work-hour cutback program is supported by German state
aid to balance lost wages.  The Ruesselsheim location, which includes Opel
headquarters, employs 13,800 people, including 3,500 production
workers. The work-hour cutbacks will affect the manufacturing
employees and 3,300 employees in the administration, Opel said.
The factory builds the Insignia sedan and the five-door version
of the Astra hatchback. The 7,000 research-department engineers
at Ruesselsheim aren’t affected, Opel said.  The Kaiserslautern plant, in Germany’s western state of
Rhineland-Palatine, employs about 2,500 people.  ‘Declining Substantially’  “The European car market is declining substantially,”
Holger Kimmes, head of personnel at Opel, said in the statement.
“Until recently, the decreased production schedules could be
compensated by applying corridor shifts and accrued overtime.
Now short work is the right bridging measure.”  The production cut will save GM an estimated $52 million,
 Brian Johnson , a Chicago-based analyst with Barclays Plc, wrote
in a research note.  The move doesn’t remove GM’s need to close two plants in
Germany, Johnson said in a telephone interview.  “It definitely gives us greater confidence that at least
these level losses we forecast can hold and we’re not looking at
another downward revision,” Johnson said. “It’s a small step
in the right direction.”  GM slipped 1.8 percent to $21.34 at the close yesterday in
 New York . The shares gained 5.3 percent this year through
yesterday.  Opel Shakeup  GM shook up Opel’s management team in July, assigning
Thomas Sedran, the head of strategy, as an interim replacement
for former Chief Executive Officer Karl-Friedrich Stracke. The
Detroit-based company is still seeking a permanent appointment
to the post.  In September, Michael Lohscheller, a  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  manager
who helped to turn around the U.S. business of Europe’s biggest
carmaker, will start as chief financial officer at Opel and
Vauxhall. The company has also named Michael Ableson as new head
of engineering.  Sergio Marchionne , the CEO of Italian carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  and
president of the ACEA, has been pushing for capacity cuts by
European carmakers to respond to the market’s contraction.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. auto manufacturer,
plans to stop production for four days next month at its plant
in Cologne, Germany, where Ford has its European headquarters,
Ragah Kamel, a spokeswoman, said last week. The move adds to
seven days of production halts in May and June. In  North
America , by contrast, Ford shortened its summer shutdown at six
assembly plants from two weeks to one to increase output.  GM, the world’s top seller of cars and light trucks last
year, struck an alliance with French carmaker  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  in February, becoming the Paris-based manufacturer’s
second largest shareholder after the founding Peugeot family by
taking a 7 percent stake in the company. The partners intend to
combine purchasing and share vehicle platforms.  Peugeot has laid out plans to erase 8,000 jobs and close
the Aulnay factory on the outskirts of Paris, a move opposed by
the French government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  