-- Gold Fields to Miss Output Target, Starts Strategic Review
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-08-23T16:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/gold-fields-to-miss-output-target-starts-strategic-review-2-.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the fourth-biggest
producer of the metal, said it will miss its output target of
3.5 million ounces this year and that it is reviewing assets to
lift profit margins as opposed to output.  The Johannesburg-based company doesn’t expect to produce
more than 3.4 million ounces in 2012 because a fire at  Africa ’s
largest gold-mining operation and the suspension of work at its
recovery plant in  Ghana  cut production, Gold Fields said in a
statement today.  Gold Fields, which already trimmed its full-year output
target in May, is studying opportunities in  Finland , the
Philippines, Peru and  Mali  as it looks to reduce the proportion
it extracts in  South Africa , which already has the world’s
deepest mines. Labor and power costs in the nation have risen by
more than inflation for each of the past three years.  Gold production for the year “could reduce further if no
agreement is reached at South Deep,” the company said.  The blaze at the Kloof-Driefontein operation in South
Africa, which killed five people and burned for 46 days, reduced
output by 50,000 ounces, it said. Another 15,000 ounces were
lost after the recovery plant at the Tarkwa mine in Ghana was
suspended by state environmental officials, who said water was
discharging from the site and needed more treatment.  At South Deep, about 15,000 ounces have been lost as miners
cut back on work after the company issued a notice of possible
dismissals. Safety stoppages at the Beatrix operation also
resulted in the loss of 20,000 ounces, the company said.  Not Working  Gold Fields will not grow output at any cost, Chief
Executive Officer  Nick Holland  told reporters in Johannesburg.
The company will to start acting on its portfolio review by the
end of the year or early 2013, he said.  “What we’ve been doing as an industry for the last five to
10 years clearly hasn’t worked” because gold miners’ share-
price performance hasn’t kept pace with the rise in the value of
the metal they produce, Holland said.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the
biggest gold miner, cited a poor share price performance when it
fired Chief Executive Officer Aaron Regent on June 6.  “Each and every asset will be looked at,” he said.  Gold Fields’ profit fell 16 percent in the second quarter
through June,  missing estimates , as costs rose and prices slid.  Earnings excluding one-time items declined to 1.82 billion
rand ($220 million), or 2.50 rand a share, from 2.17 billion
rand, or 3 rand a share, in the first quarter, it said. The
median estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
profit of 2.65 rand.  Buyout Opportunities  Second-quarter equivalent gold production rose 4.3 percent
to 26,817 kilograms (59,120 pounds) from the previous three
months, while total cash costs climbed 1.4 percent to 220,546
rand a kilogram, the company said.  Gold Fields is “always looking” for buyout opportunities,
Holland said in an interview. “To do big transactions is very,
very difficult.” Smaller “deals are probably easier to do,”
he said.  Gold retreated 4.5 percent to an average $1,612.73 an ounce
during the quarter from the previous three months and rose 1.1
percent to $1,672.80 an ounce, the highest on a closing basis
since April 12, by 5:04 p.m. in  London .  The metal will probably either trade around current levels
or increase, Holland said.  Labor Issues  Gold Fields issued a notice of possible dismissals on Aug.
2 to the biggest labor union at its South Deep operation, 45
kilometers (28 miles) from Johannesburg. The company has been in
talks with the  National Union of Mineworkers  since April over a
restructuring it wants to undertake at what was its highest-cost
mine last year. Mediated negotiations are under way, with Oct. 2
set as the deadline for an agreement.  The labor trouble Gold Fields is experiencing “is probably
a flag for the rest of the industry,” Cape Town-based Trinity
Asset Management Chief Executive Officer Quinton George said by
mobile phone.  Gold Fields climbed 1.2 percent to 112.3 rand by the close
in Johannesburg, the first increase in four days.  Harmony Gold
Mining Co. (HAR) , which gained 1.5 percent to 80.66 rand today, is
preferred over Gold Fields, said George.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  