-- U.S. Stocks Fall on Europe, Bonds Rise on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-23T20:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/gold-climbs-to-16-week-high-as-won-gains-on-u-s-stimulus-bets.html
U.S. stocks dropped on concern
European leaders weren’t making progress in solving the region’s
debt crisis. Gold rallied, the dollar fell to a two-month low
and Treasury yields touched the lowest in more than a week amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will add to monetary stimulus.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (HSCEI)  fell 0.8 percent, the most
in a month, to 1,402.08 at 4 p.m. New York time. European stocks
reversed an early gain, losing 0.6 percent. Gold rose to a four-
month high while crude tumbled, erasing an advance of 1.1
percent. The Dollar  Index (MXEF)  slid for a fourth day. Treasury 10-
year yields fell to 1.67 percent and Spain’s 10-year yield
climbed seven basis points.  “We’re tipping over into a corrective phase in stocks,”
 Barry James , who helps oversee $3.3 billion as president of
James Investment Research in Xenia, Ohio, said in a telephone
interview. “Europe is the key driver in the world right now.
European leaders aren’t really addressing the root problems.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Europe is in one of
its deepest crises and while the path to a solution is
inevitably “long and arduous,” the euro region will emerge
stronger. A report today showed China’s manufacturing may
contract at a faster pace in August, a day after People’s Bank
of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said adjustments to  interest
rates  and banks’ reserve requirements are still possible.
Minutes of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s last meeting showed many
members favored more stimulus unless the pace of economic
recovery picks up.  Aid Program  Equities extended losses as the European Union said it is
focused on its aid program for Spain’s banks and hasn’t received
a request for a full bailout from the euro-area nation. German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that allowing Greece
more time to meet its debt obligations would not solve the
country’s problems and would increase costs for creditors.  Merkel hosted French President Francois Hollande today as
the leaders of Europe’s two biggest economies seek common ground
on Greece and the wider euro-area debt crisis. Greece’s Prime
Minister, Antonis Samaras, will follow Hollande to Berlin
tomorrow and travel on to Paris on Aug. 25.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted for
a seventh straight month in August, according to a composite
index based on a survey of purchasing managers in both
industries in the 17-nation euro area. The preliminary reading
for a purchasing managers’ index for China released today by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was 47.8 after July’s
final 49.3 figure. If confirmed, it would be the weakest level
since November.  Economic Data  U.S. stocks fell as the number of Americans filing
applications for unemployment benefits climbed last week to a
one-month high, showing little progress in the labor market.
 Sales of new houses  in the U.S. climbed 3.6 percent to a 372,000
annual pace, following a 359,000 rate in June that was higher
than previously estimated, figures from the Commerce Department
showed. The median estimate of 72 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a rise to 365,000.  The  S&P 500  has rallied 9.7 percent since June 1 on
speculation global central banks will take action to stimulate
growth. Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  told
reporters in Beijing today that easing policies would support
economic growth around the world, including in China.  James Bullard , the Fed Bank of St. Louis President, said the minutes
of this month’s meeting were no longer as relevant because the
 U.S. economy  has picked up in the past month.  “People aren’t willing to invest,” said Stephen Hammers,
the chief investment officer at Brentwood, Tennessee-based
Compass EMP Funds, which manages about $1 billion in assets.
“Any time you get news we might get additional stimulus, you’ll
have some short-term pick up in the markets but it doesn’t
last.”  Hewlett-Packard  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  Co. dropped 8.2 percent, the most in a
year, after forecasting full-year earnings that missed analysts’
estimates as demand slumped.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  erased 2.7 percent,
pacing declines among commodity stocks, which posted the biggest
retreat out of 10 groups in the S&P 500.  Boeing Co. (BA)  retreated
3.4 percent after losing 35 orders for 787-9 planes, the biggest
Dreamliner cancellation.  Companies most tied to economic growth posted declines. The
Morgan Stanley  Cyclical Index (CYC)  fell for the fourth straight day,
losing 1.2 percent for the biggest drop in a month. The Dow
Jones Transportation Average tumbled 1 percent for the biggest
retreat since Aug. 1. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , made up of 24
 lenders , slid 1.1 percent.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.6 percent after
gaining as much as 0.6 percent. Royal Ahold NV slid 3.6 percent
after the Dutch retailer reported an operating margin in its
domestic market that missed analysts’ estimates.  Petropavlovsk
Plc (POG)  tumbled 16 percent, its biggest plunge in more than three
years, after the gold miner posted a 90 percent drop in  first-
half net income  from a year earlier.  Anglo American Plc added 1.7 percent as the commodity
producer was said to be nearing an agreement to end its 10-month
dispute with Chile’s Codelco over a copper mine, according to a
person with knowledge of the negotiations.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries dropped two basis points to
1.67 percent, after an 11 basis-point decline yesterday. It
touched 1.66 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 14. Germany’s
10-year bund yield fell eight basis points to 1.38 percent. The
additional yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year debt
instead of benchmark German securities briefly widened to more
than 5 percentage points for the first time since Aug. 17.  Dollar Weakens  The  Dollar Index  dropped to as low as 81.221, the least
since June 20. The greenback slid 0.3 percent to $1.2562 per
euro, after reaching $1.2524, the least since July 4. South
Korea’s won rose the most in two weeks to 1,130.60 per dollar.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities dropped 0.4 percent,
reversing a gain of as much as 0.8 percent, as crude fell from a
three-month high. Oil for October delivery fell 1 percent to
$96.27 after advancing as high as $98.29 a barrel.  Gold climbed 2 percent to settle at $1,672.80 an ounce, the
highest since April 12. Silver futures led gains in the GSCI
gauge of commodities, rising 3 percent. Copper jumped 1.1
percent.  Corn futures retreated for a second day, tumbling 2.4
percent, on speculation crop damage from the worst U.S. drought
in a half-century wasn’t as severe as expected by the
government. Average corn yields in Illinois, the biggest U.S.
grower after Iowa, may average 121.6 bushels an acre,
participants on the eastern leg of the Professional Farmer Crop
Tour said yesterday. The U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimated the state’s yield on Aug. 10 at 116 bushels.  Soybeans and wheat also declined.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index climbed 0.5 percent. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed
in Hong Kong jumped 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Sutherland in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  