-- Greece May Sell Islands as Juncker Urges Asset Sales Drive
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-08-23T13:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/greece-may-sell-islands-as-juncker-urges-asset-sales-drive.html
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, who
will take his plea for more time for the  Greek economy  to Paris
and Berlin this week, suggested his government could sell or
lease some of the country’s islands to help revive a state-asset
sales plan central to receiving international funds.  He told Le Monde newspaper in an interview published today
that uninhabited Greek islands could be used to generate
revenue, responding to a question on whether  Greece  would sell
some of its islands.  “On condition that it doesn’t pose a national security
problem, some of the isles could be used commercially,” Samaras
said as quoted by the newspaper. “It would not be a case of
getting rid of the isles, but of transforming unused terrain
into capital that can generate revenue, for a fair price.”  Samaras vowed to speed up asset sales and structural
revamping such as changes to labor markets after meeting
yesterday with Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers. Greece is
behind on money-raising targets tied to 240 billion euros ($301
billion) of rescue packages in the past two years. Samaras will
meet with German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  tomorrow in Berlin and
French President  Francois Hollande  a day later in Paris.  Samaras yesterday told Germany’s Bild newspaper that his
nation needs more time -- “a little more air to breathe” -- to
carry out policy changes to address its debt woes.  Asset Sales  “The state asset sales process must be re-launched,”
Juncker told reporters. “I do not ignore that this
privatization process is swimming in difficult waters given the
fact that the rumors of the exit of Greece from the euro area
are spread around day after day.”  Selling public land is a politically sensitive issue in
Greece. A proposal by members of the troika, who represent the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , to increase revenue from asset
sales including property drew opposition from then-premier
 George Papandreou , who said in 2011 he’d legislate to prohibit
such sales. In 1996, Greece and Turkey almost went to war over
who owned the uninhabited islet of Imia in the Aegean.  The Greek state is seeking 50 billion euros from state-
asset sales by 2020 to meet the conditions of its bailout, half
from company-stakes sales and half from real estate. So far it
has only brought in about 1.8 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net . 