-- Micex Climbs Led by Rusal on Oil Rally, Stimulus Expectation
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-08-23T15:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/micex-climbs-to-3-month-high-on-oil-rally-stimulus-expectation.html
Russian stocks  rose as oil and
metals rallied on speculation central banks in the U.S. and
 China  may add stimulus measures, boosting demand for raw
materials.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 0.5 percent to 1,453.50 by the
close in Moscow after rising 1.7 percent intraday to the highest
in almost four months. United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest
aluminum producer, added 2.2 percent, while OAO Severstal
increased 1.4 percent. Preferred shares of OAO Surgutneftegas
grew 1.7 percent as crude oil advanced.  Oil rose 0.4 percent to $97.67 barrel in  New York  trading,
gaining for a third day. Minutes from the Federal Open Market
Committee’s July 31-Aug. 1 meeting showed many members judged
that additional stimulus “would likely be warranted fairly
soon” unless the pace of the U.S. economic recovery picks up.  “The Russian market is being driven by the Fed’s monetary
stimulus hints,”  Andrey Kuznetsov , an equities analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in Moscow, said by phone. “Oil is also reacting
to the stimulus hopes, supporting the Russian equities.”  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
yesterday that adjustments to  interest rates  and banks’ reserve
requirements are still possible after the central bank stepped
up temporary cash injections this month. Both China and the U.S.
are major importers of metals, energy and grains.  Commodities Surge  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities advanced as
much as 0.8 percent to 682.35, the highest since May 1 on a
closing basis. Urals crude,  Russia ’s main export blend, added 1
percent.  “The  Federal Reserve  is apparently leaning towards
quantitative easing,” Slava Smolyaninov, an equity analyst at
UralSib Financial Corp, wrote in an e-mailed report today.
“Supported by an almost 1 percent gain in oil, we believe there
might be some optimism today.”  The Micex pared gains after a U.S. report showed the number
of Americans filing applications for  unemployment benefits 
climbed last week to a one-month high, showing little progress
in the labor market.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG)  slumped 17 percent to 389 pence in
 London . The miner of gold in Russia fell the most since April
2009 after reporting a 90 percent drop in net income to $11
million.  Gazprom, Novatek  OAO Gazprom, the natural gas export monopoly, advanced 0.4
percent to 157.18 rubles. OAO EON Russia rose 0.5 percent to
2.73 rubles. OAO Novatek gained 0.6 percent to 366.74 rubles,
after adding as much as 2 percent earlier.  EON Russia, a power producer controlled by  Germany ’s
biggest utility, will let gas supply with Gazprom expire this
year in favor of the state-run company’s competitors.  The unit of EON AG will buy most of its fuel from Novatek,
Russia’s second-biggest gas company, starting from next year,
Anna Martynova, a spokeswoman for the generator, said by phone
in Moscow today.  The Micex trades at 5.1 times earnings after gaining 3.7
percent this year. That compares with a multiple of 11.8 times
for the  MSCI Emerging Markets (MXEF)  Index, which has added 6.3
percent.  Russian  equities trade  at the cheapest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg. Oil and gas contribute
about 50 percent to the government’s revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  