-- Microsoft Debuts New Logo Before Windows 8 and Surface
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-08-23T17:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/microsoft-debuts-new-logo-before-windows-8-and-surface.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  unveiled its first
new logo in 25 years as it prepares to introduce Windows 8, an
updated version of its flagship software that will power the
company’s own Surface tablet and other touch-screen devices.  The logo uses the so-called Segoe font, which is used in
Microsoft products and marketing materials, and four colored
squares that are “intended to express the company’s diverse
portfolio of products,” the Redmond, Washington-based company
said on its blog.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, has revamped
products including Windows, phone software and the Xbox game
machine to adopt a sleeker, more modern-looking design to
compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for style-conscious consumers. The
colored squares in the new logo resemble the tiles found on
touch-screen phones and tablets.  The new logo is meant “to show that this isn’t your
father’s Microsoft, and there is something fresh, but also
familiar,” said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at market
research firm Gartner Inc. It also helps to show Windows and
Microsoft’s overall new design language, formerly known as
Metro, are “relevant and aspirational to the market.”  The redesign comes as consumers are increasingly choosing
the tablets over laptops, weakening personal-computer sales and
curbing Windows revenue. The company has said it plans to
release Windows 8 on Oct. 26 and the Surface with an ARM
Holdings Plc-based chip at the same time.  “This wave of new releases is not only a reimagining of
our most popular products, but also represents a new era for
Microsoft, so our logo should evolve to visually accentuate this
new beginning,” Microsoft said on the blog.  For the past several years, Microsoft has been trying to
forge a more unified look and feel for the company’s products
using a colorful, tile-based design first unveiled as part of
Windows Phone under the name Metro. Earlier this month,
Microsoft retired Metro, stating that it was used merely as a
code name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  