-- Insider Attacks Don't Threaten U.S. Strategy, Allen Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-23T18:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/insider-attacks-don-t-threaten-u-s-strategy-allen-says.html
The top allied commander in
 Afghanistan  said insider attacks by Afghans against U.S. and
coalition troops won’t disrupt strategy and won’t require
pulling back troops.  “My initial belief is we should not pull back in our
contact with the Afghans,” U.S. Marine General John Allen told
reporters today by satellite from Kabul. “We perhaps need to be
more watchful.”  Insider killings of Western troops by Afghan forces and
other allied Afghans have raised questions about a U.S. strategy
that depends on training and developing the Afghan army and
police so that coalition combat troops can leave by the end of
2014.  There have been 40 insider killings so far this year,
including 10 in the past three weeks, compared with 35 in all of
2011, according to the  International Security Assistance Force 
in Afghanistan, which Allen heads.  “We are working that issue very hard with our Afghan
partners and it’s a top priority for me,” Allen said.  The general indicated he doesn’t agree with an assertion by
the Afghan government that spy agencies from other countries
were behind most of the attacks.  “I’m looking forward to Afghanistan providing us with the
intelligence that permits them to come to that conclusion,”
Allen said. U.S. officials have attributed most of the episodes
to personal grievances and stress on Afghan forces.  About 25 percent of the attacks stem from Taliban
insurgents who infiltrate and impersonate Afghan forces or who
coerce Afghan soldiers to turn against the coalition, Allen
said.  ‘Particular Grievance’  The rest may stem from “animosity which may have grown
between the individual shooter and our forces in general, or a
particular grievance,” he said.  Asked why there has been a rash of attacks in recent weeks,
with 10 so far this month, Allen cited influences including
personal grievances, stress from an increased tempo of
operations and the daily pressure of having to fight while
fasting for the Muslim holiday of Ramadan.  Representative  Peter King , chairman of the House Homeland
Security Committee, sent a letter this week to  James Clapper ,
the director of national intelligence, requesting a
“counterintelligence survey” of Afghan security forces to
address the likelihood of “serious vetting problems,”
including Taliban infiltration.  Allen’s assessment that most attacks aren’t Taliban-
generated suggests improved vetting of Afghan soldiers may not
solve the problem.  Creating Distrust  The attacks and new precautions aimed at preventing them
“are creating distrust right at a time when the U.S. needs to
work more closely with Afghans,”  Kenneth Katzman , an
Afghanistan specialist at the  Congressional Research Service  in
Washington, said in an interview this week.  Allen said he will redouble his efforts to work more
cooperatively with Afghan forces.  “The closer the relationship, the more secure, ultimately,
our troops will be,” he said.  With 28 months left before U.S. and allied combat forces
are set to withdraw, Allen said Afghan security forces are
“very close” to reaching their maximum strength of 352,000
troops, a goal set for Oct. 1.  The transition to Afghan-led security in the war-torn
country will take time, and the Afghan forces won’t be fully
equipped until the end of 2013, he said.  When coalition forces leave in 2014, Afghanistan will enter
a “decade of transformation” marked by “lots of challenges
still,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  