-- Iraqi Oil Exports to Rise to Highest in Over Two Decades
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-08-23T16:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/iraqi-oil-exports-to-rise-to-highest-in-over-two-decades.html
Iraq ’s crude exports are set to rise
to an average of 2.6 million barrels a day this month, the
highest level in more than two decades, said  Asim Jihad , a
spokesman for the Oil Ministry.  The August tally includes some oil from the self-governing
Kurdish region in the north of Iraq, he said. Shipments of one
of Iraq’s export grades, Kirkuk, will increase in September from
this month, according to a loading program obtained by  Bloomberg
News  today.  “This record figure will be unprecedented since the 1980s,
and is due to the increase in production and export capacities,
especially from the southern terminals,” Jihad said by phone
from Baghdad. “The increase is also due to the limited
quantities of crude oil that Kurdistan has pumped since the
beginning of the month.”  Iraq’s Kurdish region said it resumed exports in early
August to help end a suspension that’s been in place since April
because of a payment dispute with the central government in
Baghdad.  The country’s crude exports rose in July to an average of
2.52 million barrels a day, Falah al-Amri, the head of the State
Oil Marketing Organization said Aug. 1. Iraq holds the world’s
fifth-biggest crude reserves, based on BP Plc statistics that
include Canadian  oil sands . The government is seeking investment
and expertise to boost oil output and sales after years of
conflict and sanctions. Iraq is one of 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Pipeline Sabotage  Exports of Iraq’s Kirkuk crude grade at the Turkish port of
Ceyhan will total 12 million barrels, or 400,333 barrels a day,
next month, according to the loading program. That compares with
196,774 barrels a day planned for this month.  Shipments of Kirkuk oil use a pipeline through northern
Iraq that is often the target of attacks by thieves or
insurgents. Flows stopped yesterday because of sabotage near the
city of Mosul, and have since resumed, North Oil Co., a state-
run oil company, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in  Baghdad  at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  