-- Irish Banks Shut Out of Market as Sovereign Returns: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   C o r m a c   M u l l e n
-- 2012-08-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/irish-banks-shut-out-of-market-as-sovereign-returns-euro-credit.html
As Ireland edges back into bond
markets, the banks that tipped the country into bankruptcy
remain reliant on aid as bad mortgages mount.  The yield on Ireland’s benchmark 2020 bond this week fell
below 6 percent for the first time since the country’s 2010
bailout. Bank of Ireland Plc’s state-guaranteed bond maturing in
2015 yielded about 300 basis points more than the equivalent
government security because of concern about unpaid home loans.  “The mortgage issue erodes confidence in the banks,” said
 Stephen Lyons , an analyst at Davy, Ireland’s biggest securities
firm. “It erodes their own confidence to lend and erodes the
confidence of investors to lend to Irish banks.”  Ireland is home to the euro region’s biggest banking crisis
to date, with the country’s financial industry needing about 120
billion euros ($151 billion) of central bank funding following
the bursting of the real estate bubble in 2008. With the depth
of the losses on loans still emerging, banks are finding it
tough to follow the government in convincing investors it’s safe
enough to lend them money again.  The national debt agency sold 500 million euros of Treasury
bills and 4 billion euros of bonds due for repayment in 2017 and
2020 last month. Yesterday, it sold 1.02 billion euros of
amortizing bonds, which are used to meet pension liabilities.
The weighted average yield was 5.91 percent.  Mortgage Clarity  “There is probably a rough timetable, bills, then new
sovereign issuance and then once that is at a level, it will be
banks,” said Liam Dunne, an analyst at Merrion Stockbrokers.
“Clarity definitely is needed on the mortgage book.”  In the second quarter, 16 percent of home loans were in
trouble, the central bank said yesterday. Mortgage  losses  will
exceed the 9 billion euros assumed in the adverse case scenario
used in last year’s stress tests on banks, Davy estimates.  Bank of Ireland’s  government-guaranteed senior unsecured
notes due January 2015 yield 6.42 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Similar notes from the former Irish Life
& Permanent Plc yield 6.65 percent. Those of Allied Irish Banks
Plc’s senior unsecured notes due March 2015 yield 5.75 percent.  A comparable Irish government bond, maturing in February
2015, yields 3.39 percent. Irish bonds have delivered the best
returns in the 17-nation euro region during the past 12 months
as optimism grew that the economy is stabilizing, facilitating
the government’s return to the markets.  ‘Arrears Challenges’  Bank of Ireland, the only large domestic bank to stay out
of state control, last sold debt publicly in late 2010. While
Allied Irish Banks sold 395 million pounds ($624 million) of
debt in May, it was secured on prime U.K. residential mortgages
rather than on loans in Ireland.  Irish-based banks borrowed 80.2 billion euros from the
 European Central Bank  as of July 27. In addition, the Irish
central bank had 41.6 billion euros of “other claims on euro-
area credit institutions.” This category is predominantly made
up of its so-called extraordinary liquidity assistance for
banks, according to a central bank spokesman.  “Banks need to issue wholesale funding over the medium-
term to achieve stable-funding ratio targets and this will most
likely be met through secured funding,” said Lyons at Davy in
Dublin. “But it is unlikely that Irish banks will be able to
use their Irish mortgage assets to achieve this until they work
through their arrears challenges.”  Insolvency Law  That task has been complicated by new insolvency laws in
Ireland that makes it easier for people to write off debt.  The proposals cut the bankruptcy term to three years from
12 years, and set up a system for talks between banks and home
owners on their debts. The legislation risks encouraging
homeowners to stop repaying their loans in the hope of achieving
partial debt forgiveness,  Fitch Ratings  said on Aug. 14.  “The solvency bill is weighing on investor sentiment,”
said Dunne at Merrion in the Irish capital. “But once there is
clarity then you run proper default recovery assumptions on the
Irish mortgage book.”  To be sure, yields on bank bonds have dropped. The summer
rally in Irish  government bonds , with the yield on the 2015
maturity falling 376 basis points since May 25, has also been
reflected in lower yields for the nation’s bank bonds.  Bank of Ireland’s January 2015 bond yield has fallen 285
basis points over the same period with Irish Permanent’s 2015
maturity down 430 basis points and Allied Irish Banks’ 2015 bond
down 345 basis points.  “It’s very possible that we’ll see some issue of bank debt
over the next six months to a year,” said Colm Ryan, co-head of
fixed income at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin. “An issuance
of debt would be a stepping stone, but I don’t think you could
declare victory until the banks were back into both the short-
term and long-term money markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Cormac Mullen at 
 cmullen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  