-- Iron Ore Signals Commodity Bull Run to Stumble: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-08-23T06:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/iron-ore-signals-commodity-bull-run-to-stumble-chart-of-the-day.html
The  bull market  in commodities, just
two days old, may stumble as iron ore suggests weakening global
growth will drag on demand for raw materials once the effect of
a U.S. drought on grain supplies wanes, Saxo Bank A/S said.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
of 24 commodities entered a bull market as the drought spurred
grain prices, while iron ore fell to its weakest level since
2009. The ore, which tracked a decline to a three-year low in
the world index of manufacturer’s purchasing managers, isn’t
part of the GSCI and has limited speculative futures trade.  “The reasons why commodity prices are higher this year are
the geopolitical risk supporting energy and adverse weather
supporting agriculture,” saidOle Hansen, head of commodity
strategy at Saxo Bank in Copenhagen. “ Iron ore  now is more in
line with global growth developments. Once those risks are off,
then I don’t think we have a bull market in the GSCI anymore.”  Commodities entered a bull market on Aug. 21, advancing 21
percent from a June low as grain surged after the most severe
U.S. drought in half a century. Soybeans rose to a record today,
while corn has soared 65 percent since the middle of June.
Crude oil has also rallied on tension in the  Middle East .  At the same time, 62 percent iron ore arriving at  China ’s
Tianjin port, an industry benchmark, has fallen, reaching
$104.70 a metric ton yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 16, 2009.
Growth in China, the biggest metals consumer, has decelerated to
the slowest pace in three years as  Europe ’s economic crisis
crimped exports. Expansion will slow to a 13-year low of 8.2
percent in 2012, the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Vale SA (VALE3) , the biggest iron-ore producer, said this month
that China’s “golden years” are gone as its growth slows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  