-- Isaac Watched by Traders, Republicans on Move to Florida
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2012-08-23T18:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/isaac-watched-by-traders-republicans-on-move-to-florida.html
Tropical Storm Isaac, moving through
the Caribbean Sea, may become a hurricane tomorrow as it travels
west on a path watched by commodity markets and officials
preparing for the  Republican National Convention .  Isaac is forecast to strengthen and cross Haiti and Cuba
before arriving on the southwestern  Florida  coast Aug. 27, the
National Hurricane Center said. That’s the opening day of the
Tampa gathering at which Republicans are expected to nominate
 Mitt Romney  as their presidential candidate.  “Significant uncertainty remains about the threat Isaac
poses to Florida,” the center said today.  Orange-juice futures rose the most in more than seven weeks
on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  yesterday because of the storm,
then fell today as concern eased that groves may be harmed.
Natural gas gained on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  before
declining today on a stockpile gain.  Computer forecast models, which had disagreed about Isaac’s
track, are starting to “show a little more convergence” and
predicting a path into the eastern  Gulf of Mexico , said Travis Hartman, a forecaster with MDA EarthSat Weather.  Assessing Risk  “It is better for the GOP convention in Tampa, but it is a
little bit more of a risk to energy assets in the Gulf,”
Hartman said by telephone from Gaithersburg,  Maryland . “We’re
not targeting the production area just yet, but the trend is a
little bit toward that direction right now.”  Florida Governor  Rick Scott  said that while it’s too soon
to say where Isaac may make landfall, the state “must take
every precaution.” The Republican National Convention will
decide whether to relocate, Scott said today at a press briefing
in Tallahassee, the state capital.  “There’s not an anticipation that there will be a
cancellation,” Scott said. “Florida is ready. The state is
more prepared than any state in the country for hurricanes.”  Scott declined to disclose contingency plans. The governor
said he has activated an emergency operations center and will
hold briefings twice daily.  Isaac , the ninth named storm of the  Atlantic hurricane
season  that runs through November, was 165 miles (265
kilometers) south of San Juan,  Puerto Rico , the Miami-based
center said in  an advisory  at 2 p.m. East Coast time. The
system, moving west at 15 miles per hour, packed maximum
sustained winds of 40 mph, down from 45 mph. That’s below the
minimum 74 mph speed of a  Category 1 hurricane .  Islands Affected  The storm may bring as much as 10 inches (25 centimeters)
of rain to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, while 20 inches
(51 centimeters) of rain and water levels 5 feet above normal
are possible along the coast of Hispaniola, the center said.  Isaac is expected to strengthen during the next 48 hours
and may become a hurricane tomorrow before it reaches
Hispaniola, the center said.  “There is a one in four chance that we can get a strong
storm in the production area” of the Gulf, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of the Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
Maryland. “In another few days, there is probably going to be a
lot of talk about shut-ins and evacuations.”  Gulf Threat  The Gulf of  Mexico  is home to 29 percent of U.S. oil
production, 6.3 percent of natural-gas output and 40 percent of
refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy Department.
Florida is the second-largest orange grower, after  Brazil .  PHI Inc. said it may begin evacuating personnel from
offshore oil and gas production platforms and drilling rigs
tomorrow as Tropical Storm Isaac spins toward the U.S. Gulf of
Mexico.  “It’s my understanding that some of our customers will
start tomorrow,” Richard Rovinelli, chief administrative
officer for the Lafayette, Louisiana-based helicopter company,
said today in a telephone interview.  Critical to Isaac’s future is how much time the storm
spends over Cuba,  Haiti  and the  Dominican Republic , Hartman
said. Mountains on those islands may tear its structure,
weakening it. When Isaac moves back into water, the system will
have a chance to strengthen.  Tampa Visitors  More than 50,000 people are expected to visit the Tampa Bay
area next week as Republicans hold their four-day convention,
said James Davis, a convention spokesman.  Tampa is the second-largest metropolitan area in Florida,
after Miami, with nearly 2.8 million people, according to Census
data. An estimated 50,000 are expected to attend the four-day
convention, including 15,000 representatives of the media.  The Tampa Bay Times Forum, site of the gathering, is in a
mandatory evacuation zone once storms reach 96 mph, a Category 2
on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson scale , according to the
Hillsborough County Hurricane Guide.  The most violent storm to hit the city, in 1848, sent 15
feet of water over land now home to the Tampa Bay Convention
Center, where media will be headquartered, Masters said.  Tropical Storm Joyce, the 10th of the  hurricane season ,
formed today in the Atlantic Ocean about halfway between the
Lesser Antilles and the Cape Verde Islands.  The storm, with top winds of 40 miles (64 kilometers) per
hour, isn’t expected to strengthen much in the next two days and
poses no immediate threat to land.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 