-- Jakks Pacific Gets Renewed Takeover Interest From Oaktree
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-08-23T22:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/jakks-pacific-gets-renewed-takeover-interest-from-oaktree.html
Jakks Pacific Inc. (JAKK)  received renewed
takeover interest from Oaktree Capital Management LP, the
private-equity firm that bid for the toymaker last year.  Oaktree, based in  Los Angeles , submitted a revised
confidentiality and standstill agreement, according to documents
filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Oaktree first approached Jakks, based in Malibu,
 California , about acquiring the company in March 2011, according
to public filings. The companies met and Jakks’s board rejected
selling the company in July 2011, saying that pursuing
management’s plans to improve results would be better for
shareholders.  In September, Oaktree went public with its interest and
offer of $20 a share. In March of this year, Jakks adopted an
anti-takeover defense plan, a so-called poison pill, that
discourages amassing more than 10 percent of the stock. After
pressure from investor Clinton Group Inc., Jakks agreed to meet
with Oaktree in April. Those talks ended on June 15.  Lucy Neugart, a spokeswoman for Oaktree, declined to
comment on the filing.  Joel Bennett , chief financial officer of Jakks, didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment.  Jakks was unchanged at $16.10 in extended trading at 4:31
p.m.  New York  time. The shares have gained 14 percent this year.  The toymaker posted three straight years of sales declines
as U.S. consumers cut back on spending and more children favored
video games over the stuffed animals and action figures it
offers. Revenue sank 25 percent to $677.8 million last year from
$903.4 million three years earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  