-- Japan Stock Futures Drop Amid Europe Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-23T23:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/japan-stock-futures-drop-amid-europe-debt-crisis-concern.html
Japanese and Australia stock futures
fell amid concern that European leaders aren’t making progress
in solving the region’s debt crisis, curbing the earnings
outlook for exporters.  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , Asia’s largest listed cigarette maker
by market value, may be active after BNP Paribas SA advised
selling the stock. Shares of  Sony Corp. (6758)  may move after the
consumer electronics maker said it’s eliminating about 15
percent of the workers at its mobile-phone unit to reduce costs.
 QR National Ltd. (QRN) , Australia’s No. 1 rail-freight operator, may
climb as Royal Bank of Scotland Plc upgraded its recommendation
on the shares.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring next
month closed at 9,080 in Chicago yesterday, down from 9,180 in
Osaka. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,090 in Osaka at 8:05
a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
declined 0.6 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index retreated
1 percent in Wellington.  “Most of the risk still comes from  Europe ,” said Stan Shamu, a market strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in Melbourne, a
provider of trading services for stocks, bonds, currencies and
commodities. “There’s still skepticism that European leaders
can come up with a solution.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.1
percent today. The gauge slid 0.8 percent yesterday, the biggest
drop in a month.  Leaders Meet  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Europe is in one of
its deepest crises, and while the path to a solution is
“arduous,” the euro region will emerge stronger. She hosted
French President Francois Hollande yesterday as the leaders of
Europe’s two biggest economies seek common ground on  Greece  and
the wider debt crisis. Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras will
follow Hollande to Berlin today and travel on to Paris tomorrow.  The European Union said yesterday it is focused on its aid
program for Spain’s banks and hasn’t received a request for a
full bailout from the nation. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  said that allowing Greece more time to meet its debt
obligations would not solve the country’s problems and would
increase costs for creditors.  In the U.S., a report showed the number of applications for
 unemployment benefits  climbed last week to a one-month high.
Jobless claims rose for a second week to 372,000, beating the
365,000 median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index rose more than 12 percent from
a June low through yesterday on bets monetary authorities in the
U.S., Europe and China would take action to boost slowing
economic growth.  Stocks on Asia’s benchmark index were  valued  at 12.6 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.7 for the S&P
500 and 11.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
retreated 0.3 percent yesterday.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slid 0.2 percent to 89.87
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  