-- Japanese Stocks Advance on China Stimulus Expectations
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-08-23T06:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/japan-stocks-fall-as-yen-strengthens-on-fed-speculation.html
Japanese  stocks  gained, with the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rising to a 15-week high, after a
survey indicated China’s manufacturing may contract at a faster
pace in August, boosting prospects for stimulus. Shares fell
earlier on a strengthening yen.  Daikin Industries Ltd. (6367) , an air-conditioner maker that
relies on China for nearly a fifth of revenue, advanced 2
percent.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , a carmaker that gets almost half of
its sales in  North America  and Europe, slid 0.6 percent after
the yen gained, cutting exporters’ outlook. Sharp Corp. rose 1.1
percent on speculation it may sell its shares in audio-equipment
maker  Pioneer Corp. (6773) , the biggest decliner on the Nikkei 225
today.  The Nikkei 225 climbed 0.5 percent to 9,178.12 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, the highest close since May 8, erasing declines
of as much as 0.8 percent. Volume on the gauge was almost 15
percent below the 30-day average. The broader  Topix (TPX)  Index added
0.2 percent to 764.59, with about eight shares advancing for
every seven that fell.  The possible contraction in manufacturing “may boost
investors’ expectations that China will step up its stimulus
measures to expand domestic demand,” said Kaori Murai, a
strategist at Okasan Securities Co., a brokerage affiliate of
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc.  The 47.8 preliminary reading for the purchasing managers’
index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today
compares with a final 49.3 for July. A number below 50 indicates
contraction. The gauge hasn’t shown an expansion since October.  Daikin gained 2 percent to 2,159 yen. Nippon Chemi-Con
Corp., a condenser maker that counts China as its biggest market,
increased 2.4 percent to 171 yen.  Policy Accommodation  Shares also climbed after Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said easier monetary policy around the
world, including in China, would support growth, broadening his
call for more stimulus in the U.S. People’s Bank of China
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan yesterday said adjustments to  interest
rates  and bank reserve requirements are still possible after the
central bank stepped up temporary cash injections this month.  The Topix lost 13 percent from this year’s peak on March 27
through yesterday on concern earnings will be hurt by Europe’s
debt crisis and slowing growth in China and the U.S. Shares on
the gauge trade at 0.9 times book value, compared with 2.2 for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.4 for the Europe Stoxx 600
Index. A number less than one means companies can be bought for
less than the value of their assets.  Futures on the  S&P 500  were little changed today. The gauge
rose less than 0.1 percent yesterday, reversing a 0.5 percent
drop after the Federal Reserve minutes were released in
Washington.  Fed Minutes  Many Fed policy makers said additional monetary easing will
probably be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of
sustained growth, according to the record of the Federal Open
Market Committee’s July 31-Aug. 1 gathering. Central bank
officials said after the meeting that they will step up record
stimulus if needed to cut a jobless rate stuck above 8 percent
since February 2009.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will have an opportunity to
clarify his views in an Aug. 31 speech at a forum for central
bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, where he signaled a second
round of bond buying by the Fed in 2010. Fed officials next meet
on Sept. 12-13.  “The fact that the Fed is rushing to ease policy is in
indication of the downside risks the economy faces,”  Akio
Yoshino , who helps oversee the equivalent of $32 billion as
chief economist at Amundi Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “And it suggests
that the Fed thinks the  U.S. economy  may not achieve the bank’s
forecast for mid-range 2 percent growth. That means companies
won’t see profits gaining from their U.S. operations.”  Nissan Declines  Nissan lost 0.6 percent to 777 yen.  Kawasaki Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7012) , a heavy machinery maker that gets almost 30
percent of its sales from the U.S. and Europe, sank 1.6 percent
to 180 yen.  The yen appreciated to as high as 78.28 against the dollar
today in Tokyo, compared with 79.27 at the close of stock
trading yesterday. Against the euro, Japan’s currency
strengthened to 98.09 from 98.78. A stronger yen cuts overseas
income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  meet today to discuss Europe’s fiscal crisis.
Merkel signaled she’s willing to discuss Greece’s request for
more time to meet the terms of its international rescue, leaving
the door open to potential concessions.  Pioneer sank 4.5 percent to 212 yen after Sharp said it may
sell its cross-shareholdings and account receivables if Taiwan’s
Foxconn Technology Group invests than expected in the
electronics maker. Sharp holds a 9.2 percent stake in the audio-
equipment maker, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sharp added 1.1 percent to 182 yen. The company also got a
boost after broadcaster NHK reported Mizuho Corporate Bank and
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ may provide additional loans to the
loss-making company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  