-- Falling Panel Prices Hit JinkoSolar and GCL-Poly Earnings
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-08-23T18:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/jinkosolar-reports-loss-as-panel-prices-sales-decline.html
Chinese solar companies  JinkoSolar
Holding Co. (JKS)  and  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  reported losses
that were larger than analysts estimated as product prices
declined.  JinkoSolar, a panel maker, reported second-quarter net loss
of 310.5 million  yuan  ($48.9 million), compared with net income
of 235.2 million yuan a year earlier, according to a statement
today. GCL-Poly, which makes wafers, reported a loss of HK$330
million ($43 million) for the six months ended June 30, compared
with a HK$3.55 billion profit a year earlier, GCL-Poly said
today in a  Hong Kong  stock exchange filing.  Global prices for solar panels have  dropped  37 percent in
the past year because of oversupply, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. Wafer prices have dropped 44 percent this year
while the average spot price of polysilicon, the raw material
for most solar panels, is down 23 percent, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance data shows.  “I don’t think the worst is behind the whole group,”  Mark Bachman , an analyst at Avian Securities LLC in  Boston , said in
an interview today. While pricing pressure will abate next year,
there are “still average selling price declines in front of
them,” Bachman said.  JinkoSolar, based in Jiangxi, China, was expected to lose
198.8 million yuan, the average of two estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. GCL-Poly was expected to earn HK$32.7 million
according to three estimates.  ‘Sincere Apology’  The 17-member BI Global Large Solar index has fallen  64
percent (BISOLAR)  in the past year as companies deal with the oversupply
that’s pulled down prices. Cyclical oversupply, the  European
debt crisis  and European solar subsidy policy changes has
affected GCL-Poly’s performance, the Hong Kong-based company
said. GCL-Poly Chairman Zhu Gong Shan offered his “sincere
apology” for the company’s results during a conference call
today.  Average panel prices fell to 74 cents a watt in the
quarter, Zhang Longgen, JinkoSolar’s chief financial officer,
said on a conference call today. He didn’t give an earlier
price. JinkoSolar’s production costs fell to 66 cents a watt
from 74 cents in the prior quarter. GCL-Poly’s average selling
price of wafers was 27 cents a watt for the first half 2012.  “We are confident the worst is behind us,” JinkoSolar
Chief Marketing Officer Arturo Herrero said on the call. Lower
prices aren’t sustainable, he said.  GCL-Poly agrees that pricing declines may slow. “The
market price may be stabilizing in the second half,” Zhu Yu Feng, executive director of the company, said on a conference
call today. Next year “will be the turning point” and 2013
will be “another growth year,” he said.  JinkoSolar’s American depositary receipts fell 0.7 percent
to $2.95 at 1:13 p.m. in  New York . Each ADR is worth four
ordinary shares. GCL-Poly, which reported after the close in
Hong Kong, rose 2.5 percent to HK$1.23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  