-- Juventus’s Conte Says He’s Being Made Fall Guy in Soccer Scandal
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-08-23T16:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/juventus-s-conte-says-he-s-being-made-fall-guy-in-soccer-scandal.html
Juventus Football Club SpA (JUVE)  coach
 Antonio Conte  said he’s being made a scapegoat in a scandal
involving match-fixing and illegal betting.  “I am the object of slanderous accusations, to make me out
to be the public face of a football betting scandal,” Conte
said at a press conference today. “I have never bet in my
life.”  Conte, who led Juventus to the Serie A title last season,
lost his appeal this week against a 10-month suspension for
failing to report a match-fixing case.  Italian police in May arrested Stefano Mauri, the team
captain of SS Lazio SA, and prosecutors probed Conte as part of
an international investigation into the nation’s soccer leagues.  Italy’s soccer federation acquitted Conte, 43, of
wrongdoing in the game between Novara and Siena on May 1, 2011,
but did suspend him for failing to report a match-fixing
incident in the game between Albinoleffe and Siena four weeks
later, according to a  statement  published on its website. Conte
was Siena’s coach at the time.  Conte will still be allowed to train Juventus during his
suspension, but won’t be able to coach on match days. He will
now appeal to the National Sport Arbitration Court of the
Italian Olympic Committee, Luigi Chiappero, one his lawyers,
told journalists today.  Conte “is and will be Juventus coach,” Chairman Andrea Agnelli said in a  statement  published on the  soccer club ’s
website yesterday. “Those who think that these judicial events
could affect our season are mistaken.”  Assistant coach Massimo Carrera will be in charge when
Juventus begins it title defense at home against Parma in two
days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  