-- Kazuo Okada to Argue Again for Wynn Resorts Books Access
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-08-23T22:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/kazuo-okada-to-argue-again-for-wynn-resorts-books-access.html
Lawyers for Kazuo Okada, the
Japanese billionaire  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  is trying to remove from
its board, are scheduled to return to a  Nevada  court in October
to argue for access to the casino operator’s books.  Clark County District Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez in Las
Vegas, according to a notice filed in court, scheduled a hearing
for Oct. 2 on arguments whether Okada’s request for documents,
including ones regarding Wynn Resorts’ dealings with  Macau 
officials going back as far as 2000 and the company’s use of
$120 million he invested in 2002, is reasonable.  The judge at a hearing in June deferred a decision until
Wynn Resorts’ lawyers had a chance to question Okada, 69, about
the purpose of his request. Wynn Resorts’ lawyers have argued
that Okada is using the petition as “back-door discovery” to
collect evidence to use in Wynn Resorts’ lawsuit against him, in
which the two sides can’t yet request documents.  Okada will appear Sept. 18 in  Las Vegas  for a deposition by
Wynn Resorts’ lawyers, according to the notice filed today by
the casino operator’s lawyers. Wynn Resorts will have 10 days
after they question Okada to supplement their opposition to his
request, according to the filing.  Lawyers for Okada and Wynn Resorts didn’t immediately
return calls today seeking comment on a new hearing.  ‘VIP Gamblers’  Wynn Resorts sued Okada on Feb. 19, saying he breached his
fiduciary duty by making improper payments to gaming regulators
in the  Philippines . Okada is developing two casinos and three
hotels in  Manila  and seeks to lure “high-limit, VIP gamblers”
from  China  in direct competition with Wynn’s casino in Macau,
according to the complaint.  Okada held the largest single stake in Wynn Resorts through
his Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  until February.
Then, in an escalating battle with Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Wynn, his 20 percent stake in Wynn Resorts was forcibly
redeemed because, the company said, he was “unsuitable.”  Okada sought a court order in January that, as a director,
he was entitled to inspect Wynn Resorts’ books and records
regarding its $130 million pledge last year to the University of
Macau, which Okada says he opposed.  Gonzalez in March ordered Wynn Resorts to produce only two
more pages of documents to Okada.  In his renewed request, Okada seeks documents from 2000
through 2002 regarding entertainment of and contacts with Macau
government officials, as well as documents explaining the
company’s use of $120 million he invested in 2002.  ‘Carefree Disregard’  Okada in a May 2 filing justified his request for access to
the books and records by arguing that  Stephen Wynn , 70, has
shown a “carefree disregard” for the law and his obligations
to shareholders and that he has caused Wynn Resorts to waste
funds and put the company at risk by “embroiling it in a morass
of ever-growing litigation and government inquiry.”  At a May 17 hearing on Okada’s petition, James Pisanelli, a
lawyer for Wynn Resorts, said Okada’s real purpose was to look
in the 10-year-old documents for evidence that something
happened in Macau that is similar to what the company said he
did in the Philippines.  “There is no corporate governance at stake here,”
Pisanelli said. “What there is, is a grasp for the unclean-
hands defense.”  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts, A-12-654522-B, District
Court, Clark County Nevada (Las Vegas).
Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  