-- Korea Gas Reports Unexpected Profit on Return Rates, Projects
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-08-23T10:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/korea-gas-reports-unexpected-profit-on-return-rates-projects.html
Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s biggest
importer of liquefied natural gas, reported second-quarter
profit more than doubled, disproving estimates, on higher state-
guaranteed fair return rates and earnings from overseas projects.  Net income climbed to 40.3 billion won ($35.7 million) in
the three months ended June 30 from 16.2 billion won a year
earlier, the Seongnam, South Korea-based utility said in a
regulatory filing today. The average of 13 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg was a loss of 12.3 billion won. Sales
jumped 37 percent to 8 trillion won.  The state utility has benefited from demand for gas in the
quarter as the government asked power generators to boost
operations of their gas-fueled power plants. The gas exploration
and production businesses also contributed more in the quarter
than a year earlier, Executive Vice President Kim Key Man said
on a conference call with investors today.  “The country’s tight power supply status boosted demand
for the fuel during the off-season,” said Shin Ji Yoon, an
analyst at KTB Securities Co., who has a buy recommendation on
the utility.  Gas sales to power generators rose 8 percent in the first
half of this year from a year earlier, outperforming a rise of
1.8 percent in gas sales to households and companies, according
to Korea Gas’s presentation documents to investors today. Korea
Gas raised gas tariffs by 4.9 percent for households and
businesses starting June 30, the first increase in about eight
months.  Kim attributed the unexpected profit to an increase in rate
bases stemming from higher fair returns guaranteed by the
government and from gains consolidated with units, Kim said.  Operating profit, or sales minus the costs of goods sold
and administrative expenses, rose 70 percent to 232.6 billion
won.  The  shares  traded unchanged to close at 59,500 won, the
highest in almost three years. The benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  Stock Index
advanced 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  