-- Korean Won Rises as Fed Minutes Show Stimulus Support
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-08-23T07:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/korean-won-rises-as-fed-minutes-show-stimulus-support.html
South Korea ’s won rose the most in
more than two weeks as minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s latest
meeting showed some policy makers favored further monetary
stimulus that may bolster demand for emerging-market assets.  Many participants at the Fed’s meeting said a new large-
scale asset-purchase program “could provide additional support
for the economic recovery,” according to the record released
yesterday. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained for the first time in five
days as exchange data showed overseas funds  boosted  holdings of
local equities every day except one this month.  Government bonds 
advanced.  “Some investors covered their short positions on the
dollar yesterday expecting nothing much to come out from the Fed
minutes, but today we’ll see the reverse,” said Jude Noh, a
Seoul-based chief currency trader at Suhyup Bank. “With the end
of the month nearing, we may see some exporters selling the
greenback as well.” A short position is a bet an asset will
decline in value.  The won appreciated 0.5 percent to 1,130.60 per dollar in
 Seoul , the biggest gain since Aug. 6, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It touched 1,129.35 earlier, the strongest level since
Aug. 14. One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 23 basis
points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 7.29 percent.  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2015 slid three basis points to 2.88 percent, the lowest in a
week, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. Three-year debt futures
rose 0.11 to 105.90 and the one-year interest-rate swap fell two
basis points to 2.92 percent.  “South Korea’s bond yields fell today reflecting
yesterday’s decline in U.S. Treasury rates,” said Kim Kyung
Hun, a Seoul-based bond trader at Hana Bank. “It’s too early to
see if this will be a long-term trend as we have the  European
Central Bank  and Fed’s meetings coming up next month where there
may be big policy announcements.”  The 10-year sovereign debt  yield  in the U.S. fell 11 basis
points to 1.69 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  