-- New York MTA’s Payroll Tax Rejected in Blow to Agency
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-08-23T18:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/new-york-mta-s-payroll-tax-rejected-in-blow-to-agency.html
A  payroll tax  projected to pump
$1.26 billion into the New York Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s budget this year may not provide another penny after
a state judge struck it down as unconstitutional. The MTA said
it may lead to “extreme” service cuts and fare increases.  Judge R. Bruce Cozzens Jr. held the levy violated a so-called home-rule provision in the state constitution, and
required a two-thirds vote to pass the Legislature, which it
didn’t get, according to a copy of the decision sent by the MTA.
Cozzens agreed with Nassau County Executive Edward Mangano’s
request to overturn the law that created the tax.  The suit against the tax that feeds a transit agency that
carries an average of 8.7 million riders on weekdays was brought
by Mangano and officials from suburban communities served by the
agency. The tax was adopted by the Legislature in May 2009 as
part of a rescue plan for the system, which faced a $1.8 billion
budget shortfall. It was approved by margins of 60 percent in
the Assembly and 52 percent in the Senate under then-Governor
 David Paterson .  “We will vigorously appeal today’s ruling,” Aaron
Donovan, an MTA spokesman, said yesterday e-mail. “We believe
this opinion will be overturned, since four prior challenges to
the constitutionality of the law making the same argument have
been dismissed.”  ‘Catastrophic’ Ruling  In a follow-up statement today, the agency said: “Removing
more than $1.2 billion in revenue from the Payroll Mobility Tax,
plus hundreds of millions of dollars more from other taxes
affected by yesterday’s ruling, would be catastrophic for the
MTA and for the economy of New York state.”  The MTA may be “forced to implement a combination of
extreme service cuts and fare hikes,” the MTA said.  Mangano, a Republican who led the plaintiffs in the suit
filed in 2010, celebrated today alongside state and county
legislators at a news briefing in Mineola. He called the
decision as a “victory for taxpayers and job creators
throughout the state.”  He and others present urged the MTA to drop its appeal.
Mangano said his administration was studying whether it could
retroactively get the taxes back from the MTA on behalf of the
businesses that have paid them, which have totaled $9.9 million
since 2009. The MTA “should find another way for efficiencies
and cost-cuttings before they turn to the taxpayer or the
rider,” Mangano said.  Not Presumptuous  He said he didn’t think it was presumptuous to celebrate in
the face of the MTA’s pledge to appeal the decision and the
agency’s prior legal victories.  Mangano pointed to his own success in cutting costs as an
example for the MTA to follow. In Nassau, which is under the
control of a state oversight board after years of deficits, he
said he has cut $290 million and reduced the workforce by 20
percent  The MTA also has been working to improve its fiscal
condition. The agency has cut more than $700 million from its
annual operating budget and eliminated 3,500 jobs after the
recession depressed revenue and led it to enact service cuts and
raise fares.  The levy that was struck down requires employers to set
aside as much as 34 cents for every $100 in payroll costs,
Donovan said.  Revenue Sources  Partly reduced under Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s tax overhaul
in December, the levy was forecast in February to produce $350
million less than anticipated this year. The MTA predicted
budget shortfalls of $129 million in 2014, $14 million the next
year and $231 million in 2016, in documents released July 25.  While the court decision reduces the agency’s revenue, the
mass-transit provider has other means to generate cash, said
Daniel Solender, who helps manage about $17 billion of municipal
bonds, including MTA debt, at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey .  “Clearly any source of revenue that’s turned down is not a
positive,” Solender said. “At the same time, it’s not having a
market impact at this time. You don’t want to have to go back
and raise fares, but that’s always a possibility too.”  The tax covers a 12-county area including the city and
surrounding suburbs. Cozzens made the decision in  New York 
Supreme Court in Nassau County.  “Public transportation is critical to the New York City
metropolitan area,” said Paul Steely White, who heads
Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group for bicyclists,
pedestrians and mass transit. “We hope Governor Cuomo resolves
this crisis, and that the appeals court will consider the
substantial state interest when reviewing this ruling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 