-- Aussie Declines as China Data Suggest Slowing Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-23T21:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/new-zealand-dollar-rises-as-fed-s-evans-urges-easing.html
The Australian dollar fell for the
first time in three days versus its U.S. peer after a report
showed  China ’s manufacturing may contract at a faster pace,
fanning concern demand for commodity exports will decrease.  The  New Zealand dollar  erased gains after earlier rising to
a two-week high as Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President
 Charles Evans  said easier monetary policy is needed to support
global growth and China officials suggested they were prepared
act to stimulate the economy. The South Pacific nations’
currencies fell as German and French leaders held debt-crisis
talks in Berlin.  “The Aussie this morning was pretty vulnerable on the back
of the Chinese PMI,”  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA, said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve remained pretty bullish on Aussie because we do expect
quantitative easing and we do expect policy stimulus from
China.”  Australia’s currency fell 0.6 percent to $1.0441 yesterday
in  New York  after earlier climbing as high as $1.0545. The New
Zealand dollar touched 81.87 U.S. cents, the highest since Aug.
7, before falling 0.2 percent to 81.27 U.S. cents.  “I don’t need to see any more data to know that I think we
should have more accommodation,” Evans told reporters yesterday
in Beijing.  Fed Minutes  Evans’s comments came after the minutes of the Fed’s July
31-Aug. 1 meeting released Aug. 22 said “many members judged
that additional monetary accommodation would likely be warranted
fairly soon” unless there is a substantial and sustainable
improvement in the economy. Central bank officials next meet on
Sept. 12-13.  A purchasing managers’ index for China’s manufacturing was
at 47.8 in August on a preliminary basis, a report from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed yesterday. If
confirmed, it would be the lowest since November and extend to
10 months the longest run of readings below the expansion-
contraction dividing line of 50 in the index’s eight-year
history.  China’s central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  on Aug. 22
said further interest-rate adjustments can’t be ruled out. The
country is Australia’s largest trading partner and New Zealand’s
second-biggest export destination.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  