-- New York Marathon Cancels Baggage Check for 47,000 Runners
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-08-23T21:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/new-york-city-marathon-cancels-baggage-check-for-47-000-runners.html
Runners finishing the  ING New York
City Marathon  Nov. 4 won’t find their clothing, phones and other
belongings waiting for them after officials canceled the
baggage-check service that’s been part of the race for decades.  New York Road Runners, organizer of the world’s biggest
marathon, said today it is eliminating the service to ease
congestion in the finish area for about 47,000 runners. Under
the program, which has been run by  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) 
for the past 15 years, runners would check their baggage at the
starting line in Fort Wadsworth on  Staten Island  and UPS trucks
would haul it to  Central Park  for the finish.  As a replacement this year, officials will provide fleece-
lined, water-repellent ponchos at the end of the race and phone
stations for runners to contact family and friends. Discarded
clothing worn before the race will be donated to charities.  “Our primary objective is to provide our runners with the
safest and best possible race-day experience,” New York Road
Runners said in a  statement . “We have received overwhelming
feedback from our runners about the need to address the issue of
post-race congestion and waiting time to exit Central Park.”  By mid-afternoon today, more than 500 people had signed an
online petition on the website  change.org  calling for the NYRR
to rescind the decision.  ‘An Outrage’  “Runners need fresh clean clothes, socks, cell phones,
power bars, etc., in the bag check,” wrote a petitioner
identifying himself as Ohmar Mercer of  West Orange ,  New Jersey .
“Without it, folks will freeze to death waiting and looking
around for loved ones. Having no bag check is an outrage.”  John Ferris, 34, a  New York  City resident who says he has
run more than a thousand races over the past 19 years, called
the decision “the worst policy I have ever heard” in an e-mail
message.  “It is bad enough that we have to go over hours before the
race, often with bad weather conditions or wind,” Ferris wrote.
“Now we can’t even have what we need with us.”  Other runners who didn’t get into the entry lottery this
year said the new rule wouldn’t be an obstacle.  “Please let me in to run if people drop out, I can deal
with no bag easily,” Baird Stiles wrote on ING New York City
Marathon’s Facebook page.  The 26.2-mile (42.2 kilometer) race is one of the  World
Marathon Majors , along with those in Berlin,  Boston ,  London  and
 Chicago . Those races provide baggage checks.  New York Road Runners said UPS had provided more than 70
trucks and 300 volunteers to transport baggage. With the policy
change, the trucks will no longer be needed.  “However, UPS employees will continue to be key members of
our team, including a partner of our clothing donation effort at
the start,” the NYRR said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  