-- Killer Breivik Faces 21 Years in Norway Jail
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r ,   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-08-24T16:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/norwegians-sickened-by-breivik-await-guilty-versus-mad-judgment.html
Anders Behring Breivik, who spent 10
weeks in court defending his massacre of 77 people last year,
will serve 21 years in jail after both killer and prosecution
said they won’t appeal a ruling which found him to be sane.  Breivik, who smiled as Judge Wenche Arntzen read out the
verdict, was sentenced to a 21-year jail term and must serve a
minimum of 10 years. All five judges, two professional and three
lay, agreed on the verdict, Arntzen said.  “It’s a big relief for me and my clients,” Cathrine
Groendahl, a lawyer at Hestenes & Dramer representing survivors
of the shooting, said in an interview after the verdict was
read. “The judges said that it’s about the victims, and they
wanted to point at the victims, to look at them and see how they
have suffered - to make the case about them. We are all
relieved.”  Last year’s July 22 attacks, in which Breivik first
detonated a bomb outside Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s
office, killing eight, before sailing to the island of Utoeya to
gun down 69 people attending a youth gathering of the ruling
Labor Party, have forced the world’s third-richest nation per
capita to review the freedoms that had defined it. As today’s
proceedings continued, people sitting in the courtroom wept as
Judge Arne Lyng read out details of the shootings that killed
mostly teenagers.  Extended Term  The question of how to deal with Breivik has left
Norwegians torn as they weigh the need for punishment against
the ideals of a welfare model in which rehabilitation is the
ultimate goal. While the maximum jail sentence in  Norway  is 21
years, the term can be extended by five years at a time if an
inmate is still deemed a danger to society.  “I don’t think he will be let out; he will be found
dangerous,” Groendahl said. “He found a rational reason for
it, he believes it. He even said he wanted to kill more
people.”  Thirty-three-year-old Breivik, who has spent the time since
confessing to the killings in a high-security prison wing with
access to a computer and his own treadmill, has insisted he’s no
lunatic. He’s used the trial to defend his xenophobic views, and
said the killings were necessary to protect Norway from
multiculturalism.  ‘He’s Responsible’  Judges had seen two psychiatric reports: one found Breivik
unfit for  sentencing , the other deemed him sane. While the
victims and Breivik himself had sought a sanity verdict, the
prosecution, which represents the government, had argued he may
be mentally unfit for prison.  Judge Wenche Arntzen criticized the first psychiatric
report that found Breivik was psychotic, saying it failed to
interpret the killer’s statements, such as his claim to be part
of a civil war, in a “political context.” The killer has a
narcissistic antisocial personality disorder, she said.  Since Breivik doesn’t recognize the court, he can’t accept
the ruling, he told the judges today. “The ruling is in my eyes
illegitimate” he said. “At the same time, I can’t appeal the
judgment, because I would thereby legitimize the court.”  The prosecution won’t appeal the decision, prosecutor Svein
Holden told reporters after the court adjourned.  Breivik had “tried to eradicate an entire generation of
 Labor Party  youth members and he hit us very hard, but he didn’t
defeat us,” Eskil Pedersen, who leads the group and was on the
island when Breivik started shooting, said in an interview with
national broadcaster NRK.  Spread Roses  “This is a far-right terrorist,” he said. “We are
planning to use our political engagement for the rest of our
lives to fight that.”  Norwegians have so far refused to alter established rules
or customs in response to Breivik’s acts. When he first appeared
in court in April, prosecutors, counselors for the victims’
families and court psychiatrists all shook his hand, in
accordance with Norwegian court-room etiquette.  The biggest disturbance during the trial was when the
brother of one of the victims threw his shoe at Breivik.  Locals have spread roses around the Oslo courthouse to
honor the victims. Breivik’s court-room jibe at the Norwegian
version of a popular song, “My Rainbow Race,” as an example of
how the establishment brainwashes the young was met with a
spontaneous gathering of hundreds of Norwegians, who chanted the
song on one of Oslo’s main squares.  ‘Let Down’  Meanwhile, Breivik has spent his time in detention writing
his memoirs, according to his lawyer, Tord Jordet. The self-
confessed killer plans to finish the book in the first half of
next year and has received unconfirmed offers from publishers in
southern  Europe , Jordet said. Breivik has no illusion the book
will ever be published in Norway, he said.  While there’s a tendency to “want the outcome that is
worst for” Breivik, said Jon Harald Sande Lie, a 35-year-old
researcher at the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs
in Oslo, “it’s an Old-Testament approach, and it can’t be done;
one has to accept the justice system. I trust them to make the
right decision. It’s a matter of finding the right balance.”  Norwegians were let down by security forces, an Aug. 13
report found. The July 22 Commission that published its findings
last week said police failed to respond effectively to the
attacks, forgetting to deploy a helicopter and sailing to Utoeya
in a small, inflatable boat that suffered engine trouble. A
second, civilian boat was then used, though its motor was too
weak to carry all 10 officers, making progress slow. A third
boat, also civilian, picked up four officers to split the load.  ‘Rude Awakening’  The delays were “unacceptable,” according to the
commission. Norway’s largest tabloid newspaper VG has since
called for Stoltenberg’s resignation.  Police Chief Oeystein Maeland stepped down the same week as
the report was released after Justice Minister Knut Storberget
resigned in November. Stoltenberg, who faces elections next
year, has said he will stay in office.  “Norwegian politicians, like the Norwegian people, had
thought that these things couldn’t happen here,” Anders
Romarheim, an anti-terrorism researcher at the Institute for
Defense Studies in Oslo, said in an interview. The attacks were
“a rude awakening of the very worst kind,” he said.  Stoltenberg has said Norway will work to improve police
security, including measures to make it easier for the army to
assist in emergencies. The Justice Ministry is also looking into
making it easier to prosecute to prevent terrorist acts.  Norway, where the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded, has been
spared the destructive fallout of Europe’s debt crisis thanks to
its oil wealth.  ‘Best Society’  The nation, which boasts a $620 billion sovereign-wealth
fund and no net debt, has Europe’s lowest unemployment rate and
one of the world’s most even income distributions. The country
uses quotas in boardrooms and politics to ensure all society’s
groups are fairly represented.  The ease with which Breivik executed his attacks may in
part lie in the vulnerability created by Norway’s prosperity and
openness, said Nina Witoszek, an Oslo University professor who
moved to Norway in the 1980s and has written books on Norwegian
identity including “The Origins of the Regime of Goodness -
Remapping the Cultural History of Norway.”  “The conviction that we live in the best society in the
world makes us certain of our own welfare and immune to
concern,” she said in an interview. The authorities’ response
to the attacks “was a combination of stupidity, nonchalance,
optimism and decadence,” she said. How to deal with the
aftermath of Breivik “will divide the country,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  