-- NYC’s South Street Seaport Redevelopment Planned at Pier
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-08-23T14:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/nyc-s-south-street-seaport-redevelopment-planned-at-pier.html
Howard Hughes  Corp., the real estate
company whose chairman is hedge-fund manager  William Ackman ,
reached a deal to redevelop Pier 17 at its South Street Seaport
property, one of  Manhattan ’s most popular tourist areas.  Howard Hughes plans a “complete transformation” of the
pier into a glass-enclosed retail center, with an open rooftop
space to be used for concerts against the backdrop of city
skylines, the Dallas-based company said today in a statement.
The redevelopment is part of an agreement under its ground lease
with the New York City Economic Development Corp.  “The re-envisioned Seaport transforms the pier’s iconic
waterfront setting into an energetic, highly engaging
destination for shopping, dining and entertainment in lower
Manhattan,” David R. Weinreb, chief executive officer of Howard
Hughes, said in the statement.  South Street Seaport, which dates to the 1600s, is the 26th
 most-visited  tourist attraction in the world, tied with the
Great Wall of  China , according to Travel & Leisure magazine. The
redevelopment has been approved by the Landmarks Preservation
Commission, Howard Hughes said. Construction is expected to
start next year and be completed in 2015.  Ground Lease  Howard Hughes amended its ground lease with  New York City 
in June, the company said in its quarterly regulatory  filing .
The new agreement will become effective when Howard Hughes meets
certain milestones, “the most important of which is the
commencement of construction by June 30, 2013,” according to
the Aug. 9 filing.  Once the project has begun, Howard Hughes will get a rent
credit of $1.5 million, to be taken over a 30-month period,
according to the filing. The company agreed to pay about $1.1
million to maintain the esplanade over five years. Pier 17 has
about 195,000 square feet (18,000 square meters) of leasable
space.  Howard Hughes also maintains an option to develop a mixed-
use project adjacent to the pier, the company said.  The South Street Seaport area, near lower Manhattan’s
financial district, encompasses 11 blocks of shops, restaurants
and piers, according to Travel & Leisure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  