-- Obama Leads Romney in Florida, Ohio and Wisconsin in Poll
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-23T12:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/obama-leads-romney-in-florida-ohio-and-wisconsin-in-poll.html
President  Barack Obama  leads
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  in  Florida ,  Ohio  and
 Wisconsin , while likely voters in all three swing states oppose
Republican efforts to end traditional Medicare, a poll found.  The telephone survey by Quinnipiac University,  CBS News  and
the  New York  Times shows Obama maintaining his advantage in
these states, compared with a poll released at the start of the
month, though Romney has narrowed the gap in two of the three.  In Florida, Obama led 49 percent to 46 percent, down from
51 percent to 45 percent on Aug. 1; in Wisconsin, home of
Republican vice presidential candidate  Paul Ryan , Obama’s lead
was 49 percent to 47 percent, down from 51 percent to 45 percent
on Aug. 8; and in Ohio, the incumbent maintained the same 50
percent to 44 percent advantage he held on Aug. 1.  The three states are among those where both major-party
candidates will focus their attention and resources through
Election Day. The poll’s margin of error is plus or minus 2.8
percentage points.  Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Hamden,
Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University  Polling Institute, said
the selection of Ryan, a U.S. representative from Wisconsin,
“has made some small difference in Florida and Wisconsin, at
least at this point.”  Advantage Among Women  In the poll, conducted Aug. 15-21, Obama had a 12-point
advantage among female voters in Florida, a 13-point edge in
Ohio and nine points in Wisconsin. Romney led among men by six
points in Florida, two in Ohio and five in Wisconsin.  The last three days of the polling period included the
controversy over the Aug. 19 comments by Missouri Republican
Senate candidate Todd Akin that “legitimate rape” rarely leads
to pregnancy. Ryan has co-sponsored 38 anti-abortion measures in
the House, a position that tracks Akin’s. Two of those bills
would have restricted the definition of rape to “forcible
rape” before federal funds could be spent on abortion; that
term was later removed from the legislation.  Ryan is the author of a plan, passed twice by  House
Republicans , to end Medicare’s unlimited fee-for-service program
and instead provide vouchers to the elderly to purchase private
insurance or allow them to remain in a government-run program
with spending caps. The plan relies on competition among private
insurers to hold down health-care costs.  Current Medicare Plan  The current system would remain for everyone currently
participating in it, and everyone at least 55 years old now
would receive the traditional fee-for-service program with no
caps on expenditures when they turn 65, under Ryan’s plan.  Ryan’s Medicare proposal was part of a budget bill that
would cut  government spending  by more than $5 trillion, reduce
taxes for high earners and balance the budget in 2040.  Three-fourths of voters in all three states said Medicare
is worth the cost, and 62 percent in Florida, 64 percent in Ohio
and 59 percent in Wisconsin said the program should remain as
is.  In addition, more than eight of 10 voters said that
Medicare spending should be cut slightly or not at all to reduce
the federal  budget deficit . Only 10 percent of voters supported
major reductions in the health-care program for the elderly.  Florida voters said Obama would do a better job on Medicare
by 50 percent to 42 percent. In Ohio, his advantage was 51
percent to 41 percent, and in Wisconsin, 51 percent said the
incumbent would do a better job, compared with 42 percent who
chose Romney.  “Obama is the clear favorite in handling health care and
Medicare,” Brown said.  Obama’s health-care law, the 2010 Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, cuts the projected future costs of Medicare
by $700 billion by reducing payments to hospitals and to private
insurance companies offering more expensive Medicare Advantage
programs. It doesn’t cut benefits to older Americans, who also
get help paying for  prescription drugs  under the law. Romney and
Ryan have vowed to repeal the legislation.  Quinnipiac surveyed 1,241 likely voters in Florida, 1,253
likely voters in Ohio and 1,190 likely voters in Wisconsin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at  
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 