-- Obama Is Lucky That Medicare Is Out of Control
-- B y   T h o m a s   G e o g h e g a n
-- 2012-08-23T22:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/obama-is-lucky-that-medicare-is-out-of-control.html
If U.S. President  Barack Obama  wins
re-election, let him thank his lucky stars that entitlements are
out of control. If Medicare was capped and couldn’t shoot up
automatically, unemployment would probably be in double digits.  Out-of-control health-care spending is the only stimulus
the Republicans can’t stop. What else is there? Go out late at
night in some of the darkest American cities. Whether it’s
 Cleveland , Baltimore or  St. Louis , it seems the only thing left
to light up the gloom is a big hospital, shining like a 12-gated
city, inlaid with MRIs like precious jewels, and for that we can
give thanks to  Medicare  and Medicaid.  Imagine Cleveland without the  Cleveland Clinic , or
Baltimore without  Johns Hopkins . Even in Chicago, with a more
diversified base, the city would seem flat without the expansion
at Northwestern Memorial Hospital and Rush University Medical
Center -- with all that hammering and sawing as they get ready
for Obamacare.  If Medicare, in particular, wasn’t out of control, many
inner-city high-school grads would find it even harder to get
jobs. According to research  cited  in the Harvard “Pathways to
Prosperity” report in 2011, health care by itself added a half-million jobs even in the recession -- not just ones for high-school grads as security guards and cooks, but jobs for those
with “some college,” such as respiratory technicians.  Stimulus Effect  It’s not the WPA, but all this health-care spending creates
the kind of “middle-skilled” jobs we have to push now in lieu of
assembly lines. Many high-school grads -- or those we may
euphemistically  say  have “credentials short of an associate’s
degree” -- earn more than those with college diplomas. Thanks to
entitlements being out of control, there is still at least one
way into the middle class.  All this also has a Keynesian-type effect to make up for
the way state and local governments keep cutting back spending.
This was the first recession where we responded by  cutting 
public-sector jobs. Government employment has fallen to its
lowest level since 1968, Bloomberg’s BGOV Barometer shows. The
cutbacks forced by balanced-budget clauses in many state
constitutions only hold back a real recovery.  On the other hand, Medicare goes on its merry uncapped way,
and has a synergy effect with all the other health-care
spending. In some sense, the jobs that come out of this
automatic federal stimulus are public-sector jobs, in that
plenty of people in health care owe their employment to Medicare
spending that keeps going up.  To a social-democrat type like me, the problem, at least in
this current economy, is not that health-care entitlements are
out of control, but that all this spending seems to entitle us
to less and less. My older friends are groaning: “Wait -- I’m
going to turn 65, and I’m still going to have to pay for half of
my health care?” It’s inefficient, and it’s wasteful, partly
because there’s not enough Medicare and Medicaid -- let alone a
single-payer system across the board -- to let the government
dictate prices. The smaller its share in paying for health care
in the U.S., the less able the government is to hold down prices
-- which is how most  social democracies  in northern  Europe  and
 Canada  and elsewhere keep their costs under control.  That is, Medicare and Medicaid are wasteful because even in
combination they aren’t big enough to let the government dictate
prices and use a bigger club to make the system more efficient.  Jobs Program  But for the moment, look at the bright side: At least the
bucks keep going out the door. One can think of public spending
that could have a much bigger multiplier effect -- for example,
a dollar to stop a teacher or a cop from being fired. But that’s
discretionary state and local spending, while Medicare
entitlements can’t be stopped.  If one thinks of our whole health-care industry as a public
sector in disguise, it starts to seem that the free-market U.S.
is almost as statist as  France . After all, health care is about
18 percent of the U.S.’s gross domestic product, soon to be 20
percent or more.  In my own Cook County,  Illinois , the big employer is the
county itself, which is partly because it runs the Stroger
Hospital, Chicago’s behemoth public medical center. The largest
private employer is  Advocate Health Care , a hospital chain. Much
of our “private” enterprise, the whole  drug industry , depends on
a sector being pumped up by Medicare. Where would an orthopedic-device  maker  in Warsaw,  Indiana , be without Medicare partly
kicking in?  Health care is our King Coal. If we were  Russia , it would
be our Gazprom. If the U.S. is in a “controlled” depression,
Medicare spending is doing the controlling, keeping the bottom
from falling out of the economy. McDonald’s Corp., Wendy’s Co.,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , General Electric Co., even Caterpillar Inc. in
a way depend on the  consumer spending  from millions of Americans
who only have jobs because entitlements are out of control.  Medicare may even make the U.S. more globally competitive.
Although chief executive officers are shedding nonwage benefits,
such as retiree medical plans, some companies still cover a
share of the costs. And it’s not just because of union pressure.
To attract the most-skilled workers, some of the best U.S.
companies offer some supplemental retiree health benefit.  Cut Medicare, and nonwage labor costs go up. Limit it to
vouchers, and you will see more companies offering at least
something. Yes, it’s just one more nonwage cost, and retiree
health care would be one of the most unpredictable of all. How
would we induce investment to create high-end jobs if we create
even more uncertainty about these costs?  Republican Plan  The Republicans -- with Representative  Paul Ryan ’s budget
plan -- would do just that. Don’t think Ryan’s plan would simply
be shifting health-care costs to the poor, or even the middle
class, or even to his mother. Inevitably we would be shifting
some of these costs to our global corporate champions, too.
Isn’t the  U.S. trade deficit  big enough?  At the moment, though, the Ryan plan isn’t law, and at
least we have some stimulus the  Tea Party  can’t stop. Americans
should be grateful that they live in a country where
entitlements are out of control.  And it may be the one thing that saves Obama’s presidency.  (Thomas Geoghegan is a labor lawyer in  Chicago . He is the
author, most recently, of “Were You Born on the Wrong
Continent?” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on fossil-fuel favoritism in
 Romney’s energy plan , on the SEC’s dropping the ball on  money
market mutual funds  and on the case for  a smaller Afghan army ;
Stephen L. Carter on when  the U.S. cared about chess ; William
Pesek on the  Bo Xilai show trial  in  China .  To contact the writer of this article:
Thomas Geoghegan at  geogh711@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 