-- Oerlikon Appoints Former EADS Executive to Head Vacuum Division
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-08-23T07:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/oerlikon-appoints-former-eads-executive-to-head-vacuum-division.html
OC Oerlikon AG (OERL) , the Swiss maker of
textile-machinery, ousted its vacuum unit head and appointed a
former executive of Voith GmbH and European Aeronautic, Defense
& Space Co. to restore flagging margins.  Martin Fuellenbach, the former head of Voith Turbo, has
been mandated to deliver a “growth oriented business plan” as
well as review the unit’s cost structure, Pfaeffikon-based
Oerlikon said in a statement today. He replaces Andreas Widl,
who left the company.  The appointment of Fuellenbach, who held senior positions
at EADS in France, Spain and  Germany , coincides with narrowing
margins from sales of vacuums, used in food packaging and solar
equipment. The process to find a replacement for Widl stated
more than a month ago and the final decision was taken just a
couple of days ago, spokesman Burkhard Boendel said by phone.  “This move again shows that Oerlikon’s new management is
persistently working on optimising the company’s structures
through changes in the management and business portfolio
adjustments,” said Christoph Ladner, an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Buscher said June 7 he’d
take decisive action on units that fall short of profit targets,
as he shifts his focus to the enhancing divisions after
renegotiating a credit facility.  First-half vacuum sales dropped 9 percent as projects were
postponed because of  China ’s depressed solar market. Margins at
the unit dropped by 3.7 percentage points. It accounted for 10
percent of Oerlikon’s 4.2 billion francs ($4.4 billion) sales
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  