-- Oil Falls as Merkel Hangs Tough on Greek Bailout
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-08-23T20:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/oil-rises-to-three-month-high-on-stimulus-optimism.html
Oil fell from a three-month high in
New York as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she expects
Greece to fulfill the terms of its bailout and on skepticism
central banks will ease monetary policy further.  Futures dropped 1 percent after Merkel said she and French
President  Francois Hollande  will coordinate on their approach to
Greece to keep pressure on the country to overhaul its economy.
Crude gained as much as 1.1 percent in intraday trading as
minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s most recent meeting showed many
policy makers favored more stimulus to spur growth.  “Prices took a hit after Merkel made it clear that she’s
not going to give Greece easier terms,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “Hopes for monetary easing have diminished,
which is weighing on all markets.”  Crude oil for October delivery declined 99 cents to settle
at $96.27 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
fell as low as $95.75. The contract touched $98.29 earlier, the
highest intraday level since May 4. Prices are up 13 percent
from a year ago.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 10 cents to end the
session at $115.01 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate crude, the grade traded in New York, was at $18.74,
up from $17.65 yesterday.  Berlin Meeting  Merkel, speaking to reporters in Berlin before hosting a
working dinner with the French president, said they will discuss
“how to receive our colleague,” Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, who visits the German capital tomorrow and Paris on
Aug. 25. She and Hollande, the leaders of Europe’s two biggest
economies, are seeking common ground on  Greece  and the wider
euro-area debt crisis.  Europe’s debt crisis has reduced economic growth and the
continent’s energy demand for almost three years. The crisis
that began in Greece has spread to Ireland, Portugal, Italy,
Spain and Cyprus.  Equities dropped after the Labor Department said U.S.
jobless claims rose by 4,000 for a second week to 372,000 in the
period ended Aug. 18. The  median  forecast of 41 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for 365,000.  U.S.  consumer confidence  dropped last week to the lowest
level since January, according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index. The gauge decreased to minus 47.4 in the period ended
Aug. 19, the sixth consecutive drop, from minus 44.4 in the
prior period. The series of declines is the longest since 2008,
when the U.S. was in recession.  Equity Decline  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  decreased 0.8 percent and the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  dropped 0.9 percent.  “The oil market held up most but eventually the weakness
of the S&P became too much,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of
commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston.  Federal Open Market Committee members at the gathering that
ended Aug. 1 indicated monetary easing will be needed “fairly
soon” unless there are signs of a durable economic pickup, the
minutes released yesterday showed. Many participants said a new
large-scale asset-purchase program “could provide additional
support for the economic recovery.”  “The market moved higher on the Fed minutes, which didn’t
signal much,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant.
“Additional stimulus is no more likely than before.”  Chinese Statement  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in
Beijing yesterday that rate and reserve requirement adjustments
are possible. Zhou’s comments left the door open for further
stimulus. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week that easing
inflation allows more room to adjust monetary policy.  The U.S. and China are the world’s biggest oil-consuming
countries, accounting for a combined 32 percent of world demand,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The 27
members of the European Union were responsible for 16 percent of
global oil use in 2011, BP said.  Tropical Storm Isaac was 165 miles (265 kilometers) south
of  San Juan , Puerto Rico, the Miami-based center said in an
advisory at 2 p.m. East Coast time. The storm, which may reach
southern Florida on Aug. 27, is forecast to strengthen over the
next two days and could become a hurricane.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 439,032
contracts as of 4:12 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 428,683
contracts yesterday, 21 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.49 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  