-- Hollywood Banker’s Lawyer Denies Police Bath Salts Report
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/hollywood-banker-s-lawyer-denies-police-bath-salts-report.html
The attorney for a  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) 
media banker arrested in a confrontation with Los Angeles police
denied the authorities’ report that his client said he ingested
so-called bath salts and marijuana.  Officers who filed the report made up the story to justify
their May 15 beating of Brian Mulligan, vice chairman and
managing director of the Los Angeles entertainment practice,
attorney J. Michael Flanagan said yesterday in an interview.  “They concocted a story to justify the unmerciful beating
that they gave him,” Flanagan said.  The local TV station KCBS reported yesterday that Mulligan,
52, told officers he had used the drugs, citing a police report
about the incident. Flanagan said he read the assertions in the
report, which details circumstances around Mulligan’s early
morning arrest in  Los Angeles ’ Highland Park area. Mulligan
filed a claim with the city, accusing officers of beating and
illegally detaining him.  City prosecutors are investigating and haven’t charged
Mulligan with a crime related to an outburst of erratic behavior
that led to his arrest, Frank Mateljan, a spokesman for the city
attorney’s office, said in an interview. In his claim, Mulligan
said he sustained a broken shoulder blade and 15 nasal
fractures. He seeks damages of as much as $50 million.  Mateljan said he couldn’t comment on the drug allegation
because Mulligan’s case is under review. Police Lieutenant Andy
Neiman didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail.  Bath salts is the term used for a drug made from several
synthetic stimulants, according to  WebMD.com . The drug can
induce agitation, paranoia and hallucinations, according to the
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  