-- Hollywood Seediness Fades as Developers Remake Media Hub
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/hollywood-seediness-fades-as-developers-remake-media-hub.html
Hollywood, a Los Angeles area once
so seedy that  Julia Roberts  walked its streets as a prostitute
in the movie “Pretty Woman,” is now undergoing the biggest
surge of real estate construction in almost four decades.  Developers are building about 1.1 million square feet
(102,000 square meters) of  offices, retail space and apartments ,
and will begin construction of an additional 1.42 million square
feet within a year, said Brian Folb, co-owner of Paramount
Contractors and Developers, a Hollywood-based builder and
property manager. Demand from the media, entertainment and
technology industries are driving projects by companies
including J.H. Snyder Co., CIM Group and  Kilroy Realty Corp. (KRC)   “Hollywood is in a situation where its still-ongoing
gentrification presents a great opportunity,” said Thomas
Dujovne, chief investment officer at Los Angeles-based J.H.
Snyder, which is building Hollywood’s first new office building
in three years. “Many investors feel like they have found this
little gem in L.A. that is very accessible and that is still, in
relative terms, underdeveloped.”  The 19-square-mile (49-square-kilometer) Hollywood area,
home to the annual Academy Awards, Grauman’s Chinese Theatre,
the Capitol Records building and the Walk of Fame, was seen as
having “prostitutes on every corner” as recently as 10 years
ago, said Leron Gubler, president and chief executive officer of
the  Hollywood Chamber of Commerce . Now it’s one of a handful of
U.S. markets where construction cranes, developers’ temporary
fences and signs with artists’ renderings of buildings can be
seen on multiple city blocks.  The amount of space being built is the most by square
footage since a decade-long Hollywood construction boom that ran
through the mid-1970s, when about 2 million square feet were
developed, Folb said.  Entertainment, Technology  J.H. Snyder plans to begin construction of its $120 million
property, which will have one four-story office building and
another with five floors, later this year or in early 2013, and
plans to complete it in 16 to 18 months, Dujovne said. The
244,000-square-foot complex is being built on a speculative
basis, or without tenant commitments. The developer is seeking
to capitalize on relatively low land costs and growing tenant
demand for high-end offices.  “Here in Hollywood, we are willing to build on spec
because we know of a significant amount of users who would be
interested in a building like this,” Dujovne said. “They are
primarily from the entertainment and tech industry. There is a
lot of interest in being in Hollywood because of its name, but
also it’s very centrally located.”  Construction is being driven by office landlords hoping to
lure media companies, and by apartment developers targeting
young professionals willing to shell out as much as $10,000 a
month in rent, Gubler said.  ‘Dirty, Unsafe’  Six projects -- including residential, office and retail
developments, as well as a new West Coast campus for Boston-
based Emerson College -- are under construction in Hollywood,
about 7 miles (11 kilometers) northwest of downtown  Los Angeles ,
and four more are scheduled to start within a year, according to
Gubler.  Public investments costing about $120 million have been
made in Hollywood over the past 20 years, including new street
benches, landscaping and parking garages, Gubler said.  “Largely we have succeeded in changing the perception of
crime and grime -- that Hollywood is dirty, unsafe and seedy,”
he said.  While the projects under development are supported by the
current level of demand, another significant slump in the
economy may scuttle future construction, as happened in the
aftermath of the financial crisis exacerbated by the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Gubler said.  Little Space  “We had a lot of construction planned just before the
bottom fell out of the market,” he said. “Another downturn
could certainly impact all this activity we’re seeing now.”  Milk Studios, a New York-based photography studio, opened
its Los Angeles location in Hollywood in late 2010. It completed
an “extensive renovation” of a property built for film-making
technology producer  Technicolor SA (TCH) , leaving little aside from
exterior walls untouched, said Willie Maldonado, who heads the
office.  Milk’s Los Angeles office, with 45 employees, has 45,000
square feet, high ceilings and a “lot of open spaces” -- all
requirements for a photography studio, Maldonado said. When Milk
decided to locate in Hollywood, there was little appropriate
 office space  available in a part of town where the company
decided it needed to be, he said.  ‘Celebrity-Oriented’  “The advertising and print world has become so celebrity-
oriented -- all the ad campaigns use celebrities instead of
models, so we wanted to be closer to the talent,” he said.
“Hollywood has changed a lot. The area has gotten a lot cleaner
and nicer. They’ve talked about the revitalization of Hollywood
for so long. It seems like finally it’s happened.”  Companies with offices in Hollywood include  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s CNN network;  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , the world’s
biggest concert promoter and ticket seller; TV Guide Network;
media-research firm  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) ; and Technicolor, Gubler
said.  Part of Hollywood’s attraction to developers is the value
offered by land in the neighborhood. Constructing an office
building across town in  Santa Monica  would cost more than twice
as much as in Hollywood, according to Dujovne of J.H. Snyder.  “There’s hardly a month when there isn’t some company that
comes in to my office and says we’re looking at Hollywood,” Los
Angeles City Councilman Eric Garcetti, whose district includes
most of Hollywood, said in a telephone interview.  Upscale Apartments  Leasing by media companies is helping buoy demand by people
working in the industry for the neighborhood’s new, upscale
apartment buildings, according to  Penelope Psaltiras , a real
estate broker with Prudential Beverly Hills.  “A lot of the leases I arranged in the last year have been
for entertainment-industry people,” she said in a telephone
interview. “I’ve helped anybody from celebrities to producers.
Many of these people like to be close to the studios, and they
like the ease of renting a place and not being committed to a
mortgage.”  Buildings for which she finds renters have such amenities
as pools, gyms and city views. The properties are in demand with
tenants “used to a certain standard of living, even if that
means paying $5,000 a month,” Psaltiras said.  Along La Brea Avenue, one of the area’s north-south
arteries, cranes and orange construction fences line several
large blocks. Monarch Group, a  La Jolla , California-based
developer, is building two high-end retail-and-residential
buildings costing a total of $140 million on La Brea. The street
divides Hollywood, part of the city of Los Angeles, and  West
Hollywood , a separate city.  Construction Return  One building is scheduled to open by the end of next year,
and the other in April 2014, according to Steven Paull,
Monarch’s chief financial officer.  Paull said development, which dropped off in 2007 with the
start of the last U.S. recession, is picking up in Hollywood in
much the same way that it’s returned in parts of  Boston ,  San
Francisco  and  New York .  “There’s pent-up demand in these areas,” Paull said.
“Rents have moved up a bit and, finally, a bit of construction
is starting to flow.”  Throughout the U.S., construction spending is expected to
rise 4.4 percent this year and 6.2 percent next, led by
industrial development and followed by hotel,  retail  and office
construction, according to the semiannual American Institute of
Architects survey, released earlier this month.  Trader Joe’s  In the Hollywood area, Monarch’s projects join such
recently completed developments as  1600 Vine . The mixed-use
property, which opened in February 2010, has studio apartments,
one- and two-bedroom units, and two-story townhouses, as well as
a Trader Joe’s supermarket and other stores.  CIM Group  is planning a 22-story residential, retail and
office development, which will also have a 21,000-square-foot
public park, according to Karen Diehl, a spokeswoman for the Los
Angeles-based company, who declined to provide financial
details. The property, named Sunset Gordon for its cross
streets, is scheduled for completion in the second quarter of
2014.  Kilroy Realty, also based in Los Angeles, last month
completed the $79 million acquisition of a 330,000-square-foot
office building, and is planning on “essentially gutting and
redesigning” the property at a cost of as much as $19.8
million, according to Executive Vice President  David Simon .  ‘Doing OK’  “Hollywood is unique, in a sense, because much of the
demand for new product is coming from the entertainment,
technology and media industry, which is doing OK,” Simon said
in a telephone interview.  The overhaul of the building, whose primary tenant is
 Nielsen , will help meet demand for “modern, creative and open
office space,” which is scarce in Hollywood, Simon said. Only
about a third of office space in the area is considered Class A,
or top-tier, he said.  “In today’s economic climate, development has to be
selective, but many markets have dynamic areas that are
gentrifying and are poised to grab demand,” Simon said. Kilroy
is planning to buy land to build additional office buildings in
Hollywood, he said.  Los Angeles put the Hollywood Redevelopment Project in
place in 1986 to encourage building in the district, which
helped pave the way for a turnaround, said Garcetti, the area’s
city councilman. Violent crime has dropped 66 percent in
Hollywood in the past 11 years, partly because of an increase in
the number of officers at the  Los Angeles Police Department ’s
Hollywood station, he said.  Liquor Stores  There remains room for improvement, Garcetti said. Near
Hollywood Boulevard and Highland Avenue, visitors sip cocktails
in the lobby of the  Loews Hollywood Hotel  and check out the
celebrity hand prints in front of Grauman’s. About a 10-minute
walk east, the W Hollywood hotel sits adjacent to a part of town
still dominated by run-down liquor and convenience stores.
Homeless people occupy the front stoops of some buildings.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  operates the  W  on
Hollywood Boulevard near Vine Street, which was developed by
Gatehouse Capital Corp., a Dallas-based real estate investment
firm, and opened in January 2010. The hotel, home to Drai’s
Hollywood rooftop lounge and pool bar, is part of a $600 million
retail-and-residential complex that sits atop a subway station.  “We have actually looked toward Times Square as a success
story we could emulate,” Gubler said. “They aren’t exactly the
same, but you’ve got Broadway and you’ve got Hollywood
Boulevard, two of the biggest names in entertainment. So we
thought, if they can do it, so can we.”  J.H. Snyder is looking for more development opportunities,
either office or residential, in Hollywood. The company bid and
lost out on a couple of projects, including the Sunset Gordon
complex that CIM is building.  “So many big players are interested,” Dujovne said.
“It’s getting harder and harder to win these good projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  