-- South Africa Appoints Commission to Probe Lonmin Killings
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a ,   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-08-23T17:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/one-fifth-of-world-s-platinum-output-idled-after-killings-1-.html
South African President Jacob Zuma
appointed a judicial commission to probe the killing of 34
 Lonmin Plc (LMI)  workers by police as government officials left a
memorial service after it was disrupted by chanting unionists.  The commission of inquiry will be led by Ian Farlam, a
retired  Supreme Court  of Appeal judge, Zuma told reporters today
in  Pretoria , the capital. The group will investigate the conduct
of police, labor unions and Lonmin Plc before and during the
Aug. 16 violence at the company’s Marikana mine, the deadliest
police action since the end of apartheid. Prior to the shooting,
10 died in fighting during an illegal strike that began Aug. 10.  About a fifth of global platinum production capacity was
idled in South Africa as workers mourned the deaths.  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the second-largest producer, suspended
work for a day at its Rustenburg operation to let workers to
attend memorial services, it said in a statement. Rustenburg and
Lonmin’s Marikana both tap the world’s biggest platinum field,
the Bushveld Complex, northwest of Johannesburg.  “The commission shall complete its work within a period of
four months and must submit its final report within a month” of
finishing its investigation, Zuma said. Bantubonke Tokota and
Pingla Hemraj, who are both judges, are the other members, he
said.  Machetes, Spears  Today’s memorial was disrupted after  Julius Malema , the
expelled president of the youth league of the ruling  African
National Congress , told the crowd that Zuma’s government was
responsible for the deaths. Demonstrators wearing Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union T-shirts marched in front of
the stage chanting and carrying traditional fighting sticks.
Government officials including Nathi Mthethwa, the country’s
police minister, then left before proceedings were complete.  “The memorial service started out peacefully until it
unfortunately degenerated into a party political platform,”
Zuma’s office said in an e-mailed statement. “The event lost
its purpose and desecrated the memory of the departed who were
supposed to be remembered in dignity.”  Footage broadcast on Johannesburg’s eNCA television channel
showed people in the marquee where the memorial took place
dancing and waving sticks and chairs.  “It is  Jacob Zuma ’s government that is responsible for
killing our people,” Malema told the mourners. “Our government
is becoming a pig that is eating its own children. Our
government is failing to intervene in mines because our leaders
are involved in mines.”  Shanduka Group Ltd., a company founded by former politician
 Cyril Ramaphosa , owns a stake in the Lonmin mine.  Crying Families  Zuma declared a week of mourning after police fired on
protesting workers armed with machetes, spears and pistols. The
police said they were fired upon by some in the crowd.  “It is not acceptable for people to die where talks can be
held,” Zuma told more than 1,000 striking miners yesterday,
about 250 meters (820 feet) from the outcrop where the killings
took place.  About 6,000 people attended the memorial service at
Marikana, where groups of crying family members of those killed
performed burial rituals in the field where the miners were
shot. Strike leaders led the crowd in war songs and vowed to
keep to demands for wage increases. More services are being held
throughout the country.  “Even you murderers, we welcome you here,” said Zolani
Bhodlani, a Lonmin worker representative, referring to police in
a speech. “As long as you’re not wearing that uniform.” There
was no visible police presence at the ceremony.  The violence highlighted investor concern about law and
order in an economy that relies on mining for almost two-thirds
of its exports. Producers of platinum in  South Africa , which has
the world’s largest reserves, have cut spending and idled mines
following above-inflation cost increases and lower prices for
the metal, used in jewelry and anti-pollution devices.  Higher Pay  The rock-drill operators are demanding that Lonmin increase
their pay to 12,500 rand a month ($1,504). The protests turned
violent because of rivalry between the emerging Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union and the dominant NUM,
according to Lonmin. The operators will earn a basic wage of
5,891.89 rand next month, when an increase comes into effect
from a previous agreement, and a total package with medical,
housing and other allowances, of 10,512 rand, Johannesburg-based
New Age newspaper reported, citing Solidarity labor union.  Strikes Spread  Worker discontent spread to a nearby mine owned by  Royal
Bafokeng Platinum Ltd (RBP) , yesterday, with operations interrupted at
the company’s North shaft, it said in a statement. Police said
employees were demanding higher pay. The miners returned today,
the  National Union of Mineworkers  said in an e-mailed statement.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s platinum unit, the world’s largest
producer of the metal, said workers in South Africa made demands
directly to the company on Aug. 17.  Lonmin, the world’s third-biggest platinum producer, has
the capacity to produce about 750,000 ounces a year, mostly at
its Marikana mine. Impala’s Rustenburg mine produced the same
amount in its last financial year after production was cut by a
strike.  Platinum for immediate delivery has gained as much as 12
percent to $1,561.50 an ounce since the shooting. It was trading
at $1,555.25 an ounce at 5:32 p.m. in  London . Lonmin shares have
fallen 8 percent in that period and closed trade at 640 pence in
London today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 sikonathim@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  