-- Online Buoys Global Growth by Paring Distance: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-08-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/online-buoys-global-growth-by-paring-distance-cutting-research.html
Trading more online could help boost
global economic growth, according to a paper published this week
by the  Centre for Economic Policy Research .  Four economists used data from  San Jose , California-based
retailer  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  to “breathe new life into the ‘death of
distance’ hypothesis,” which maintains advances in
transportation and communication should make international trade
cheaper and easier.  Their study of transactions featuring 40 product categories
and 62 countries from 2004 to 2007 shows the impact of distance
on trade to be 65 percent smaller when business is conducted
online.  Reducing trade frictions to the Internet level by, for
example, paring the need for multiple telephone calls, improving
access to information or reducing the need to attend trade fairs
would increase real income by 29 percent in an average country,
said the University of Oxford’s Pierre-Louis Vezina and
Switzerland-based economists Andreas Lendle, Marcelo Olarreaga
and Simon Schropp.  Remote countries with high levels of  income inequality  and
inefficient ports would benefit the most as online business
would help overcome market and governance weaknesses, they said.  “In a world where search costs are greatly reduced, the
role of distance in explaining trade flows is smaller,” the
economists wrote.  * * *  International companies are hunkering down again after
rebuilding leverage following the financial crisis.  Zurich-based UBS’s World Inc., which consolidates the
balance sheets of the companies the Swiss bank monitors,
suggests forecasts for 2012 dividend growth of 5 percent and
capital spending of 8 percent, both slowing from 15 percent last
year. Share buybacks are set to shrink by more than 30 percent
after firms repurchased nearly 200 percent more stock last year
than in 2010. Companies are also slowing merger activity and
some are selling assets.  Europe’s debt crisis, doubt about the strength of the
global economy and the appeal of conservative cash management
explain the “stalling out of the re-leveraging cycle,” said
strategists Christopher Ferrarone,  Nick Nelson  and Jerry McGuire
in the Aug. 20 study.  The slowing in leverage helps explain why returns on
capital may decline this year for the first time since the
financial crisis, they said, adding that a recovery is
imperative for earnings growth.  UBS’s World Inc. features about 1,000 companies, which
represent about 70 percent of the market capitalization of the
world’s non-financial companies.  * * *  The  European Central Bank  may draw on lessons learned in
the 1990s and avoid enforcing explicit targets to restrain
surging bond yields.  So says Goldman Sachs Group Inc. London-based economist Huw Pill, a former ECB official, as the Frankfurt-based central bank
prepares for a Sept. 6 meeting of policy makers. Maintaining
specific caps would leave the ECB in a bind if governments
reneged on austerity commitments, handing investors a “one way
bet” in which the central bank would be purchasing large
amounts of debt just as its value would be deteriorating, he
said in an Aug. 22 report.  The ECB could avoid that fate by taking inspiration from
the 1990s when central banks were trying to protect the  Exchange
Rate  Mechanism, a precursor to the euro. They replaced narrow
target zones for currencies with wider bands and kept exchange
rates close to the center of the range with occasional
interventions.  “The system was reconstituted to avoid offering the market
a ‘one way bet’ situation on the exchange rate, making the
system more resilient,” Pill said. “Over time, governments’
pursuit of macroeconomic policies convinced the markets that a
single currency was a viable project.”  Pill predicts the ECB will now eschew narrow target zones
for debt yields and instead establish “softer and wider”
ranges to go with broader guidance on the market borrowing costs
they deem appropriate. “The ECB is likely to signal a
willingness to steer market rates in that direction over time,”
he said.  * * *  The recession-hit U.K. economy isn’t finding much uplift
from a decline in its currency.  While sterling has fallen about 20 percent since the
financial crisis began in 2007, U.K. exports have risen only
about 5 percent, about a third of  Germany ’s gains over the same
period and below the increase of the euro area as a whole, said
Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Nick Bate in an Aug. 17
report.  Pricing behavior explains part of the puzzle as British
traders have raised  prices  more than 25 percent over the period,
five times the rate of euro-area rivals, Bate said in  London .
That means little improvement in the country’s competitiveness
even if profit margins are increased.  Although bigger margins may have helped support employment
and investment, the boost will have been smaller than higher
export volumes would provide, the report said.  The economy is also being hurt by the way the weaker pound
boosted consumer prices about 7 percentage points since 2007,
Bate said. That may be curbing output by as much as 5 percentage
points, he said.  The U.K.’s experience highlights issues facing euro-area
members considering an exit from the 17-nation currency bloc,
the report said. Some Southern European countries may struggle
to contain prices following devaluation and lack the flexibility
in capital and labor markets needed to harness export-led
growth, it said.  “Those factors, taken alongside the U.K.’s experience in
recent years, pose risks that the assumed benefits to a country
from leaving the euro and having a materially weaker currency
could often be overstated,” Bate wrote.  * * *  Investors may still have a taste for risky assets such as
 stocks  even if the euro-zone crisis intensifies.  That’s the conclusion of an Aug. 21 report titled “Does
 Europe  Matter?” by Nomura Holdings Inc. New York-based currency
strategists Jens Nordvig and Charles St-Arnaud.  They compared recent revisions to growth forecasts and
found economies such as the U.S.,  Japan , Australia and  Canada 
experienced only moderate cuts even as the euro area slumped.
That’s different from 2009 when declines were more synchronized.  One explanation is that financial conditions tightened
globally in 2009, while the current contraction has been more
concentrated in the euro area.  Reasons cited by Nomura for why euro-zone shocks have had a
declining impact on investors worldwide include the ECB’s
shoring up of banks, the length of the crisis and the
expectation it won’t spread.  While the euro’s woes will still pose a threat to global
growth and trade, “from a trading perspective, Europe is likely
to be a less dominant driver,” said Nordvig and St-Arnaud.  They suggest investors may favor buying stocks and selling
the yen, while saying that Spanish and Italian bonds could offer
value.  * * *  The third surge in food prices in five years is set to
pressure inflation and household budgets, dealing a blow to
global economic growth, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The worst U.S. drought in decades, weak rainfall in  India 
and poor harvests in Russia and Ukraine have helped propel the
price of wheat about 30 percent higher since the start of the
year and the cost of corn 25 percent.  The biggest losers will be  emerging markets , where food
plays a bigger role in budgets and inflation measures. Food
forms 31 percent of  China ’s consumer price index basket, double
the U.S proportion.  Policy makers will nevertheless probably view the food
shock as a threat to growth rather than inflation, HSBC London-
based economists  Karen Ward  and Zoe Knight said Aug. 20. Workers
are unlikely to be confident enough in their jobs to seek wage
hikes, they said.  “In this environment, policy makers are less likely to
respond with higher  interest rates ,” said the economists, who
added the greater inflation threat may still be a barrier to
aggressive monetary easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  