-- Montoro Outburst Highlights Rajoy Paralysis as Cabinet Splits
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-08-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/montoro-outburst-highlights-rajoy-paralysis-as-cabinet-splits.html
Half an hour before a bond auction
last month, Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro told
lawmakers that the country was running out of cash. Now he’s
blowing open divisions within Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
administration.  Montoro, 62, this week sparked a political storm after
slamming a fellow minister for encroaching on his turf with
plans to tax solar energy companies. The comments drew a riposte
from his cabinet colleague, forced the deputy prime minister to
intercede, and prompted El Pais, Spain’s most-read daily, to say
that the country needs just one finance minister to set policy.  Rajoy is struggling to impose order on a government
hamstrung by his decision to split the finance ministry in two
after winning last year’s election and on internal squabbles
over who runs the economy. That’s hindering his ability to turn
around a country ravaged by the European Union’s highest
 unemployment rate  and a failing banking system.  This week’s controversy “is a smoking gun,” said  Luis Garicano , a professor of economics and strategy at the  London
School of Economics . “It brings into the open what’s been
happening since the first day: there are two completely
different views on policy.”  Rajoy’s predicament is worsening as he prepares to apply
for a full bailout after already asking for a 100 billion-euro
($126 billion) rescue for the country’s banks. Montoro’s
rejection of energy tax plans, which benefits solar companies
advised by his brother’s lobbying firm, also risks pulling the
government into a debate about its ties with big business.  Rajoy Splits  Divisions in Rajoy’s government center on how fast to cut
the deficit and how far to reform the economy. One wing, led by
Montoro, is trying to take the sting out of the harshest budget
cuts on record by assuring voters that much of the austerity is
temporary in nature. The other faction, headed by Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos, is more focused on executing the
reforms.  At the heart of Montoro’s strategy is the assumption that
 Spain  can ride out the economic crisis for the next couple of
years and then return to the  affluence  it enjoyed during the
boom years, according to Javier Diaz-Gimenez, a professor of
economics at IESE business school in Madrid.  “The guy thinks that this is a temporary problem and that
things will take care of themselves, and he’s wrong,” Diaz-
Gimenez said. “There is no serious reform plan and there is no
political will do to reforms.”  No Money  In December, Montoro raised income taxes, presenting it as
a temporary measure that the government aimed to reverse in two
years. He also removed bonus payments from public workers,
promising those payments would also be reinstated.  Montoro has also irked investors. On July 19, he told the
Spanish parliament that “there’s no money in the public
coffers” just minutes before the country tried to sell 3
billion euros in bonds ranging from two to seven years in
maturity.  The country’s borrowing costs surged as investors ducked
out of the auction, with two-year notes yielding 5.204 percent
compared with 4.335 percent the previous month.  At the same time, Montoro has deflected the political fire
from Rajoy as the public face of Spain’s austerity program. In
July, he turned up to defend Rajoy’s latest package of cuts in
parliament when the premier chose to stay away and tackled the
party’s regional leaders, who wield much of the political
capital in Spain’s decentralized system.  The regions were responsible for more than two-thirds of
Spain’s overspending last year, pushing the deficit to 8.9
percent of gross domestic product.  Government Design  Montoro can’t be blamed for how the government is set up,
says Diaz-Gimenez. When Rajoy came to power he split the  finance
ministry  and decided not to give the title of deputy premier for
economy to either Montoro or De Guindos.  “It’s Rajoy really,” said Diaz-Gimenez. “It’s about the
design of the government. The fact that there is no deputy prime
minister in charge of the economy says he thinks the economy is
not a priority and we are going to play politics and squabble.”  The divisions at the heart of Rajoy’s government have
hobbled Spain’s ability to operate on a European level.  While De Guindos, who represents the government at European
meetings, inspires confidence in the bloc’s other finance
ministers, they question his ability to deliver on his promises
because he is often contradicted by Montoro, according to an
official who takes part in finance ministers’ meetings.  In January, De Guindos’s efforts to persuade investors and
officials that Spain was fixed on its budget targets was
undermined by Montoro’s calls for more flexibility on the pace
of deficit reduction.  Rajoy Surprise  That disagreement was the prelude to Rajoy’s surprise
announcement on March 2 that Spain was easing its deficit
objectives. The decision wrong-footed other euro area members
who hadn’t been consulted and helped establish Rajoy’s
reputation for clumsiness among European leaders, according to
an official involved in running EU summits.  On March 12, De Guindos turned up at a finance ministers’
meeting saying he had no mandate to negotiate the budget cuts
demanded by them because Montoro had decided to delay his
budget, according to a different official who was present. He
then spent an hour on the phone to  Madrid  before he was given
permission to agree on a new target.  Montoro has so far shown little sign of changing tack even
as the government’s position worsens. In his Aug. 16 interview
with Bloomberg, Montoro slapped down Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria’s plans to impose taxes on solar power producers to
claw back subsidies.  Conflict  “Until I decide, this isn’t going forward, whoever
announces it,” Montoro said.  He also rejects any suggestion that his interference in
energy policy represents a conflict of interest, saying that
discussions on Soria’s tax policies have been informal.  El Pais said Aug 23 that he needs to clear up doubts about
his ties to the firms. A day earlier, Eduardo Madina, general
secretary of the Socialists in parliament, demanded that Montoro
testify before parliament to explain the government’s  energy
policy .  As ministers bicker, Spain is moving closer to joining
 Greece , Ireland, Cyprus and  Portugal  in requesting a full
sovereign rescue. De Guindos told Spanish news agency Efe in an
interview on Aug. 18 that terms for bond-market assistance will
be discussed in September.  “There’s something of a credibility gap starting to
appear,” said Johan Jooste, a portfolio strategist who helps
manage $1.8 trillion in client money at Merrill Lynch Wealth
Management and doesn’t own Spanish government debt. “There have
been a series of missteps.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  