-- Moody’s Rental-Home Bond Grades May Be Restrained by Data Limits
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-08-23T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/moody-s-rental-home-bond-grades-may-be-restrained-by-data-limits.html
Potential issuers of securities tied
to U.S. home rentals may not be able to obtain the credit
ratings they seek because of a dearth of historical data on the
business, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The risk to investors with the unprecedented rental-home
bonds would be tied mainly to the quality of property managers
and the variability in net revenues from tenants and eventual
 home sales , the New York-based ratings firm said today in a
report. Moody’s listed the types of data it will probably seek,
saying debt issuers may not always be able to overcome limited
information by structuring deals with more investor protection.  “In some stressed cases, credit enhancement would not be
able to mitigate the concern associated with limited historical
information and requested ratings would not be achievable,”
analysts led by Kruti Muni and Joseph Snailer wrote.  Investors including  Colony Capital LLC , KKR & Co.,  Och-Ziff
Capital Management Group LLC (OZM)  and  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) 
have been accelerating purchases of foreclosed homes to offer as
rentals, or raising funds for buying properties. The Federal
 Reserve  said in a January paper that government encouragement
for the business could help a housing market that’s now showing
signs of recovering after its worst  real-estate slump  since the
1930s.  The overseer of  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  told lawmakers
last month the taxpayer-supported companies will continue with
bulk sales of foreclosed homes that can fuel the industry after
initial auctions by Fannie Mae. Washington-based Fannie Mae
owned 109,266 of foreclosed single-family properties as of June
30, after seizing 91,483 in the first half of the year and
selling 100,745, according to a securities filing.  Colony Capital  Tom Barrack ’s Colony Capital, the investment firm that
plans to acquire $1.5 billion of rental homes within a year, was
among those awarded about 2,500 properties sold in Fannie Mae’s
auction, whose winners were informed in July, people with
knowledge of the sale said last month.  Ratings companies, which helped create the U.S. housing
bubble that began to burst in 2008 by granting inflated grades
to mortgage bonds, have begun commenting on how they would
approach assessing bonds created through private securitizations
that such investors could use for financing.  With securitizations, the graders compare potential losses
on the underlying assets with the so-called credit enhancement
provided for specific classes of the deals. That can include
some bonds taking losses before others, cash reserves or asset
cash flows that exceed coupons on the securities created.  Securitization Trusts  Moody’s has been approached by “numerous real-estate
market participants” seeking insight into how it would assess
such deals, though none has presented “a specific transaction
or deal structure to us,” according to its report today.  The ratings company said it’s unclear whether the
transactions will involve securitization trusts owning homes or
loans to operators. Each approach carries different risks,
Moody’s said.  Fitch Ratings  said Aug. 8 that it’s unlikely to grant
investment-grade ratings in the top AAA or AA categories to
deals backed by single-family rental properties.  The reasons include the “limited performance data for the
sector and individual property management firms” as well as for
“market rents, rent roll histories, vacancy rates, and supply
and demand.” The “ambitious growth strategies by regional
operators looking to expand their portfolios rapidly over the
near term” is another concern, New York-based Fitch said.  Standard & Poor’s  released  a report in May examining the
“emerging asset class” that contained fewer details on how the
New York-based company will approach grading the deals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  