-- Orchestra Braves Iraqi Bombs Before Lloyd Webber Concert
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-08-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/orchestra-braves-iraqi-bombs-before-lloyd-webber-concert.html
Meet the bravest orchestra in the
world. The superlative seems justified for the  National Youth
Orchestra of Iraq .  When the musicians are at home, they play quietly to avoid
upsetting fundamentalists opposed to western music. They have to
hide their instruments so they don’t get smashed. Rehearsals
have been disrupted by car bombings and power cuts. They face
sectarian prejudice against a group including both Arabs and
Kurds, men and women.  The self-taught players are facing the challenge of a
foreign tour, reaching  London  on Aug. 28 after a two-week stay
in  Scotland . As well as works by Iraqi composers, they’ll be
performing Schubert’s “Tragic” Symphony and Faure’s “Elegie”
with star guest Julian Lloyd Webber.  I meet up with the 61-year-old cellist in London’s
Kensington. He’s just emerged blinking from a long solo practice
session in his studio, and looks tired and happy in a rumpled
linen jacket.  “I do a lot of work with the  Edinburgh Youth Orchestra , who
are working with the Iraqis in Scotland,” he says. “When they
asked me a few years ago about this concert, I knew immediately
I’d love to do it. It just shows that music can be an amazing
way of bringing people together, even people who’ve suffered
appallingly.”  I mention  Daniel Barenboim ’s groundbreaking West-Eastern
 Divan Orchestra  as a model.  Competitive Players  “You see it all the time,” he says. “When young players
come to work together in an orchestra, they realize that the
whole is greater than them as individuals. They lose the
competitive thing, the animosity.”  The orchestra was founded four years ago by pianist Zuhal
Sultan, who was then 17 years old. With the help of the  British
Council , she recruited Cologne-based Scottish conductor  Paul
MacAlindin .  Each year the participants send in audition clips via
YouTube, and then meet to rehearse.  “The students are so keen to learn,” MacAlindin says. “When
they meet a real-life teacher, you can see their sheer hunger.
The British tutors all say that they can only dream about
getting students who are so motivated.”  MacAlindin tells me how he encountered conflict between the
Arabs and Kurds.  “In the first week there was a lot of suspicion. Then the
ice broke, and they realized they had to work together.”  Iraq Sanctions  Their concerts in Edinburgh and Glasgow are supported by
the Scottish government, which used 1.5 million pounds of a 13.9
million pound confiscation order against the  Weir Group Plc. (WEIR) 
engineering company for breaching United Nations sanctions
against  Iraq .  Lloyd Webber is also chairman of the “In Harmony Sistema
England” project, based on the Venezuelan organization promoting
orchestral playing.  “In Liverpool we encouraged a whole school, including the
chef and caretakers, to play together,” he says. “After the
first year literacy and maths results had improved dramatically.
Music really has a power to change people.”  He says Faure’s “Elegie” “expresses how I feel about what’s
happened in Iraq. We can never forget that a lot of people have
lost their lives on all sides of the conflict.”  Julian Lloyd Webber performs with the National Youth
Orchestra of Iraq on Aug. 28 at the Queen Elizabeth Hall.
Information:  http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk  and
 http://www.musicians4harmony.org/nyoi.html .  Before that, there are two concerts in Scotland: Aug. 25 at
the Royal Conservatoire, Glasgow ( http://www.rcs.ac.uk ), and
Aug. 26 at Greyfriars Kirk, Edinburgh as part of the Edinburgh
Fringe Festival ( http://www.greyfriarskirk.com )  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in Edinburgh, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 