-- Total’s Credit Rating Outlook Lowered by Moody’s on Spending
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-08-23T13:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/total-s-credit-rating-outlook-lowered-by-moody-s-on-spending-1-.html
Total SA (FP)  had its  credit rating 
outlook lowered by Moody’s Investors Services after Europe’s
third-biggest oil company boosted spending to raise production.  The outlook for Total’s Aa1/P-1 senior unsecured debt was
reduced to negative from stable, according to a statement today.
The shares  fell  as much as 1.8 percent in Paris trading.  The change reflects “concern that the significant increase
in investments made by Total in the past two years to give fresh
impetus to its upstream growth strategy has constrained the
recovery in its credit metrics,” Moody’s said in the statement.  France’s largest oil producer reported higher second-
quarter profit and raised its dividend even as a North Sea leak
and security issues in Nigeria and  Yemen  helped push production
down 2 percent, offsetting growth from new projects. The company
is trying harder to make big discoveries by drilling more
exploration wells while at the same time investing in projects
from Angola and Australia to  Canada  and  Norway .  Total may have to sell more assets to keep its credit
rating, according to Moody’s. In the year to June, the energy
producer’s investment in exploration and production amounted to
$26 billion, it said.  Total is increasingly participating in expensive, long-term
projects, including liquefied natural-gas and unconventional
sources of energy, that are “resulting in higher allocation of
capital towards unproved, not yet producing assets,” Moody’s
said. Higher oil prices haven’t been enough for Total to rebuild
its finances, the service said.  Total’s ability to keep its current rating will depend on
 oil prices  remaining high, projects being completed on time and
within budget and the “timely execution of further asset
disposals,” according to the statement.  Total fell 70 cents to 39.105 euros as of 3:01 p.m. in
Paris. The shares are up 18 percent in the past year.  Anastasia Zhivulina, a spokeswoman for Total, wasn’t able
to provide an immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  