-- U.S. House Prices Rose Most Since 2005 in Second Quarter
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-08-23T15:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/house-prices-rose-most-since-2005-in-second-quarter-fhfa.html
U.S.  house prices  jumped 1.8 percent
in the second quarter from the previous three months, fueled by
record-low  mortgage rates  and tight inventory, according to the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency .  The seasonally adjusted increase was the biggest since the
fourth quarter of 2005, the FHFA said in a statement today from
 Washington . Prices climbed 3 percent from a year earlier.  Job gains, low borrowing costs and a limited supply of
properties for sale are providing a foundation for price gains
and helping homeowners gain equity. The number of Americans who
owed more than their homes were worth fell by about 400,000 in
the second quarter, according to a report today by Zillow Inc.  “We have definitely hit a bottom in home values
nationally, but we don’t expect to see them continue to rise as
quickly as they are now,”  Stan Humphries , chief economist for
Seattle-based real estate information service, said yesterday in
an e-mail. “As more homeowners rise out of negative equity,
many will try to sell their homes, adding to supply and causing
price appreciation to moderate.”  House prices in June  increased  0.7 percent from May,
according to the FHFA, whose report is based on single-family
houses with mortgages backed by  Fannie Mae  or  Freddie Mac . The
average estimate of 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for
a 0.6 percent gain.  Regional Gains  On a monthly basis, seven of the nine regions covered by
the by the gauge showed increases after adjusting for seasonal
variations. The gains were led by a 3.5 percent jump in the area
that includes  Arizona  and Nevada. Prices fell 0.2 percent
percent in  New England  and the region that includes Texas and
Arkansas.  “Although some housing markets are still facing
significant challenges, house prices were quite strong in most
areas in the second quarter,” Andrew Leventis, FHFA principal
economist, said in the statement. “The strong appreciation may
partially reflect fewer homes sold in distress, but declining
mortgage rates and a modest supply of homes available for sale
likely account for most of the price increase.”  New-home  sales  rose 3.6 percent in July to a 372,000 annual
pace, matching a two-year high, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. There were 142,000 new
houses on the market at the end of July, the fewest in data
going back to 1963.  Purchases of  previously owned  homes climbed 2.3 percent to
a 4.47 million annual rate in July, up from an eight-month low,
the National Association of Realtors said yesterday. At that
pace, it would take 6.4 months to sell all the existing
properties on the market, compared with 6.5 months at the end of
June, the group said.  The FHFA report doesn’t provide a specific price for homes.
The median  price  of an existing home, as measured by the
National Association of Realtors, was $188,800 in June, up from
$180,300 in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  