-- Housing Collapse Erased in Bonds of Homebuilders: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-08-23T09:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/housing-collapse-erased-in-bonds-of-homebuilders-credit-markets.html
Another bubble may be forming in the
U.S. housing market, this time in the bonds of homebuilders.  Not since July 2007, before the subprime mortgage market
collapsed and credit markets froze, have investors accepted
relative yields as low as they are now for debt of the nation’s
biggest homebuilders. So-called spreads at 4.82 percentage
points on debt of borrowers from  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , the largest
U.S. homebuilder by volume, to  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  have tightened
nine times faster than the overall high-yield market since
February, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index show.  While recent signs show a housing rebound, new home sales
remain 75 percent below the 2005 peak with  unemployment  stuck
above 8 percent for a 42nd straight month. The economic recovery
will continue at a “modest” pace with real GDP growth at an
annual rate of 2.25 percent in the second half of this year, the
 Congressional Budget Office  said yesterday.  “The market is pricing in a spectacular recovery, quickly,
and I don’t see that in the cards,”  Vicki Bryan , an analyst at
research firm Gimme Credit LLC, said in a telephone interview
from  New York . “There’s limited, if any, upside from here, even
if investors are right.”  Debt of homebuilders has returned 17.4 percent this year,
following a loss of 0.34 percent in 2011, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield, Homebuilders/Real
Estate index. That compares with a return of 10.1 percent for
the bank’s broader U.S. High Yield Master II index, after a 4.38
percent gain last year.  Limited Room  “I don’t see a lot of room to rally,”  Sabur Moini , who
manages about $2.5 billion of high-yield assets at Los Angeles-
based Payden & Rygel, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
tough to see how much tighter it could get. You’re pretty much
capped.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc said a derivative index linked to commercial-mortgage backed
securities may have “rallied too far too fast” in the past
three months. Aetna Inc. obtained a $2 billion bridge loan to
finance its planned acquisition of Coventry Health Care Inc.
Belize’s government aims to restructure its debt through
negotiations with bondholders and will consider any proposal
presented.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 1.53 basis points to 19.22 basis
points, the lowest level since June 1, 2011. The measure narrows
when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Default Swaps  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125
investment-grade companies, a credit-default swaps benchmark
that investors use to hedge against losses or bet on  credit
quality , rose for the second day, adding 1 basis point to a mid-
price of 142.5, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index closed
0.8 basis point higher to 99.4 basis points in New York
yesterday, prices compiled by Bloomberg show.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rally Questioned  Investors may want to cut bullish bets on Markit Group
Ltd.’s CMBX index, which tracks commercial-property loans and
has risen to the highest in almost a year, as a lull in Europe’s
debt crisis and speculation that policy makers will step in spur
gains, RBS analysts led by  Richard Hill  in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , wrote in a report yesterday.  “While we have been bullish on the market since early
July, we are now questioning if CMBS has rallied too far too
fast,” they wrote. “A spike in volatility driven by renewed
global macro concerns may temper the recent rally.”  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index 
rose 0.02 cent to 95.12 cents on the dollar, the highest level
since June 1, 2011. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest
dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has climbed from
91.8 on June 5, the lowest since Jan. 6.  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds
are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- at S&P.  Aetna Loan  Aetna hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG to arrange
the 364-day financing, the Hartford, Connecticut-based health-
care benefits provider said in a regulatory filing yesterday.
Aetna will pay interest on the debt tied to ratings from
Moody’s, S&P and Fitch. The rate increases by 0.25 percentage
point if the grades deteriorate.  Bonds of Caracas-based Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA,
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers, with 89 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 6 basis points
to 319 basis points, or 3.19 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index . The measure has
averaged 370 basis points this year.  ‘Debt Sustainability’  Belize has worked in “good faith” with its creditors and
is willing to discuss alternative restructuring scenarios, Prime
Minister Dean Barrow told reporters in  Belize City  yesterday.  “Debt sustainability is the whole and entire object of
this exercise,” Barrow said. “It is clear that serious good
faith, face-to-face negotiations are the only root to a
consensual solution.”  The last time relative yields were this low on homebuilder
bonds was in July 2007, two weeks before BNP Paribas SA marked
the start of the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression by halting withdrawals from three investment funds
that owned subprime mortgage securities. Spreads reached 478
basis points on Aug. 21 before rising to 482 yesterday, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Homebuilders, along with lenders, real-estate firms and
investment banks that bundled into securities the mortgages made
to the least creditworthy borrowers, contributed to a run-up in
housing prices that peaked in July 2006. Prices plummeted 35
percent from then until the market low in February, according to
the S&P/Case-Shiller  index .  ‘Too Far’  Relative yields, which reached a record 2,534 basis points
on Dec. 4, 2008, have tightened by 123 basis points since Feb.
28, the last time the spread exceeded the broader high-yield
market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. That
compares with a 13 basis-point decline since the end of February
on the U.S. High Yield Master II index to 588.  “It’s gone too far too fast and that you’re not currently
being compensated for the balance-sheet leverage in the
sector,” said Jennifer Machan, a senior high-yield analyst in
 Des Moines ,  Iowa , at Principal Global Investors.  Speculative-grade U.S. homebuilders have an average debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or EBITDA, of 9.78 times versus 3.64 for all U.S. junk-rated
companies, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Fort Worth , Texas-based DR Horton’s $350 million of 4.75
percent notes issued in April and due in May 2017, rated three
levels below investment grade by S&P at BB-, traded yesterday at
105.9 cents on the dollar to yield 3.39 percent, Trace data
show. That compares with an average yield of 3.35 percent on a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index of BBB rated debt maturing
in five to seven years.  ‘Better Value’  “That’s an investment-grade kind of yield, that’s
spectacular credit quality,”  Gimme Credit ’s Bryan said.
“There’s better value in many more sectors than the
homebuilding sector.”  Jessica Hansen, a spokeswoman for DR Horton, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call to her office and an e-
mail seeking comment.  Concern that the potential for a greater homebuilder rally
is limited comes as U.S. economic growth is forecasted by 78
economists surveyed by Bloomberg to slow to 2.1 percent in 2013
from 2.15 percent this year.  The U.S. will probably tip into recession next year if
lawmakers can’t break an impasse over the  federal budget ,
according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office’s
report. Economic output would shrink next year by 0.5 percent,
joblessness would climb to about 9 percent with “economic
conditions in 2013 that will probably be considered a
recession,” the agency said in its biannual report on the
budget and economic outlook.  Toll Brothers  While sales of  new homes , counted when contracts are
signed, may have rebounded to a 365,000 annual rate in July from
350,000 the prior month, according to the median forecast of 73
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, the figure compares with a
 peak  of 1.39 million sales in July 2005.  “Fundamentals continue to improve in the sector, but
that’s already reflected in the prices of the securities,”
Thomas O’Reilly, who co-manages the $3 billion Neuberger Berman
High Income Bond Fund in  Chicago , said. “The gains there are
going to be more market-related than outperforming the market.”  Toll Brothers reported fiscal third-quarter net income of
$61.6 million yesterday on increased revenue, beating analysts’
estimates for the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based company, the
largest U.S. luxury-home builder.  “The growth is beginning,” Douglas Yearley, chief
executive officer of Toll Brothers, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “There is a long way to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  