-- How Bobby Fischer (Briefly) Changed America
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-08-23T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/how-bobby-fischer-briefly-changed-america.html
This summer marks the anniversary of
an extraordinary moment in U.S. history: the 1972 match in which
the American genius Bobby Fischer defeated the Soviet wizard
Boris Spassky for the chess championship of the world.  The battle probably should have been just one more headline
in an eventful three months that saw the Watergate burglary, the
expulsion of the Soviet military from  Egypt  and the humiliating
dismissal of vice presidential nominee Thomas Eagleton from the
Democratic ticket. Somehow the story of Fischer and Spassky and
their epic match, which ended 40 years ago this month, captured
our attention in a way that no struggle of intellect has since.  The two best players in the world were playing 24 games in
Iceland, and everyone paid attention. Strangers who had never
picked up a chess piece discussed the match on subway trains.
Newspapers put out special editions announcing the results of
the games, and vendors hawked them from the corners, shouting
out the name of the winner. Book publishers were signing up
chess writers by the dozens.  Chess is a very hard game, and what is most remarkable
about that summer is that people wanted to play anyway. They
wanted their minds stretched, and were willing to work for that
reward. The brief period of Fischer’s ascendancy -- he quit
chess three years later -- was perhaps the last era in our
nation’s history when this could be said.  No Challenges  Nowadays, we like things easier. We seem more interested in
the doings of the “Real Housewives” than in the great
intellectual challenges (except of course those intellectual
challenges that yield a great deal of money, such as those on
 Wall Street  or in  Silicon Valley ). Those who deploy their
extraordinary mental gifts to do a difficult thing extremely
well for a modest reward somehow cannot hold our attention.  In this respect, we may be lagging behind the rest of the
world. This summer, via streaming video, I watched the Russian
language broadcast of the  Tal Memorial tournament  in Moscow, one
of the premier chess events of the year, as a dozen of the
strongest players in the world battled for two weeks. Then a few
weeks ago, I tuned in a relatively minor competition, the  ACP
Golden Chess Classic , from Amsterdam.  What the events had in common, besides being online instead
of on U.S. TV, was commercials. Serious, high-quality
commercials: Banks, corporate consulting firms,  oil companies ,
automakers and beverage sellers all chose to run ads in the
Russian-language and Dutch-language feeds. Watch other chess
events from around the world, and you find more advertisements.  But when I watched online the  U.S. chess championship , the
most prestigious tournament on our shores, there were few
commercials, and none for anyone with serious money. Companies
invest where they expect a return. Elsewhere there is a return
to online advertising to chess fans; here, there isn’t.  Now, I am not saying that we would be better off if
everybody followed chess. I am wondering, in this vast nation of
ours, what intellectually serious pursuits attract a
sufficiently mass following that major consumer-products
companies would think it sensible to support them.  By intellectually serious, I mean pursuits that stretch and
test the mind rather than merely entertain. The U.S. market for
serious literature, which does exactly this, is  dying . (It’s a
little better abroad.) True, the death of the literary novel has
been  proclaimed before , but now the patient is on the way to
hospice. Authority has  moved away  from that which is written to
that which is observed, so the most fleeting and transitory
images become more important than the seriousness of complex
argument.  No Complexity  We manage to make celebrities of young people with little
to offer besides a willingness to express their vulgarity on
camera, and the news coverage of our politics seems to bounce
back and forth between talking points and gaffes. The great Ray Bradbury, who died this year, used to say that simplicity was
the great enemy against which we should be doing battle -- that
theme is the subtext of “Fahrenheit 451” -- but we are a long
way from heeding the call to arms.  All of which makes our Fischer-fever of the 1970s that much
more fascinating. Fischer, who returned to the chessboard
briefly in 1992 before vanishing again, was never himself an
admirable figure. Even at the height of his popularity in 1972,
his childlike tantrums turned many fans against him. (Today his
actions would be celebrated.)  As the years progressed, the madness behind the brilliance
became increasingly apparent. He became infamous for his public
rants against “the Jews,” and, on the very day of the Sept. 11
attacks, Fischer  crowed with delight : “This is all wonderful
news” and “It’s time to finish off the U.S. once and for all.”  By that time he was a fugitive -- he had played for a
seven-figure purse in  Yugoslavia , in defiance of U.S. sanctions
-- and after spending several months in detention in  Japan ,
Fischer wound up settling in  Iceland , where he seemed almost
happy. He fished, he hiked, he dined with some of the great
chess players of the day. Yet according to the affecting  memoir 
by his Icelandic friend Helgi Olafsson, a fellow chess
grandmaster, Fischer never surrendered his obsessions,
particularly his virulent anti-Semitism.  When Fischer died in 2008, his passing went scarcely
noticed. He was never an admirable man, but he performed an
admirable service. By his brilliance and his antics he focused
our attention, in that shining summer 40 years ago, on the life
of the mind. He made an enormously difficult intellectual
pursuit so alluring that, for a brief moment, everybody wanted
to be a part of it.  We could use another moment like that. Bradbury was right:
Simplicity is the enemy of democracy. Yet our images and
arguments get simpler, and sillier, by the day. Unless we can
become freshly excited about stretching our minds, the rest of
the world -- much of which still values complexity -- may leave
us in its dust.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
most recent novel is “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on fossil-fuel favoritism in
 Romney’s energy plan , on the SEC’s dropping the ball on  money
market mutual funds  and on the case for  a smaller Afghan army ;
William Pesek on the  Bo Xilai show trial  in  China ; Thomas
Geoghegan on why Obama is lucky that  entitlements  are out of
control.  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 