-- How the Postal Service Revolutionized Retailing
-- B y   M a r c   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-08-23T18:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/how-the-postal-service-revolutionized-retailing.html
Once, not too long ago, the
local shopping district was filled with booksellers and
hardware dealers who had known you for years.  Then an out-of-town competitor homed in on the party,
offering goods of all sorts delivered from a far-away
warehouse. The local merchants, paying rent on their brick-
and-mortar stores, couldn’t match the intruder’s prices.
One by one, they began to close their doors.  No, this isn’t the story of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  It
concerns a development in retail distribution that seems
prosaic today, but which revolutionized commerce when
Congress authorized it on Aug. 24, 1912: the parcel post.  Back before the parcel post, the U.S. Post Office had
only a marginal role in moving goods. By law, it could
deliver only packages of 4 pounds or less. All shipments,
no matter the distance, cost a steep 1 cent per ounce;
mailing a 4-pound package cost three hours’ pay for the
average worker.  Hitch Your Horse  When rural customers mailed in their orders to big-
city merchandisers such as Sears, Roebuck and  Montgomery
Ward , their goods usually arrived by rail freight or
railway express. The railroads didn’t want to handle small
packages, so they set the rate high. And if your home or
your farmstead was too far from the nearest railroad
station, the express company wouldn’t deliver to your door.
The only way to collect your package was to hitch up your
horse and wagon and clippety-clop into town.  Farm groups such as the Grange had been trying to get
the Post Office to carry freight since the 1880s, but the
idea of the government competing with private companies was
roundly condemned as socialism. The railroads and the
express companies were naturally opposed to the parcel
post, and groups such as the National Association of Retail
Grocers and the National Retail Hardware Association feared
that cheap delivery would allow big-city stores to compete
for local business everywhere. Congress refused even to
hold a hearing on package shipments until the spring of
1910.  But at a time when Americans were increasingly
attentive to the way high distribution costs were driving
up prices, a low-cost parcel post seemed like an obvious
way to make the average family better off.  The ascension of Progressive Republicans and Democrats
in the 1910 congressional election sealed the deal.
President  William Howard Taft  endorsed the parcel post, and
Congress directed the Post Office to begin carrying
packages as of Jan. 1, 1913.  There were a few limitations. The Post Office was not
to handle packages weighing more than 11 pounds, and rates
-- unlike those for letters and smaller packages -- would
be based on distance. Within a year, the Post Office raised
the weight limit for many shipments to 50 pounds and
introduced such innovations as insurance and collect-on-
delivery, or COD.  COD was the killer app of the day, solving a problem
that threatened to paralyze mail-order shopping. Without
it, the merchant had no simple way to tell the customer how
much to enclose with an order to pay for shipping. With it,
the shopper could send a check for the merchandise along
with the order, and pay the carrier separately for postage
upon delivery.  A Revolution  The parcel post did even more than its most ardent
advocates anticipated. During the first six months of 1913,
the Post Office carried an astonishing 300 million parcels,
15 for every U.S. household. A fifth of the population, the
20 million people living outside of express companies’
service territories, could for the first time easily send
and receive packages. And thanks to the government’s new
role in handling packages, Americans everywhere, from big
coastal cities to remote mountain ranches, could at last
experience the joys of shopping by mail at far lower prices
than they could find close to home.  ( Marc Levinson ’s most recent book is “The Great A&P
and the Struggle for  Small Business  in America.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Marc Levinson at
 marclevinson1@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 