-- Lowe’s Rona Bid Fueling Fight Over Quebec Jobs
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-08-23T21:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/lowe-s-rona-bid-fueling-fight-over-quebec-jobs-corporate-canada.html
Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) ’s unsolicited pursuit of
home-improvement retailer  Rona Inc. (RON)  has become an election issue
in  Quebec  as lawmakers fight to preserve jobs in what was once
 Canada ’s economic hub.  The governing  Liberal Party  and the opposition Parti
Quebecois, which is leading in opinion polls for the Sept. 4
vote, have pledged to shield Quebec businesses from foreign
takeovers after Rona rejected an offer from Mooresville, North
Carolina-based Lowe’s. Quebec Finance Minister Raymond Bachand,
a former venture capitalist, called Rona a “strategic” asset
for Quebec because of its supplier network and 15,000-strong
provincial workforce.  Quebec’s unemployment rate exceeds the national average,
while economic growth and worker productivity trails. Its
largest city,  Montreal , has lost more corporate headquarters
than any other business center in the country.  “You’re seeing a clear nationalist awakening in this
election,” said Louis Hebert, a management strategy professor
at HEC Montreal, who co-leads the business school’s joint
executive MBA program with  McGill University . “We don’t have
too many world-class companies in Quebec. Every time we develop
one, it seems like it runs the risk of being eaten.”  While Quebec wouldn’t be able to block a bid for Rona, a
power that rests with the federal government, it may influence
the national debate. Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall opposed BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatechewan Inc., which in 2010 became only the second
takeover to be formally rejected by Ottawa in 25 years.  Investment Fund  Parti Quebecois leader Pauline Marois, a former finance
minister, promised to create a C$10 billion ($10 billion)
strategic investment  fund  -- to be run by the province’s public
pension  fund manager , the Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec
-- and amend the province’s Business Corporations Act to make it
easier for homegrown companies to fend off hostile takeovers.
She also pledged to make the Caisse, which runs about C$166
billion, invest more in Quebec.  “Today it’s the head office and the ownership of Rona that
is threatened,” Marois told reporters Aug. 9 in Saguenay,
Quebec. “We must act and we must do it with force.”  Bachand followed on Aug. 13, vowing to give company boards
more powers to thwart unwanted takeover bids. Coalition Avenir
Québec, a nine-month-old party headed by former Transat A.T.
Inc. Vice President Francois Legault, pledged to direct the
Caisse to boost investments in Quebec and keep key decision-
making centers in the province.  Corporate Headquarters  Montreal, once Canada’s biggest city, lost 15 company
headquarters between 1990 and 2010, the largest decline among
the country’s five main corporate centers, according to a  report 
published last year by the Fraser Institute, a Vancouver-based
economic and policy research group. In 1998 Loblaw Companies
Ltd. acquired grocer Provigo Inc., Rio Tinto Group bought Alcan
Inc. in 2007 and Toronto Stock Exchange operator TMX Group Inc.
took over Montreal Exchange Inc. four years ago.  Toronto lost 11 head offices in the same period, while
Calgary added 31.  The Caisse, as the pension fund manager is known, is no
stranger to takeover battles. In 2000, it joined forces with
Montreal-based media company  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B)  to foil Toronto-based
Rogers Communications Inc. in its bid to buy Quebec cable
operator Groupe Videotron Ltee.  Quebecor and the Caisse ended up paying about C$5.7 billion
for Videotron, now the biggest asset in the company’s Quebecor
Media unit. Caisse Chief Executive Officer  Michael Sabia  said in
February that the fund manager valued its minority stake in
Quebecor Media at C$2.3 billion as of December, 28 percent less
than what it paid for the asset.  Leads Polls  A Lowe’s bid for Rona “is a political football that comes
at a time when the election situation is so close,” Sebastian Van Berkom, president of the Montreal-based asset manager Van
Berkom & Associates, said in a telephone interview. “Everybody
is vying for an edge. Lowe’s is going hostile at a time of the
election, so it’s not surprising that the politicians are trying
to capture votes.”  Had an election been held last week, Marois’s Parti
Quebecois, which advocates the province become independent from
Canada, would have won 33 percent of the votes, according to a
Léger Marketing  poll  published Aug. 17. Premier Jean Charest’s
Liberals followed with 28 percent support, one percentage point
more than Legault’s Coalition Avenir Quebec.  To placate Quebeckers, Lowe’s pledged to keep headquarters
for the combined Canadian business in the Montreal suburb of
Boucherville, where Rona is based. Lowe’s “understands and
shares Rona’s commitment to procuring goods in Canada wherever
possible,” the company said July 31.  Below Offer  Rona rose 3.6 percent to C$12.90 at the close in Toronto,
11 percent less than Lowe’s unsolicited offer of C$14.50,
disclosed July 31. The gap between the offer and the share price
is the second-widest among pending deals in  North America  larger
than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chris Ahearn, a spokeswoman for Lowe’s and Michelle
Laberge, a spokeswoman for Rona, didn’t return messages seeking
comment yesterday.  Bachand and rival politicians argue Quebec merely wants to
keep up with legislation already in place in about 30 U.S.
states, which gives boards the means to reject takeover bids
deemed detrimental to the best long-term interests of a company.
Quebec convenience store operator Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc.
ended its efforts to acquire  Casey’s General Stores Inc. (CASY)  in 2010
after the Iowa-based chain sued Couche-Tard, claiming that the
Canadian retailer violated U.S. securities law when it made an
unsolicited tender offer.  Media Concentration  “The playing field isn’t level,” Bachand said in an Aug.
19 telephone interview. “Under Canadian rules, a board has to
submit a bid to all shareholders, whereas in many U.S. states,
directors are under no such obligation. It’s time that we start
thinking about changes that could be implemented to protect our
companies.”  Even Montreal-based  BCE Inc. (BCE) ’s deal for  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A) 
has entered into the campaign. While competitors such as
Quebecor argue the transaction will increase concentration in
the broadcasting industry, politicians such as Marois say
they’re concerned that BCE’s Bell Media unit is run out of
Toronto. Maka Kotto, a candidate for the Parti Quebecois near
Montreal,  said  Aug. 11 the party would take “all necessary
means” to block the deal for the television production company
by Canada’s largest telecommunications operator.  Defuse Controversy  If re-elected, Bachand said a Liberal government will seek
assurances from BCE that the company’s French-language media
business will be based in Montreal.  “Our concern is that the center of decision will be
fragmented after the deal closes, and that’s why we want
commitments from Bell,” Bachand said.  BCE has sought to defuse the controversy by taking out
full-page advertisements in Montreal newspapers such as La
Presse and Le Devoir, trumpeting the C$1.2 billion it spends
annually in Quebec on salaries, pensions and benefits. Forty-six
BCE executives live and work in Quebec, a figure that will
increase with Astral in the fold, the company said.  Quebec “will remain the epicenter of our French-
programming content creation, management and delivery,” BCE
said in an Aug. 18 ad published in the Montreal Gazette.  Jean-Charles Robillard, a spokesman for BCE in Montreal,
said yesterday the company expects to increase Astral’s spending
on French-language content development by about 5 percent
annually. Hughes Mousseau, a spokesman for Astral, didn’t return
a message seeking comment yesterday.  ‘Hurting Quebec’  Canada’s federal government has the power to block
takeovers over C$330 million under the Investment Canada Act
unless they provide a “net benefit to the nation.”  Investors aren’t convinced the rise in nationalist
sentiment along with proposals to protect Quebec companies from
foreign takeovers and devote more public money to supporting
businesses is the right move for a province needing investment
and growth drivers.  Quebec has the highest debt in Canada, at about 62 percent
of 2011-12 gross domestic product, according to the credit-
rating company DBRS Ltd., and the second-highest level of income
taxes, at about 46 percent, according to the Fraser Institute.
GDP and productivity growth in the province trail the national
average, while unemployment, at 7.6 percent in July, exceeds it.  Stephen Jarislowsky , the 86-year-old founder of Montreal
money manager Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd., which  manages  about $36
billion, said he has noticed a rise in nationalist sentiment in
the province.  “It’s certainly hurting Quebec,” said Jarislowsky, who
moved to Montreal in 1949. “When I came here, Montreal was the
most important city in Canada. It’s highly regrettable. There
doesn’t seem to be an understanding of the realities of the
world and what Quebec has to do in order to compete and not lose
its position.”  Rona’s fate will probably hinge more on Lowe’s than the
Quebec election. Lowe’s CEO Bob Niblock said on Aug. 20 a
transaction was not imminent.  “We’re not going to do something that doesn’t make long-
term sense for the company,” Niblock said on a conference call
after the company reported a 10 percent drop in second-quarter
profit. “We’re not going to overpay for something that we don’t
think we can get an adequate return on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  