-- Mozart Impersonator Shakes Up Hot Salzburg: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-08-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/mozart-impersonator-shakes-up-hot-salzburg-jeremy-gerard.html
Who knew there was a sequel to “The
Magic Flute?”  This week, the  Salzburg Festival  in Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart’s hometown opened its glittering doors to “Das
Labyrinth,” whose twitty plot was the work of Emanuel
Schikaneder, the librettist-actor-impresario, who conjured up
the adventures of Pamina and Tamino, Papageno and Papagena for
Mozart in 1791.  Salzburg is hot again (literally sizzling in the upper 90s)
as Alexander Pereira, 64, concludes his first season as artistic
director.  In his last job, he catapulted the  Zurich Opera  into the
center of European opera life, smoothly wheedling funds from
bureaucrats and attracting a long list of smart directors and
megastars like Cecilia Bartoli, the plane-phobic Italian diva
who last thrilled crowds with Rossini’s “Otello.”  “My challenge is to make sure that Salzburg keeps its
tradition as the leading opera, music and theater festival in
the world,” Pereira told me. “Surely this is enough challenge
for one small soul.”  We sat in his office above the main theater complex as
crowds gathered below for evening performances. He was quick to
smile and breezily conversant in English. It was easy to see how
he seduced the good burghers of Zurich to become rabid
operagoers.  In Zurich, Pereira produced a steady stream of new operas
to attract subscribers. He plans to follow that model in
Salzburg.  This summer, the new shows include not only “Das
Labyrinth” but “The Magic Flute,” “Die Soldaten” and
“Ariadne aux Naxos.”  Original Instruments  Mozart’s “Flute” had a familiar man in the pit --Nikolaus Harnoncourt led the Concentus Musicus Wien in an original-
instruments version. The orchestra’s sound was warmly
complementary and beautifully balanced.  Director Jens-Daniel Herzog and designer Mathis Neidhardt
discarded the fantastical elements we’ve seen in productions by
 David Hockney  and  Julie Taymor . No fanciful dragon in the first
scene for example; just a long, unthreatening green snake.  Stony Arches  The production was set in Salzburg’s Felsenreitschule, a
former riding stable whose stony arches may be admired in  “The
Sound of Music”  (not a musical ever staged in these more high-
minded premises).  The tone of the show was austere, modern and, well, maybe
post-ironic: a white tenor “blacked up” to play the conniving
Moor Monostatos, and patronizing references to women were
delivered without the usual conspiratorial wink to the audience.  Sarastro’s followers wore lab coats and the cultish leader
himself was equipped with a bizarre flashing orange light,
connected by a tube to the back of his head, to signify
Sarastro’s solar power.  The production was beautifully sung, especially by Bernard
Richter and Julia Kleiter as the lovebirds Tamino and Pamina.  “Das Labyrinth” was a different matter.  Determined to capitalize on the success of “ Magic Flute ,”
Schikaneder commissioned the popular Munich composer Peter von
Winter to write the sequel. It brought back all the leading
characters as Monostatos joins forces with the Queen of the
Night to sabotage Pamina’s marriage and get her out of
Sarastro’s orbit.  Here, Gone  After the successful premiere in 1798, the piece
disappeared from the repertory and it’s easy to see why. Merely
silly where Mozart was multilayered, mystical and moving, it’s
like following “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” with “Keeping Up
with the Kardashians.” Instead of referencing a minstrel show,
this time Monostatos looked like a caricature from a racist
cartoon.  Making matters worse was the Residenzhof, an outdoor venue
where patrons paying 240 Euros ($300) get to sit on hard benches
in hideous heat, some of us contorting painfully to read the
supertitles.  Since the founding days with Max Reinhardt, Salzburg has
presented plays as well, the most famous being Hugo von
Hofmannthals’ “Jedermann,” brilliantly presented this season
in another outdoor broiler.  Over the years, there’s been tension between the music and
theater sides of the festival.  Competitive Directors  Pereira hired German-born director Sven-Eric Bechtolf to
take over the theater program. He got a big hug at a garden
party from festival president Helga Rabl-Stadler, who was
resplendent in a brilliant red dress and a necklace of free-form
multicolored glass.  A savvy businesswoman, economics journalist and politician,
Rabl-Stadler is in her 18th season as president. When we sat
down to talk in her office, theatrically decorated with colorful
art, set designs and a portrait of Johann Strauss, she expressed
relief at the arrival of Bechtolf.  “The artistic director gets jealous if the theater is
successful,” she said. “The most stupid story is about Gerard Mortier and Peter Stein. It was Gerard who made Peter come, and
it was Gerard who chased him away because he was so jealous of
Stein, with his successful Shakespeare dramas.”  Bechtolf has invited major directors, including Irina
Brook, who is staging “Peer Gynt” and “The Tempest.” He also
runs the Young Directors Project, which brought in Gisele
Vienne, the Paris-based director and choreographer, among
others. (Notably absent: any American directors.)  She created “Eternelle Idole,” which took place in an
indoor hockey rink.  A terrific young skater took the ice, where she was coached
by a mysterious stranger, urged on by cheerleaders and joined by
two hockey teams in full gear as a flying saucer landed in the
fog-enshrouded rink as ominous music in the background.  Refreshingly Cool  It provided a refreshing sense of adventure in a festival
that’s redefining itself while holding on to a tradition of
excellence. Vienne’s second piece, “This Is How You Will
Disappear,” was performed in a club theater and set in a forest
worthy of the Brothers Grimm.  There was more fog, no cheerleading, desultory talk of rape
and death, and some 90 minutes of ear-shattering music. This one
was excruciating.  “I’m searching for an antidote to narrow, let’s say German
deconstructionism,” Bechtolf told me, and later reiterated in a
public conversation we held for festivalgoers. “I’m an old-
fashioned type. I still believe in the actor, still believe in
story.”  More Money  Pereira has already made his mark, increasing the
festival production budget by 5 million euros ($6 million) and
commissioning four new operas for the next four seasons. Box
office sales for the 56 million euro ($70 million) festival are
up 22 percent, he added.  “My predecessors probably wanted to do the same thing but
they didn’t succeed for financial reasons,” he said. “I got
the money together to guarantee that we will do this every year,
for the first time in the history of the festival.” He is
determined to increase the Salzburg’s global profile.  To those who carp that Festival’s exorbitant ticket prices
make it a place for the wealthy, he retorts that at least those
wealthy patrons are dropping their cash on culture.  That said, not everything I saw was memorable.  Simon Rattle 
led an uninspired “Carmen,” despite the charismatic presence
of Jonas Kaufmann as Don Jose. There was little fire in
Magdalena Kozena’s Carmen. Aletta Collins’s staging was
perfunctory at best, as were what seemed like deliberately drab
settings by Miriam Buether.  The best thing I saw during a week of festival going was in
the Grosses Festspielhaus, the big theater, where pianist Leif Ove Andsnes played a program of Beethoven sonatas, Chopin and
Debussy with dazzling technique and subtle passion. I couldn’t
have had a better sendoff.  The Salzburg Festival continues through Sept. 2.
Information:  http://www.salzburgerfestspiel.at .  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg’s  NYC Weekend  and a
 Lewis Lapham  podcast.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net.en   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 