-- Palm-Oil Imports by China Head for Four-Year Low on Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-24T12:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/palm-oil-imports-by-china-head-for-4-year-low-as-economy-slows.html
Palm-oil   imports  by China, the
world’s biggest buyer after  India , are poised to decline to the
lowest level in four years as the economy slows and the
government seeks to keep cooking-oil prices stable.  Shipments will probably drop by 7 percent to 5.5 million
metric tons in 2012 from 5.9 million tons last year, according
to the median in a Bloomberg survey of three analysts and two
traders. Port inventories in China totaled 760,000 tons last
week, 50 percent more than a year earlier, said Cao Huimin, an
analyst at Beijing-based China Cereals & Oils Business Net.  Palm oil, used in everything from  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Maggi instant
noodles and Unilever’s soaps, to candy bars and biofuels, has
tumbled 15 percent from a 13-month high in April as a slowdown
in China and  Europe  cut demand, reducing profits at  Wilmar
International Ltd. (WIL) , the largest processor. Palm is trading near
the cheapest versus soybean oil in about a year.  “There aren’t many factors working in palm oil’s favor,”
said Tommy Xiao, an analyst at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.,
China’s biggest independent agricultural researcher. “Domestic
inventories are relatively high and government policies on
prices and improving  food safety  aren’t helping,” he said.  November futures gained 0.3 percent to 3,069 ringgit ($990)
a ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange today. The most
active contract fell to a 10-month low of 2,820 ringgit on Aug.
14 and has lost 3.3 percent this year.  Indonesia, Malaysia  China, the largest cooking-oil user, imported 3.1 million
tons of palm in the first seven months from 3 million tons a
year earlier, customs say.  Indonesia , the top producer, shipped
1.25 million tons from 1.09 million tons the year before, and
Malaysia  sent  1.83 million tons versus 1.89 million tons.  The world’s second-largest economy expanded 7.6 percent in
the second quarter, the slowest pace in three years. The
slowdown may extend into a seventh quarter, with Deutsche Bank
AG cutting its growth estimate for the three months through
September to 7.5 percent from 7.9 percent. Retail sales missed
analyst estimates in July.  Arrivals will drop in the second half partly because of
inventory levels, said Cao from  China  Cereals & Oils, a
researcher of vegetable oils. The stockpile last week was about
40 percent more than the average at this time in the past five
years, she said by e-mail on Aug. 17.  Shipments of 5.5 million tons in 2012 would be 14 percent
below the record 6.4 million tons in 2009 and the lowest since
5.3 million tons the year before,  customs  data show.  Palm Cheaper  Consumption of cooking oils will expand 4.5 percent in
2012-2013 from 4.9 percent the year before, Chang Muping, vice
president of oilseeds at COFCO Corp., told a conference in
Tianjin last month. Demand for imports will fall as China
crushes more  soybeans  and bottlers limit use of palm oil, he
said. Chang restated his view by phone on Aug. 16.  China this year required cooking-oil suppliers to clarify
and label the source of their products as part of a campaign to
improve transparency on food issues, said Xiao of Shanghai JC.
Cheaper palm was often blended with other oils, he said.  The cash price of palm is 2,200  yuan  a ton less than
 soybean oil , the biggest discount since 2008, and that probably
won’t change in the near term, Grain.gov.cn estimates. Palm’s
share of edible-oil use may slide to 16.3 percent in 2012-2013
from 16.7 percent the year before, while soybean oil expands to
41.7 percent from 40.4 percent, China National Grain & Oils
Information Center data show.  Government officials told cooking-oil suppliers in July to
keep wholesale prices for packaged products stable to avoid
stoking inflation, two people familiar with the talks said at
the time. They also asked producers this month to report prices
weekly, according to people familiar with the matter.  Record Soybeans  Soybeans, crushed to produce oil, have soared 43 percent
this year on the Chicago Board of Trade and reached a record
$17.4475 a bushel yesterday as the worst U.S. drought in half a
century destroyed crops. China is the world’s biggest importer.  “The government has advised that companies should avoid
increasing prices unless it is absolutely necessary,” according
to an e-mail from Wilmar in July.  Growth in palm-oil demand is weak because globally “the
whole macro scenario looks quite bad,” Teo Kim Yong,  executive
director  in charge of Wilmar’s merchandising of palm and lauric
oil, said in  Singapore  on Aug. 15. “You see regular demand, but
not exceptional.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: William Bi in
Beijing at   wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  