-- Pennsylvania Supreme Court Takes Appeal on Voter ID Law
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-24T13:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/pennsylvania-supreme-court-takes-appeal-on-voter-id-law.html
A challenge to Pennsylvania’s voter
ID law will be heard by the state  Supreme Court .  The  American Civil Liberties Union  and 10 voters are
challenging the requirement that voters show approved photo
identification at the polls. A lower-court judge ruled last week
that the plaintiffs didn’t prove it would disenfranchise voters.  “We appreciate that the court has agreed to take this
important case on such short notice,” David Gersch, a lawyer
for the ACLU with the firm Arnold & Porter LLP, said by e-mail.  Pennsylvania, one of nine states that passed laws requiring
a photo ID to vote, became a test case in the voter-eligibility
debate after a state analysis found as many as 9 percent of its
electorate might be unable to vote for president.  Lawsuits over voting access are in courts in swing states,
including Pennsylvania,  Florida ,  Ohio  and  Wisconsin , where both
Republican and Democratic presidential campaigns see a
possibility of victory. Voter cases are also under way in
 Alabama ,  Texas  and  South Carolina .  The Pennsylvania Supreme Court agreed to hear the case on
an expedited basis, with written arguments due by Sept. 7 and
oral arguments to be scheduled at its session in Philadelphia
from Sept. 11 to Sept. 13, according to court records. The state
argued that scheduling arguments for October in Pittsburgh is
more realistic.  State Comment  “We feel the law is on solid legal footing as we have all
along,” Ron Ruman, a spokesman for Pennsylvania’s Department of
State, said yesterday. “We will be prepared to move forward.”  Pennsylvania’s law requires a driver’s license or other
state-issued ID, or an acceptable alternative such as a military
ID, to cast a ballot in the presidential election.  Backed by Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, the law
enacted in March followed similar measures passed in Republican-
controlled states, leading opponents to claim the intent is to
disenfranchise some voters.  State officials have said  Pennsylvania ’s law will help
deter in-person voter fraud, protect the integrity of elections
and ensure public confidence in the election process. The state
conceded in court last month that there has never been an
investigation, prosecution or confirmed incident of in-person
voter fraud.  Commonwealth Court Judge Robert Simpson said Aug. 15 that
the state offered credible evidence that steps taken between now
and the election would help educate voters and streamline the
process of acquiring approved photo identification.  The challengers failed to establish that greater injury
will occur from refusing to temporarily bar the law than from
blocking it, Simpson said.  The Pennsylvania case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, 330-md-2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 