-- Pfizer Asks End to Fen-Phen Suits Linked to Lung Ailment
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-08-23T20:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/pfizer-asks-end-to-fen-phen-suits-linked-to-lung-ailment.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , whose  Wyeth  unit set
aside more than $21 billion to settle lawsuits over the fen-phen
diet drug, asked a judge to throw out claims that the pills
caused a fatal disease years after users stopped taking them.  Pfizer’s lawyers asked a federal judge in Philadelphia
today to bar cases from going to trial that allege former fen-
phen users developed  primary pulmonary hypertension , also known
as PPH, nine or more years after they last used the appetite
suppressant. Wyeth withdrew the diet-drug combination from the
market in 1997 after it was linked to heart problems and PPH, an
often-fatal lung ailment.  The drugmaker contends in court filings there’s “no
reliable scientific evidence” to back up claims that using fen-
phen can cause PPH years later. Plaintiffs’ lawyers say studies
show the diet aid has a so-called latency period that can cause
the disease to arise 15 years after its use.  “It is crucial that the court exercise its gatekeeper
function to stop these PPH suits now,” New York-based Pfizer
told U.S. District Judge Harvey Bartle III in court filings.
Bartle is overseeing some of the remaining 30 PPH cases pending
against the drugmaker. The company is making the same arguments
to bar cases in a state court in Philadelphia.  If Pfizer’s challenge to the PPH latency argument is
successful, it will wipe out the last significant litigation
tied to the drug’s recall, said  Alex MacDonald , a Boston-based
plaintiffs’ lawyer who has litigated cases over the diet aid for
more than a decade.  No Science  “This is a scientifically baseless effort to slam shut the
courthouse doors to scores of dying women afflicted with a
lethal disease caused solely by these diet pills,” MacDonald
said this week in a telephone interview.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, acquired Wyeth in a
$68 billion buyout in 2009. It also acquired a more than
$21 billion liability for the fen-phen cases, many of which had
been consolidated in federal court in  Philadelphia .  More than 6 million prescriptions were written for the diet
combination before it was withdrawn. Consumers took the
company’s  Pondimin  or  Redux  drugs as well as the generic
 Phentermine  to help suppress their appetites.  Wyeth once faced more than 175,000 claims over the diet
combination. Former users accused the drugmaker of hiding its
health risks to generate billions in profits.  National Settlement  Wyeth officials sought to resolve the litigation by setting
up a $3.75 billion national settlement program for former users
in 2000. Costs of settlements forced the drugmaker to add
$1.3 billion to the fund in 2004.  The skyrocketing costs of the settlements and litigation
ultimately forced the drugmaker to boost reserves to more than
$21 billion.  While the number of PPH cases Wyeth has faced has been
relatively small, claims over the fatal lung disease have
generated verdicts and settlements for tens of millions of
dollars.  A state-court jury in Beaumont,  Texas , ordered Wyeth in
April 2004 to pay more than  $1 billion  to the family of a former
fen-phen user who died from PPH. The panel awarded Cynthia
Cappel-Coffey’s family $113 million in compensatory damages and
$900 million in punitive damages over the company’s mishandling
of the combination.  Testimony showed that Cappel-Coffey, an X-ray technician,
took Pondimin for five months in 1997 and was diagnosed with PPH
in February 2002. She died the following year at age 41. Cappel-
Coffey’s case later was settled for an undisclosed sum,
according to her lawyers.  Month’s Use  Wyeth officials also agreed to pay at least $10 million in
2000 to settle claims brought by the family of a Massachusetts
woman who used the fen-phen combination for less than a month
before developing PPH and dying.  The drugmaker’s lawyers filed their PPH latency challenge
this year as two new cases were set for trial in the federal and
state courts in Philadelphia.  Wyeth’s attorneys contend that Jamie Cheek and Valarie
Farmer can’t prove their PPH cases were caused by their diet-
drug use in the 1990s. Cheek’s symptoms didn’t appear for nine
years after her last use of the drug, and Farmer’s became
evident 11 years after she stopped taking it.  If the drugmaker wins, its lawyers plan to use the rulings
in those two cases to keep the remaining PPH cases around the
country from going to trial.  Proper Cases  PPH cases were excluded from the national settlement. Wyeth
officials specifically defined what constituted a proper PPH
case to be litigated outside the accord,  Raymond Williams  and
 Heidi Levine , two of Pfizer’s lawyers, said in a July 7 filing.  The definition requires plaintiffs to present evidence
ruling out alternative causes for their PPH other than diet-drug
use, Pfizer’s attorneys said in the filing.  “PPH is not a signature disease that is necessarily
associated with diet-drug use,” according to the filing. “It
has many non-diet-drug causes.”  Anand Agneshwar, a Pfizer lawyer, told Bartle at today’s
hearing that the settlement requires plaintiffs’ doctors to do
an exhaustive review of the possible causes of the former fen-
phen user’s PPH.  The physician “must rule out other conditions” that could
have caused the ailment, such as sleep apnea, Agneshwar said.  Year After  The company also contends the risks of developing PPH tied
to diet-drug use drop a year after the last use of the pills,
according to the filing.  Plaintiffs with cases pending “ingested diet drugs nearly
a decade or more before the onset of their symptoms and there is
no reliable evidence of risk today,” Chris Loder, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Plaintiffs still file PPH cases against the drugmaker,
forcing it to spend money to evaluate claims that are sometimes
as much as 11 years old, Pfizer’s lawyers said in the filing.  “Part of the essential bargain of the National Settlement
Agreement was an end to settled diet-drug claims, including
claims for pulmonary hypertension when the plaintiff could not
rule out other causes of the disease,” Pfizer’s lawyers argued.  “Nearly 15 years later, defendants are entitled to the
benefit of their bargained-for release,” the lawyers wrote.  Lawyers for PPH claimants counter in their filings that
respected medical researchers have concluded diet-drug use can
be one of the triggers of the  lung disease  and that it has an
undetermined latency period.  ‘No Risk’  Attorneys for former users said another federal judge who
studied the PPH latency issue found in 2002 that experts
dismissed the idea that there “is no risk beyond 12 months of
last use,” according to an Aug. 6 filing by Michael Fishbein, a
Philadelphia-based lawyer representing fen-phen claimants.  Medical researchers agree that “every known cause of PPH
has a significant period of latency of up to a decade or more,”
Fishbein told Bartle at today’s hearing.  Sean Tracey , a Houston-based lawyer who has PPH cases
pending against Wyeth, said the company’s filings show the push
to have the cases thrown out is motivated more by frustration
over the long-running diet-drug litigation than scientific
positions on the latency issue.  “They seem to be tired of writing checks,” Tracey said in
an interview this month. “I’ve told them that my clients are
tired of dying and that these cases deserve to go forward.”  Loder, Pfizer’s spokesman, declined to comment on whether
Pfizer officials were frustrated by the continuing PPH
litigation.  The cases are in Re Diet Drugs Products Liability
Litigation, MDL No. 1203, and Brown v. American Home Products
Corp., 2:99-cv-20593, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  