-- PGNiG May Take Steps to Avoid Breaching Debt Covenants
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-08-23T08:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/pgnig-may-take-steps-to-avoid-breaching-debt-covenants-1-.html
Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA , Poland’s dominant gas company, may take steps to
avoid breaching debt covenants after posting an unexpected loss
in the second quarter.  Net debt  increased to 7.59 billion zloty ($2.35 billion) at
the end of June, while earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization fell 49 percent to 951 million
zloty in the first half. The ratio of net debt to cumulative
four-quarter Ebitda rose to 3.2 at the end of June, compared
with the 3.5 covenant in PGNiG’s agreement with creditors.  “We are aware of the situation with net debt and Ebitda,”
Chief Financial Officer Slawomir Hinc said at a conference call
today. The company’s steps may include asking the country’s
energy regulator to allow it to increase prices to maintain the
debt measure “at the level acceptable by financial
institutions.”  The former gas monopoly is  Poland ’s biggest corporate debt
issuer after selling 500 million euros ($627 million) of
Eurobonds in February and 2.5 billion zloty of domestic
securities in June. PGNiG, which completed a 3 billion-zloty
acquisition of Vattenfall AB’s Warsaw heat and power units,
plans to spend 27 billion zloty by 2015 to expand storage
facilities and increase gas and oil production.  “It seems PGNiG won’t breach debt covenants at the end of
this year and I wouldn’t expect bigger problems toward the end
of the year,” Maciej Hebda, a Warsaw-based analyst at Espirito
Santo Investment SA, said by phone. “Next year I expect Ebitda
to rise significantly.”  The company said its Ebitda will rise next year as it
starts production from its Polish and Norwegian oil fields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  