-- Philips to Market Surgery Robot to Alleviate Lead-Draped Doctors
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2012-08-23T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/philips-to-market-surgery-robot-to-alleviate-lead-draped-doctors.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  will
start selling a robot-assisted medical system to treat
obstructed coronary arteries as it seeks to advance its lead in
the booming market for image-guided intervention therapy.  The Dutch company teamed up with Corindus Vascular
Robotics, whose robotic operating system complements Philips’ X-
ray technology, and the two companies entered a distribution
accord in the U.S. after the product was approved by the Food &
Drug Administration in July. Philips said it is building
reference sites for the system and wants to complete some sales
this year.  “This is a bet we are making, this is a place where we
think we are providing solutions that health care needs,” said
Gene Saragnese, the head of Philips’ imaging systems subsidiary.
“There is cost pressure on hospitals, there is pressure to
deliver higher-quality care, and there are more patients around
the world looking for access to health care than ever before.”  Philips has benefited from growth rates in interventional
imaging that are twice the pace of diagnostics in the 17
billion-euro ($21 billion) global market for medical imaging
equipment. Doctors conducted more than 950,000 interventions to
pry open blocked heart arteries in the U.S. alone last year,
according to Amsterdam-based Philips.  Marketing the system comes about a year after Philips and
Natick, Massachusetts-based Corindus announced an alliance.
Philips will target the U.S. market initially, and it may be
sold globally eventually, Saragnese said in a telephone
interview.  Lead Aprons  As more hospitals treat patients with so-called minimal
invasive therapy instead of open surgery, doctors performing the
operation are supported by image guidance that exposes them to
regular doses of x-rays, forcing them to wear 50-pound (23
kilogram) lead aprons during procedures that can last hours.  Physicians using the Corindus system sit in a radiation-
free environment and interact with the patient through the
robot, with x-ray technology providing the image guidance.
Philips is the exclusive distributor, and doctors can integrate
the robotic application with their existing imaging systems,
Saragnese said.  Philips competes in the global medical imaging market with
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens AG. (SIE)  The Dutch company is No. 2
in ultrasound, the biggest segment of the market, and the leader
in interventional x-ray used in the Corindus system. Siemens,
based in Munich, has spent billions of euros to expand its
medical diagnostics business in recent years. Saragnese said
that seeking partnerships with start-ups will continue.  “A large company like us can’t do everything, so
partnering with the right companies in the industry is a
powerful formula,” Saragnese said. “They were attracted to us
because of the size of our installed base.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  