-- Polycom Sues Sun Capital to Enforce Share-Purchase Deal
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-08-23T15:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/polycom-sues-sun-capital-to-enforce-share-purchase-deal.html
Polycom Inc. (PLCM) , a maker of video-
conferencing equipment, sued leveraged buyout firm Sun Capital
Partners Inc. for allegedly violating the terms of a share-
purchase agreement valued at as much as $114 million.  Sun Capital Partners said on May 10 that its affiliate had
agreed to purchase the enterprise wireless communications
division of Polycom for $110 million in cash. Polycom, based in
Pleasanton,  California , said in an Aug. 21 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that the deal could bring
$4 million more and that the company would sue to enforce the
agreement.  “Defendants have breached and are continuing to breach
several interrelated contracts” for the transaction, Polycom
said in a case summary filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery
Court in Wilmington. Most of the documents were kept secret by
the court.  Polycom declined 1.1 percent to $9.53 at 11:40 a.m.  New
York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares dropped
41 percent this year before today.  “As a matter of policy, Sun Capital does not comment on
pending litigation,” the  Boca Raton , Florida-based company said
in an e-mailed statement from spokesman Chuck Dianis. “We are
proud of our reputation of having integrity and fairness, and we
have acted, and continue to act, in good faith in this matter.”
The firm said it would fight the lawsuit.  Sun Capital said in May that the deal should be completed
in the third quarter.  The case is Polycom v. Sun Capital Partners, CA7803,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  