-- Premier Oil Expands From Falkland to Cyprus on Rising Cash Flow
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-08-23T09:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/premier-oil-expands-from-falkland-to-cyprus-on-rising-cash-flow.html
Premier Oil Plc (PMO) , a U.K. explorer
with  North Sea  and Southeast Asian fields, is expanding projects
with record cash flow and plans to double its production in the
medium term.  Premier has been securing new exploration assets in  Kenya ,
 Iraq  and the Falkland Islands and is bidding for fields off
Cyprus. It plans to invest between $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion
in projects a year until 2017, said Premier Chief Financial
Officer Tony Durrant. Cash flow will rise from $1 billion next
year to $2.5 billion in 2016, when the U.K. Catcher field comes
on stream, he said.  “Rapidly our cash flow is overtaking our capital
expenditure,” Durrant said in a phone interview.  First-half operating  cash flow  rose 34 percent to $325.5
million, London-based company said today in a statement. It
expects to raise extraction to 75,000 barrels of oil equivalent
a day once the Huntington and Rochelle fields come online at the
end of the year. Output will further rise to 100,000 barrels in
the medium term, up from 40,400 barrels a day pumped last year.  “We have a lot of activity on all fronts, which is really
about maintaining the momentum that we have created over the
last couple of years to carry on the growth pattern,” said
Chief Executive Officer Simon Lockett.  Premier plans to drill “three very important wells” in
 Norway , the U.K. and  Vietnam  in the next six months, the CEO
said in a phone interview. “What we have been doing is making
sure we’ve got the right exploration portfolio core beyond
2013.”  Developing Plans  Premier is developing plans for its $5 billion project off
the Falkland Islands after it agreed to join  Rockhopper
Exploration Plc (RKH) ’s Sea Lion field. The political situation around
the disputed archipelago is improving with the U.S.’s  Noble
Energy Inc. (NBL)  and French government-supported Electricite de
France SA stepping in to explore for oil, Durrant said.  “It’s not such a bad combination now,” the CFO said.  Oil discoveries around the Falklands have inflamed tensions
between the U.K. and  Argentina , which maintains a claim on the
territory after losing a war with Britain about three decades
ago. The Latin American nation in July warned Premier of illegal
exploration around the disputed territory.  In the U.K., Premier has teamed up with  ConocoPhillips (COP)  to
drill the high-pressure, high-temperature Lacewing well. In
Iraq, it agreed to work with Russia’s OAO Bashneft in Block 12.    To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  