-- Purchases of New Homes in U.S. Probably Rebounded in July
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/purchases-of-new-homes-in-u-s-probably-rebounded-in-july.html
Purchases of  new homes  in the U.S.
probably rose in July for the third time in four months, a sign
the industry that helped trigger the recession is recovering,
economists said before a report today.  Sales, tabulated when contracts are signed, climbed 4.3
percent to a 365,000 annual pace, according to the  median 
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 72 economists. Another report
may show the number of claims for jobless benefits was little
changed last week.  Buyers are returning to the market to take advantage of
cheaper properties and record-low  mortgage rates , helping to
boost orders at builders like  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  Competition
from foreclosures, unemployment exceeding 8 percent and limited
credit pose hurdles to a more pronounced rebound, one reason
Federal Reserve policy makers are monitoring housing data.  “The housing market has stabilized,” said  Russell Price ,
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit .
“People believe the worst is over and it’s a good time to act.
Builders will have to increase activity just to keep up with
sales.”  The Commerce Department will release the data at 10 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from 340,000 to
400,000, following a decline in June to a 350,000 pace.  At 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department may report the number of
initial applications for unemployment insurance payments fell by
1,000 to 365,000 last week, according to the Bloomberg survey
 median . While a decline in firings signals the job market is
stabilizing, a pickup in hiring is needed to reduce a jobless
rate that has topped 8 percent for 42 consecutive months.  More Timely  Sales of new homes are considered a timelier barometer than
purchases of previously owned dwellings, which are calculated
when a contract closes. Newly constructed houses accounted for
6.7 percent of the residential market in 2011, down from a high
of 15 percent during the boom of the past decade.  Existing-home sales rose to a 4.47 million annual rate in
July from an eight-month low the prior month, the National
Association of Realtors reported yesterday. Restrictive lending
rules, a lack of inventory and lingering unemployment may be
preventing a rebound to the 5 million to 5.5 million sales pace
that the real-estate group’s said signals a “normal” market.  The NAR figures also showed distressed sales, comprised of
foreclosures and short sales, in which the lender agrees to a
transaction for less than the balance of the mortgage, accounted
for 24 percent of existing-home purchases. The share was less
than the prior month and down from 29 percent in July 2011. Of
those, 12 percent were foreclosed houses and 12 percent were
short sales.  Builder Profits  Companies benefiting from rising demand include  Bloomfield
Hills , Michigan-based  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, which posted a 32 percent jump in
second-quarter orders. Toll, the largest U.S. luxury-home
builder, yesterday reported a better-than-estimated profit and
an increase in revenue for the fiscal third-quarter.  “We are enjoying the most sustained demand we’ve
experienced in over five years,” Douglas Yearley Jr., chief
executive officer of the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based company,
said in a statement. “Customers who have postponed buying for a
number of years are moving into the market.”  Investors also are upbeat about prospects for the industry.
The S&P Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  has advanced 60
percent since the beginning of this year, outpacing a 12 percent
gain in the broader  S&P 500. (SPX)   Mortgage Rates  Borrowing costs continue to aid home buyers. The average
rate on a  30-year fixed  mortgage dropped to 3.49 percent in the
week ended July 26, the lowest in records dating to 1971,
according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  Among other signs of improvement, residential construction
permits, a proxy for future work, jumped to a four-year high in
July. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
index of builder confidence rose in August to the highest level
since 2007.  Fed officials assessed that “conditions in the housing
sector appeared to have improved somewhat, but from a very low
level,” according to minutes of the central bank’s July 31-Aug.
1 meeting released yesterday.  Many of the policy makers also said additional stimulus
would “likely be warranted fairly soon” unless the economy
shows signs of a durable pickup, according to the text.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  