-- Mahindra Cuts Tractor Sales Forecast as Sowing Area Drops
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-08-24T10:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/tractor-sales-forecast-cut-as-sowing-area-drops-corporate-india.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the
world’s biggest tractor maker by volume, cut its forecast for
sales growth of the  farm equipment  in India as the worst
rainfall in three years delays crop sowing.  Mahindra estimates industry sales to expand as little as 2
percent in the year ending March 31, Pawan Goenka, president of
the automotive and farm equipment division at the Mumbai-based
company, said in an e-mail response yesterday. Goenka had
earlier estimated sales to rise as much as 10 percent. Tractor
 revenue  rose 22 percent at Mahindra last fiscal year.  Below-average rains prompted farmer Sandeep Chakane, a cane
grower in Maharashtra state, to scrap plans to buy his second
 Deere & Co. (DE)  tractor. The area under monsoon crops in  India , the
world’s second-largest producer of rice and wheat, dropped 6.2
percent as of Aug. 17, according to data from the farm ministry.
Rain was deficient or scanty in 45 percent of the country, the
 India Meteorological Department  said yesterday.  “There is no guarantee of a good crop this year because of
less rain,” said Chakane, who was planning to spend 650,000
rupees ($11,774) on the tractor to farm his 12 acres (48,562
square meters) of land. “I will hold on to the cash.”  Mahindra, which has risen 12 percent this year, fell 1.2
percent to 761.95 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai,
making it the worst performer in the  BSE Auto Index. (BSEAUTO)   Escorts
Ltd. (ESC) , India’s second-largest publicly traded tractor maker, lost
1.8 percent to 62.9 rupees.  Deliveries of the farm equipment made up for 22 percent of
Mahindra’s sales in the year ended March 31. Selling utility
vehicles such as Xylo and XUV500 accounted for 55 percent of its
revenue.  Sowing Area  Sales at the company co-founded by Chairman  Anand Mahindra ’s paternal grandfather J.C. Mahindra and his partner
Ghulam Mohammed in 1945, may rise 12 percent to 664.3 billion
rupees in the fiscal year, according to a median  estimate  of 10
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the slowest pace of
growth in four years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rice sowing dropped 3.4 percent to 30.8 million hectares
from a year earlier, the farm ministry said. Cotton area
declined to 11.02 million hectares from 11.7 million hectares,
and oilseeds area slid to 16.1 million hectares from 16.7
million hectares, it said.  “The spatial pattern of monsoon suggests that output
losses could be substantial for coarse cereals and pulses,” the
 Reserve Bank  of India said in its  annual report  released
yesterday. “The monsoon has been unsatisfactory to a degree
that has dampened the prospects for agriculture during” the
year that started April 1, according to the report.  Overseas Sales  The central bank on July 31 raised its inflation forecast
to 7 percent as scanty monsoon stokes price pressures. The
Reserve Bank cut its growth estimate for Asia’s third-largest
economy, which expanded at its slowest pace in almost a decade
in the three months ended March 31, to 6.5 percent.  Tractor sales may be little changed at 625,888 units in the
12 months starting April 1 after an 11 percent expansion a year
earlier, according to credit assessor  ICRA Ltd. (ICRA)   Companies including International Tractors Ltd. and
Tractors & Farm Equipment Ltd., or TAFE, are tapping overseas
markets and adding products to lure customers in the
 construction industry .  International Tractors, the maker of the Sonalika brand,
plans to raise funds selling a stake and use the proceeds for
acquisitions in  Europe  and expansion overseas, Chairman L.D.
Mittal said.  International Tractors’ exports surged 49 percent this
year, Mittal said. TAFE forecasts it will add to the 22,000
tractors it sold in the U.S. last year even as a drought ravages
the North American nation, according company spokesman
Vijaykumar Browning. Mahindra sold more than 10,000 units in the
U.S. last year, according to its  annual report .  New Products  “The U.S. market is doing well for us,” Mahindra’s Goenka
said. The company’s overseas sales increased 16 percent to
13,722 in the 12 months to March.  Overseas sales look “promising through inclusion of new
export destinations, increased product offerings in the higher
horse power segment and ramping up of capacities,” said Subrata Ray, co-head for corporate-sector ratings at ICRA. Companies
have also expanded their “product portfolio to come out with
more application-based offerings, and to cater to niche market
segments,” he said.  Weak demand in India and  Latin America  prompted Deere, the
world’s largest maker of agriculture equipment, to cut its full-
year profit forecast to $3.1 billion on Aug. 15 from a May
estimate of $3.35 billion.  Tractor Dealers  Asia  sales will drop “moderately” in the year because of
“softening” in India and  China , Deere said. The U.S. company
accounted for 9.2 percent of India’s tractor market in the year
ended March 31. Mahindra controlled 39 percent, while TAFE had
24 percent share, according to ICRA.  For tractor dealers in western Indian states such as
Maharashtra, home to India’s commercial capital Mumbai, the drop
in sales may be larger after a 30 percent rain deficit since
June 1.  “Customers who have booked tractors have left their cash
deposits with me and are saying that they will only take
delivery once the rains come,” said Sopan Tupe, owner of a TAFE
dealership in Pune, the state’s second-largest city. Tupe
expects to sell just half of the 100 tractors he sold last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  