-- Ralcorp Investor Corvex Said to Seek ConAgra Deal Revival
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-08-23T15:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/ralcorp-investor-corvex-said-to-seek-conagra-deal-revival.html
Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  investor
Corvex Management LP is interested in reviving  ConAgra Foods
Inc. (CAG) ’s bid for the maker of Raisin Bran cereals, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Corvex wants Ralcorp to explore selling the company or
merging with another, and ConAgra is a possibility because the
company made a bid last year, said the person, who asked not to
be named because the discussions are private. Corvex disclosed
in a regulatory filing today that it acquired a 5.1 percent
 stake  in St. Louis-based Ralcorp and said the company should
consider putting itself up for sale or embark on a new strategy
focusing on takeovers.  Ralcorp, which also sells cookies and pasta under
retailers’ own brands, rejected a $5.18 billion takeover bid
from ConAgra last year, saying it would spin off its Post Foods
unit instead and focus on private-label goods. In May, Ralcorp
said it would restate results for fiscal 2011 and the first
quarter of 2012 after understating an impairment charge related
to the spinoff of Post, which occurred in February.  Corvex, based in  New York , said in the filing that the
“status quo is unacceptable” and Ralcorp has had “several
serious execution issues since the Post separation including
disappointing earnings.”  Matt Pudlowski, a Ralcorp spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment. Teresa Paulsen, a ConAgra
spokeswoman, and Nick Graziano, a Corvex senior managing
partner, declined to comment.  Ralcorp  rose  2.5 percent to $70.05 at 11:17 a.m. in New
York. The shares had dropped 5.7 percent this year through
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  