-- RBA to Release Documents in Bribery Probe, Governor Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-24T01:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/rba-to-release-documents-in-bribery-probe-governor-says.html
Reserve Bank of  Australia  Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said the bank is compiling documents relating to
allegations of bribery at its note-printing units and will make
them public once it receives court approvals.  The bank plans to submit the documents, which include a
2007 report from the Freehills law firm that concluded no
Australian laws were broken at  Note Printing Australia Ltd. , to
a parliamentary panel “at the earliest opportunity,” Stevens
said today in his semi-annual testimony before the economics
committee in Canberra, where the bank’s views on  interest rates 
and the economy usually dominate the discussion.  Eight former managers and employees at the bank’s Note
Printing Australia unit and its half-owned subsidiary,  Securency
International Pty , face charges in relation to the bribing of
officials in  Malaysia , Indonesia and  Vietnam  from 1999 to 2004
to win bank-note printing contracts. The RBA is facing demands
from Greens Party lawmaker  Adam Bandt  for a public inquiry into
the matter, which has resulted in the first prosecutions under
anti-bribery laws enacted in Australia in 2000.  “We are taking steps to seek the permission of the court
to allow the bank to table those materials,” Stevens said.  The central bank governor today repeated denials of media
allegations that some senior RBA officials were involved in
covering up evidence of corruption at the units.  Freehills Probe  The board of Note Printing Australia asked Freehills to
conduct an investigation after a 2007 audit raised concerns
about the practices of some sales agents, Stevens said. While
that probe was under way, then-Deputy Governor Ric Battellino
was given a written briefing from an NPA employee raising
concerns over the company’s conduct, the governor said.  “The Freehills report was highly critical of NPA’s
practices,” Stevens said. “It concluded, based on the material
then available, that there was no evidence of a breach of
Australian law.”  Andrew McKenzie, a spokesman for Freehills, declined to
comment because communication with the bank is covered by
attorney-client privilege.  A similar audit was conducted at Securency, which found the
company “had a ‘good and robust process’ in place in relation
to overseas agent contracts and payments,” the governor said.
Another audit in 2008 made the same finding, so when allegations
of corruption were published in the Australian media in
mid-2009, the RBA was “completely surprised,” Stevens said.  ‘Critical Information’  “We now know, including from a report conducted by  KPMG 
for the Securency Board later in 2009, that critical information
regarding the use of agents was withheld from the audit teams
and the Securency Board in 2007 and 2008,” Stevens told the
panel.  Tony Smith, a lawmaker in the opposition  Liberal Party ,
earlier this week called on Stevens to be more open and release
internal documents relating to the bribery charges.  “If these questions linger today, they will fester
tomorrow,” Smith told parliament on Aug. 20.  The Reserve Bank is committed to transparency, Stevens said
today. The bank is restricted on what documents it can release
by court orders, he said.  Securency’s former chief financial officer David Ellery
pleaded guilty to one charge of false accounting and on Aug. 20
was given a six-month suspended sentence after he agreed to
cooperate with investigators and testify at trials of the other
employees.  Note Printing Australia is governed by a board of directors
appointed by the  Reserve Bank . Securency’s board has three
directors appointed by the RBA. The central bank said in its
annual report last year that it had replaced its representatives
on the two companies’ boards. The RBA said in November 2010 that
it will sell its stake in Securency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  