-- RBI Says Weak India Growth Outlook Imperils Budget Deficit Goal
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-08-23T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/rbi-says-weak-india-growth-outlook-imperils-budget-deficit-goal.html
The Indian government may exceed its
budget-deficit target because of higher spending on petroleum
subsidies and a weak economic growth outlook that could lead to
a tax shortfall, the  Reserve Bank of India  said.  “There is no scope for complacency as fiscal slippage is
likely” in the year through March 2013, the central bank said
in its  annual report  released in Mumbai yesterday. The shortfall
in the current account, the broadest measure of trade, is set to
remain above a sustainable level, it said.  These risks must be tackled “forthwith” to contain
threats to economic stability, it said, adding  India  needs to
revive investment in public works to help counter the weakest
expansion in nine years. The Reserve Bank left  interest rates 
unchanged in July to fight an inflation rate that has averaged
more than 7 percent for most of 2012. It said yesterday that
damping price increases remains the “cornerstone” of monetary
policy.  “There are significant risks to deficit and revenue
targets,” said Suvodeep Rakshit, an economist at Kotak
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “ Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch Ratings
are watching us closely and if the deficit keeps slipping, then
a credit-rating downgrade will be a very credible scenario.”  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram earlier this month
pledged to unveil a road map for fiscal consolidation soon. The
government’s target is to pare the  budget gap  to 5.1 percent of
gross domestic product this fiscal year from 5.8 percent in
2011-2012, in part by keeping expenditure on a subsidy program
ranging from diesel to fertilizers at less than 2 percent of
GDP.  Downgrade Threat  Forecasters from Citigroup Inc. to Crisil Ltd., the local
unit of Standard & Poor’s, predict the fiscal deficit will
instead widen as economic expansion falters. S&P and Fitch have
said they may strip India of its investment-grade rating, citing
risks such as the trade and budget imbalances. The  current-
account gap  reached a record 4.2 percent of GDP last fiscal
year.  The impact of a below-average monsoon on crops, a drop in
the rupee, and the need to raise fuel prices to curb subsidies
are among upside risks to  inflation , according to the  Reserve
Bank . Lingering price pressures, even as economic expansion
slows, are a “major policy challenge,” the central bank said.  The rupee has slumped about 17 percent against the dollar
in the past year. It strengthened 0.4 percent to 55.2550 per
dollar in Mumbai yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The BSE India Sensitive Index was little changed.  Faltering Recovery  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left borrowing costs at 8 percent
for a second meeting on July 31, breaking with a wave of rate
cuts from  China  to  Brazil  as a faltering global recovery adds
pressure on officials to support economic expansion.  Headline Indian  inflation  eased to a 32-month low of 6.87
percent last month, while staying the fastest among the biggest
 emerging markets .  Asia ’s third-largest economy may expand 6.5
percent in 2012-2013, matching the slowest pace in nine years,
the monetary authority forecast last month.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is struggling to salvage his
development agenda as infighting in the ruling coalition and
allegations of graft paralyze policy making. A failure to ease
infrastructure bottlenecks has also hurt India’s outlook.
Economic conditions are unlikely to improve in the near term,
partly due to “policy stasis,” the Reserve Bank said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  