-- Treasuries Snap Rally Before TIPS Auction, New Home Sales
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-08-23T11:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/treasuries-snap-rally-before-tips-auction-new-home-sales.html
Treasury 10-year yields dropped to
the lowest level in a week after an industry report showed
 China ’s manufacturing may shrink at a faster pace this month,
adding to signs global growth is slowing.  U.S. government securities were also supported after an
index of services and manufacturing in the euro-area contracted
for a seventh month, underpinning demand for the safest assets.
Federal Reserve policy makers signaled their readiness to boost
record stimulus unless they are convinced the economy is poised
to rebound, according to minutes of their most recent meeting
released yesterday.  “There seem to be increased signs of a slowdown,
particularly in China and  Europe , while the  U.S. economy  is
facing fiscal challenges in the next few months,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in Edinburgh. “This kind of economic backdrop will
continue to support demand for  government bonds .”  The benchmark 10-year Treasury  yield  was little changed at
1.70 percent at 7:09 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. It earlier declined to 1.67 percent, the
lowest level since Aug. 14. The 1.625 percent note maturing in
August 2022 traded at 99 11/32.  China’s  purchasing managers’ index  fell to 47.8 in August
from a final reading of 49.3 for July,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
Markit Economics said today. A euro-area  composite index  based
on a survey of purchasing managers in services and manufacturing
was little changed at 46.6 this month from 46.5 in July, Markit
Economics said in  London . Figures below 50 show contraction.  Additional Stimulus  Fed policy makers said further stimulus will probably be
needed unless the economy shows signs of a durable pickup,
according to the minutes of their July 31-Aug. 1 gathering.  “Many members judged that additional monetary
accommodation would likely be warranted fairly soon unless
incoming information pointed to a substantial and sustainable
strengthening in the pace of the economic recovery,” the
minutes showed.  The U.S. central bank is scheduled to buy as much as $2
billion of Treasuries maturing from November 2022 to February
2031 today, according to the  website  of its New York branch. The
purchases are part of the Fed’s efforts to exchange shorter-term
Treasuries in its holdings for those due in six to 30 years to
support the economy by putting downward pressure on long-term
borrowing costs.  TIPS Auction  The U.S. government will sell $14 billion of inflation-
protected securities today. Five-year TIPS  yielded  negative 1.23
percent, compared with minus 1.08 percent at the previous
auction on April 19, which was an all-time low.  Investors bid for 2.58 times the amount of debt offered in
April, versus 3 times in December.  Indirect bidders , the
investor class that includes foreign central banks, bought 36
percent, the least in two years.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of two-year debt on Aug. 28,
the same amount of five-year notes the following day and $29
billion of seven-year securities on Aug. 30, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory company based in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey .  The government issues a combination of two-, five- and
seven-year notes every month.  TIPS handed investors a 4.7 percent gain this year compared
with a 3.5 percent return from German index-linked bonds and a
loss of 2.3 percent from U.K. inflation-protected gilts,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  