-- Missouri Congressman Akin Vows to Stay in Senate Race
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k   a n d   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2012-08-24T23:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/threat-against-missouri-congressman-akin-under-investigation.html
Todd Akin, whose remarks on abortion
and rape led fellow Republicans to urge him to quit as the
party’s Senate candidate in  Missouri , reiterated his vow to stay
in the race as authorities investigate threats against him.  Akin, a six-term congressman, said today he will continue
his campaign to unseat Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill 
despite pressure to abandon his bid from Republican leaders,
including presumed presidential nominee  Mitt Romney .  “There are some people who are having trouble
understanding our message,” Akin said during a news conference
in Chesterfield, Missouri. “We’re going to be here through the
November election and we’re going to be here to win.”  Akin, 65, stirred outrage from women’s groups and lawmakers
in both parties after he said during an Aug. 19 interview that
“legitimate rape” rarely leads to pregnancy. The controversy
roiled a race that may be pivotal for control of the Senate just
as Republicans prepare to hold their nominating convention next
week in Tampa,  Florida . He has since apologized, saying he
“misspoke.”  Akin said today that there have been threats against him
since his remarks. “There have been threats, both on life and
on rape,” the lawmaker said, adding that House rules barred him
from disclosing more.  The U.S. Capitol Police and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  are investigating “at least one threat they deem
significant,”  Steve Taylor , a member of Akin’s congressional
staff in Missouri, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
Capitol Police and Lauren Ellis, Akin’s chief of staff, also
confirmed the investigation.  ‘Reported Threat’  Taylor declined to specify the exact nature of the threat.
Calls to the congressman’s office urged the “rape of
Congressman Akin’s official staff, the congressman and members
of his family, and there’s also been some suggestions that some
people die,” Taylor said.  Capitol Police are working with the FBI “on a reported
threat against Congressman Akin,” Lieutenant Kimberly Schneider
said in an e-mailed statement. “This is an active, open
investigation. Of course, we don’t discuss the security of
members of Congress -- this includes our security operations and
procedures.”  The FBI didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Akin beat St. Louis businessman John Brunner and former
State Treasurer Sarah Steelman in an Aug. 7 primary. In
reiterating his intent to stay in the race today, Akin said: “
“That was the election, and I was the nominee.”  ‘Party Bosses’  Akin faced down several calls from within his party’s
leadership to leave the Senate race earlier this week, remaining
past an Aug. 21 deadline to remove his name from the ballot.  “Todd Akin’s comments were offensive and wrong, and he
should very seriously consider what course would be in the best
interest of our country,” Republican presidential candidate
Mitt Romney said in a statement this week. Romney called for him
to “exit the Senate race.”  The  National Republican Senatorial Committee  has said it
would no longer help Akin. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which
had previously funded ads against McCaskill, won’t continue to
be involved in the race, a spokeswoman told the  Associated
Press .  Akin’s campaign tried to use opposition within the party to
his advantage, saying in one fundraising appeal: “Party bosses
have been clear: They want nothing to do with our effort to
unseat liberal Claire McCaskill.”  Akin raised more than $100,000 in contributions in an
appeal to donors this week, according to his campaign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  