-- Retaliation on Airline Carbon May Breach Law: Researcher
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-08-23T13:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/retaliation-on-airline-co2-may-breach-law-researcher.html
Nations that retaliate against the
European Union’s decision to include airlines in its carbon
market from this year may fall foul of international trade
rules, according to a University of Cambridge researcher.  “If a World Trade Organization member restricts EU flights
over its territory, or landing slots for EU flights in its
territory, it is likely to violate WTO obligations ensuring non-
discriminatory treatment of trade in goods, as well as freedom
of transit,” Lorand Bartels, a lecturer in WTO and
international law at the U.K. university’s  Trinity Hall , said
Aug. 21 in a phone interview from  Buenos Aires .  The U.S., China and  India  have criticized the EU market,
which requires all aircraft landing in and departing from  Europe 
to surrender enough carbon dioxide allowances to cover
emissions.  Russia , which yesterday became the 156th member of
the WTO, may consider limits on European flights over Siberia,
Valery Okulov, Russia’s Deputy Transportation Minister, said
Feb. 22.  “Retaliation in this way would be an ironic way for Russia
to begin its membership of the WTO,” Bartels said. “The
multilateral trading system was designed to prevent countries
from using trade restrictions for political purposes.”  Delta, American Airlines  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  American Airlines  owner  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) 
are among U.S. carriers that oppose the European rules.  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  this year imposed a $3 one-way fee on
flights from the U.S. to Europe, matching an earlier charge by
Delta to help pay for the cost of EU emission permits.  The EU has already started distributing 2012 carbon
allowances to airlines, 85 percent of which will be free of
charge, according to figures cited by  Jos Delbeke , director
general of climate action at the European Commission, who spoke
at a  U.S. Senate hearing  in June. Additional permit needs can be
bought at auctions expected later this year or in traded
markets.  Extending the cap-and-trade system to the  airline industry 
as of the start of this year builds on the market began in 2005
to cover greenhouse-gas emissions from  power plants  and
manufacturers in 30 countries; the 27 EU nations plus Iceland,
Liechtenstein and Norway. Airline carbon-dioxide discharges in
Europe doubled over two decades and aviation now accounts for
about 3 percent of global emissions.  Nations Protest  Officials from 29 countries, including the U.S., signed a
declaration protesting the EU law in February and said they
would consider retaliatory actions, including barring their air
carriers from participating in the market, challenging the
system at the WTO and imposing additional charges on EU
carriers.  While expanding the system to aviation probably violates
global trade rules, the WTO permits measures that are necessary
“to protect human, animal or plant life or health,” according
to Bartels.  A successful WTO complaint against the market’s expansion
would have to show that the EU could have achieved the same goal
another way that is “both reasonably available and less trade-
restrictive than the measure adopted. This is notoriously
difficult to assess in the abstract,” Bartels wrote in a study
for an April conference in Geneva.  The EU and other nations are pressing for a global program
to cover airline emissions being considered by the  International
Civil Aviation Organization , Delbeke said. Such a system, if
it’s “meaningful” enough, may supersede the European market,
he said.  ‘Under Pressure’  ICAO said in November it wants to strike a deal this year
to create a global carbon system for the airline industry.  “I’m under great pressure because of the EU emissions
trading system,”  Raymond Benjamin , secretary general of the
United Nations-overseen regulator based in  Montreal , said at the
time.  Some developing nations may retaliate against the EU by
cutting the bloc’s access to landing slots or imposing flight
curfews, he said.  WTO rules give the ICAO jurisdiction over some disputes
affecting aviation, Bartels said. “They also guarantee free
transit for goods exported to other countries.”  Trade disputes must be resolved using the WTO dispute-
settlement system, he said. Most passenger flights also carry
freight, making them subject to WTO rules, the researcher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  