-- Riksbank Tracking Crisis Sees Europe Recovery Starting in 2013
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-08-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/riksbank-tracking-crisis-sees-europe-recovery-starting-in-2013.html
Europe ’s debt crisis will continue
to dictate monetary policy decisions in  Sweden , where Riksbank
First Deputy Governor Kerstin af Jochnick says an improvement in
the euro area’s plight is unlikely until some time during 2013.  “We have said for a long time that the development in
Europe perhaps is the most important, since the Swedish export
market to a large extent is in Europe,” af Jochnick said in an
interview in Stockholm late yesterday. “They will find lasting
help and they will be able to solve the acute problems in the
long term, but it will take time and things will not improve
until during next year.”  The Riksbank left its  benchmark repo rate  unchanged at its
July meeting and scaled back its tightening plans as the debt
crisis in Europe drags on. The bank will probably need to lower
its main rate from 1.5 percent next year, according to a
Riksbank survey of money market participants published Aug. 15.  The Riksbank has also come under pressure from industry
groups urging policy makers to lower rates and stem the krona’s
appreciation. The bank should lower the repo rate by at least a
quarter of a percentage point to 1.25 percent at its meeting in
two weeks after the krona soared to a 12-year high against the
euro this month, according to Sweden’s trade council and
executives at industrial companies including  Svenska Cellulosa
AB (SCAB) ,  Holmen AB (HOLMB)  and Setra Group AB.  Sweden  shipped 71 percent  of its 1.21 trillion kronor ($181
billion) in exports to Europe last year, government figures
show. Half of Swedish output is derived from exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ; 