-- Trinity Says Growth to Accelerate on China Economic Policies
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-08-23T06:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/trinity-says-growth-to-accelerate-on-china-s-economic-policies.html
  Trinity Ltd. (891)  , the high-end
menswear retailer that sells Gieves & Hawkes and Cerruti in
China, expects sales to increase faster next year as the
government takes steps to boost economic growth.  Growth may pick up next year after same-store sales
increased about 6.5 percent in the first half, Managing Director
Sunny Wong said in an interview today. He expects comparable-
store sales growth to climb “mid-to-high single digits” for
the full year.  Wong joins other executives in forecasting better sales for
the consumer industry in 2013 after a slowing economy curbed
spending this year.  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389) ,  Swatch Group AG (UHR) ’s
China retail partner, this week said it expects luxury sales to
improve next year. China has cut  interest rates  twice since June
amid  economic growth  that has slowed for six straight quarters.  “I’m generally more optimistic about next year,” said
Wong. “If China’s exports come back, and the government puts
forward some monetary easing or stimulus measures, we’ll have a
greater chance for a better performance.”  Trinity climbed as much as 3.5 percent to HK$5.56 before
trading at HK$5.46. The benchmark Hang Seng Index gained 0.92
percent.  Trinity yesterday reported an 11 percent increase in first-
half profit to HK$265 million. The company had to start
discounting in June to get rid of higher inventory, Wong said.  Comparable- or same-store sales strip out the effect of new
outlets by excluding those open for less than a year.  “This is not a good summer,” Wong said. “The summer
sales promotion came early.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in  Hong Kong  at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  