-- Rockwood to Buy Talison for $728 Million to Add Lithium
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2012-08-23T22:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/rockwood-to-acquire-talison-for-728-million-correct-.html
Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) , the world’s
largest producer of lithium products, agreed to acquire Talison
Lithium Ltd. for about C$724 million ($728 million) to diversify
its supply of the metal used in rechargeable batteries.  Investors will get C$6.50 a share, Perth, Australia-based
Talison said yesterday in a statement. That’s 56 percent more
than the average share price over the preceding 20 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Resource Capital Funds
LP, which holds 37 percent of shares, supports the deal, Talison
said.  Talison is the world’s largest producer of lithium ore,
Timothy McKenna, a Rockwood spokesman, said yesterday by
telephone. About one-quarter of lithium is extracted from ore
while three-quarters comes from lithium-rich brine, he said.
Princeton, New Jersey-based Rockwood, led by Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Seifi Ghasemi, makes lithium-based products
used in ceramics and batteries for electric vehicles.  “We like this deal for Rockwood as it makes them the clear
global leader in lithium,”  Chris Shaw , an analyst at Monness,
Crespi, Hardt & Co. in  New York , said in a note. “This deal is
less about the immediate benefits of accretion but more of a
long-term strategic move.”  Talison rose 53 percent to C$6.50 at the close in Toronto
yesterday, the biggest gain since September 2010. Rockwood
dropped 1.2 percent to $46.89 in New York.  ‘Surprise’ Deal  Rockwood is paying more than 33 times Talison’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The
median Ebitda multiple in three comparable non-ferrous-metal
company takeovers with a value of at least $100 million
announced in the past two years was 15, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Rockwood said in April it was considering a sale or an
initial public offering for its Sachtleben titanium-dioxide
unit. The Talison deal is a surprise, Shaw said.  “Everyone has been focused on Rockwood’s attempt to get
rid of assets,” he said.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is Rockwood’s financial adviser on the deal and
Gilbert & Tobin is its legal counsel. Macquarie Capital is
advising Talison.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  