-- Romania to Sell Eurobonds Abroad in Next 2 Months, Jiru Says
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-08-23T15:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/romania-to-sell-eurobonds-abroad-in-next-2-months-jiru-says-1-.html
Romania  seeks to sell bonds abroad
in the next two months to finance its  budget deficit  after
failing to sell debt at home three times this month because a
political power struggle boosted domestic borrowing costs.  The Finance Ministry is watching the markets on a weekly
basis to sell euro-denominated bonds abroad, Deputy Finance
Minister Enache Jiru said in a phone interview today. The
ministry rejected all bids for the 200 million lei ($56 million)
in four-year bonds it had planned to sell today, citing
“unacceptable yield offers.”  “With a certain safety margin, I would say we’ll
definitely issue Eurobonds in the next two months,” Jiru said.
“We’re monitoring markets on a weekly basis and holding
constant talks with investors, whose interest is starting to
increase.”  Romania has been selling less debt than planned since June
because of the political feud between Prime Minister Victor Ponta and suspended President Traian Basescu. The power struggle
plunged the currency to a record low, led to higher yields and a
failed presidential impeachment referendum.  Basescu will probably return to office next week, after the
 Constitutional Court  reads a ruling invalidating a referendum in
Parliament on Aug. 27. He was suspended from office by Ponta’s
governing coalition on July 6 on accusations that he overstepped
his duties when announcing austerity measures in 2010.  Rejected Bids  The country rejected bids on Aug. 9, when it had planned to
sell 400 million lei in two-year bonds, and on Aug. 20 at an
auction for one-year bills. It has raised 1.4 billion lei this
month from a planned 2.5 billion lei and about 39 billion lei on
the domestic market this year. It borrowed an additional $2.25
billion abroad this year.  “The pressure on domestic yields will probably continue
until the political situation returns to normal and until the
government sells Eurobonds,” Eugen Sinca a Bucharest-based
economist at Banca Comerciala Romana SA, said by phone today.
“We think the ministry will issue Eurobonds this autumn to take
advantage of the global central banks’ stimulus and a
normalization of the domestic political situation.”  The  International Monetary Fund  urged Romania to bow to
market pressure and pay higher yields on government debt to
rebuild fiscal buffers, Erik de Vrijer, the head of an IMF
mission to the country, said on Aug. 14.  IMF Program  The country needs to avoid rejecting bids at domestic
auctions and should try to sell international bonds this year if
market conditions allow it and if the government keeps its 5
billion-euro ($6.3 billion) precautionary program with the IMF
and the European Union on track, de Vrijer said at the time.  The government has used almost half of its reserves until
the end of July from May to fund a budget deficit and repay debt
before general elections later this year. The foreign-exchange
stockpile shrank to about 3.3 billion euros from 4.9 billion
euros at the end of April, the  Finance Ministry  said on July 25.  “The fact that we rejected the bids doesn’t impact the
financing of the budget deficit or that of the public debt,”
Jiru also said.  “We continue to have an adequate funding
buffer and it’s our commitment to preserve it on the short
term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  