-- Romney Led Mormons From Car Crash Tragedy in France
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/romney-in-car-crash-led-mormons-from-tragedy-in-france.html
Mitt Romney  had about six months
left to serve as a Mormon missionary in France when tragedy
struck.  The 21-year-old was driving mission leaders to Bordeaux in
June, 1968, when a car driven by a Catholic priest who’d been
drinking crossed into their lane and smashed head-on into their
Citroen DS. The accident killed the Mormon mission president’s
wife, who had been seated in the front between her husband and
Romney. She was 57.  When Mission President H. Duane Anderson, then 55, took her
body back to  California  for burial, Romney and another recruit
jointly managed the church’s France operation of about 200
missionaries for the next seven weeks.  “We were all devastated; she was our mom away from home,”
said Byron Hansen, who lived for a period with Romney and the
Andersons in the mission home in Paris. “The Mormon church
entrusted these two young men with the responsibility of
assuming the role and basically running the mission for a two-
month period. Mitt was very gung-ho and he kind of cracked the
whip on us even more so than had been done previously.”  Different Life  Romney, 65, has rarely spoken in the presidential race
about his 30 months in France for the Church of  Jesus Christ  of
Latter-day Saints. His campaign declined to comment for this
article. Yet it is a period in his life filled with experiences,
some defining and others mundane, that couldn’t be more
different from his well-to-do Michigan upbringing and his rapid
ascent from  Harvard University ’s law and business schools to the
top echelon of the investment community as co-founder of Bain
Capital LLC.  During his missionary service, he mistakenly checked into a
hotel in an area frequented by prostitutes, advised homeward-
bound young men about buying perfume for their mothers, bunked
in tiny rooms on makeshift beds, and challenged his fellow
missionaries to turn tragedy into achievement by exceeding their
religious conversion targets.  “A mission is about serving others, of course, but in my
experience, it shaped the missionary as well,” Romney wrote in
his 2010 update of his book “No Apologies.” “Like my fellow
missionaries, I lived on a hundred dollars a month -- about six
hundred of today’s dollars -- and that had to cover rent, food,
transportation, and clothing. Accordingly, I lived quite
differently than I had as the son of an American auto
executive.”  Rite of Passage  The mission experience is “university,  Peace Corps , rite
of passage,” said Dave Ulrich, a professor at the  University of
Michigan ’s Stephen M. Ross School of Business who was sent to
 Montreal  as mission president. “A lot of our humanity comes 
through in our church service. Ignoring some of that leaves 
him seeming very stale and very rigid and very distant.”  This account of Romney’s time in France comes from
interviews with a dozen Mormons, nine who were with him in
France, and not all of whom say they will vote for him.
Bloomberg also had access to a diary kept by Anderson’s wife,
which he added to after her death.  In 1960, there were 2,000 church members in  France , where
secularism is encoded in the law. Their numbers grew to 10,000
by 1970. Romney’s service began July 4, 1966, when he and eight
other missionaries boarded a flight from  Salt Lake City ,  Utah  to
Paris.  Missionary Days  The life of a missionary was difficult. They were expected
to rise at 6 a.m. and study language and scripture before
breakfast. Then they set out for the day, knocking on doors to
inform people about the church and encourage them to convert to
it. They took a break for lunch and were to be in bed by 10:30
p.m.  The volunteer missionaries lived in four-person apartments,
sharing in cooking and clean-up, in conditions that ranged
widely. Restricted to two suitcases, they moved on average every
four to six months, and would change companions as well, with
one named the senior based generally on the length of time in a
given location. The two spent every moment together, except for
bathroom breaks.  Romney was sent to the northwest port of  Le Havre , where
there hadn’t been a missionary presence since before World War
II, his then-senior companion Don Miller said. One of the first
tasks was to find lodging. They stayed in a cheap hotel until a
woman urged them to find another place to stay, he said.  Red-Light District  “She just went ashen, and said you have to get out of
there, it’s the red-light district,” Miller, now a dentist in
Calgary, said. “We were just too dumb to know.”  They found a one-bedroom apartment in a high-rise, which
Miller rated “lucky” given it came with a private bathroom.
They laid doors atop bricks, and bought surplus ship mattresses
from a dealer in the port town, making for beds that were
“very, very narrow; if you turned over, you’d fall off.”  Romney was also posted to Paris, where he lived in what
Mulloy Hansen, his companion there, said was “considered the
worst apartment in the French mission.”  It was a fourth-floor walk-up near Montparnasse cemetery,
Hansen said, that “shared a squat john with three other
apartments, which was a real revelation.” The men rigged a
shower with a curtain and a two-feet-wide plastic tub, so “the
shower was over when the tub was full,” said Hansen, now an
Idaho doctor.  Worst Apartment  The two bedrooms measured about 10-feet-by-10-feet,
necessitating bunk beds, and the kitchen was just 10-feet-by-4-
feet, he said. “It was the worst place I ever lived.”  Even with the trying living conditions, the missionaries
had opportunities to expand their knowledge about the culture
and history of another nation and bring some of that back with
them.  Gerald Anderson, a self-described “farm-boy from southern
 Alberta ,” had started his French mission in February 1965. As
he and others prepared to return home in August 1967, they
decided to buy perfumes as gifts for their mothers and sisters.
Romney, who’d been to France before with his family and whose
mother had taught him about perfumes, guided them to  Guerlain  on
the Avenue des Champs-Elysees, where he showed them how to test
the scents, said Anderson, who isn’t related to the France
mission president.  Regular Guy  “You have this person who is very sophisticated, very
refined, who has every possibility of feeling better than
anybody else, and never once did I get that feeling,” said
Anderson, an agronomist who worked in a sugar factory to save
money for his mission. “He was just another one of the guys,
and when he arrived, that was all he ever wanted to be.”  Michael Bush  served in Bordeaux with Romney. Now a teacher
of French at  Brigham Young University , Bush said Romney gave him
his shoes when his had worn through and he couldn’t afford new
ones on his monthly budget.  Bush and Romney were in Bordeaux during the strikes sparked
by the student protests in May 1968. Public services such as
mail came to a halt, interfering with delivery of their
allowances, Bush said.  The missionaries turned to local members for help, and
Andre Salarnier said he and his wife fed Romney during the time.  “Romney was very social and sociable,” said Salarnier,
who lives now in St. Pierre de Plesguen in western France. He
recalled Romney working to get money to other missionaries.
“That’s the type of character he has; he’s one who helps,” he
said.  Mission Headquarters  After about three months in Bordeaux, Romney was asked to
join Joel McKinnon as assistants to President Anderson, moving
to the mission home in Paris, the headquarters of the church in
France at the time. McKinnon declined to comment for this story.  The three-story home on rue de Lota in Paris’s 16th
arrondissement was a short walk to the Arc de Triomphe, the
Eiffel Tower and the Bois de Boulogne. The ground floor held
offices and a meeting hall for the Paris members to worship.  On Sunday, June 16, 1968, at about 5 p.m., Romney drove the
Andersons, fellow missionary David Wood, and two French church
members, back to Bordeaux after staying the night in Pau,
according to Anderson’s account in his wife’s missionary diary.
They came over a hill about 31 miles south of Bordeaux when “we
were face-to-face with a Mercedes driven by a Catholic priest,”
he wrote. “The inevitable crash was horrible.”  The accident left Romney unconscious, with a gash to his
head and a broken arm, the diary notes.  Taking Over  McKinnon was teamed with Romney to manage the mission while
Anderson returned to the U.S. At that time, the missionaries had
averaged about 160 conversions annually -- although they weren’t
on pace to meet that number. Rather than letting the tragedy
justify a lower conversion rate, Romney and McKinnon boosted the
goal to 200.  The pair realized “we’ve got a big problem here; some of
them are dedicated and committed and will work their fannies off
every day,” said Mulloy Hansen, then mission leader in Pau,
near the Pyrenees mountains. “Some of them really would rather
just sit there and figure out a way to write their girlfriends
letters all day long about how they’re marking the days off
their calendar until they can be back.”  They announced the new quota at a zone-leader conference,
telling the participants that they had four months to more than
double their conversions, a steep challenge given most achieved
just two or three during the entire mission.  Convincing Vision  “Nobody told us how to accomplish it,” said Hansen.
“They convinced us that the vision was feasible.”  In Pau, they’d had one baptism in the past 18 months,
Hansen said. His team combed through their records for people
they’d taught about the church and hadn’t followed up with. They
also began approaching people on the street, setting up a
storyboard in the main square to draw questions.  “We set a goal of 10 and in just about two months, we
baptized 10,” said Hansen. “The branch had a membership of 24
when I arrived, so it was increased by almost 50 percent.”  When Duane Anderson returned to Paris in August 1968 after
burying his wife, he brought his son, daughter-in-law and two
grandsons to live with him. Romney left for home before
Christmas that year.  Romney and McKinnon “handled things beautifully in my
parents’ absence,” said Richard “Andy” Anderson, who later
lived near the Romneys for about 30 years in  Massachusetts . “My
dad could never stop talking about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 