-- Romney’s Energy Plan Ignores Solar’s Success
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-23T22:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/romney-s-energy-plan-ignores-the-success-of-solar-and-wind-view.html
Mitt Romney  sets an ambitious goal
with his  pledge  to achieve U.S. energy independence by 2020.
It’s just too bad his plan relies almost entirely on fossil
fuels and largely ignores the solid promise of clean energy.  Romney’s plan, rolled out Thursday in  solar-friendly   New
Mexico , focuses heavily on oil, gas and, most unnecessarily,
coal. The presumptive Republican presidential nominee promises
to expand drilling on federal lands and to roll back
environmental rules his campaign adviser  Ed Gillespie  says are
“destroying the coal industry.”  When it comes to renewable sources such as solar and wind,
Romney’s plan says more about what he won’t do -- namely,
provide any more of the subsidies and  loan guarantees  that have
allowed those technologies to gain a foothold. Instead, he
offers to relax barriers he says are stymying clean energy and
expand government funding of research. We also favor supporting
clean-energy research, but question Romney’s assertion that
simply “streamlining” regulations and permitting will somehow
catapult clean-energy projects.  Romney’s  white paper  includes a few other worthwhile ideas,
such as allowing drilling off the coast of  Virginia , which has
 bipartisan support  from that state’s senators.  On balance, though, his plan threatens to upend the
 progress  that has been made toward enabling the U.S. to meet
much of its energy needs with less reliance on dirtier fuels
like coal.  The U.S. is now closer to energy independence than anyone
who waited in 1970s gas lines could have imagined. As Bloomberg
News reports, oil imports fell to about 45 percent of U.S.
demand last year and are expected to fall to about 42 percent
this year, down from a peak of 60 percent in 2005. More than 80
percent of the country’s demand for power is now met by domestic
sources, a phenomenon largely attributable to new horizontal-
drilling and hydraulic-fracturing technologies that enable
energy companies to tap vast but once-inaccessible underground
reserves of natural gas and oil.  All that cheap natural gas has slowly been pushing coal off
its perch as the dominant American  power source . As of April,
natural gas has been producing just as much energy as coal, for
the first time since the government began collecting data in
1973. Electricity generated from natural gas -- which can be 45
percent cleaner than coal, if done properly -- is expected to
increase 23 percent this year, as coal-fueled power falls 12
percent,  according  to the  U.S. Energy Information
Administration . By 2035, coal is projected to supply just 39
percent of electricity, down from about 45 percent today,
according to EIA.  Power primarily from wind, solar, biomass and geothermal
sources, meanwhile, is projected to grow 33 percent from 2010 to
2035. By 2020, 10 percent of power is expected to come from
renewables, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Much of this uptick can be credited to $90 billion in
government assistance that’s helped the industry get off the
ground: Electricity generated from renewable sources such as
wind and solar has increased 73 percent since President  Barack Obama  took office, according to a Bloomberg Government analysis.  The very real potential of greener fuel has also spawned
thousands of companies and tens of thousands of jobs, according
to industry and White House estimates. It’s still a nascent
business, in need of support to compete with an entrenched --
and heavily government-subsidized -- fossil fuel industry. Given
how far clean energy has come, why stop it in its tracks now?  If Romney is looking for ideas, free-market strategies are
the way to go. One that is gaining traction in many states is to
require utilities to use a certain percentage of electricity
generated by renewable power and then let the markets sort out
the most efficient way to meet that target.  Even more helpful would be to support a carbon tax --
something that two of Romney’s top economic advisers have
already  called  for. This would let the markets decide how much
it’s worth to them to send  greenhouse gases  aloft.  “I like wind and solar like the next person,” Romney said
in his speech Thursday. Listeners would be forgiven for thinking
that the next person doesn’t like them much at all.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the SEC’s dropping the ball
on  money market mutual funds  and on the case for  a smaller
Afghan army ; Stephen L. Carter on when  the U.S. cared about
chess ; William Pesek on the  Bo Xilai show trial  in  China ; Thomas
Geoghegan on why Obama is lucky that  entitlements  are out of
control.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 