-- Romney Energy Plan Would Expand States’ Say in Production
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-08-23T19:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/romney-energy-plan-would-expand-states-say-in-production.html
Mitt Romney  would seek to give
states control over energy production on federal lands within
their borders and allow drilling off the East Coast as part of
his plan to reduce  crude oil  imports.  With rising  gasoline prices  again drawing voter attention
to U.S. energy policy, the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee highlighted his energy proposals today in Hobbs, New
Mexico, including his strategy for obtaining North American
energy independence by 2020, in which the U.S., Canada and
Mexico would produce all their own oil.  “It is achievable,” Romney told supporters at Watson
Truck and Supply. “This is not some pie-in-the-sky kind of
thing.”  He also said his energy plan would create 3 million jobs.  Energy is a “high-priority issue for American voters” and
one the campaign plans to stress in coming weeks, Romney adviser
 Ed Gillespie  told reporters yesterday.  Keystone Pipeline  The plan, which includes proposals Romney has already
discussed, calls for approving the Keystone XL pipeline to carry
tar sands crude from  Alberta  to refineries along the U.S. coast
of the  Gulf of Mexico .  President  Barack Obama  in January rejected a permit
application from  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the project’s sponsor, after
Nebraska officials raised concerns that the pipeline could
threaten the Ogallala aquifer. The Obama administration is
reviewing a revised proposal.  Romney’s plan also would give states control over energy
production on millions of acres of land now under federal
authority, as well as open territory off the coasts of  Virginia 
and the Carolinas to oil and gas producers for the first time.
Companies drilling on federal lands include  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Hess Corp. (HES)  and  Continental Resources Inc. (CLR)   These “opportunities have existed for a long time, we just
haven’t taken advantage of them,” Romney told the crowd in
Hobbs.  Drilling offshore could produce an additional 2 million
barrels of oil a day, Romney said.  Improve Process  Giving states control of energy production on federal land
within their boundaries would skirt a federal permit process
that is “extraordinarily slow,” Romney said.  Heather Taylor-Miesle, director of the Natural Resources
Defense Council Action Fund, said Washington should retain
control over energy production on federal lands.  “They are national treasures,” she said in an interview.
“That’s why they are federal lands, they benefit every
American.”  A white paper that lays out the plan says Romney would keep
certain U.S. lands off-limits without specifying which ones.  The Interior Department leases about 6 percent of federal
lands, or more than 38 million acres, an area roughly the size
of Georgia, for onshore oil and gas exploration, according to a
Bloomberg Government June 21 study.  Obama has said he supports an “all-of-the-above”  energy
policy  that includes more oil and gas development as well as
extending tax breaks that favor renewable energy sources such as
wind power, which Romney opposes.  Lack of Specific  Lis Smith, a spokeswoman for the president’s re-election
campaign, criticized Romney’s speech today as “devoid of any
policy specifics or concrete steps that would realistically
increase our nation’s energy independence.”  “If anything, Romney’s policies would take us backward,”
Smith said in a statement.  There may be a renewed focus on energy as gasoline prices
again rise. Prices averaged $3.72 in the U.S., up from $3.47 a
month ago, according to the latest daily report from the AAA,
the nation’s largest motoring organization.  Romney has been traveling to oil-rich states this week,
raising money in Texas, Arkansas and  New Mexico  at events
attended by donors with ties to the  energy industry . Overall, he
raised about $10 million this week, according to estimates from
his campaign.  At a fundraising event yesterday in  Little Rock , Arkansas,
organizers said they raised more than $2 million for Romney, the
most at such a gathering in the state’s fundraising history,
according to Claiborne Deming, chairman of the board of Murphy
Oil Corp., headquartered in El Dorado, Arkansas. Deming is also
the co-chair of Romney’s campaign in Arkansas.  At a fundraising event today in Hobbs, 400 tickets were
sold at prices ranging between $1,000 and $50,000, according to
the Romney campaign.  Clean Energy  Romney and Republican groups have criticized Obama for what
they say is a waste of billions of taxpayer dollars on clean-
energy subsidies, including a $535 million loan guarantee to
Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker that went bankrupt, as
fossil-fuel production on federal lands has fallen.  Obama has said total oil and gas production is up, which
accounts for development on private lands.  Imports fell to about 45 percent of U.S. demand last year,
down from a peak of 60 percent in 2005, according to the Energy
Information Administration, which tracks and analyzes energy
data. This year, the country’s dependence on imported crude oil
should fall to about 42 percent,  Adam Sieminski , head of the
EIA, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net 
Roxana Tiron in Hobbs, New Mexico, at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  