-- Romney Supportive of Coal Industry He Said ‘Kills People’
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/romney-supportive-of-coal-industry-he-once-said-kills-people-.html
In early May, Republican  Mitt Romney 
made a pilgrimage worth about $1.7 million to the White Palace
Ballroom in Wheeling,  West Virginia . He was greeted by almost
700 donors assembled with the help of host Bob Murray, chief
executive officer of Murray Energy Corp. and a coal mine owner.  Romney, who as Massachusetts governor vowed to close an
aging coal-fired power plant because it “kills people,” has
embraced the coal industry in his presidential bid, with Murray
proving a key ally. He touts coal development as central to his
aim of achieving “North American energy independence” at the
end of a second term in office, a policy he is scheduled to
discuss in detail today in  New Mexico .  He also highlights the issue as defining a major difference
between himself and President  Barack Obama . At an Aug. 14 speech
at a mine in  Ohio  owned by a Murray subsidiary -- and with the
energy executive again joining him -- Romney said Obama is
“waging war on coal” through over-regulation and that the
president has broken promises he made to the industry to aid its
transition to newer, cleaner technologies.  “If you don’t believe in coal, if you don’t believe in
energy independence for America, then say it,” Romney said of
Obama.  State Rankings  Ohio, one of the states most coveted by each presidential
campaign, ranks 10th nationally in coal production, according to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration. It is followed by
Colorado and  Virginia , also top battlegrounds.  With potentially a few thousand votes deciding who carries
those states, Obama’s campaign isn’t yielding on the coal issue.  “Only one candidate in this race actually has a record of
finding a clean future for coal and that’s President Obama,”
re-election spokeswoman Lis Smith said in a statement. “He has
increased investments in the research and development of clean
coal technology and employment in the  mining industry  hit a 15-
year high in 2011.”  Romney, 65, today will elaborate on his energy independence
goal, aides said, which would be achieved through U.S.
production plus imports from Canada and Mexico.  Keystone Pipeline  The plan calls for U.S. approval of  TransCanada Corp.’s (TRP) 
Keystone XL pipeline, which Obama in January blocked. Romney
also proposes giving states control over drilling on federal
lands within their borders and opening offshore areas off the
coasts of Virginia and the Carolinas to oil and gas producers
for the first time.  While Obama, 51, promotes what he calls an “all-of-the-
above” approach to domestic energy production, he rarely
mentions coal in speeches on the subject. His emphasis has been
on alternative energy sources, such as wind power and
conservation.  His Environmental Protection Agency has set
standards to cut toxic emissions, such as mercury, that the coal
industry has said will be costly to implement.  The coal mining industry, by way of political action
committees, industry executives and employees, has given about
$5 million to politicians in 2011 and 2012, according to the
Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics. The center’s
 data  shows 87 percent of that total went to Republicans and
Romney was the top recipient, collecting about $435,000.  The Murray Energy Political Action Committee and company
executives and employees have given about $904,000, with all of
it going to Republicans, the center’s data shows.  Perry Backer  Murray, 72, who initially backed Texas Governor  Rick Perry 
in the Republican primary race, said in an interview that he has
become more involved in this presidential election than any
previous one because Obama and his appointees threaten the
“destruction of an entire segment of American society.”  Murray said he has no concern about Romney’s 2003 remarks
that “I will not create jobs or hold jobs that kill people,”
and that a coal plant in Salem, Massachusetts, “kills people.”  “I cannot comment on his statement from nine years ago,”
Murray said. “I have spent considerable time with  Governor
Romney  in 2012 and I know that he supports low-cost electricity
in America and the coal industry as a vital part of that.”  Murray Energy Corp. bills itself as the largest privately
owned U.S. coal company, with 3,300 employees in five states.
The company produces about 30 million tons of coal per year from
mines in Ohio,  Pennsylvania , Illinois,  Kentucky  and  Utah .  Murray’s company was a part-owner of the Crandall Canyon
Mine in Utah, where six workers died in a cave-in and another
three perished while trying to rescue them in 2007. Earlier this
year, the mine’s operator agreed to plead guilty to two
misdemeanor criminal charges and pay a $500,000 fine while
maintaining its facility was safe, according to the  Associated
Press .  Electricity Generation  The battle over the coal vote comes as the industry is
under stress. Once responsible for more than half of U.S.
electricity generation, coal’s share was down to just more than
40 percent in 2011 as prices for natural gas dropped.  Obama has long had to grapple with the issue. Illinois, his
home state, is the nation’s eighth biggest coal producer. As one
of the state’s two U.S. senators, he supported increased coal
production that would benefit southern Illinois’s economy while
also potentially increasing global warming.  That record helped Obama win the backing of the United Mine
Workers of America in 2008. The union hasn’t made an endorsement
in this year’s race. If that doesn’t change -- and spokesman
Phil Smith said it still could -- it would be the first time the
union didn’t take a stand in a presidential race since 1980.  “If the decision had to be made today, we probably
wouldn’t endorse anybody,” said Smith. “The major thing that
has changed in the last four years is a large level of
disillusionment among our membership in relation to the
Environmental Protection Agency and the coal industry and a
feeling that the end of this game will be the end of the coal
industry.”  Still, Smith said, many coal miners “are very
conflicted,” especially since Romney and his running mate,
Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, “are no friends of
unions.”  -- With assistance from Mario Parker in  Chicago , Roxana Tiron 
in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , and Jim Snyder and Joe Sobczyk in 
 Washington . Editors: Don Frederick, Jim Rubin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  