-- Storm Watches Posted for Florida as Isaac Nears Haiti
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-24T22:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/tropical-storm-isaac-churns-toward-haiti-on-path-to-gulf.html
Tropical Storm Isaac gained strength
and alerts were posted for much of the northern Caribbean and
 Florida  as the system moved toward its first landfall, in  Haiti .
Some energy production in the  Gulf of Mexico  was shut.  The core of the storm, which may threaten the  Republican
National Convention  in Tampa next week, is expected to cross
Haiti overnight on a path toward Cuba and the eastern Gulf,
where it’s forecast to become a hurricane, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said.  “It’s important not to focus on the exact track due to
uncertainties in the forecast and the fact that Isaac has a
large area of tropical storm-force winds associated with it,”
the center said. Those winds extend 185 miles (298 kilometers)
from the core.  As much as 20 inches (51 centimeters) of rain and life-
threatening floods and mudslides are possible on the island of
Hispaniola, which includes Haiti and the  Dominican Republic , the
center said. A half-million Haitians are still living in
temporary housing since a devastating 2010 earthquake.  The Gulf region is home to 23 percent of U.S. oil
production, 7 percent of natural-gas output and 44 percent of
refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  More than 50,000 people are expected to visit the Tampa Bay
area on Florida’s west coast next week as Republicans hold their
four-day meeting, said James Davis, a convention spokesman.  Isaac’s Position  Isaac was 100 miles south-southeast of Port-au-Prince,
Haiti, as of 5 p.m. East Coast time, the Miami-based hurricane
center said in  an advisory . The system, moving northwest at 16
miles per hour, had top sustained winds of 65 mph, up from 45
early today.  While Isaac is a disorganized storm, it’s also a big
tropical system, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . The size gives it a
better chance of surviving a brush with Cuba and the island of
Hispaniola with its 10,000-foot mountains, which can tear storms
apart, he said.  “I’ve seen storms die after hitting those mountains but I
think it will survive.” Rogers said by telephone today.  The hurricane center’s  current tracking map  shows Isaac
nearing the Florida Keys on Aug. 26 and becoming a hurricane on
Aug. 27, the opening day of the convention that is expected to
nominate  Mitt Romney  as the Republican presidential candidate.
The storm may go ashore the next day on the  Florida Panhandle ,
the center said.  Gulf Evacuations  BP Plc (BP/)  began evacuating its Thunder Horse oil platform in
the Gulf and suspended crude and natural gas production there in
anticipation of the storm. The London-based company also plans
to remove non-essential workers from its Na Kika, Horn Mountain
and Marlin platforms, Arturo Silva, a BP spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement today.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA) , Eni SpA, Apache Corp., Diamond
Offshore Drilling Inc. and Ensco Plc said they were planning to
evacuate some nonessential workers. Shell said on its website
that drilling operations have been suspended on some central and
eastern Gulf assets, though production has not been affected.  Transocean said it evacuated 18 non-essential workers from
the Discoverer Enterprise rig. The company has 14 rigs in the
area where the storm is projected to go, according to  Guy Cantwell , a Transocean spokesman.  “Based on the projected track of Isaac, most energy
platforms and rigs will be on the less-destructive side of
Isaac,”  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at
Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, wrote in an e-mail.  Alerts Posted  Tropical storm watches, meaning storm conditions are
possible within 48 hours, were posted for the Florida Keys and
the southern coast of the peninsula from Jupiter Inlet on the
Atlantic side to Bonita Beach on the Gulf. Watches and warnings
have also been posted for parts of Cuba, the Bahamas and
Jamaica.  Tampa, on Florida’s Gulf coast, is the state’s second-
biggest metropolitan area, after Miami, with nearly 2.8 million
people, Census data show. The Tampa Bay Times Forum, site of the
gathering, is in a mandatory evacuation zone once storms reach
96 mph, a Category 2 on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson scale ,
according to the Hillsborough County Hurricane Guide.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott  said today that the storm’s
path further west than initially forecast made Isaac unlikely to
disrupt his party’s meeting.  “Everybody is moving forward,” Scott said during a
briefing in Tallahassee, the state capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 