-- Rousseff $66 Billion Stimulus Plan Sparks Rally in OHL
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-08-23T18:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/rousseff-66-billion-stimulus-plan-sparks-rally-in-ohl.html
Obrascon Huarte Lain Brasil SA (OHLB3) ,  CCR
SA (CCRO3)  and EcoRodovias Infraestrutura & Logistica SA are beating
global transportation and infrastructure  stocks  on speculation
the companies will win contracts from  Brazil ’s $66 billion
stimulus plan.  CCR, Brazil’s biggest highway operator, has rallied 44
percent since the start of the year in Sao Paulo trading, and
EcoRodovias has gained 17 percent. The  MSCI World Transportation
Index (MXWO0TI)  has added 4.8 percent.  President  Dilma Rousseff , seeking to solve infrastructure
challenges that stem from a decade without investment, announced
on Aug. 15 that Brazil will auction licenses to run 7,500
kilometers (4,660 miles) of roads and 10,000 kilometers of
railways. Inadequate road and rail infrastructure has limited
Brazilian growth as the country prepares to host the 2014 World
Cup soccer tournament and the 2016  Olympic Games .  “Brazil has thousands of kilometers of roads to be built,
and that will be done in a way that will be attractive to
companies,” Joaquim Levy, a former Brazilian  treasury secretary 
who now manages 275 billion reais ($136 billion) at Bradesco
Asset Management, said in an interview at the bank’s office in
 Sao Paulo . “So CCR, EcoRodovias will continue to have space to
grow.”  Curitiba, Brazil-based  ALL America Latina Logistica SA (ALLL3) , the
largest rail operator in  South America , and OHL, as the Sao
Paulo-based toll-road operator is known, are also set to benefit
from the government’s road and railway investment plans, Luiz Otavio Broad, an analyst at Agora CTVM SA brokerage, said in a
telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  Earnings Ratio  CCR, whose headquarters are in Sao Paulo, climbed 0.7
percent to 17.57 reais today. EcoRodovias, also based in Sao
Paulo, gained 0.2 percent to 16.33 reais. ALL dropped 0.1
percent to 9.84 reais, bringing its year-to-date gain to 5.9
percent, while OHL is up 55 percent this year.  CCR trades at 17.5 times its reported earnings, which
compares with a ratio of 14.9 for OHL, 33.3 for ALL and 451 for
 TPI Triunfo Participacoes e Investimentos SA . The Bovespa index
trades at 17.7 times earnings.  Rousseff’s government may unveil similar concession plans
for airports and ports, as well as extensions of licenses for
electric utilities, in an attempt to lower energy costs. The
press offices at the presidential palace and transportation
ministry didn’t respond to requests for comments.  ‘Boost Growth’  “This program will really reactivate the economy,”
billionaire  Eike Batista , whose logistics company  LLX Logistica
SA (LLXL3)  is building the Acu industrial port complex in Rio de Janeiro
state, told journalists in Brasilia on Aug. 15. “Brazilians
have a lot of debt, so using lower  interest rates  as an
instrument to boost growth may not work anymore. It’s time to
turn to infrastructure.”  Brazil started auctioning its first contracts for airports
last year. Triunfo, the only publicly traded infrastructure
operator to win contracts in the $12 billion airport auction on
Feb. 6, plunged 10 percent the next day on concern the premium
it paid for the contract to expand and operate the Campinas
airport was too high. The Sao Paulo-based company teamed up with
French airport operator Egis Avia to win the license.  “You have to invest in infrastructure, and the government
acknowledged that -- they know the problem, but we don’t think
they are executing the plan well,” Paulo Corchaki, chief
investment officer of Itau Asset Management, said in an
interview at the bank’s office in Sao Paulo. The investment plan
“is for some sectors, and in the end if you give benefits to
one sector and not the other, it’s not a good equilibrium for
the economy.”  Auction Details  EcoRodovias said it’s still waiting for further details on
the licenses auctions before deciding about bidding on any
contract, an official with knowledge of the matter who asked not
to be named said by phone from Sao Paulo. Triunfo and CCR
declined to comment. The press office at OHL, which is owned by
 Obrascon Huarte Lain SA (OHL) , the Spanish builder, didn’t respond to
calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Infrastructure companies such as CCR and EcoRodovias will
likely continue to outperform the Bovespa index as investment in
the sector increases and Brazil prepares for the World Cup and
Olympics, Bradesco’s Levy said.  “Those are stocks that are much more driven by
fundamentals than some of those on the Bovespa index,” he said.
“While the Bovespa has been flat this year, I think those
stocks can still appreciate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia  at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  