-- Rupiah Forwards Climb Most in Seven Weeks on Fed Stimulus Signs
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-08-23T09:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/rupiah-forwards-climb-most-in-seven-weeks-on-fed-stimulus-signs.html
Indonesia’s rupiah forwards gained
the most in seven weeks on signs the  Federal Reserve  will act to
support the world’s largest economy, spurring demand for
emerging-market assets.  Government bonds  declined.  Contracts to buy the Indonesian currency in twelve months
touched a one-week high after many policy makers at the Fed said
additional stimulus will likely be needed “fairly soon” unless
the  U.S. economy  shows signs of a sustained recovery, according
to minutes of the July 31-Aug. 1 meeting released in  Washington 
yesterday. Foreign funds bought $78 million more local stocks
than they sold this week through yesterday, exchange data show.  “Stimulus seems more certain now,” said Artanavaro
Gasali, the Jakarta-based head of global markets at PT Bank ICBC
Indonesia. “The rupiah may remain weak until September, when it
usually begins strengthening as foreign investors buy for the
next year.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.7 percent
to 10,019 per dollar as of 4:16 p.m. in Jakarta, the biggest
advance since July 2, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
contracts touched 10,014, the strongest level since Aug. 15.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  The rupiah rose 0.2 percent to 9,494 per dollar, according
to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to
price options, fell 20 basis points to 6.80 percent.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.97
percent, according to closing prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 