-- Russia May Run Out of Exportable Grain Surplus in November
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-08-23T12:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/russia-may-run-out-of-exportable-grain-surplus-in-november-1-.html
Russia , the third biggest  wheat
shipper  last season, will run out of its 2012-13 exportable
grain surplus of 10 million to 14 million metric tons in
November, a survey of 10 exporters and market analysts showed.  All 10 people said the supplies will run out, potentially
requiring Russia to impose an export restriction that may
include duties, according to the Bloomberg survey conducted over
the past four days. Wheat prices have climbed 41 percent this
year on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, as drought curbed crop
prospects in top exporter the U.S., Russia and Ukraine, the
eighth biggest shipper.  Russia’s drought that started in May will mean a wheat crop
of 45 million tons, 20 percent smaller than last year, the
 Agriculture Ministry  said on Aug. 8. The government imposed an
export ban in August 2010 for 10 months after the worst drought
in 50 years caused the crop to be the smallest in at least the
preceding 19 years, when the  Soviet Union  collapsed and Russia
became a separate state, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  “The Russian grain harvest is still projected to more than
cover domestic needs, but it’s unlikely that Russia will export
all the surplus grain when the harvest is so meager,” said
Jenia Ustinova, an analyst at New York-based Eurasia Group. “We
believe export restrictions may be imposed before the end of the
calendar year.”  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 0.3 percent to
$9.1975 a bushel in Chicago by 4:18 p.m. in Moscow. The price
rose for the sixth time in seven sessions and is up 50 percent
since the most recent low of $6.11 on June 1.  Harvest Declines  The government cut the grains crop forecast to 75 million
tons from 75 million to 80 million tons, Agriculture Minister
Nikolai Fedorov said today in a television interview on Rossiya
24 channel in Moscow.  The harvest is down about 12 percent year-on-year at 47.7
million tons due to drought which has destroyed 7.6 percent of
crops, including grains and legumes, on more than 5.7 million
hectares (14.1 million acres) of fields, the Agriculture
Ministry said on Aug. 21.  “It is highly likely that the government will have to
resort to some sort of export control method before year’s end
in order to combat wheat, flour and bread price inflation,”
said London-based Dan Hofstad,  INTL FCStone Inc. (INTL) ’s risk
management consultant for the CIS/Black Sea region. “The
ultimate question is therefore when.”  Russia’s exportable surplus is seen at 10 million to 12
million tons and no export restrictions will be needed in 2012,
Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  said on Aug. 8.  ZAO Rusagrotrans, the country’s biggest grain carrier by
rail, expects shipments to approach the government’s upper
surplus estimate by November. Russia is seen exporting 11.3
million to 11.5 million tons in the July through October period,
said Igor Pavensky, the company’s chief analyst.  Grain Shipments  Russia shipped 3.33 million tons of grains from July 1 to
mid-August, down from 4.08 million tons a year earlier,
according to Agriculture Ministry data.  Russia’s Grain Union Vice President Alexander Korbut said
it’s possible exporters will slow down shipments later this year
because high domestic prices will make sales inside the country
more profitable than sales abroad.  The pace of exports may slow to a minimum because Russian
wheat may not be competitive on the world market, said Andrei Sizov Jr., Moscow-based researcher SovEcon’s managing director.
“Exporters are working even now at a profit margin that is
close to zero.”  The drought in Russia’s main grain-growing regions has
raised prices in the country and certain exporters have started
selling central wheat to domestic millers in the northern areas
rather than exporting, some of the survey participants said.  Milling Wheat  Domestic millers were buying the fourth-grade milling
wheat, Russia’s main exporting variety among grains, from
farmers at 8,700 rubles ($273) a ton in the Southern Federal
District in the first week of August, according to the Institute
for Agricultural Market Studies, known as Ikar. The price went
up to 8,750 rubles a ton last week in the area, according to
Russia’s Grain Producers’ Union data.  The domestic price is high for exporters, who have to add
about $45 per ton for grain transportation and handling,
according to an average estimate by the surveyed traders. The
offer price at the free-on-board basis in the Black Sea port of
Novorossiysk would be around $318 in that case, which can’t
always win tenders, they said.  Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat importer, bought 60,000
tons of Russian milling wheat at $313 a ton from Venus
International on Aug. 14. Eight other exporters from Russia
failed to win the tender because their offers ranged from
$317.82 to $329.90 a ton.  Domestic prices in Russia may rise further in the next two
months, said Sizov and Oleg Sukhanov, Ikar’s chief analyst.  Alternatives  If that happens Russia may sell 10 million tons of mainly
wheat and barley until the end of 2012 and about 2 million tons
of other grains, mainly corn and rice, until the end of the
season on June 30, 2013 with no export restrictions, said
Vladimir Petrichenko, director of Moscow-based OOO ProZerno
consultancy.  “If an announcement of possible curbs appears, this will
stimulate export activity, and we’ll get quite another result,”
Petrichenko said.  Russia’s wheat exports are expected to fall to 8 million
tons this marketing year from 21.6 million tons last season, the
USDA estimated. That would make Russia the fifth biggest wheat
exporter after the U.S.,  Australia ,  Canada  and the European
Union, the USDA estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  