-- Ryan’s Bipartisanship Record Shows More Civility Than Compromise
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2012-08-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/ryan-s-bipartisanship-record-shows-more-civility-than-compromise.html
From the moment  Mitt Romney 
announced  Paul Ryan  as his running mate, the campaign has held
up the Wisconsin congressman as a leader who excels at
bipartisanship.  The Republican presidential candidate and his surrogates
have repeatedly said Ryan “reached across the aisle” to fashion
his Medicare overhaul plan devised with Senator  Ron Wyden  of
 Oregon , “a well-established Democrat,” in the words of
Representative  Jason Chaffetz , a Utah Republican.  The bipartisanship argument is one voters have heard for
years. The Romney campaign is betting it’ll have particular
appeal in an election year when congressional approval ratings
are at record lows. There’s only one problem: The assertions
don’t track with the lawmaker’s 13-year congressional career,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Aug. 27 issue.  On paper, Ryan, 42, appears slightly more bipartisan than
some of his colleagues, according to  GovTrack.us , which studies
congressional voting records. Of the 975 bills he has co-
sponsored, 22 percent were introduced by Democrats -- a
statistic the campaign has highlighted.  Yet most of these weren’t instances of compromise so much
as examples of Ryan getting behind issues that had broad support
among both parties -- such as sanctions against  Iran  -- or were
relatively minor, like changing the timetable for excise taxes
paid by manufacturers of firearms.  Medicare Plan  On the big issues, Ryan is known to make overtures to the
other party -- and then renege. In 2010, Ryan released a
proposal for privatizing Medicare that he had trouble selling to
even his own party: Only 13  House Republicans  signed on. Needing
to expand his base of support, Ryan in early 2011 shopped around
his Medicare plan in search of a Democrat who would get behind
it.  Ryan found a partner in  Alice Rivlin . A former director of
the Office of Management and Budget in the Clinton White House
and a  Washington  Wise Woman, Rivlin was serving with Ryan on the
Simpson-Bowles deficit-reduction commission.  After an extended back and forth, the two came up with a
Medicare proposal both could live with: Instead of getting rid
the fee-for-service model -- Medicare as we know it, in which
the government pays providers directly -- and opening everything
to the free market, the government health-care program would
compete directly with private plans regulated by government
exchanges. Rather than pegging the growth rate of Medicare
spending to the  consumer price index , as Ryan had proposed, the
Wisconsin lawmaker appeased Rivlin with a more generous cost
cap.  Compromise Abandoned  Yet when Ryan released his first budget as chairman of the
House Budget Committee that April, with the full backing of his
party, he abandoned his compromise with Rivlin and ditched the
agreed-upon option for seniors to stick with traditional fee-
for-service Medicare.  Democrats attacked Ryan for attempting to dismantle the
program, running ads that featured a man in a suit pushing an
old woman off a cliff. Ryan defended himself by calling the
Medicare proposal a bipartisan effort.  Rivlin is “a proud Democrat at the  Brookings Institution ,”
Ryan said on  MSNBC ’s Morning Joe at the time. “These entitlement
reforms are based off of those models that she and I worked on
together.”  ‘Called Him Out’  Rivlin wasn’t happy. When Ryan released the budget, she
told him she couldn’t support it and came out against it
publicly.  “When I called him out on it, he softened the tone of his
references to me,” she says. Rivlin isn’t upset with Ryan. “He
genuinely wanted a bipartisan bill,” she says of his initial
efforts. “I don’t think he was doing anything bad,” she adds.
“He was pleased to have a Democratic partner.”  Ryan continued to look for lawmakers from the other party
who would support his plan. Eventually he found Wyden, who has a
reputation for teaming up with Republicans on ambitious
legislation. In December 2011, they worked together on a
Medicare blueprint. The result wasn’t a bill; it was a set of
principles the two men endorsed. What appeared months later in
Ryan’s next budget wasn’t recognizable to Wyden.  Between his 2011 and 2012 budgets, Ryan had made one big
shift: He’d agreed to keep traditional Medicare as an option.
Yet in the white paper, Ryan had accepted Wyden’s demand that if
Medicare costs exceeded an agreed-upon cap, the costs would be
covered by insurance providers, not beneficiaries.  Budget Move  Ryan’s budget instead cut the cap in half, and effectively
shed the guarantee that no beneficiary would have to reach into
his own pocket.  Wyden made his opposition known. Arguing that the proposal
shifted costs onto the most vulnerable, he voted against it in
May and let Ryan know that it was not the same as Ryan-Wyden.  Nonetheless, the Romney campaign has been touting Ryan-
Wyden and calling it the basis for Romney’s own Medicare plan.  Brendan Buck , a Romney spokesman, said in an e-mail that
the differences between Romney’s proposal and Ryan-Wyden are
“negligible.”  Wyden balks at that characterization. In a recent
statement, the senator, who typically avoids divisive comments,
accused Romney of “talking nonsense.”  Asked for other examples of Ryan’s bipartisanship, Buck
brings up Rivlin.  Just because she didn’t ultimately support Ryan’s Medicare
plan, Buck says, “doesn’t mean he hasn’t worked in a bipartisan
manner to find solutions to our debt crisis.”  The campaign also touts Ryan’s work this year with
 Maryland ’s  Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat on the House
Budget Committee.  When Ryan took over as chairman, the men went out to dinner
and talked, in  Van Hollen ’s words, “about family and politics.”  Since then, Ryan’s caucus has shot down all 23 budget
amendments that Democrats on the committee have proposed.  “It’s important,” says Van Hollen, “not to mistake civility
with a willingness to compromise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  