-- Salesforce Profit Forecast Misses Estimate as Costs Grow
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-08-24T20:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/salesforce-com-profit-forecast-misses-estimate-as-rivals-move-in.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  forecast fiscal
third-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates as the
company spends on sales and marketing to try and win business
from companies shifting to software delivered over the Web.  Earnings excluding certain items will be 31 cents to 32
cents a share for the period ending in October, San Francisco-
based Salesforce said in a statement yesterday, missing
analysts’ average 34-cent estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
will be $773 million to $777 million, the company said,
exceeding the  average  $772 million estimate.  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  is accelerating
spending to capture companies shifting from programs that run on
their own computers to software delivered over the Web. That’s
led to an increase to $4.1 billion in the company’s backlog of
signed contracts it hasn’t yet invoiced customers for, according
to  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG.  “It takes money to make money,” said Thill, who is based
in  San Francisco  and rates the stock as a buy. “Don’t forget,
this was a $120 stock at the beginning of August. If you don’t
have a blowout quarter, you’re going to give a little bit up.”  The shares rose 1.2 percent to $148.54 at the close in New
York. Salesforce is up 46 percent this year.  Billings Headwind  Sales and marketing expenses rose 34 percent to $380.2
million in the second quarter, which ended in July.  Billings, a measure of the amount Salesforce invoiced
customers during the quarter, increased 30 percent to $734.1
million, compared with the $733.3 million average of nine
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc. analyst Walter Pritchard said in a note to
clients that most analysts were looking for better billings
growth, given the recent run-up in Salesforce shares.  Sales for the second quarter rose 34 percent to $731.6
million, compared with analysts’ average estimate of $728.2
million. Earnings excluding some items were 42 cents a share,
compared with the 39-cent estimate of analysts.  Salesforce, the largest provider of online customers
management software, posted a  net loss  of $9.8 million in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
compared with analysts’ estimate of a $14.9 million loss.  Payment Cycles  For the full fiscal year that ends in January, the company
said it expects sales of $3.03 billion to $3.04 billion and
earnings excluding some items of $1.48 to $1.51 a share. In
June, Salesforce had  forecast  $1.45 to $1.49.  “We’re most excited about the second half of the year,”
said  Mark Murphy , an analyst at Piper Jaffray in San Francisco,
who has an overweight rating on the shares. The company’s shift
to longer-term annual payment cycles has created a “headwind”
on billings, he said.  Salesforce, the largest seller of online customer
management software, may see its enterprise value -- which
includes the value of its stock plus debt -- fall to 6.4 times
sales in the current fiscal year, versus its yearly average of
7.7 since 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Benioff has been expanding beyond the company’s core
software for managing sales leads and  customer service  by making
 acquisitions  to add programs for human resources and marketing
through  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. Salesforce’s $689 million
acquisition of Buddy Media, which lets businesses create
Facebook campaigns, closed Aug. 13.  Ad Spending  At Salesforce’s Dreamforce conference in San Francisco
Sept. 18 to 21, Benioff plans to announce a new HR tool called
Work.com that will share functions with human resources software
from Workday Inc., Benioff said during a conference call with
analysts.  The company is also expanding sales of its software aimed
at chief marketing officers, and Buddy Media software now
handles about 10 percent of the ad spending on Facebook’s
website, he said.  Salesforce faces a stiff challenge, though, from bigger
enterprise software rivals that have moved onto its turf with
online offerings.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  are selling more sales
and human resources software over the Web, emulating
Salesforce’s business model.  Oracle says it’s already booked $1 billion from cloud
computing, as well as online human resources and customer
support companies it acquired in the past year. SAP this year
bought online HR software maker SuccessFactors.  “Oracle made the decision that they need to become a
bigger player in the cloud space,” said Mark Moerdler, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “They are taking their
traditional playbook and applying it,” buying smaller companies
that can add sales and technical expertise, he said.  Oracle is augmenting its traditional business applications
that run on companies’ own computers with products it can
deliver through a cloud computing model like Salesforce does,
said Moerdler, who is based in  New York  and has an underperform
rating on Salesforce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  