-- HSBC Rating Outlook Cut by S&P on Risk Control Failings
-- B y   K e i t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-08-23T17:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/hsbc-outlook-cut-to-negative-by-s-p-citing-regulatory-scrutiny.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s credit rating
outlook was cut by  Standard & Poor’s (SPY) , which questioned whether
the lender is too big to be managed effectively in the wake of
regulatory scandals in the U.S. and  Europe .  S&P reduced its outlook on HSBC Holdings’s long-term rating
to negative from stable, according to a statement today.  The lender set aside $700 million in the first half to
cover potential U.S. fines after a Senate committee found the
bank gave terrorists, drug cartels and criminals access to the
U.S. financial system. London-based HSBC also made a 1.3
billion-pound ($2 billion) provision to compensate clients
wrongly sold payment-protection insurance and derivatives.  “Recent events suggest to us that the effectiveness of
these controls may be in doubt,” S&P said. The Senate findings
“may reflect not only entity-level failings, but, in our view,
a potential failure of the group’s enterprise risk management
and culture that may have prevented the escalation of known
issues to group senior management.”  Heidi Ashley, a spokeswoman at HSBC in  London , declined to
comment. HSBC’s American depository receipts fell 0.4 percent to
$44.27 at 1:31 p.m. in New York.  “The point they are making is if you don’t have adequate
controls on  money laundering , do you have adequate credit
controls?” Cormac Leech, an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in
London with a buy rating on HSBC, said by telephone. “It raises
the question are these banks too big to manage to avoid fines.”  Senate Report  The Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations
released a 335-page report in July describing a decade of
compliance failures by Europe’s biggest bank. Senate
investigators focused on New York-based HSBC Bank USA NA as a
“nexus” for U.S. dollar services and transfers.  Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver , 53, has repeatedly
expressed remorse about what he called in a July 10 memo
“unacceptable behavior.” The company has restructured itself
to make compliance a more urgent priority, he wrote, and has
bolstered staff devoted to oversight to about 1,000 from 200.  It’s “too early” to say whether Gulliver’s actions will
allow “consistently strong and effective control over the
group,” S&P said.  The ratings company maintained a stable outlook for the
lender’s Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. unit, citing the
prospect of “extraordinary support” from Hong Kong authorities
for HSBC’s local division if needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Campbell  in London at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  