-- TSE Wins Bid for Osaka as Japan Plots Market Renaissance
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-08-23T11:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/tse-s-tender-for-osaka-bourse-succeeds-as-pledges-exceed-maximum.html
Tokyo  Stock Exchange Group Inc. won
control of its  Osaka  rival, succeeding where more than $30
billion of other exchange merger bids have failed, as the
country seeks to reassert its role as a financial hub for  Asia .  The operator of the world’s third-largest cash equity
market by value said in a statement that it received offers to
sell 80 percent of Osaka Securities Exchange Co.’s shares, more
than the 67 percent it sought in a tender offer that closed
yesterday. The offer price of 480,000 yen per share represents a
premium of 9.7 percent to Osaka bourse’s closing price today of
437,500 yen. The bid values the smaller company at 129.6 billion
yen ($1.65 billion).  Effective control of Osaka Securities means the Tokyo
bourse won’t need the support of any other shareholders to
approve the deal. While regulators have blocked more than $30
billion in other mergers since 2010, the marriage of  Japan ’s two
largest equity-trading venues is part of a national plan to
consolidate the country’s fragmented exchange industry amid
competition from  China  and other  emerging markets .  “The government wanted to make the exchange into one and
strengthen it to become a global player,” said  Naoki Fujiwara ,
chief  fund manager  at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo,
which oversees about $6.7 billion. “The exchanges shared the
sense of crisis. Japan’s position is declining, especially in
Asia. It’s pointless to be fighting over market share when the
nation’s market value and trading volume are deteriorating.”  Equity Slump  Japan’s reputation as a financial hub has been battered as
more than two decades of equity losses and economic stagnation
have combined with corporate governance scandals. Poor
management at Tokyo Electric Power Co. was blamed in part for
last year’s nuclear disaster, while senior board members of
Olympus Corp. were found to have hidden losses through inflated
fees after they fired whistle-blowing president  Michael Woodford 
in October.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has lost more than 75 percent
of its value since peaking in 1989. China surpassed Japan as the
world’s No. 2 economy in 2010, and the combined value of equity
markets in the mainland cities of Shanghai and Shenzhen has at
times exceeded that of Japan’s.  In 2010, Japan’s government said it wanted to create a
“comprehensive” exchange that combined the country’s nine
bourses into a single entity handling stocks, commodities and
other securities. The country’s Financial Services Agency was
involved in discussions between TSE and Osaka before the deal
was announced, two people with direct knowledge of the talks
said in March.  More Attractive  “Japan’s financial industry has taken its first step in
matching up to  Europe ,  North America  and Asia,” said Tatsushi Maeno, head of investment at PineBridge Investments Japan Co. in
Tokyo. “Unless Japan’s economy strengthens, the company won’t
be too useful as an exchange. Japanese companies need to become
more attractive as well.”  The 133-year-old Tokyo exchange, home to Toyota Motor Corp.
and Canon Inc., accounted for 88 percent of Japan’s cash equity
trading in the first seven months of this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Osaka, which was established in 1878
and has its roots in a futures exchange for rice during Japan’s
Edo period, is the only domestic venue for futures on the Nikkei
225 Stock Average.  “The days when we were competing with TSE in ‘‘a small
glass’’ are over,” Osaka President  Michio Yoneda  said in a
 statement . “The world exchange industry got into the age of
global market competition, and each market is competing for
investors cross borders. We throw off the cloak of OSE or TSE
and create the all-Japan exchange.”  ‘Japan Exchange’  Tokyo is assured of being able to move the merger process
to the next step, which is a share swap that values the Tokyo
venue at about 1.7 times its smaller partner, said Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based director of Global Special Situations at
Religare Capital Markets Ltd. An extraordinary shareholders
meeting to approve the deal is expected to take place this fall,
according to the statement from the TSE. The agreement to create
what is tentatively called the Japan Exchange Group will close
in January, Tokyo said.  “This is a big step towards the creation of Japan Exchange
Group,” TSE President  Atsushi Saito  said in today’s statement.
“In order to become Asia’s No. 1 bourse, it’s important that
the Japan Exchange Group becomes the engine of Japan’s economy
and become Asia’s financial hub by bringing in global
investments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  