-- SEC’s Schapiro Turns to Dodd-Frank Panel on Money Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-08-23T15:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/sec-s-schapiro-turns-to-dodd-frank-panel-on-money-funds.html
The asset-management industry scored
a victory yesterday as U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  abandoned her quest to impose tougher
rules on money-market mutual funds.  Three of the four other SEC commissioners didn’t support a
four-year effort to make money funds more stable, Schapiro said
in a  statement  that urged other policy makers to take action.
Two Federal Reserve bank presidents,  Eric Rosengren  of  Boston 
and  William Dudley  of  New York , and Treasury Secretary  Timothy
Geithner  had backed Schapiro’s proposals, which had been opposed
by fund companies including  Federated Investors Inc. (FII)  and
 Fidelity Investments .  “The fact that Schapiro couldn’t get her three members of
the commission to support this is really a national disgrace,”
former SEC Chairman  Arthur Levitt  said in an interview with  Tom
Keene  and Ken Prewitt on  Bloomberg Radio . “The lobbyists
certainly got their way here. Now I think this is a matter that
the president should weigh in on.”  The announcement means the fight over how to regulate $2.6
trillion in funds used by U.S. households and companies as an
alternative to bank accounts probably will move to the Financial
Stability Oversight Council, a panel of regulators created by
the Dodd-Frank Act. Congress charged FSOC with identifying
threats to U.S. financial stability.  ‘Unfinished Business’  Schapiro has worked to make money funds more stable since
the collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund in
September 2008. Its closing triggered a wider run on money
funds, helping to freeze global credit markets.  Schapiro has argued the funds’ stable share price
encourages investors to flee at the first sign of trouble
because it allows those who react quickly to sell their shares
at $1 each even if the net asset value has dropped below that
level. Her proposal would have given fund managers a choice of
switching to a floating share price that reflected the market
value of holdings, or establishing a capital buffer to protect
against credit losses and redemption restrictions to discourage
investor flight.  Three of the five commissioners told her they wouldn’t
support her proposal, Schapiro said yesterday. Other policy
makers should address “one of the pieces of unfinished business
from the financial crisis,” she said.  Republican Opposition  “The declaration by the three commissioners that they will
not vote to propose reform now provides the needed clarity for
other policy makers as they consider ways to address the
systemic risks posed by money-market funds,” she said in the
statement. “I urge them to act.”  Geithner, who chairs FSOC, has said the body could address
money funds if the SEC failed to act. Other members of FSOC
include Schapiro and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  “The celebration by money-fund managers and investors will
be brief,”  Peter Crane , president of research firm Crane Data
LLC in Westborough,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone
interview. “But this definitely reduces the odds of radical
change.”  Schapiro’s plan was supported by only one other
commissioner, Democrat Elisse B. Walter. Republicans  Troy Paredes  and Daniel M. Gallagher opposed it.  Democrat Luis A. Aguilar, a former attorney for Atlanta-
based fund manager  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , had signaled he didn’t support
the Schapiro plan without saying whether he would at least
approve that it be put out for public comment.  Lobbying Campaign  The announcement marks a victory for the mutual-fund
industry, which has lobbied against the Schapiro proposal,
saying it would destroy the attraction of funds to investors and
deny companies, cities and states of a cheap source of short-
term funding.  J.  Christopher Donahue , chief executive officer of
Pittsburgh-based Federated Investors Inc., was among the most
outspoken foes of Schapiro’s proposal. In January he called the
options of a floating share price versus capital buffers a
choice between death “by hanging or by bullet.”  Federated rose 4.4 percent to $21.52 at 11:19 a.m. in New
York, after jumping as much as 7.4 percent earlier, the biggest
intraday gain since June 29. Before today, the stock had climbed
36 percent since the start of the year, beating the 12 percent
increase in the 20-member  Standard & Poor’s  index of asset
managers and custody banks.  Money-market assets in funds and separate accounts, at
$265.5 billion,  accounted  for 75 percent of Federated’s $355.9
billion in assets and 47 percent of revenue in the second
quarter. At Fidelity, money funds made up 27 percent of assets
as of July 31.  Past Bailouts  The 10 biggest money-fund managers and the Investment
Company Institute trade group reported combined lobbying
spending of $16 million in the first half of 2012 and $31.6
million last year in disclosures that reference money-market
mutual funds, according to a review of documents by  Bloomberg
News . That compares with $16.7 million in all of 2010.  Schapiro’s staff this month produced a list for Congress of
more than 300 instances over the past 40 years in which fund
companies have sought permission from the SEC to support funds.
The list was presented as evidence that funds weren’t as stable
as the funds industry maintained.  The run following the Reserve Primary failure abated only
after the Treasury guaranteed money-fund holdings against
default for a year and the Fed financed the purchase of fund
assets at face value to help the funds raise cash to meet
redemptions.  ‘No Back-Up’  Congress has since prohibited the Treasury from acting
similarly and restricted the Fed’s ability to inject liquidity.  “There is no back-up plan in place if we experience
another run on money-market funds because money-market funds
effectively are operating without a net,” Schapiro said in
yesterday’s statement.  Schapiro, with cooperation from much of the industry,
succeeded in enacting new rules in 2010 that required funds to
meet liquidity minimums, shorten the average maturity of
holdings and provide more disclosure. At the time she signaled
the changes wouldn’t be enough to prevent future investor runs.  A vote on the proposal was expected to happen as early as
Aug. 29, though it hadn’t been formally scheduled. The New York
Times reported Schapiro’s decision to cancel the vote earlier
yesterday.  Shadow Banking  Money funds are part of the so-called shadow banking
industry, pairing investors and borrowers without being subject
to banking regulations, such as  capital requirements  or
depositor insurance. Money funds represent the largest
collective buyer of short-term credits in the U.S.  FSOC has two options for dealing with money funds under the
Dodd-Frank Act. If it declares the industry collectively to be
systemically important, it can recommend the SEC enact new rules
to address that threat. Commissioners would then have to explain
their resistance in writing.  Alternatively, FSOC could declare individual funds, or
groups of funds run by individual companies, to be systemically
important and subject them to oversight by the Fed.  Both paths are untested as FSOC hasn’t yet used its
authority on any institutions or activities.  “It’s very unclear what FSOC and the Fed can do,” said
Crane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  