-- SEC Money-Fund Talks Included Idea to End Outflows in Crisis
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-23T21:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/sec-money-fund-talks-included-proposal-to-end-outflows-in-crisis.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who said she couldn’t get
fellow commissioners to agree to tighten money-market fund
rules, rejected an alternative that would give funds authority
to halt or limit withdrawals in times of crisis, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the discussions.  Schapiro said in a statement yesterday that she canceled a
vote on her plan to give funds the choice of switching to a
floating share price or establishing a capital buffer with
redemption restrictions. She said three of the five
commissioners told her they wouldn’t support the idea.  At least two commissioners previously made a
counterproposal that would allow firms running money funds to
stop investor flight, similar to how hedge funds operate, said
the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
talks have been private. The so-called gating proposal also
would have required additional disclosure to investors about the
risks of putting money in the funds, the person said.  In the wake of the 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion
Reserve Primary Fund, the SEC tightened oversight with new rules
in 2010. Schapiro in a Nov. 7 speech suggested the further
moves, which critics in the money-fund industry have said could
drive investors away from the products.  “Given the current volatility of the  capital markets  and
the fragile state of the economy, the timing of this proposal
and its collateral consequences could be needlessly harmful,”
Commissioner  Luis Aguilar , one of the three standing against the
proposal, said in a statement today. He said a study of the
previous overhaul is needed before making more changes.  Concept Release  The chairman had rejected an idea Aguilar posed to issue a
so-called concept release to gather public comments on money-
fund oversight instead of formally proposing changes, the person
said.  In her statement, Schapiro said the susceptibility of funds
to runs “needs to be addressed” and that the rule she
supported would have sought public comment on additional
possible options including gating.  The SEC has been “engaging for two and a half years on
structural reform of  money market funds ,” Schapiro said. “A
concept release at this point does not advance the discussion.
The public needs concrete proposals to react to.”  Aguilar, a Democrat and former general counsel at Atlanta-
based money-management firm  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , told  Bloomberg News  in
January that he thought the earlier reforms of the money-market
system were working and said he was “concerned about unintended
consequences” from more changes.  “The chairman has been open to all ideas throughout the
process,” said  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declining to
comment on any specific proposals. Schapiro, who is a member of
the Financial Stability Oversight Council as SEC chairman, will
now “work with other government agencies on money market fund
reforms to better protect investors and taxpayers,” Nester
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  