-- Serbia to Approve Loan Subsidies Amid Recession, Dinkic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-08-23T13:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/serbia-to-approve-loan-subsidies-amid-recession-dinkic-says-1-.html
Serbia ’s government will approve
subsidies for bank loans on Aug. 30 after the country fell back
into a recession, Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said.  The government plans lending support worth 1 billion euros
($1.25 billion) through the end of 2013, Dinkic said after
meeting a group of top exporters and banks to discuss how to
lower credit costs for export companies hurt by slowing demand
in their traditional European markets.  “We want to pump 1 billion euros in the economy in the
coming period through subsidized liquidity loans,” Dinkic told
reporters in Belgrade today. The first 300 million euros will be
made available in the last quarter, with the remaining 700
million euros offered in 2013.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic , which took
office on July 27, is trying to bolster the economy and stave
off bankruptcy as the previous government left a budget gap of
more than 7 percent of gross domestic product amid renewed
economic contraction and unemployment rate of 25.5 percent.  The government will subsidize  interest rates  on bank loans
to corporate clients to make sure the ultimate cost of the
credit does not exceed 3.5 percent as banks agreed to limit the
“margin at around 5 percent,” he said.  Borrowers will have 18 months to repay the new loans,
including a five-month grace period, and can qualify for loans
as long as they don’t lay off workers.  Budget Cost  Dinkic said the cost for the budget this year will be 300
million dinars ($3.2 million). Banks are expected to start
lending in the first week of September.  As economy minister in 2009, Dinkic pioneered the subsidy
program in Serbia, slowing decline in economic growth.  “Serbia is in a recession again and we are re-launching
this program,” he said.  The economy is expected to shrink by as much as 1 percent
this year as investor interest in Serbia wanes and demand for
its exports contracts during the economic downturn and debt
crisis in  Europe .  The government plans to cut red tape, abolish 104 “para-
fiscal” fees and streamline prices of administration services
to cut the cost of doing business in Serbia at a time when the
foreign trade deficit has expanded 14 percent from a year
earlier in the first six months, he said.  Deficit Cuts  Dinkic wants to lower the  budget deficit  to 6.5 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012 and to 4 percent in 2013. He will
meet trade unions next week to explain that “any wage increases
would lead to a Greek scenario.”  Serbia is trying to negotiate 2 billion euros in cheap,
non-market funding for its budget for the rest of the year.
Government officials will be traveling to Brussels, Moscow and
some “third world countries” to inquire about financing
options for the budget, Dinkic said.  The government “has not yet asked” Russia for a new loan
and Serbia wants to reshape its debts after interest payments
alone reached $704 million this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  