-- Sharapova as Best-Paid Female Athlete Helps Sell Sugarpova Candy
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-08-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/sharapova-as-best-paid-female-athlete-helps-sell-sugarpova-candy.html
Maria Sharapova  learned so much
promoting other people’s products in her first 10 years on the
WTA tour that she decided it was time to start selling her own.  Sharapova this week introduced Sugarpova, her own candy
brand comprising a dozen sweet and sour flavors with names such
as Sporty, Cheeky and Flirty. The line of gummies is the result
of experience Sharapova gained through sponsorships with
companies such as Tag Heuer,  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) ,  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  and  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the 25-year-old tennis player said at the
product’s introduction in New York.  “I’ve learned so much from different brands, whether it’s
advertising or marketing,” Sharapova said in an interview this
week in  New York . “Their knowledge kind of came together in my
brain and it was that inspiration that led me here.”  With earnings from endorsements of $22 million in the year
through June, Sharapova is the world’s highest-paid female
athlete, according to Forbes magazine.  Sharapova introduced the
candy on Aug. 20, did an event with sponsor  Danone SA (BN) ’s Evian
water the next day and was to spend time today with Nike unit
Cole Haan, with which she has a shoe collection.  In between, she’ll prepare for the  U.S. Open , which begins
Aug. 27 at the National Tennis Center in New York. Sharapova won
the final Grand Slam of the tennis season in 2006, the second of
her four major titles.  “The life of a tennis player is very short,” said 18-time
Grand Slam champion  Chris Evert , who retired in 1989 at age 34.
“It’s smart to think early and make decisions early on
regarding what you want to do once you retire, because the
opportunities might not always be there.”  Top Earner  With total income of $27.9 million in the year through
June, Sharapova has been the highest-paid female athlete for
eight straight years, according to  Forbes .  The 6-foot-2 (1.88 meter) right-hander has made $4.49
million in prize money this year and in June won the French Open
to complete her career Grand Slam.  In July, she became the first woman to carry the Russian
flag at the opening ceremony of the  Olympic Games  and eight days
later won a silver medal in London, losing in the final to
 Serena Williams  of the U.S.  Sharapova said her off-court business interests, which also
include fashion and jewelry, help her game.  “When I go back on the court, it keeps my mind fresh and
energized,” she said.  The third-ranked player can better manage her schedule as
she gets older and becomes more acquainted with business, said
 Max Eisenbud , her agent for 14 years, vice president of  IMG
Tennis  and chief executive officer of Sugarpova.  Design Ideas  After she won Wimbledon in 2004, Sharapova dedicated about
15 days a year to eight-hour photo shoots with sponsors,
Eisenbud said. That total is now much lower, though Sharapova’s
room during tournaments remains littered with sketches for
clothing and shoe lines, he said.  Sharapova tops the earnings league without having reached
the elite level of endorsers in the U.S., where she’s known by
about 44 percent of the public, said Matt Fleming, a senior
account manager at the Dallas-based Marketing Arm. By contrast,
91 percent are aware of Williams, he said.  “Winning another  U.S. Open  title will help her,” Fleming
said in a telephone interview. “As will being relevant outside
of the tennis world. The launching of the candy company may be a
starting point for that.”  Strength, Femininity  Awareness of Sharapova -- Bing.com’s  most-searched-for 
athlete last year -- is probably higher in countries other than
the U.S. where tennis is more popular, said Evert, a tennis
analyst for ESPN. Much of Sharapova’s appeal comes from her
ability to balance power and strength with femininity, according
to Evert.  “Plus she has business savvy and smarts when it comes to
which products to choose and how much time to give,” Evert said
in a telephone interview.  Jeff Rubin , a Sugarpova business partner and the creator of
FAO Schweetz and  Dylan’s Candy Bar , said he was impressed by
Sharapova’s involvement during the brand’s 18-month development.  “She demanded to taste the product for quality assurance,
helped with the packaging design, she’s been involved from the
beginning in every aspect of its creation,” Rubin said.  She introduced her candy line at Rubin’s IT’SUGAR store in
 Manhattan  this week.  Sharapova invested “a few hundred thousand dollars” in
Sugarpova, which may expand into cosmetics, fragrances and other
products, said Eisenbud.  “I really wanted to be involved in something from the
beginning to the end, I wanted to own it 100 percent,”
Sharapova said. “It’s fun seeing it actually on the shelf.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  