-- Shekel Rises to 2-Week High on Global Stimulus Bets, Bonds Gain
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-08-23T13:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/shekel-rises-to-2-week-high-on-global-stimulus-bets-bonds-gain.html
The shekel strengthened to the
highest level in almost two weeks as investors bet Israel will
keep  interest rates  on hold this month amid optimism global
central banks will take steps to support growth.  The shekel rose 0.1 percent to 4.0088 a dollar at 4:35 p.m.
in Tel Aviv as the greenback fell against nine of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It earlier reached 3.9921, the
strongest since Aug. 10. The two-year break-even rate, the yield
difference between the inflation-linked bond and fixed-rate
government bonds of similar maturity, added four basis points to
267, implying an average annual inflation rate of 2.67 percent.  Minutes from the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee’s July
31-Aug. 1 meeting showed members judged that more stimulus
“would likely be warranted fairly soon.” About 40 percent of
 Israel ’s gross domestic product is made up of exports, with the
U.S. among the largest markets. The central bank will hold
interest rates at 2.25 percent on Aug. 27, according to 16 out
of 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The  Bank of Israel  is likely to save its ammunition and
leave rates unchanged at month-end amid positive sentiment
driven by expectations that global policy makers are taking
measures to boost economic growth,” said Eytan Admoni, head of
the international department at  Bank of Jerusalem (JBNK)  Ltd. “Rising
prices in food and other costs are also reducing the likelihood
borrowing costs will be lowered.”  Sentiment was also boosted after People’s Bank of China
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said adjustments to interest rates and
banks’ reserve requirements are still possible.  Bonds Advance  Three economists are forecasting a 25 basis-point reduction
at this month’s rate meeting. The yield on the 5.5 percent bonds
maturing in January 2022 fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 4.13 percent at the close in Tel Aviv. The
yield has gained 19 basis points this month.  Parliament this month approved raising value-added and
income taxes, while the  Finance Ministry  in July increased taxes
on beer and cigarettes. Food costs, including dairy, poultry and
egg prices, are expected to climb by year-end, Israel’s Ministry
of Agriculture said Aug. 15. Inflation accelerated to 1.4
percent in July from 1 percent the month earlier as housing
costs and taxes increased, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said
Aug. 15.  One-year interest rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for the benchmark rate in the period, fell two
basis points to 2.04 percent. The swaps rose eight basis points
this month. The  Tel Aviv  Bond 40 Index, which measures
inflation-linked and fixed-rate corporate bonds, declined 0.2
percent to 266.93.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  