-- Singapore Inflation Slows as Scope for Monetary Easing Rises
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 2012-08-23T06:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/singapore-inflation-slows-as-scope-increases-for-monetary-easing.html
Singapore ’s inflation slowed to a
20-month low in July, giving the central bank room to ease
monetary policy as the faltering global economy threatens growth.  The  consumer price index  rose 4 percent from a year earlier,
the Department of Statistics said in a statement today. The
median  estimate  of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 4.5 percent increase, after a 5.3 percent pace reported
earlier for June. The July core inflation rate was 2.4 percent.  Singapore trimmed its prediction for 2012 expansion this
month and said the island’s growth outlook “remains cautious,”
increasing pressure on the Monetary Authority of Singapore to
join central banks from  China  to the  Philippines  in adding
stimulus. The island has allowed the currency to strengthen to
counter inflation and forecasts consumer-price gains will
average 4 percent to 4.5 percent this year.  “Ultimately, the balance of risk has tilted toward growth
and there is increasingly more scope for monetary policy
accommodation,”  Irvin Seah , a Singapore-based economist at DBS
Group Holdings Ltd., said before the report. “Underlying
inflationary pressure in the economy is expected to remain high.
If policy is aimed at targeting inflation, growth will slow
further.”  Credit Suisse Group AG today lowered its Singapore growth
forecast for this year and next, saying manufacturing and
services will be hurt as demand from the U.S. and  Europe  softens.  ’Some Leeway’  “With third-quarter growth likely to be weak and both
headline and core inflation likely to come down significantly by
the end of the year, we believe that the MAS will have some
leeway to respond by easing to a slower pace” of  Singapore
dollar  appreciation at its next meeting, Michael Wan, a research
analyst at Credit Suisse in Singapore, said in a report. He
predicted the economy will grow 2.2 percent in 2012 and 3.5
percent in 2013.  The monetary authority, which uses the  exchange rate  to
manage inflation, said in April it would allow faster gains to
damp price pressures. The central bank guides the local dollar
against a basket of currencies within an undisclosed band, and
adjusts the pace of appreciation or depreciation by changing the
slope, width and center of the band. The next policy review will
be in October.  The Singapore dollar traded at S$1.2451 against its U.S.
counterpart at 2:03 p.m. local time, climbing 0.5 percent. It is
the best performer this year among the 11 most-traded Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Given the generally sluggish economic environment, the
pass-through of wages and other business costs to consumer
prices will continue at a more moderate pace than that seen
earlier this year,” the central bank and trade ministry said in
a monthly statement on price trends today.  Housing costs will add “significantly” to inflation and
there is an upside risk to the current forecast for price gains
should car permit costs continue their recent surge, they said.  Prices rose 0.2 percent last month from June, today’s
report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  