-- Software Mogul Challenges S. Korean Politics as Vote Looms
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-08-24T07:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/software-mogul-challenges-south-korean-politics-as-vote-looms.html
After trailing in polls for months,
 South Korea ’s opposition is being tempted by popular support for
a political neophyte as a decision looms on its candidate for
president in December elections. The maverick’s attraction as an
outsider may also be his biggest vulnerability.  Ahn Cheol Soo, founder of South Korea’s biggest antivirus
software maker, for a time overtook ruling-party candidate Park Geun Hye in polls after a single television appearance on July
23. The 50-year-old, who has yet to declare his candidacy, is
riding a wave of dissatisfaction over slowing growth, a widening
income gap and failure to stoke domestic demand.  Picking Ahn would set up a battle of political experience -
- Park, 60, is a veteran legislator and daughter of the nation’s
longest-serving dictator -- against the type of independent
appeal that  Ross Perot  offered in the U.S. two decades ago to
voters disenchanted with established candidates. Ahn’s challenge
would be learning how to convince lawmakers, as he pushes a
program that features dismantling industrial groups’ cross-
shareholdings and economic engagement with the North.  “Ahn has so far done the opposite of what a politician
would do and has approval ratings politicians dream of,” said
Jaung Hoon, a professor at Chung Ang University in  Seoul  who has
analyzed the nation’s politics for more than two decades and
written a book on its experience with democracy. “His lack of
experience in the political scene is his greatest appeal but
eventually it may be his downfall. Even if he surrounds himself
with veteran politicians and bureaucrats, he will have to direct
them and it’s unclear that he would know how.”  Anti-Establishment  A one-time medical doctor, Ahn says his position as an
outsider is an advantage, distancing him from the “outdated”
practices of the nation’s dominant parties. Perot tried a
similar strategy in the U.S. in 1992, surging in polls at a time
of legislative gridlock, before he eventually finished third,
behind  George H.W. Bush  and the winner,  Bill Clinton .  Like Perot, Ahn built his fortune in technology, founding
 Ahnlab Inc. (053800)  in 1995. He currently has a 29 percent stake in the
business, worth 365 billion won ($320 million), according to Yu
Min Yeong, Ahn’s personal spokesman.  President  Lee Myung Bak , 70, ends his five-year term in
February and is constitutionally barred from seeking re-election.
A former chief executive officer of  Hyundai Engineering &
Construction Co. (000720) , Lee has seen support slide since his 2007
victory after failure to deliver on a campaign pledge to boost
wage growth and an aborted effort to enact a second round of tax
cuts in three years for the chaebol, as the nation’s industrial
groups are known.  Weakest Record  Lee bequeaths an aging society with its lowest  population
growth  since the  Korean War , and the  weakest average economic
expansion  during a presidential term since the start of an
enduring democracy in the 1980s, International Monetary Fund
data show. The nation’s richest 20 percent earned 7.86 times
more than those in the bottom 20 percent last year, the biggest
margin since Statistics Korea began publishing the data in 2006.  Elections in the past year have underscored increasing
public angst, with voters in April producing a narrowly divided
legislature and in October opting for an independent who was
backed by Ahn for mayor of Seoul, the capital.  Now, Ahn himself might run for office. The Ahnlab chairman
released a book last month, “Ahn Cheol Soo’s Thoughts,” laying
out his economic and national-security agenda. He declined a
request for an interview.  Nomination Contest  “It’s pretty clear that Ahn intends to run for
president,” Lee Hae Chan, head of the main opposition
Democratic United Party, told reporters July 23. The party is
scheduled to pick its candidate by Sept. 23. Its current main
declared candidate is Moon Jae In, 59, a human-rights lawyer and
one-time chief of staff to former President Roh Moo Hyun.  Moon, jailed in 1975 for joining street protests against
the rule of Park’s father, is polling third behind Park and Ahn,
giving the opposition incentive to consider any declaration of
interest by Ahn. An Aug. 13-17 poll by Seoul-based Realmeter put
support for Ahn at 31 percent, trailing Park’s 35.9 percent.
Moon had 11.3 percent in the survey of 3,000 people, which had a
margin of error of plus or minus 1.8 percentage points.  Ahn called in his book for a restoration of “welfare,
justice and peace,” and advocated weakening the grip of the
chaebol on the nation’s economy. Along with banning
conglomerates’ cross-shareholding, Ahn would limit their
investments in subsidiaries.  While family-run companies such as
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , LG Group and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  have
been at the core of South Korea’s economic development, Ahn says
they stifle small and medium-sized enterprises.  Staying Independent  The entrepreneur honed his ideas on industry through
building Ahnlab, which he started seven years after writing his
first anti-virus program. He garnered public goodwill by
offering the software for free to individual users and by
rejecting multimillion dollar offers to buy him out from
overseas rivals  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) ,  Trend Micro Inc. (TMICY)  and McAfee Inc.  A native of the southern port city of Busan, Ahn’s stance
on  North Korea  is more moderate than the outgoing president’s.
He supports expanding a joint economic zone in Gaeseong, north
of the border, and resuming tours to the North’s  Mount Geumgang .  Ahn has advocated tackling North Korea’s nuclear weapons
program by restarting six-party talks that were suspended in
2008. Kim Jong Un, the third in a dynasty of communist dictators
in the North after succeeding his late father in December, has
so far failed to engage with the process.  Experience Question  “My lack of political experience is definitely a
weakness,” Ahn wrote in his book, which sold more than 120,000
copies within two days, according to publisher Kim Young Sa.
“At the same time, I think it’s actually a good thing that I
have less of the ’bad experiences’ in an era where we need to
part from a worn-out system.”  Ahn would still need to work with that system to govern
should he become the sixth president since free elections were
held in 1987. The next president is scheduled to take office in
February, and will need to get parliamentary approval for his or
her pick for prime minister.  The 300-seat National Assembly is narrowly split, with 128
seats held by the Democratic United Party and 148 by the ruling
party after Park led it to a come-from-behind victory in April.  “The new president will need to showcase political finesse
to get legislation passed through a parliament whose majority is
so narrowly held between the two main parties,” said Jeong Han
Wool, executive director of the Center for Public Opinion
Research at East Asia Institute in Seoul. “It’s hard to believe
someone who has absolutely no experience in parliament and
government will know how to bring the two together.”  Political Savvy  Park, who would be the nation’s first female leader, was
acting first lady after her mother was killed in 1974 in a
bungled North Korean assassination attempt against her father,
late President Park Chung Hee. She showed her political savvy in
the run-up to the April election, distancing herself from the
current administration’s policies to avert defeat at the polls.  Park has called for policy changes to address youth
unemployment and the strains that an aging society will place on
welfare and pensions. She told senior party members on Aug. 21
that tax policies need a complete overhaul to be able to fund
expanded welfare for the elderly and help those struggling with
 household debt , according to a statement on the party’s website.  “We can’t continue the current gap between the level of
welfare the people want and how much people will have to pay in
taxes to be able to afford it,” Park said in the statement.
“We need to reset our priorities.”  Ahnlab Outperforms  Shares in Ahnlab, based in Seongnam, south of Seoul, have
surged with each report speculating Ahn will run for president.
The stock jumped 7.9 percent in Seoul today after local
newspapers including the Hankook Ilbo reported that supporters
of the opposition urged Ahn to join the party.  The  stock price  has more than tripled since the start of
October, giving the company a market value of 1.3 trillion won.
In the past 3 years, Ahnlab has risen more than sevenfold,
compared with a 19 percent gain in the  Kospi index .  At the same time, Ahn has reduced his involvement with the
company over the years, resigning as chief executive officer in
2005 to pursue a degree at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s
Wharton School of Business.  He sold 860,000 Ahnlab shares in February and donated the
proceeds to his charity, the Ahn Cheol Soo Foundation. Ahn said
at the time he would donate another 1 million shares in future.
Ahn’s spokesman Yu declined to comment on the total value of the
charity’s endowment.  ‘Healing Camp’  Ahn is now dean of Seoul National University’s  Graduate
School of Convergence Science and Technology . About 50,000
students flocked to his 27-college, 100-day lecture tour last
year, in which he gave advice on careers and life. His July 23
appearance on Seoul Broadcasting System’s late-night talk show
“Healing Camp,” gained the program’s highest ratings.  “Other than Ahn, there’s simply no alternative to the
government and Park at this stage for the voters,” said Oh Keon
Ho, head of the Global Political Economy Institute, a privately
funded think tank in Seoul. “The big doubt over Ahn is who
he’ll partner with in executing his vision, and whether he can
tactfully persuade all sorts of political factions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  