-- South Africa May Have Scope for Further Rate Cuts, IMF Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-08-23T15:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/south-africa-may-have-scope-for-further-rate-cuts-imf-says.html
South Africa ’s declining inflation
rate gives the central bank scope to cut interest rates should
the slowdown in the global economy deepen, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  “If the external environment were to deteriorate further,
the resulting moderation of inflation will allow the South
African  Reserve Bank  greater room to respond,” the Washington-
based lender said on its website today. “ Monetary policy  should
remain accommodative, especially given the limited fiscal
space.”  The Reserve Bank, led by Governor  Gill Marcus , unexpectedly
cut the  benchmark interest rate  by 0.5 percentage point to 5
percent on July 19 to bolster economic growth as the European
debt crisis erodes demand for South Africa’s manufactured goods.
Inflation eased to a 14-month low of 4.9 percent in July, from
5.5 percent in June, prompting expectations of more cuts.  Forward-rate agreements due in December, used to speculate
on interest rates, have dropped since the last rate cut and at
4.77 percent are 31 basis points lower than the Johannesburg
Interbank Agreed Rate. That indicates investors are pricing in
about a 60 percent chance of another half-point cut this year.  Stubborn Unemployment  The IMF estimates that inflation will be 5.4 percent by
year-end, while the  economy  will expand 2.6 percent this year,
3.4 percent in 2013 and 4 percent the following year. The
government has said it needs 7 percent annual growth to cut the
 jobless rate  to 15 percent by 2020 from 25 percent.  “The stubbornly high  unemployment rate  could become
politically and socially unsustainable,” the IMF said. It also
warned that “fiscal space to cope with future shocks has
declined considerably.”  It called on the government to overhaul  labor laws  to make
it easier for companies to hire, because the current regime was
helping entrench joblessness and inequality. High wage
settlements were also undermining the country’s competitiveness,
offsetting the benefits of a weaker rand, the IMF said.  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings have all cut their outlook on South African credit to
negative from stable since November, warning that the government
may miss its deficit targets.  South Africa will probably have to accumulate additional
foreign  reserves  over coming years as a precautionary measure,
given its need to finance its current account deficit, the IMF
said. South Africa had $49.4 billion’s worth of gold and foreign
currency reserves at the end of last month.  The National Treasury said it welcomed the IMF assessment.
“Many of the issues raised by the IMF report are already
reflected in the priorities and outcomes that government has set
itself,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net 
13347Z US <Equity> 