-- U.K. Retailers’ Confidence Weakens as Sales Decline, CBI Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/u-k-retailers-confidence-weakens-as-sales-decline-cbi-says.html
An index of U.K.  retail sales 
dropped to its lowest level in four months in August and
confidence about the outlook for the next quarter weakened, the
 Confederation of British Industry  said.  The gauge of annual sales growth declined to minus 3, the
lowest since April, from 11 in July, the London-based business
lobby said in a report today. A quarterly measure of retailers’
expectations for trading conditions over the next three months
fell 20 points to minus 17, the weakest since February 2009.  Retailers have tried to lure shoppers by cutting prices,
and the CBI said that retail-price inflation slowed over the
past quarter to its weakest pace in almost three years. Still,
any recovery in  consumer spending  may be kept in check as the
economy struggles to recover from a recession and government
budget cuts undermine  confidence .  Judith McKenna, chief operating officer of  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda unit and head of the CBI’s distributive trades
panel, said that while the London Olympics this month “created
a mood of celebration,” today’s data indicate “this positivity
did not extend to the high street.”  Recreational goods and department stores reported the
sharpest annual declines in sales, according to the report. The
CBI said retailers expect the business situation to
“deteriorate significantly over the next three months.”  A quarterly index showed the rate of selling-price
inflation dropped to 31 this month, its lowest since November
2009, from 54 in May. A measure of retailers’ investment
intentions fell to minus 13 from minus 8.  Within the monthly survey, the CBI said sales were “well
below” their average for the time of year in August. The
measure of orders placed on suppliers decreased to minus 11 this
month from 5 in July and the volume of stocks declined to 12
from 21.  The survey of 76 retailers was conducted between July 26
and Aug. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  