-- U.S. Said to Plan Added Radar to Bolster Asia Defenses
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-08-23T19:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/u-s-said-to-plan-added-radar-to-bolster-asia-defenses.html
The Obama administration is
considering the possibility of expanding missile defenses in
 Asia  in response to threats from North Korea and aggressive
moves by  China , U.S. defense officials said.  Two U.S. officials said the Pentagon has been discussing
with Japan a new radar installation on a southern Japanese
island. An eventual installation in Southeast Asia would
complete a more robust defense system if a location can be
found, one of the officials said.  While the Wall Street Journal reported last night that the
U.S. planned such an expansion of anti-missile defenses, the
officials said no decisions are imminent and called the system a
possibility in view of the North Korean threat. The officials
spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal
deliberations.  The Pentagon’s willingness to make it known that new
installations of advanced X-Band radar arrays made by  Raytheon
Co. (RTN)  are under consideration is intended to reassure U.S. allies
as China increases defense spending and contests jurisdiction
over maritime territories with countries including Japan,
 Vietnam  and the  Philippines , one of the officials said.  Deploying a second X-Band system to southern Japan, in
addition to one already installed in the country’s north, makes
sense in light of North Korea’s saber-rattling, the second
official said. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has shown no
willingness since assuming power in December to abandon his
regime’s nuclear weapons program, and he oversaw an attempted
launch of a long-range rocket in April.  Countering China  “If they are moving down to Southeast Asia, they are
probably making an effort to counter Chinese missile systems,”
 Richard Bitzinger , a senior fellow at Nanyang Technological
University in  Singapore , said of the reported missile defense
plan. “The Chinese would probably think about how they would
have to counter these counters, and that would probably mean
acquiring more systems or perhaps targeting those radar sites.”  Pentagon spokeswoman Wendy Snyder in  Washington  said she
couldn’t immediately comment, and Japan’s top spokesman also
declined to comment.  Asked today whether a U.S. missile defense installation in
southern Japan would raise hackles in China because it may be
seen as protecting  Taiwan , State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said that planning “for Asia mirrors the work that we’re
doing in Europe, the efforts that we have in the  Middle East .
These are defensive systems.”  North Korea  U.S. systems in Asia are designed to defend “against a
missile threat from North Korea,” Nuland said during her
regular briefing in Washington. “They are not directed at
China.”  Asked about the possibility of a third radar system in a
location such as the Philippines, which is far from North Korea,
Nuland said she didn’t “have anything new to announce.”  The X-Band radar is “a high-powered, phased-array radar
designed to meet near-term ballistic missile threats from rogue
states,” according to  the website  of Waltham, Massachusetts-
based Raytheon.  Japan and the U.S. have decided not to put the new radar
facility on Okinawa, given tensions over the American military
presence there, according to the Journal, which said the
Philippines is a possible site in  Southeast Asia .  Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura, speaking
to reporters in  Tokyo , declined to comment on the Journal
article.  New Launchpad  North Korea is building a new launchpad for firing larger
long-range missiles at its Musudan-ri site in the northeast, the
U.S.-Korea Institute at  Johns Hopkins University  in Washington
said on its website in May. Japan is beefing up its anti-
ballistic missile defense system in concert with the U.S. and
“most of that is geared against North Korea,” Bitzinger said.  China continued “sustained investments” in advanced
cruise and anti-ship missile technologies last year that
“appear designed” to blunt U.S. military access to the region,
the Pentagon said in a May report. The missiles are designed for
launch to a general location, where the guidance systems take
over and target U.S. aircraft carriers for attack, with warheads
intended to destroy aircraft on deck, airplane-launching gear
and control towers.  Elements of the X-Band radar system can be deployed aboard
Navy ships to support tests of U.S. missile-defense systems and
to provide coverage against possible threats.  Southeast Asia  Placing the radar in Southeast Asia would mean “the U.S.
would actually have to step up patrols in the  South China Sea 
and place these large destroyers in that region on basically
regular patrols,” Bitzinger said. “That could be obviously
taken by the Chinese as provocative.”  One of the U.S. officials said the Philippines and Vietnam
have been reluctant to host permanent U.S. military facilities
for fear of provoking China.  China called for the U.S. to stop gathering intelligence in
waters off its shores after a 2009 incident in which its vessels
harassed an American naval vessel 75 miles south of Hainan
Island. The U.S. views the South China Sea as international
waters and has repeatedly called for maritime states to respect
freedom of navigation.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  in June became the highest-
ranking American official to visit Vietnam’s Cam Ranh Bay since
the  Vietnam War , reflecting the U.S.’s expanding ties with a
former enemy as China’s rise realigns relationships in the
region.  In November, Obama and Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  announced a defense accord to deploy American Marines on
Australian bases in 2012.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will join other leaders
at an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Vladivostok,
Russia, next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  