-- U.S. Oil Imports to Seen Hitting 20-Year Low 42% of Use
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-23T16:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/u-s-oil-imports-to-seen-hitting-20-year-low-42-of-use.html
A boom in oil production from the
shale formations of North Dakota and  Texas  has the U.S. on a
course to cut its reliance on imported  crude oil  to about 42
percent this year, the lowest level in two decades.  Dependence on crude purchased from foreign countries is on
a pace to decline from last year,  Adam Sieminski , the head of
the U.S. Energy Information Administration, said during a
Bloomberg Government lunch yesterday in  Washington .  Higher oil prices and increased use of a drilling technique
known as hydraulic fracturing has producers including
 Continental Resources Inc. (CLR) ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and  Hess Corp. (HES) 
boosting production from oil-rich geologic formations. Hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, involves pumping millions of gallons of
water into the ground to free oil and natural gas and has been
widely used in shale-rock formations such as the Bakken of North
Dakota and  Eagle Ford  in Texas.  “What’s happening in North Dakota, and in Texas, with
Eagle Ford, Bakken formation in North Dakota, is a tremendous
development for U.S. oil production and economic growth,”
Sieminski said.  In 2011, the U.S. relied on imports for 44.8 percent of its
petroleum consumption, down from 60.3 percent in 2005, according
to EIA data. This year, the nation should end up at about 42
percent, Sieminski said in a telephone interview after the
lunch.  Gasoline Prices  Even with domestic production gains, gasoline prices in the
U.S. will probably rise 5 cents to 10 cents a gallon by the
Sept. 3 Labor Day holiday before falling in the fourth quarter,
he said.  The increase at the pump is partly a function of a rise in
global crude  oil prices , triggered by a drop in exports from
 Iran  and countries that aren’t members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, he said.  The nationwide average price of regular gasoline at the
pump gained 0.2 cent to $3.718 a gallon yesterday,  AAA data 
showed. Gasoline has climbed 39.2 cents since July 1, according
to the AAA, the nation’s largest motoring organization.  “Gasoline prices should come back down again” in the
fourth quarter, Sieminski said. “We think crude will come down
a bit as well.”  North Dakota’s oil output rose to 639,000 barrels a day in
May,  the highest  since at least 1981. Texas is at its highest
level in more than 20 years, pumping 1.8 million barrels a day
in April and May, according to the agency, a unit of the Energy
Department that gathers data on energy production and use.  Gulf Production  Oil extraction from federal waters in the  Gulf of Mexico 
declined in May, the latest month the EIA lists on its website,
and remains below the 2010 levels, as the moratorium imposed
after the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill more than two years ago slowed the
development of the deep-water fields.  “A lot of the growth that we’re going to be seeing in the
domestic oil production is going to be coming from onshore
rather than offshore,” Sieminski said.  The EIA doesn’t make policy decisions, Sieminski said,
declining to express an opinion on whether oil should be
released from the U.S. strategic petroleum reserve to lower
prices, or if requirements for biofuel use should be waived. He
said that the drought depressing the nation’s corn crop might
impact future ethanol production.  “We’re actually making ethanol out of last year’s corn
harvest, so the ability to manufacture ethanol right now is
probably not being impacted as much by the drought,” he said.
“But that could be an issue.”  Net Exporter  Sieminski said the U.S. is already a net exporter of
petroleum products -- such as gasoline -- and should be open to
the possibility of selling some of its crude to neighboring
countries.  “Cost-benefit analysis would make a lot of sense,” he
said, citing an example of the U.S. potentially exporting light
sweet crude from Texas and  North Dakota  to  Mexico  in return for
that country’s heavy, high-sulfur crude that U.S. refineries are
better suited to process.  “Mexico benefits because their refineries can’t handle
heavier crudes” Sieminski said. “It works out economically for
both countries, and we have a net positive economic impact from
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  