-- Mugabe’s Constitutional Changes Rejected by MDC Party
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2012-08-23T16:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/mugabe-s-constitutional-changes-rejected-by-mdc-party.html
Changes to the constitution proposed
by President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe African National Union-
Patriotic Front party have been rejected by the two factions of
the Movement for Democratic Change, according to officials.  Mugabe’s party led the southern African nation for almost
three decades before being forced by the 15-nation Southern
African Development Community to share power with the Movement
for Democratic Change’s Morgan Tsvangirai, who is now the
country’s prime minister, and a splinter faction of that party.
Under the agreement brokered by SADC the parties must draw up a
new constitution, hold a referendum on that document and then
schedule elections.  Zanu-PF removed dual citizenship from the draft
constitution and gave the presidency executive powers to
dissolve parliament, declare war, appoint judges without
interview and enjoy complete presidential immunity, David Coltart, a senator and education minister with the MDC splinter
faction headed by  Welshman Ncube , said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Zanu-PF is attempting to “subvert the entire process
of peaceful reform in Zimbabwe,” he said.  “The time for negotiations is over,” Douglas Mwonzora,
spokesman for the party of Tsvangirai, 60, said by phone from
Harare, the capital, yesterday. “We’re not going to accept any
changes because there is one draft and it was agreed to by all
political parties.”  Violent Elections  Mugabe, 88, and Tsvangirai were forced by SADC, of which
Zimbabwe and South Africa are members, to share power after a
series of violent and disputed elections and a decade-long
recession that drove millions of Zimbabweans into neighboring
states in search of work.  “What is clear is that we won’t produce a new
constitution,” said Lovemore Madhuku, chairman of the National
Constitutional Assembly lobby group, in Harare. “What Zanu-PF
is pushing for is that we get a Zanu-PF document or we get none.
They should abandon this process because it is flawed.”  Two members of Zanu-PF’s top decision-making body including
a cabinet minister said last week the party planned to stall a
referendum on Zimbabwe’s proposed constitution because it
believes it will lose the election. The officials declined to be
identified because the party’s strategy hasn’t been made public.  Platinum, Chrome  The party is “only putting forward changes demanded by the
people of Zimbabwe,”  Rugare Gumbo , a Zanu-PF spokesman, said in
a phone interview yesterday.  Delays to the referendum may hinder the economic recovery,
with companies hesitant to invest in mining the world’s second-
biggest platinum and chrome reserves without knowing who will
rule the country. Mugabe’s party, in power since independence in
1980, has threatened to nationalize foreign-owned assets and is
pushing a law that requires companies to sell 51 percent of
their local assets to black Zimbabweans.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ,  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)   Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  own platinum mines in the country while
 Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  owns a diamond mine.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Old Mutual Plc (OML) 
and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  also operate there.  “SADC will have to intervene,” said Takavafira Zhou, a
political analyst at Masvingo State University in the central
town of Masvingo, in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  