-- Baidu Plunges Most in 11 Months as Unicom Jumps: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-23T20:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/unicom-jumps-to-3-month-high-as-qihoo-retreats-china-overnight.html
Baidu Inc. tumbled the most since
September, leading declines in Chinese companies in  New York ,
while  China  Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. posted the biggest gain in
two years after second-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slid 0.2 percent to 89.87
yesterday. Baidu lost 6.3 percent after Deutsche Bank AG cut its
recommendation to hold, saying the owner of China’s largest
online search engine is losing market share to  Qihoo 360
Technology Co. (QIHU)  China Unicom surged 7 percent, trading at the
 widest premium  over Hong Kong shares in two months, as cheaper
smartphones reduced the cost of luring subscribers.  A preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’ index
released yesterday by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
suggests China’s August manufacturing may be contracting for a
10th month. Chinese Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
Aug. 22 that adjustments to  interest rates  and lenders’ reserve
requirements are still possible, after injecting cash through
open-market operations.  “China’s economic conditions are weaker than people had
expected and previous measures haven’t shown much effect yet,”
said Qinwei Wang, an analyst at Capital Economics Ltd., said by
phone from  London  yesterday. “The outlook for more stimulus may
not be able to offset weak  market sentiment  caused by the
economic slowdown.”  China ETF Slips  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dipped 0.2 percent to a three-
week low of $34.20. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of the
biggest U.S. shares lost 0.8 percent to 1,402.08 amid concern
European leaders aren’t making progress in solving the region’s
debt crisis.  HSBC’s PMI index reading of 47.8 compares with July’s final
49.3 figure. If confirmed, it would be the lowest level since
November and the 10th month that the reading has been below 50,
the longest run in the index’s eight-year history. China may
have overstated 2012 industrial production data to mask the
economy’s weakness, economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Dallas  wrote in a paper, citing the data’s relationship with
monthly electricity consumption growth.  Baidu sank to a one-month low of $115.09. Analysts at
Deutsche Bank led by Alan Hellawell reduced the recommendation
on its American depositary receipts from buy and cut the price
target to $137 from $186.  Beijing-based Qihoo, which develops computer security
software and desktop products, started a new search engine last
week, entering a market where Baidu has an 80 percent share.  Market Share Loss  “Our channel checks suggest Baidu lost 4-8 percentage
points search traffic market share to Qihoo, and we expect Baidu
to continue to lose traffic share to Qihoo in the next two
quarters,” Hellawell wrote in a research note yesterday,
cutting his forecasts for Baidu’s 2013 revenue by 6 percent, and
the net income projection by 9 percent.  Qihoo retreated 3.6 percent to $23.69 yesterday after
gaining 33 percent in the first three days of this week.  “There’s some profit-taking by investors after Qihoo
prices rose so much this week,” Echo He, a senior analyst at
Maxim Group LLC in New York said by phone. “Its increasing
search engine traffic is good for the company’s stock price, but
the cost for supporting the traffic increase will also grow, and
its search business may not start to generate revenue before
late 2014.”  China Unicom (CHU) ’s ADRs jumped to $17.18, the biggest rally
since February 2010. The ADRs, each representing 10 underlying
shares, traded 2.3 percent above the Hong Kong shares, the
highest premium since June 7.  Cheaper Handsets  Net income fell 2 percent to 2.42 billion  yuan  ($381
million) for the second quarter, from a restated 2.47 billion
yuan a year earlier, based on figures derived from half-year
earnings the Beijing-based Unicom reported yesterday. That
compares with a 2.1 billion-yuan median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chairman Chang Xiaobing has turned to cheaper smartphones
from Chinese suppliers  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , ZTE Corp. and Huawei
Technologies Co. to trim subsidy costs and reduce reliance on
Apple Inc.’s iPhone to win new users. Unicom lost exclusive
rights to offer the iPhone in the nation when  China Telecom
Corp. (CHA)  began selling the device March 9.  ADRs of China Telecom, the smallest of the nation’s three
wireless operators, climbed for a third day, gaining 1.2 percent
to $56.91, the highest level in five months.  China Telecom’s second-quarter net income fell 10 percent
to 4.55 billion yuan, the company reported Aug.22. That beat
seven analysts’ estimate of 4.4 billion yuan as the introduction
of the iPhone lured new customers.  Hollysys, Ctrip.com  Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd. (HOLI) , a maker of
automation and control system based in Beijing, slid 8.3 percent
to $9.08, stemming a three-day advance.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , China’s largest online travel
agency, surged 8.6 percent in its seventh day of increase to
$17.36, the biggest gain in seven months. Ctrip’s smaller rival
 Elong Inc. (LONG)  declined for a second day, losing 1.8 percent to
$15.45.  Ctrip announced last month a $500 million product sales
plan to boost its market share and Elong followed, joining a
price war among Chinese online travel agencies, The China
National Radio  reported  on its website Aug. 22, citing ads on
the companies’ websites and social media platforms.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.3 percent to 2,113.07
yesterday. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies added 1.4 percent, the most in two weeks, to 9,836.14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  