-- Murder Case Illuminates China’s Communist Problem
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-08-23T21:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/murder-case-illuminates-china-s-communist-problem.html
Maybe  China ’s Communist Party needs
to think about a name change.  Two news items this week remind us that there is nothing
classless or egalitarian about the political machine ruling the
most populous nation: the sentencing of  Bo Xilai ’s wife, and
hints that China’s wealth gap is bigger than anyone thought.
Both are more intertwined than meets the eye and show China has
a 1 percent problem that is holding back the other 99 percent.  The Bo scandal isn’t often viewed in economic terms. When
his wife, Gu Kailai, received a suspended death sentence for
killing British businessman Neil Heywood, attention turned to
the political fortunes of the former Chongqing Communist Party
boss. Instead, it should be on the institutional rot that has
befallen the party and the precarious standing of China’s
political system after 10 years under departing President  Hu Jintao .  Bo’s tale is symptomatic of the official corruption and how
it stymies much-needed economic and political reform. It cast a
bright and unsparing spotlight on the obscene wealth amassed by
politicians in a party that is communist in name only. How did
Bo, with his modest government salary and a wife he claims
didn’t work, live so well and send his son to such pricey
schools in the U.K. and U.S.? How did his wife’s sisters come to
control a web of businesses valued at more than $126 million?  Vast Financial Empires  The problem is, politics is proving to be an extremely
lucrative field. The  Communist Party  is the largest political
party in the world, claiming some 80 million members. At its
core is the 25-member Politburo that includes the all-powerful
Politburo Standing Committee. Corruption may not taint every
member of China’s inner circle. Yet the vast financial empires
being amassed by some and the lack of transparency about wealth
among politicians require attention and, where needed, legal
action.  American lawmakers are paupers compared with China’s. In a
February column, I mentioned an eye-popping figure from the
Hurun Report, which tracks China’s wealth, that’s worth
repeating. The wealthiest 70 members of China’s legislature
added almost $90 billion to their bank accounts in 2011. That
increase is greater than the combined net worth of all 535
members of the  U.S. Congress , the president and his Cabinet and
the nine Supreme Court justices. Why start a technology company,
study science or work in  finance  when the riches are to be found
by rising within the party?  As more and more politicians get rich through questionable
land grabs,  insider trading  and old-fashioned rent seeking,
there is less incentive to retool the economy. Political will
shrinks as overseas bank accounts swell. All that money sloshing
around conspires to widen China’s rich-poor divide.  Bo was ousted from his post as  Chongqing Communist Party 
secretary in March. Yet here’s a twist: Just weeks before, Bo
warned that China’s wealth gap had reached the danger zone. He
was right. On Aug. 21, we learned that the wealth gap in rural
China approached a United Nations warning level for social
unrest last year.  China’s rural  Gini coefficient  was 0.3949, slightly less
than the UN’s 0.4 warning level, the Xinhua News Agency said,
citing a survey by Central China Normal University’s Center for
China Rural Studies. A reading of zero suggests absolute
equality of  income distribution . The further you move toward
one, the closer you are to complete inequality. As economic
indicators go, this is a bad one for Hu as he prepares to step
down.  Hu’s Decade  Hu’s decade in power has delivered rapid economic  growth ,
but few of the reforms needed to elevate enough of China’s
masses from subsistence wages. China hasn’t figured out how to
be more than a one-trick economy driven by exports, cheap labor
and unsustainable levels of investment. It hasn’t loosened up on
the Internet or press freedom, raising questions about how a
nation innovates while limiting access to Google. It hasn’t
devised a strategy to reduce pollution and avoid choking on its
economic success. It hasn’t made its leaders more accountable.  To China bulls, the Bo case suggests progress on this last
front. Bo committed unspecified economic crimes for which he has
been humiliated; his wife was punished, so all is well, they
argue. The truth is far more complicated, of course. Many
believe Bo’s real crime was his ambition. Until the story broke,
Bo was the closest thing China had to a political rock star and
a spoiler for its plans to replace Hu with Xi Jinping later this
year. Purging Bo, it might be argued, was all about reinforcing
discipline and loyalty and maintaining the status quo in a
pivotal year.  That is part of the problem, especially as the world
economy deteriorates. China, understandably, is focused on
sustaining growth at 8 percent or more. That seems to mean
giving short shrift to recalibrating a lopsided economy. The
same could be said of making the political system more
responsive to the needs and aspirations of the 99 percent.  If the rich keep getting richer at the expense of the poor,
China may actually need to go communist.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights:  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Hong Kong  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  