-- Murdoch Daughter Says Enemy Within Makes Life Tougher for Press
-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2012-08-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/murdoch-daughter-says-enemy-within-makes-life-tougher-for-press.html
Elisabeth Murdoch  said a hacking
scandal at U.K. newspapers owned by father  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News
Corp. (NWSA)  hurt the case for light regulation and that her brother
James had overstated the importance of profit.  About 60 people have been arrested in probes since bribery
as well as phone and computer hacking were uncovered at the News
International division. The scandal caused the company to close
the News of the World newspaper in 2011 and led Prime Minister
 David Cameron  to order an inquiry chaired by Judge Brian Leveson
to look at press practices.  “It is very difficult to argue for the right outcome --
which must be the fierce protection of a free press and light-
touch media regulation,” Elisabeth Murdoch, chief of News
Corp.’s Shine Group, said in a copy of a speech for the annual
MacTaggart lecture in Edinburgh yesterday. “Sadly the greatest
threats to our free society are too often from enemies within.”  Eight former journalists were charged in July with
conspiring to intercept voice mails, including former News
International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks and former
News of the World Editor  Andy Coulson . In the wake of the
scandal, James Murdoch resigned first as chairman of News Group
Newspapers and then as executive chairman of News Corp’s
newspaper arm.  “One of the biggest lessons of the past year has been the
need for any organization to discuss, affirm and
institutionalize a rigorous set of values based on an explicit
statement of purpose,” Elisabeth Murdoch said, a week after
News Corp. revamped its ethics and compliance program.  BBC Support  Murdoch, whose Shine TV production company was acquired by
News Corp. last year for about $214 million, said her brother
James had overstated the importance of profit when he addressed
the same media conference three years ago.  “James was right that if you remove profit, then
independence is massively challenged but I think that he left
something out: the reason his statement sat so uncomfortably is
that profit without purpose is a recipe for disaster.”  In his 2009 MacTaggart lecture,  James Murdoch  also
criticized the dominance of the British Broadcasting Corp. with
its “guaranteed and growing” income from the license fee paid
by U.K. TV owners. He described the  BBC ’s activities and
ambitions as “chilling.”  “Let me put it on record that I am a current supporter of
the BBC’s universal license fee,” Elisabeth Murdoch said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Tim Farrand at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  