-- Turkey Yields Drop to Two-Week Low on Rate-Cut Bets; Lira Falls
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-08-23T08:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/turkey-yields-drop-to-two-week-low-on-rate-cut-bets-lira-falls.html
Bond yields  headed for the lowest in
two weeks on bets monetary easing in the U.S. will encourage the
Turkish central bank to cut interest rates. The lira weakened.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt slumped 14 basis points,
or 0.14 percentage point, to 7.67 percent at 10:30 a.m. in
Istanbul, the lowest on a closing basis since Aug. 6. The lira
depreciated less than 0.1 percent to 1.7935 per dollar,
retreating for the first time in three days.  Minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s most recent meeting showed
U.S. policy makers favored further stimulus measures unless the
economy shows signs of sustainable recovery. People’s Bank of
 China  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday adjustments to
rates and bank reserve requirements are still possible after the
central bank stepped up temporary cash injections this month.  “It will be easier for the central bank to loosen if there
is more easing abroad,” Ugur Kucuk, a fixed-income strategist
at Is Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  The central bank offered to lend today 5.5 billion liras
($557 million) at its lowest 5.75 percent funding rate, up from
5 billion liras provided last week in its one-week repurchase
agreements auction.  The bank has lent at its minimum policy rate since June 4,
bringing down average borrowing costs for lenders. The charge
fell to 6.90 percent on Aug. 15 from 10.83 percent on May 25,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci, who varies  interest
rates  daily between 5.75 percent and 11.5 percent to rein in
credit growth and control inflation, said on July 26 he may
narrow the band.  Lower Rates  “We are expecting interest rates to move towards 7 percent
in the long term,” Bora Tamer Yilmaz, a vice president at Halk
Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. economic
growth.  A preliminary reading of 47.8 for China’s purchasing
managers’ index released today by  HSBC Holdings Plc and  Markit
Economics compares with July’s final 49.3 figure. If confirmed,
it would be the lowest level since November and the 10th month
that the reading has been below 50, the longest run in the
index’s eight-year history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  