-- Hutchison Offers Remedies to EU in Review of Orange Austria Deal
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-08-23T10:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/hutchison-offers-remedies-to-eu-in-review-of-orange-austria-deal.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  offered
concessions to European Union antitrust regulators probing its
planned 1.3 billion-euro ($1.6 billion) purchase of rival
mobile-phone operator Orange  Austria .  Jan Trionow, the chief executive officer of Hutchison 3G
Austria, said he expects the European Commission to get feedback
from rivals and customers on the offer by early September. The
conditions offered to a mobile virtual network operator, which
would buy network access from the unit to offer mobile-phone
services, are “the most attractive ever” in the European phone
industry, he said in an interview today.  The Brussels-based antitrust authority earlier said the
companies had made an offer aiming to address antitrust concerns
in a website  filing  today without giving details of the
proposal. The deadline for a final ruling remains Nov. 27.  Regulators extended an investigation into the deal in June
over concerns that it may reduce competition by cutting the
number of mobile-phone operators in Austria to three from four.
Hutchison 3G Austria is the smallest wireless operator in the
country of 8.2 million people, where it competes with Orange,
 Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile.  The company controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing 
agreed to buy Orange Austria in February. Managing director
Canning Fok said last week that EU regulators were going “one
step too far” by asking to renegotiate conditions for the deal
which he said should be approved without delay. Hutchison is
Li’s biggest company, with investments in telecommunications,
ports, energy, retail and utilities in more than 50 countries.  Austria’s competition authority is separately probing a
side deal to the Orange purchase, in which  Telekom Austria  plans
to buy about 700,000 clients using Orange via the discount brand
Yesss!.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 