-- TVA Liable for 2008 Coal Sludge ‘Tsunami’ That Swamped Town
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-08-23T23:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/tva-liable-for-2008-coal-sludge-tsunami-that-swamped-town.html
The  Tennessee  Valley Authority is
liable for damages caused when one of its containment dikes
failed, dumping 1 billion gallons of coal ash sludge onto the
community of Watts Bar Lake, Tennessee, in December 2008, a
federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Thomas A. Varlan, of Knoxville,
Tennessee, ruled TVA incorrectly designed, built, maintained and
inspected a dike holding back millions of gallons of toxic
sludge at its Kingston Fossil Plant in Roane County, Tennessee.
These failures caused a “slimes layer” underlying part of the
dike to shift, collapsing the structure.  “The court concludes that but for the confluence of these
physical and geological factors and the movement of the slimes
layer which triggered the dike failure sequence, the coal ash
spill that is the subject of this litigation would not have
occurred,” Varlan said in a 130-page ruling.  Attorney Rhon Jones, with Beasley Allen in Montgomery,
 Alabama , said the fast-moving wall of sludge knocked buildings
from their foundations and contaminated more than 300 acres,
including two nearby rivers, which have yet to be completely
cleaned up.  “When you release over 1 billion gallons of toxic sludge
in a matter of minutes, that’s a tsunami,” Jones, who has
clients in both the TVA spill and the  BP Plc (BP/)   Gulf of Mexico  oil
spill, said in a phone interview today. “By way of comparison,
BP’s Deepwater Horizon oil spill released more than 200 million
gallons of crude into the Gulf of Mexico over about five
months.”  Cleanup Costs  TVA is already footing cleanup costs in the Kingston area,
which are projected at about $1.2 billion. TVA said in a
statement today that it has bought 180 local properties and
settled more than 200 other claims by area residents.  “Since the spill in December 2008, TVA’s commitment has
not wavered –- to clean up the spill, protect the public health
and safety, restore the area, and, where justified, fairly
compensate people who were directly impacted,” according to the
statement. TVA projects the recovery effort will continue
through 2015.  In about three weeks, Varlan will hear motions on how to
conduct the second phase of the trial to assess and compensate
individual claims for damages caused by the spill. Jones
declined to estimate actual damages that will be at issue during
the second phase. Varlan previously rejected the victims’
request for punitive damages.  “That was a quiet, laid-back lake community that had a
good quality of life that’s been completely destroyed,” Jones
said, noting that the lawsuit has more than 800 plaintiffs. “It
has been turned into a construction zone. This ruling provides
an opportunity for all the people whose property was
contaminated to move one step closer to compensation.”  The case is In Re:  Tennessee Valley Authority  Ash Spill
Litigation, 3:09-cv-009, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Tennessee (Knoxville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  