-- Verizon-Cable Deal’s Terms Questioned as FCC Approves
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-08-23T20:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/verizon-cable-deal-s-terms-questioned-as-fcc-approves.html
The Federal Communications
Commission’s approval for  Verizon Wireless  to buy airwaves from
cable companies came with conditions that Democrats said would
preserve competition and Republicans, while voting to approve
the deal, called excessive.  The FCC didn’t have authority to impose requirements for
Verizon, the largest U.S. wireless provider, to share airwaves
with rivals on commercial terms, Ajit Pai, a Republican
commissioner, said in a statement released today as part of the
agency’s order unanimously approving the $3.6 billion deal.  Verizon’s agreement to share airwaves, to allow data
roaming, serve a core FCC duty to preserve competition,  Julius Genachowski , the agency’s Democratic chairman, said in a
statement. “The commission makes the right choice today in
exercising our responsibilities and taking strong action,”
Genachowski said.  Verizon is buying unused airwaves from competitors
including largest cable provider  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and No. 2  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , and has agreed to cooperate with the cable
companies in marketing services and devising new products.
Antitrust officials at the  Justice Department  approved the deal
Aug. 16 with limits on cooperation, and the FCC’s action is the
final regulatory clearance needed for the transaction.  Verizon’s airwaves-sharing agreement isn’t voluntary, Pai
said. “The parties would not agree to it independently but know
that its acceptance is a predicate for regulatory approval,”
Pai said.  FiOS, Cable  Pai’s Republican colleague, Robert McDowell, in a statement
today, said he also disagrees with the roaming condition, in
part because he’d seen no evidence Verizon had failed to offer
access to its airwaves.  Pai and McDowell both said the FCC had also improperly
asserted authority over marketing-cooperation agreements between
Verizon and its cable partners.  Genachowski said the cooperation agreements were modified
to make sure Verizon had an incentive to keep building its own
wired video and Internet service, known as FiOS, to compete with
cable companies’ offerings. The change was part of rectifying a
deal that posed “serious anticompetitive concerns” as proposed
in December, he said.  The comments from the agency’s two minority-party members
reflect a Republican theme that the FCC exceeds its powers
during transaction reviews.  The agency’s order in January 2011 approving Comcast’s
purchase of General Electric Co.’s NBC unit “goes too far” in
setting conditions, McDowell said in a statement then.  Former FCC Commissioner Meredith Attwell Baker, in a speech
delivered two months before she announced her departure from the
agency to work for Comcast, called for “common sense limits on
merger conditions” and said Comcast’s experience informed her
views.  Limiting FCC  A bill to limit FCC review of mergers, H.R. 3309, passed
the House in March, getting 235 of its 247 votes from
Republicans. All 174 “no” votes came from Democrats. The
Democratic-majority Senate hasn’t acted on the measure.  Under the bill, the FCC would be barred from imposing or
accepting conditions on companies that aren’t related to the
substance of a merger. According to a House committee  report ,
the FCC has sought concessions that are outside of its authority
to approve mergers, and companies propose unrelated concessions
to improve their chances of gaining agency consent.  The administration of President  Barack Obama  opposes the
bill, saying the measure could limit the ability of the FCC and
the Justice Department to work together on telecommunications
matters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  