-- Vietnam Stocks Fall Most in Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-23T07:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/vietnam-stocks-fall-most-in-asia.html
Vietnam ’s  stocks  slumped the most in
 Asia  on speculation the detention of a banking tycoon this week
will lead to further arrests in the financial industry. The
benchmark money-market rate climbed to a four-month high.  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  closed 4.2 percent lower at 392.82 in  Ho Chi
Minh City , the lowest level since Feb. 1. The gauge has fallen
19.5 percent from its high this year on May 8. Bao Viet
Holdings, the nation’s biggest publicly traded insurer, dropped
by the Ho Chi Minh City bourse’s 5 percent daily limit. Hanoi-listed Asia Commercial Bank plunged 6.7 percent.  The VN Index slumped 10 percent the past three days. Nguyen
Duc Kien, who helped found Asia Commercial, was arrested on Aug.
20 after he allegedly “conducted business illegally,”
according to a central bank statement. The Supreme People’s
Procuracy of Vietnam approved an arrest warrant for Ly Xuan Hai,
Asia Commercial’s chief executive officer, online newswire
Petrotimes reported yesterday.  “Markets don’t like uncertainty,”  Kevin Snowball , the Ho
Chi Minh City-based chief executive of PXP Vietnam Asset
Management, which manages about $100 million, said by phone.
“Until such time we get clarity or hear exactly what’s going on
and why these arrests are being made, there’s a good chance the
markets would continue to be weak.”  Asia Commercial’s Hai was not reachable on his mobile
phone. The company has not received any official information on
the matter, Deputy CEO Nguyen Thanh Toai said by phone today.  More than half the VN Index’s 303 companies fell by at
least 4 percent. Vietnam’s State Securities Commission urged
investors to be calm after Kien’s arrest, the Thoi Bao Kinh Te
Vietnam newspaper reported today, citing Nguyen Son, head of the
regulator’s market development department.  Slumping Valuations  The VN Index’s tumble this week dragged  valuations  to 9.5
times estimated profit, the lowest level since May 25, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 8.7 percent lower than the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.4 multiple.  “The Vietnam issue is more about confidence than market
valuations,” said  Gavin Parry , managing director of Hong Kong-based Parry International Trading Ltd. “The high probability of
more high-profile banking arrests is creating uncertainty for
the banking system. The central bank has stepped in to assure it
will cover its liabilities.”  The nation’s benchmark money-market rate has more than
trebled in the past week on concern banks will hoard cash to
meet customer withdrawals. The overnight interbank deposit  rate 
surged 94 basis points, or 0.94 percentage point, today to a
four-month high of 6.60 percent, according to data from banks
compiled by Bloomberg. A 198 basis-point jump yesterday was the
biggest since December 2010.  Fund Injections  State Bank  of Vietnam injected 13 trillion dong ($627
million) into the financial system via its open-market
operations yesterday, the biggest amount lent for a seven-day
period this year. Governor Nguyen Van Binh said Aug. 21 the
monetary authority stands ready to ensure banks have adequate
cash after Kien’s detention.  Asia Commercial Bank borrowed about 7 trillion dong from
the central bank in open-market operations yesterday to “calm”
depositors, Deputy CEO Toai said. The lender will withdraw 36
trillion dong of loans from the  interbank market  as it seeks to
ensure its liabilities, Toai said today. The stock plunged 19
percent the past three days.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s government is seeking to
shore up a banking system saddled with the highest bad debt in
 Southeast Asia  that credit-rating companies cite as a threat to
the economy. The arrest of Kien, who has links to the prime
minister, may also be related to an Dung’s ongoing rivalry with
President Truong Tan Sang for power within the Communist Party
ranks, Steve Norris, a Singapore-based analyst at  Control Risks
Group , said this week.  Political Rivalry  Dung was reappointed to a five-year term last year. Sang
formerly headed the  Central Committee ’s central economic
commission before he was appointed as president last year, one
of the country’s top three leadership positions.  Kien held a senior position managing Vietnam’s professional
soccer league and his family was among the 30 wealthiest in the
country last year, according to VnExpress.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  