-- Vietnamese Bonds Rally as Cash Supply Concern Spurs Bank Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-23T10:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/vietnamese-bonds-rally-as-cash-supply-concern-spurs-bank-demand.html
Vietnam ’s benchmark five-year bonds
rose, pushing the yield to a two-month low, on speculation banks
are buying debt rather than lending money in the  interbank
market  after the arrest of a prominent bank investor. The dong
climbed.  Nguyen Duc Kien, who helped found Asia Commercial Bank, the
nation’s fourth-biggest lender by market value, was arrested Aug.
20 after he allegedly “conducted business illegally,”
according to a central bank statement. Asia Commercial will
withdraw 36 trillion dong ($1.7 billion) from the interbank
market as it seeks to ensure its liabilities, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Nguyen Thanh Toai said today. The central bank
injected 22 trillion dong into the financial system via open-
market operations since Aug. 21 to boost the supply of cash.  “Extra liquidity has been pumped into the banking
system,” said Fiachra MacCana, managing director of  Ho Chi Minh
City Securities Corp. (HCM)  “The larger banks appear reluctant to
lend to smaller banks and end-customers, and the only place they
can park money is in the  bond market .”  The yield on the five-year notes fell 20 basis points, or
0.2 percentage point, to 9.51 percent, the lowest level since
June 13, according to a daily fixing rate from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest drop since May 10. The overnight
interbank deposit  rate  rose 94 basis points to 6.60 percent
today, taking its weekly gain to 392 basis points, according to
data from banks compiled by Bloomberg.  The dong strengthened 0.6 percent to 20,725 per dollar as
of 5 p.m. in Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That was the biggest advance since June 25. The  State Bank  of
Vietnam set its reference rate at 20,828, unchanged since Dec.
26, according to its website. The currency is allowed to trade
as much as 1 percent on either side of the daily fixing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  