-- Wal-Mart Sued by Michigan Mother Over Kids’ Salmonella
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-23T20:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/wal-mart-sued-by-michigan-mother-over-kids-salmonella.html
Wal-Mart Stores  Inc. was sued by a
Michigan mother who claims her two children contracted
salmonella bacterial infections after eating cantaloupes bought
at the company’s  Battle Creek  store.  Angela Compton, 33, of Battle Creek is seeking at least
$25,000 in damages from Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart,
according to a state court complaint she filed yesterday on
behalf of her children.  At least two deaths and 178 illnesses in 21 states have
been linked to the salmonella outbreak, the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  said yesterday. The FDA said it  traced  the
illnesses, the second such contagion in the U.S. two years, to
Chamberlain Farm Produce Inc. in Owensville,  Indiana . The fruit
went to market from June 21 to Aug. 16, according to the FDA.  “I would have expected farmers, distributors and retailers
to have better food safety procedures in place this year to
prevent another cantaloupe-related outbreak from happening,”
the Comptons’ lawyer,  Bill Marler , said in a statement
announcing the Calhoun County, Michigan, court filing.  Timothy Chamberlain, who said he owns the Owensville farm,
declined on Aug. 21 to comment on the outbreak in interview.  Cantaloupes sold by Wal-Mart’s Battle Creek store did not
come from the Indiana farm, Randy Hargrove, a spokesman for the
company, said in a telephone interview today.  Some Sold  In the same interview, Hargrove’s colleague, Dianna Gee
said that while the company doesn’t buy from the Owensville
farm, one of its suppliers shipped a small quantity of
cantaloupes from the farm to Wal-Mart stores outside Michigan.  Those melons, which Gee said comprised fewer than 1 percent
of the cantaloupes sold by Wal-Mart, were identified and removed
from the company’s stores.  Gee said she did not know if any had been sold.  Compton, a child-care provider, said in a telephone
interview that her daughters became ill after eating cantaloupe
last month. Medical tests confirmed they had been sickened by
salmonella, she said. Both have recovered.  One child, Mariah, 10, was hospitalized for four days,
Compton said.  “She had bad abdominal pains, gas, fever and needed IV
fluids,” Compton said. “It was bad. They were the sickest I’ve
ever seen a kid.”  The case is Compton as Guardian v.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
12-2648, Calhoun County, Michigan, Circuit Court (Battle Creek).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington 
at   sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at   rbostick@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 