-- Water Trumping Carbon Spreads $17 Billion Market
-- B y   J o s e p h i n e   F o r s t e r
-- 2012-08-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/water-trumping-carbon-spreads-17-billion-market.html
Desalination equipment orders are
forecast to triple over five years to become a $17 billion
business, driven by breakthroughs in energy savings and demand
by cities and industry.  Investment in installations that make drinking water from
the sea will jump to a record in 2016 from $5 billion last year
and $8.9 billion in 2012, according to forecasts by Global Water
Intelligence, an industry consultant. While that’s a fraction of
spending on carbon-free energy generation, it’s gaining traction
among managers of environmental services funds.  “Water right now is a strain on this planet more than
carbon,”  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said in an interview this month in London. “We
mismanage water terribly. It’s going to be a big issue.”  Prompting the boom is technology that uses less energy to
create potable water as well as a crush of companies entering an
industry and driving down costs. From France’s  Veolia
Environnement SA (VIE)  to IDE Technologies Ltd. of  Israel  and  Hyflux
Ltd. (HYF)  of  Singapore , competition to make money from duplicating
the Earth’s water cycle is pushing shares of the companies in
the water industry near their 2007 highs.  The  S&P Global Water Index (SPGTAQD)  of 50 shares has advanced about
13 percent in the past year, about 15 percent short of its
record in 2007. In the same period the  WilderHill New Energy
Index (NEX)  of 96 clean-energy stocks fell about 29 percent.  Wind- and solar-power shares were clobbered by Chinese
competition, European subsidy cuts, and by U.S. politicians
sidestepping the climate debate and rejecting carbon limits.  Carbon Plunge  European permits to release a ton of carbon dioxide, a tool
governments use in the European Union use to discourage
greenhouse-gas output, fell 47 percent in the past two years.  Most desalination plants have been built in the  Middle
East , though the technology is spreading, expanding the industry
10 percent to 12 percent a year, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. China has 30 plants operating and six announced
or under construction, according to the consultant owned by
Bloomberg LP.  India  has eight running, one partly in service,
and two on the way.  “Those huge economies will not be able to step forward
without a solution to water scarcity, and one of the solutions
is going to be desalination,” said Avshalom Felber, chief
executive officer of IDE Technologies, an Israeli company that’s
the biggest operator of the plants. “Besides China and India,
the southern U.S. is going to be a major market for us.”  Freshwater Shortages  Average available freshwater resources per capita will fall
by more than 20 percent by 2030, BNEF said, citing United
Nations data.  Efforts to make ocean water drinkable date to Greek and
Roman times, when sailors boiled seawater. Utility-scale plants
that distilled out salt sprung up after World War II. The first
major U.S. plant was built by Dow in 1961 in Freeport, Texas.  The modern industry emerged in the 1990s, when reverse
osmosis using a porous membrane to filter out salt slashed the
energy needed by traditional distillation plants. So-called RO
facilities operate for about $1 per cubic meter, half the price
of 20 years ago, according to the International Desalination
Association, an industry group based near  Boston . That’s still
about 10 times the cost of traditional water supplies, mainly
because desalination requires electricity and heat to work.  ‘Huge Growth’  “This is potentially a huge growth area,” said Ian Simm,
chief executive officer of  Impax Asset Management Group Plc (IPX) , a
London-based investor with about $2.8 billion in funds. “It’s
only viable where the price of water is high and the cost of
energy is low.”  Most of the biggest operators are conglomerates spanning
other industries, such as Dow, Veolia,  General Electric Co. (GE)  of
the U.S., Spain’s  Acciona SA (ANA)  and France’s Degremont SA.  Smaller rivals include pump-and-valve maker  Flowserve Corp. (FLS) 
of Irving, Texas; plant operator Hyflux Ltd. of Singapore; and
 Energy Recovery Inc. (ERII) , a maker of units that drive water through
desalination membranes that’s based in San Leandro, California.  “Desalination is a technology that makes economic sense
for very specific niche situations where there is little or no
recurring source of groundwater,” said Philippe Rohner,
portfolio manager in Geneva at Pictet Asset Management SA
running the $2.8 billion Global Water Fund. “Water re-use or
recycling offers more investment opportunities.”  Reverse Osmosis  Reverse osmosis has about 45 percent of the market, with
traditional distillation being the main technology used in most
of the remainder, New Energy Finance estimates.  A new process called forward osmosis works at lower
pressures using less heat and power than so-called RO facilities
and may take market share within 10 years, said Robert McGinnis,
founder of Oasys Water Inc., a Boston company whose equipment is
being used by American oil and gas producers.  Modern Water Plc (MWG) , a British purveyor of forward osmosis
equipment, estimates the technology could cut the cost of
desalinating by as much as 30 percent.  “This is the next big step forward,” said Neil McDougall,
chairman of the company, which has built small plants from
Gibraltar to Oman. McGinnis of Oasys says the technology will be
“hugely transformative.”  “Anyone that was looking with open eyes from that
community would see that that was coming,” McGinnis said.  Rival Views  Their competitors aren’t convinced that forward osmosis
will take off. GE’s Power & Water unit expects improved
membranes and more efficient pumps to reduce desalination costs
for RO plants, said Erik Hanson, a manager at the unit.  “There are some new ideas, but they are still in the
cradle,” said Julio Zorrilla, director for international
construction at Acciona Agua SA, the water arm of the Spanish
developer that’s working on four major projects. “We expect
that in the next five years the market will double” relying on
“mature” RO technology, he said.  Regardless of which method prevails, the boom in
desalination stands to ease pressure on the 20-some companies
including GE, Dow and Hyflux that supply the industry. They’ve
struggled with increasing competition as demand bounced between
$5 billion and $9 billion a year since 2006, GWI figures show.  “There’s a fixed amount of fresh water in the world, and
there’s growing demand,” said Christopher Gasson, publisher of
Global Water Intelligence, which is based in  Oxfordshire ,
 England . “The longer term future is extremely strong. The
reality at the moment is incredibly tight, with too many
companies competing for far too little business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josephine Forster in  London  at 
 jforster13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  