-- WellPoint Holders Tout Potential Replacements for CEO
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-24T20:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/wellpoint-investor-royal-capital-calls-for-ceo-ouster.html
Royal Capital Management LLC’s call
for the ouster of  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  Chief Executive Officer Angela Braly is spurring discussions among investors and analysts about
who might be tapped to replace her.  Royal Capital, with 837,800 shares of WellPoint as of June
30, urged the health insurer’s board to remove Braly in a letter
that was made public yesterday. In doing so, the New York-based
hedge fund became the third stockholder in a month to publicly
question management at the second-biggest U.S. health plan.  While the WellPoint board has supported Braly in two public
statements,  Jason Gurda , a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst in New
York, said investors have suggested James G. Carlson, the chief
of  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP) , and David B. Snow Jr., the former chief of
Medco Health Solutions Inc. as CEO candidates. WellPoint is
buying Amerigroup, a rival insurer, for $4.9 billion, and Medco
was acquired for $29.1 billion in April by  Express Scripts 
Holding Co., a fellow drug-benefits manager.  “Certainly, they’re both successful and they’re both
available,” Gurda said in a telephone interview. “Some
investors are looking for a change.”  While neither man has publicly expressed interest in the
job, and WellPoint’s board has expressed confidence in Braly,
that hasn’t stopped the speculation, he said.  Possible Candidates  Other names raised by investors include Gail Boudreaux, the
head of the health plan division at  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the
biggest U.S. medical insurer, and Kenneth Goulet, WellPoint’s
executive vice-president, said Thomas Carroll, a Stifel Nicolaus
& Co. analyst in Baltimore.  Efforts to reach Snow through former Medco colleagues
yesterday were unsuccessful. Maureen McDonnell, an Amerigroup
spokeswoman, and Daryl Richard, a UnitedHealth spokesman,
declined to comment on the CEO speculation.  Kristin Binns, a WellPoint spokeswoman, said executives are
meeting with shareholders “to understand their views and share
what we are doing to move the company ahead strategically and
improve our execution.”  “These are challenging times for many companies in the
managed care field, but we believe we are well positioned to win
in the market,” Binns said in an e-mail. “We recently
announced two acquisitions that position us well for growth in
the future, and we are putting in place the team to execute on
our opportunities.”  ‘Failed Miserably’  In its letter to the board, dated Aug. 22, Royal Capital
wrote that Braly has “failed miserably” since becoming CEO in
June 2007. The statement, signed by partners Robert Medway and
John Lancefield, cited disappointing profits, a stock that’s
lagged behind competitors and “managerial blunders.”  “It is incumbent upon the board of directors to fulfill
its fiduciary responsibility to shareholders by changing
leadership,” the hedge fund said in the letter.  Braly, 51, has come under fire since the company cut its
full-year forecast last month after earnings missed analyst
estimates for the second time in three quarters. WellPoint’s
market value through yesterday had declined about $8.8 billion
since Braly became chairman of the board in March 2010, and the
quarterly results prompted two shareholders, investment fund
Orbimed Advisors LLC and hedge fund Omega Advisors Inc., to go
public with criticism of management.  WellPoint  shares  fell less than 1 percent to $57.66 at the
close in New York, and have dropped 5.1 percent in the past 12
months. UnitedHealth, based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , gained 18
percent in the same 12-month period and increased 59 percent
since Braly took on WellPoint’s chairmanship.  Deal Timing  WellPoint announced its deal in July for Amerigroup,
seeking to become the top provider of Medicaid coverage for the
poor as President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law expands the
federal-state program. That may mean Braly is safe at least
until the end of the year, when the acquisition is expected to
close, said  Erik Gordon , a  University of Michigan  business
professor who follows the health industry.  While the  board  has backed Braly, “in the investor world,
people have talked about potential replacements,” Brian Wright,
an analyst with Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. in New York, said in
a telephone interview.  The conversation usually starts with Snow and Carlson, CEOs
respected for their insurance backgrounds as well as the
lucrative deals they crafted for shareholders, he said.  Snow was Medco’s first and only CEO, joining the  Franklin
Lakes , New Jersey-based company shortly before it was spun off
from drugmaker  Merck & Co. (MRK)  in August 2003. He built the company
into the country’s biggest manager of pharmacy benefits by drug
spending, serving employers, unions and big insurers like
UnitedHealth.  Medco Performance  By the time Snow left, Medco’s sales had more than doubled
to $70 billion last year and its share price had risen almost
sixfold. Last year, the company announced its sale to  Express
Scripts (ESRX) , its St. Louis-based rival, for a 28 percent premium on
its shares.  “People think he did right by his shareholders,” Wright
said.  Before Medco, Snow was president and chief operating
officer at Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, a  New York  State
health plan later bought by WellPoint. He also held executive
positions at insurers including Oxford Health Plans, now owned
by UnitedHealth, according to a Medco  biography .  Carlson, 60, has been CEO of Amerigroup since September
2007, and an executive since 2003 at the  Virginia Beach ,
Virginia-based plan. WellPoint agreed to buy the company at a 43
percent premium.  Amerigroup Increase  Through the deal announcement, the insurer’s share price
doubled and enrollment rose 76 percent.  Carlson  previously was
president at UnitedHealth from 1995 to 1998, said Carl McDonald,
a Citigroup analyst, in a July 16 note to clients.  “He was quite successful at his last company, he used to
run a big commercial operation, and he has a significant amount
of cachet with investors,” McDonald wrote. “Before,
WellPoint’s board didn’t have a lot of obvious choices if they
wanted to go in a new direction with the leadership of
WellPoint, but that’s no longer the case.”  Still, McDonald said, the fact that Braly would bring a
potential challenger like Carlson into the company, suggests her
standing may be “a lot more secure than those of us outside the
company perceive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  