-- Wharf Has Higher Profit on China Home Sales, Hong Kong Rents
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-08-23T09:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/wharf-has-higher-profit-on-china-home-sales-hong-kong-rents-1-.html
Wharf (Holdings) Ltd. (4) , the Hong Kong
builder expanding in at least 14 other Chinese cities, said
first-half underlying profit rose 49 percent after booking sales
from a  Shanghai  luxury home project and as rental income climbed.  Profit excluding property revaluations and one-time gains
advanced to HK$5.43 billion ($699 million) in the six months
ended June 30 from HK$3.64 billion a year earlier, Wharf said
today in a filing to Hong Kong’s stock exchange. That exceeds
the HK$4 billion median estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Earnings were boosted by developments including the Xi Yuan
project in Shanghai, where sales began before the country’s
government stepped up real estate curbs to make housing more
affordable. Wharf’s Times Square and Harbour City shopping malls
in Hong Kong posted gains as Chinese tourists continued spending
in the city even as the nation’s economy slows.  Growth from  China  is “a reflection of Wharf’s expansion in
its China properties in recent years,” Stephen Wan and Mark Webb, analysts at HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote in report this week.  Shares of Wharf, controlled by the family of billionaire
Chairman Peter Woo, advanced 4.7 percent to HK$48.90, the
highest since February, at the close in Hong Kong today. They
have risen 39 percent this year, making it the fourth-best-performing stock in the 49-member Hang Seng Index, which gained
9.2 percent over the same period.  China Sales  Operating profit from property development rose sixfold to
HK$3.43 billion, boosted by its projects in China and its One
Midtown development in Hong Kong, Wharf said.  Woo said last year he expected projects in China to make up
50 percent of the company’s assets by 2014, as the fourth-biggest Hong Kong-listed real estate company is expanding its
property business in other parts of China.  The company invested HK$5.1 billion in June buying shares
and convertible bonds in Greentown China Holdings Ltd. Greentown
is one of 11 Chinese developers with the weakest liquidity,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Further tightening of the property market in China will
affect the company’s operations, Deputy Chairman Stephen Ng told
reporters in Hong Kong today after the earnings. Wharf is
confident it will achieve its full-year target of 12.7 billion
 yuan  of property sales in China, same as last year, Ng said.  “The mainland market is policy driven,” he said. “If
property controls intensify, we may be affected. At the moment,
we conservatively estimate that our second half sales may not be
as good as first half.”  Harbour City  China has over the past two years raised down-payment and
mortgage requirements, imposed a property tax for the first time
in Shanghai and Chongqing, increased building of low-cost social
housing, and placed home-purchase restrictions in about 40
cities.  New-home prices rose in 49 of 70 cities tracked by the
government in July, the largest number of cities in 14 months
after interest-rate cuts and incentives for first-time buyers.  Turnover from the Harbour City shopping mall in Hong Kong
gained 15 percent to HK$3.05 billion, while Times Square rose 14
percent to HK$932 million, the company said.  Retail Rents  Doreen Lee, a Wharf executive director, said she was
optimistic about Hong Kong’s retail and office property market
this year and in the first half of 2013 because industries other
than the financial sector are still growing, and international
brands are still using the city as a gateway to China.  Hong Kong retail sales and shop rents, which have been
driven by increased spending by cashed-up Chinese tourists in
the past decade, may gain 12 percent over the next 12 months
after increasing 18 percent in the first half, as international
brands continue expanding in the city, according to property
broker Colliers International.  Martin Cubbon, chief executive officer of Swire Properties
Ltd., the biggest commercial landlord in Hong Kong’s Island East
and Admiralty districts, said earlier this month there’s still
growth potential in retail rents in Hong Kong.  Wharf, which also owns one of Hong Kong’s two biggest pay
television providers and an air cargo terminal operator, said
 net income  rose to HK$23.6 billion, or HK$7.81 a share, from
HK$14.3 billion, or HK$4.84 a share, a year earlier.  Wharf will pay an interim dividend of 45 Hong Kong cents,
compared with 36 Hong Kong cents a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net 12 