-- Whitehaven Says Tinkler Won’t Proceed With $5.5 Billion
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-08-24T06:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/whitehaven-says-tinkler-won-t-proceed-with-5-3-billion-offer.html
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  said Australian
mining magnate  Nathan Tinkler  scrapped his takeover proposal
that valued the company at A$5.3 billion ($5.5 billion),
triggering the biggest drop in its shares in more than a year.  Whitehaven was advised that a “formal binding proposal of
A$5.20 a share will not be forthcoming,” the Sydney-based
company said today in a statement. The shares have traded under
the offer price since a group led by Tinkler, Whitehaven’s
biggest  shareholder , made the conditional cash bid on July 13.  Tinkler, an electrician-turned-miner, had been in talks to
raise funds to acquire Whitehaven, owner of seven coal assets,
as coal prices fell and banks tightened lending. The deal, the
biggest announced in Australia this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, fell over as Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  called an end to the nation’s mining boom.  “He would have had great difficulty raising the finance,
which is understandable given what is happening in commodity and
financial markets,” Andrew Pedler, analyst at Wilson HTM
Investment Group, said by phone from Brisbane. “Even parties
who normally back him would have been concerned given the
outlook for the coal markets.”  Whitehaven shares fell 11 percent to A$3.09 at the close in
Sydney, the biggest drop since May 16, 2011. The company, which
today reported a 13 percent drop in underlying profit, said June
13 it had rejected an unconditional offer from Tinkler that
didn’t disclose terms.  Data Room  The value of natural resource transactions, including
mining and energy deals, in  Australia  so far this year has
slumped to A$14 billion, down from A$47.3 billion for the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the data room has been closed, the Whitehaven board
will “always assess carefully firm proposals which are in the
best interests of shareholders,” the company said. Tinkler’s
group didn’t give Whitehaven a reason why the bid wouldn’t
proceed, Chief Executive Officer Tony Haggarty told reporters
today on a conference call.  Tinkler said Aug. 6 he wouldn’t reduce his offer price
because holders would be unlikely to accept a lower bid. The
comments were made after two people with knowledge of the matter
last month said he was considering lowering the price after
Whitehaven’s shares slumped and coal prices weakened.  New Company  Tinkler’s group advised Whitehaven that about 48.3 percent
of the company’s shareholders had expressed interest in becoming
stakeholders in the new company, subject to a satisfactory due
diligence process, Whitehaven said July 13. Another 16.7 percent
of shareholders may also join, equating to 65 percent.  Tinkler had two main hurdles to overcome to get the deal
done, Paul McTaggart, a resources analyst with Credit Suisse
Group AG, wrote in an Aug. 2 note. The first was to convince 65
percent of shareholders to transfer their Whitehaven shares into
a company that wasn’t publicly traded and contribute further
equity, he said. The second was to raise an estimated A$1.85
billion to buy out the remaining 35 percent of investors.  Assuming additional debt of A$1.85 billion, the company’s
gearing will rise to 70 percent, a level the company would find
“challenging” to support, McTaggart said.  Tinkler’s group had conditional letters of support from  UBS
AG (UBSN) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc. They had agreed in
principle to provide about A$2.5 billion in loans to help fund
the deal, people familiar with the matter said June 18.  Coal Prices  Thermal coal at the Australian port of Newcastle, the
benchmark price for  Asia , fell 17 percent in the three months to
June 30, the worst quarter since 2009, according to IHS
McCloskey, a coal-data provider. Queensland coking coal prices
have dropped 17 percent since the offer was announced, according
to Energy Publishing Inc. prices.  About 69 percent of Whitehaven’s production was thermal
coal in the year ended June 30. Tim Allerton, a spokesman for
Tinkler, declined to comment by e-mail, saying no statement
would be made today.  At A$5.20 a share, Tinkler’s offer was priced at 3.69 times
the assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with the median of 2.27 times for 10 comparable deals.  Tinkler’s business journey began when he sold his house in
2006 to help buy the A$30 million Middlemount coal lease in
Australia’s Queensland state before selling it a year later to
Macarthur Coal Ltd. for about A$465 million in cash and shares.  Biggest Mill  In May 2008, Tinkler sold his Macarthur stake to
ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, at a profit of
about A$445 million. He then bought Maules Creek from Rio Tinto
Group for A$480 million in August 2010. Seeking funds to develop
the project, Tinkler listed Aston Resources, containing Maules
Creek, in August 2010, raising A$400 million.  Tinkler and his companies also own coal and metals mining
projects, infrastructure investments, a horse-breeding
operation, and the Newcastle Knights, a rugby league team in the
Australian coal port of Newcastle.  Whitehaven’s independent committee appointed to study bids
after Tinkler’s initial approach was advised by Grant Samuel
Corporate Finance and Corrs Chambers Westgarth. Tinkler Group
was advised by UBS and BKK Partners Pty Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  