-- Woodside CEO Will Study U.S. Oil Assets, Including BP Fields
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-08-23T06:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/woodside-ceo-will-consider-u-s-oil-assets-including-bp-fields.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s
second-largest oil and gas producer, will look at the almost $8
billion of Gulf of Mexico assets that  BP Plc (BP/)  has put up for sale
as part of its study of possible U.S. petroleum acquisitions.  “We’ll look at those assets,”  Peter Coleman , chief
executive officer of the Perth-based company, said today in an
interview in Sydney. “We know what those assets are. We won’t
comment on particular assets. What we do is characterize assets.
We want long-life assets, world-class assets.”  China Petrochemical Corp., Asia’s biggest refiner by
capacity, and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  may also be potential acquirers
of the assets that BP said in May it would sell, according to
analysts. Woodside, which owns stakes in fields in the Gulf, is
evaluating potential deals in the Eastern Mediterranean,
 Southeast Asia  and the Americas, the company said yesterday.  “We’ve been in the Gulf of Mexico a long time,” said
Coleman. “Over the next few years, you’re going to see some of
the heat go out of the market in the U.S. in respect of pricing
and there may be opportunity.”  Woodside began exploring in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 1999 and
has stakes in the Neptune and Power Play oil fields, its website
shows. Company executives have also visited countries in the
Eastern Mediterranean region, including  Israel , Coleman said.  ‘Buy Wisely’  BP,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company, said in May it
plans to divest Gulf fields, including Horn Mountain and its
minority stake in Ram Powell. The company is seeking as much as
$7.9 billion before tax payments for the assets, two people with
knowledge of the matter said this month.  Coleman, an Australian citizen who joined Woodside in May
2011 after 27 years with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , believes that
Woodside can’t generate “top quartile” returns based on its
existing projects, James Bullen, a Sydney-based analyst at Bank
of America Corp., wrote in a report yesterday.  “But in a very competitive M&A environment, which is being
dominated by big-spending national  oil companies , an accretive
deal for existing resources will be highly challenging,”
forcing Woodside to look for riskier exploration assets,
according to the analyst’s report.  A proposed expansion of Woodside’s A$15 billion ($15.8
billion) Pluto liquefied natural gas venture in  Western
Australia  is on hold after the company said yesterday that a
drilling campaign failed to find enough gas to support a second
phase. Woodside will continue talks into 2013 with other owners
of gas resources to get supplies, according to the company.  The energy company yesterday declared a dividend of 65
cents a share, up 18 percent from a year earlier, and said it
plans to maintain a minimum dividend payout ratio of 50 percent
of net profit, excluding one-time items. The company has cash
and undrawn debt facilities of $2.2 billion.  Woodside rose 1.1 percent to A$35.27 at the close of
trading in Sydney, while the benchmark index gained 0.2 percent.  “We’ll continue to reward shareholders with dividends and
buybacks,” Coleman said. “We’ve got lots of options. That
doesn’t mean we’re sitting on our hands. We’re working really
hard, but equally you want to make sure that you buy wisely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  