-- Wound-Healing Mist Device to Have U.K. Clinical Trial
-- B y   M e h r e e n   K h a n
-- 2012-08-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/wound-healing-mist-device-to-have-u-k-clinical-trial.html
An ultrasound device to heal wounds
and ulcers through mist emissions will undergo a clinical trial
in Britain, in the first example of the testing of medical
technology to result from guidance issued by the U.K.’s health-cost agency.  The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence
said last year that more research was needed to show the
efficacy of Celleration Inc.’s MIST Therapy System before it can
be approved for use in the state-run  National Health Service .
The technology will be tested on 40 patients to determine
whether it heals wounds better than existing treatment, the
London-based agency, known as NICE, said.  The trial will be carried out by Cardiff University and the
Cardiff and Vale University Health Board. NICE’s Medical
Technologies Advisory Committee sought the research last year
after deciding there wasn’t enough evidence to recommend that
the NHS pay for the treatment.  “The committee thought that the MIST system showed real
promise, but there simply wasn’t the quantity and quality of
evidence needed to support the case for adoption at that
point,” said Carole Longson, director of NICE’s Health
Technology Evaluation Center, in a statement today.  NICE will have no involvement in the testing, which
Celleration is paying for. The closely held company is based in
 Eden Prairie ,  Minnesota .  “There is a small amount of evidence to suggest that
ulcers treated with MIST will heal more quickly than those
having usual treatment,” said Keith Harding, investigator at
the Wound Healing Research Unit at Cardiff University. “This
trial will enable us to generate more independent evidence to
show if this is actually the case.”  The device  promotes healing  using low-intensity ultrasound
waves delivered through saline mist, encouraging repair by
stimulating cells below a wound, according to the company. The
therapy reduces inflammation and provides painless treatment
that makes no contact with the lesion, the company says. The
device costs £7,500 ($11,900) to rent a year, and is intended to
be used three times a week.  Positive guidance from NICE, which advises the NHS on the
treatments that represent value for money, can accelerate a
technology’s adoption in  England .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mehreen Khan in London at 
 mkhan108@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  