-- Yuan Forwards Gain on Speculation China, U.S. Will Revive Growth
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-08-23T08:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-23/yuan-trades-near-seven-week-high-on-china-u-s-stimulus-bets.html
Yuan forwards advanced on
speculation stimulus at home and in the U.S. will support
capital inflows and exports.  People’s Bank of  China  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
yesterday adjustments to  interest rates  and banks’ reserve
requirements “can’t be ruled out” after the central bank
stepped up cash injections using money-market operations. Many
Federal Reserve policy makers favor a third round of asset
purchases that would boost the supply of dollars unless the
economy shows signs of a durable pickup, minutes of their most
recent meeting showed. The U.S. is among China’s top
destinations for exports.  “Investors are betting the U.S. will soon have another
round of quantitative easing, supporting riskier assets,” said
Patrick Cheng, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange analyst at
Haitong International Securities Co. “I’d call for caution on
the pace of easing in China and the U.S. on inflation risks.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.07 percent to
6.4412 per dollar as of 4:37 p.m. in Hong Kong, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The contracts traded at a 1.4 percent discount
to the onshore spot rate. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 1.25 percent.  China’s central bank conducted 145 billion  yuan  ($22.8
billion) of reverse-repurchase agreements today to add cash to
the financial system, after injecting a record 220 billion yuan
on Aug. 21. It pumped in a net 278 billion yuan this week via
open-market operations, the most since January, according to
Societe Generale SA. Funds were also added via an auction of 40
billion yuan of three-month treasury deposits today.  Exports Impact  The yuan retreated from a seven-week high in  Shanghai  after
a report showed China’s manufacturing is contracting this month
at the fastest pace in 2012. The Flash PMI dropped to 47.8 from
49.3, according to the preliminary findings of a survey released
today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. Readings below
50 signal shrinkage,  “While the offshore market shows an improvement in risk
appetite, the onshore spot rate remains weak on pessimism over
export growth,” said Tommy Ong, a Hong Kong-based senior vice-
president of treasury and markets at DBS Bank ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  The currency slipped 0.03 percent to 6.3535 per dollar in
the onshore market, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. It touched 6.3486, the strongest since July 4. In
Hong Kong, the yuan advanced 0.05 percent to 6.3548.  The central bank raised its  reference rate  for the yuan by
0.05 percent to a three-week high of 6.3316. The currency is
allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on either side of the
fixing.  China should weaken the yuan against the dollar gradually
to ease pressure on exporters, according to a front-page
commentary in China Securities Journal today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  