-- T. Rowe Price’s Best Stock Picker Resigns With Two Analysts
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-02-14T22:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/t-rowe-price-s-best-stock-picker-resigns-with-two-analysts.html
 T. Rowe Price Group Inc. is losing
the manager and two analysts for its best-performing equity
mutual fund over the past five years.  Kris Jenner , 51, who runs the $5 billion  T. Rowe Price
Health Sciences Fund , and analysts Mark Bussard, 40, and Graham
McPhail, 37, notified the Baltimore-based firm they will resign
effective tomorrow to pursue other opportunities, Brian Lewbart,
a spokesman, said in a telephone interview. Jenner will be
replaced by analyst  Taymour Tamaddon , Lewbart said.  “It’s a rare day when a manager leaves T. Rowe Price,”
 Christopher Davis , an analyst at Chicago-based research firm
Morningstar Inc., said in an interview. “The firm prides itself
on stability and low personnel departure.”  Health Sciences beat 83 percent of competing funds over the
past five years and outperformed all T. Rowe Price stock funds
in that time, returning an annual average of 13 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. T. Rowe has relied in
part on the strong performance of its stock-fund managers to
attract customers as other equity-focused managers have
struggled.  “We are leaving T. Rowe Price and forming a new venture
that will allow us to pursue our passion for the health-care
industry,” Jenner wrote in a letter obtained by Bloomberg News.
“We cannot share our plans with you at this time, in part due
to regulatory and reporting requirements.”  Great Success  The letter was sent to “a broad number of contacts” the
trio had made in their careers, Justin Jackson, a spokesman
representing Jenner at Burns McClellan Inc., said in an e-mail.  Jenner established a reputation for investing in lesser-
known pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms working to develop
innovative therapies, Davis said.  “He’s responsible for that fund’s great success over the
past 12 years, and the analyst team was pretty much built by
him,” Davis said.  “We always have a succession plan in place for manager
changes,” T. Rowe’s Lewbart said. “Taymour has a long track
record of success as a health-care analyst, and investors
shouldn’t expect any change in the investment style or strategy
of the fund.”  Morningstar, which automatically places a fund’s rating
under review when a manager departs, gives the fund its highest
ranking of five stars.  Jenner, who earned a Ph.D. in molecular biology from Oxford
University in England and a medical degree from Johns Hopkins
School of Medicine in Baltimore, joined T. Rowe in 1997 and took
over the Health Sciences Fund in 2000.  He graduated summa cum laude from the University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, where he was a backup quarterback
on the school’s football squad. He threw three passes in the
team’s loss in the 1983 Liberty Bowl against the University of
Alabama, all for interceptions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  