-- ABB Fourth-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates on Higher U.S. Orders
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-02-14T08:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/abb-fourth-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-as-ceo-cuts-costs.html
ABB Ltd. , the world’s largest maker
of power transformers, reported better-than-estimated earnings
helped by rising orders in the U.S., the Middle East and Africa.
The stock surged the most in more than 18 months.  Fourth-quarter net income reached $604 million, beating the
average estimate by analysts for $570 million in a survey by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 4 percent to $11 billion and ABB will pay
a 2012 dividend of 0.68 francs per share compared with 0.65
francs a year earlier, the Zurich-based company said today.  “People will take the results well. Look at the comparison
of their short-cycle business compared to other places,”  Martin Prozesky , an analyst at Sanford Bernstein in London, said by
phone. “Early-cycle low-voltage and the automation businesss
definitely had strong order rates relative to what competitors
delivered. Much better than Siemens.”  ABB Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan  is betting on an
upswing in U.S. orders after out-spending rivals  Siemens AG  and
Schneider Electric SA in recent years with the acquisitions of
American firms Baldor Electric Co. and Thomas & Betts Corp.,
worth more than $8 billion combined. The U.S.-born executive is
also trying to bring the service culture of General Electric to
ABB as he targets driving service revenues from 16 percent of
total sales in 2011 to between 20 and 25 percent by 2015.  Infrastructure Investments  ABB rose as much as as 5.3 percent in Zurich trading to
20.75 francs and was up 4.1 percent as of 9:32 a.m., valuing the
company at 47.6 billiion francs. ABB had gained 6.1 percent in
2012, while Siemens rose 11 percent and General Electric
increased 17 percent.  Still, the company will focus on cutting costs this year as
governments in mature markets hold back decisions on grids and
infrastructure investments.  “In the short term, there are still a lot of questions
around the pace of growth in Europe and the U.S. and the timing
of the rebound in China,” said Hogan, who joined the firm from
General Electric Co. in 2008. “We’ll continue to be
conservative on costs while making sure we are in position to
outperform as the market environment improves.”  ABB is also in the midst of revamping the power systems
unit by dropping out of some risky contracts to manage solar
power and water treatment plants which contained few of the
Swiss company’s products. The revamp led to charges of $350
million in the fourth quarter including restructuring-related
costs, in line with ABB’s prediction.  Cutting Costs  “We have to make sure that we balance that cost and growth
piece very carefully,” Hogan said in a  video  posted online,
adding that ABB will cap capital expenditures “pretty much at
inflation rate” after they grew about 70 percent in the last
three years. ABB cut costs by $1.1 billion in 2012 to exceed a
targeted savings plan.  Siemens and General Electric also posted quarterly results
last month month that beat estimates, partly as a result of a
rise in health-care orders with growth coming from emerging-
markets such as China.  ABB said today that fourth-quarter orders increased 41
percent to $3.5 billion in the Americas region and 14 percent to
$1 billion in the Middle East and Africa. In Europe, orders
gained 1 percent to $3.5 billion while they dropped 25 percent
to $2.5 billion in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  