-- Africa’s Biggest Steel Plant to Partially Shut a Unit
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-02-14T15:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/africa-s-biggest-steel-plant-to-partially-shut-a-unit.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd . will
shut steelmaking operations at Africa’s biggest plant producing
the metal for three months after a fire, a union official said.  The shuttering of operations at the Vanderbijlpark plant
south of Johannesburg won’t lead to layoffs as workers will be
redeployed, Deon Reyneke, the head of metal and engineering at
the Solidarity labor union, said in an e-mailed response to
questions after meeting with company officials.  The Vanderbijlpark-based steelmaker declared force majeure
after the Feb. 9 blaze, meaning it’s unable to meet obligations
to clients. It’s seeking supplies from its other plants.  Julian Gwillim , a spokesman, wasn’t able to comment on any shutdown.  “An assessment of the plant still has to be concluded,”
he said, adding that he couldn’t say when it would be completed.
“There are sections of the plant that are operational. We will
work with the unions to mitigate any impact on employees.”  Vanderbijlpark Works has two blast furnaces, three electric
arc furnaces and three basic oxygen furnaces, according to
ArcelorMittal South Africa’s  website . Arc furnaces that were
closed last year at Vanderbijlpark remain offline, Gwillim said.  The plant employed 4,797 workers and produced 72 percent of
flat steel shipped by the company in 2011, or about 2.5 million
metric tons, a presentation to investors shows. The company’s
Saldanha Works in the Western Cape manufactured 941,000 tons.  Steel Imports  South African steel may be in short supply for about two
months because of the incident, Southern African Institute of
Steel Construction Executive Director Hennie de Clercq said on
Johannesburg-based Talk Radio 702 yesterday.  “Stock levels in the industry are not very high,” De
Clercq said. “A lot of steel is coming in by way of imports
because of technical problems and reliability of supply.”  Avior Research (Pty) Ltd. cut its estimate for 2013 flat-
steel sales at ArcelorMittal South Africa by 22 percent to 2.5
million tons, analyst  Sean Ungerer  said in a note yesterday. BNP
Paribas Cadiz Securities cut the company to hold from buy.  ArcelorMittal rose 0.2 percent to 32.20 rand by the close
of Johannesburg trading, reversing earlier losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  