-- Hagel Nomination on Path to Approval After Initial Rebuff
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-02-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/hagel-nomination-on-path-to-approval-after-a-senate-break.html
Senators agreed on a path toward
confirmation of  Chuck Hagel  as U.S. defense secretary, after
Republicans said they will drop opposition to acting on his
nomination once lawmakers return from a weeklong break.  An initial effort yesterday to cut off debate fell short of
the 60 votes needed because Republicans demanded more time. The
vote on the so-called cloture motion was 58-40, and Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  immediately announced the next roll
call would be held Feb. 26.  Yesterday’s Republican move to delay action marked the
first time the minority party in the Senate had threatened a
filibuster to block a nominee to lead the Pentagon. Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, said he scheduled the initial vote yesterday
because Republicans have engaged in “one stall after another”
in an increasingly acrimonious fight against Hagel.  “I will vote on cloture the day we get back, and I believe
enough of my colleagues will do the same,” Senator  John McCain ,
an Arizona Republican who has led criticism of Hagel, said on
the Senate floor. Once debate is cut off, Hagel would have the
majority he needs for confirmation because Democrats control 55
votes in the 100-member Senate.  Obama’s choice of Hagel, 66, to replace retiring Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  has been challenged by Republicans
because of the former Republican senator’s past opposition to
unilateral sanctions against Iran, his comments about the
influence of what he once called “the Jewish lobby,” and his
opposition to the 2007 U.S. troop surge in Iraq.  Senate History  In only two previous cases has a Cabinet nominee required
60 votes to overcome a filibuster on the Senate floor, according
to  Betty Koed , the chamber’s associate historian. They were
President Ronald Reagan’s 1987 pick for Commerce Secretary, C.
William Verity, and President  George W. Bush ’s 2006 choice of
 Dirk Kempthorne  to be Interior Secretary. Both overcame the
higher vote threshold to win confirmation.  After yesterday’s debate, Reid said the Republican-led
delay raised questions about the Pentagon’s leadership at a time
of heightened tensions with Syria, North Korea and other
nations. He said the delay may give opponents in Congress
further opportunities to derail Hagel’s nomination.  “I hope nothing goes wrong that we’ll rue the day, more
than just embarrassing the president, the Senate and the country
in not confirming the president’s nomination of this good man
from Nebraska,” Reid said.  ‘Political Posturing’  “Senate Republicans put political posturing ahead of our
nation’s security,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said
in a statement. The U.S. and its allies will talk about the war
in Afghanistan at a North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting
in Brussels next week, Carney said, “and our next secretary of
defense should be there.”  Panetta has said he will stay on until a successor is
confirmed, and he is planning to go to the Brussels conference.  Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, the Senate’s No. 2 Republican
leader, said it was “premature” to try to close off debate
when lawmakers in his party were making “reasonable” requests
of the White House for more information.  “This is not an effort to kill this nomination,” Cornyn
said on the Senate floor. Senators  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee
and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina were among Republicans who
said yesterday that they would vote next time to end the debate.  Republicans said Reid took a risky move in scheduling the
vote when some members of their party wanted more information
about a confirmation approved by the Senate Armed Services on a
party-line 14-11 vote just two days earlier.  Demanding Information  Senator  Ted Cruz , a first-term Tea Party-backed Texas
Republican, has demanded more information about Hagel’s finances
and speaking engagements.  Graham had called for a delay until the White House
explained what Obama did personally to encourage military action
during the Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,
Libya, that killed U.S. Ambassador  Chris Stevens  and three other
Americans.  In a letter to Graham and two other Republican senators,
White House counsel  Kathryn Ruemmler  said that then-Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  called Libya’s interim President  Mohammed Yussef Magariaf  “on behalf of the president on the evening of
Sept. 11, 2012, to coordinate additional support to protect
Americans in Libya and access to Libyan territory.”  Ruemmler said the administration “has cooperated with the
Armed Services Committee and the Congress to provide an
extensive amount of information” on the Benghazi attack.  She
cited 20 briefings, 10 hearings and the providing of 10,000
pages of documents.  Benghazi Attack  Graham said yesterday the letter shows Obama “never picked
up the phone” the night of the attacks. He said direct
involvement by Obama might have prevented two of the deaths at a
CIA annex a mile from the consulate an hour after the initial
attack. Graham and McCain vowed to continue seeking information
from the administration on the attacks.  Opposition to Hagel, including ads on cable television, has
been led by Republicans outside Congress such as  William Kristol , editor of the Weekly Standard magazine.  Kristol and McCain are among Republicans who favor a more
aggressive U.S. military stance abroad and who broke with Hagel
when he opposed the surge of troops in Iraq during President
George W. Bush’s administration.  McCain repeatedly pressed Hagel at last month’s
confirmation hearing to say that he had been wrong about the
surge. Hagel refused McCain’s demands for a yes-or-no answer.  “His performance before this committee was the worst that
I have seen of any nominee for office,” McCain said this week.
“He refused to answer a simple, straightforward question as to
whether the surge was a success or not, and whether he supported
it or not. That was a key moment in the history of this
country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  