-- Air Liquide Will Reassess Goals on Shale Gas, European Economy
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-02-14T13:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/air-liquide-will-reassess-goals-on-shale-gas-european-economy.html
Air Liquide SA  may revise its 2015
goals in December as the French maker of industrial gases shifts
focus to adjust to European economic woes, cheaper U.S. gas, and
rising demand for health care and electronic gadgets.  “The crisis has shown that the center of gravity is
moving, so we need to align our structures to markets,” Chief
Executive Officer  Benoit Potier  said at a press conference in
Paris today. “New capacities are in emerging markets, and old
capacities are closing, or restructuring or undergoing
investment to make energy savings in advanced economies.”  Potier said he will disclose in December whether he’s
sticking to a goal set last year to boost sales by 8 percent to
10 percent on average through 2015, including acquisitions.
Revenue rose 6 percent in 2012, less than the 7.2 percent gain a
year earlier, on a decline in demand from European steelmakers,
carmakers and solar panel makers, and weaker sales to Japanese
electronics manufacturers, the Paris-based company said today.  The development of cheap shale gas in North America, and of
coal in China, as well as an “upheaval” in nuclear energy, may
force Air Liquide to follow customers such as steelmakers and
chemical producers that are shifting production to low-cost
regions,  the CEO  said. Air Liquide also plans to boost its
supply of healthcare services and gases through acquisitions,
and increase sales to industries from smartphones to transport.  Air Liquide “wants to strengthen its competitiveness and
innovation for profitable growth over the long term,” Potier
said. “Some markets will develop faster” than estimated two
years ago and “some will fall in volume.”  Stock Performance  The  shares  fell 1.2 percent to 91.10 euros at 2:16 p.m. in
Paris, extending the decline this year to 4.2 percent. The
company’s competitors include Munich-based  Linde AG , which has
dropped about 0.5 percent this year.  Air Liquide already gets more than 100 million euros
($133 million) in annual revenue by selling nitrogen and carbon
dioxide to shale gas operators, which use the gases to reduce
water needs by as much as 50 percent, Potier said. Water
availability is also becoming key to investment decisions in
nations such as China, he said.  The company, which bought French and Spanish providers of
medical gases and services in 2012, will probably acquire more
businesses in Europe, and may grab opportunities in Asia and the
Middle East, Potier said. It will also seek to boost sales to
makers of chips, smartphones and tablets, transporters of fresh
food, and owners of hydrogen-powered cars.  Purchase Contribution  Acquisitions  helped increase revenue last year to 15.3
billion euros, the company said today. Like-for-like sales of
gas and services, which provide the bulk of Air Liquide’s
revenue, rose 4.6 percent in the fourth quarter.  “It’s too early to extrapolate on the fourth-quarter
rebound,” Potier said. “We’ve got a portfolio of investment in
engineering and projects which is well-filed, so we’re little
worried about the medium term, and confident over the long
term.”  Air Liquide plans 50 startups of industrial projects by the
end of 2014, up from 17 last year, when some of its Chinese
customers delayed investments, Potier said. Business in China is
off to a good start this year, he said.  The company today raised its savings target for the 2011 to
2015 period by 30 percent to 1.3 billion euros. Last year, Air
Liquide realized 284 million euros in efficiencies, exceeding a
goal of 200 million euros.  Net income climbed 4.9 percent in 2012 to 1.61 billion
euros, matching the average  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of
11 analysts.  “Barring a degradation of the environment, Air Liquide is
confident in its ability to deliver another year of net profit
growth in 2013,” Potier said.  The company will propose a  dividend  of 2.5 euros per share,
in line with a Bloomberg forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  