-- Major Says Cameron’s Conservatives Should Keep Quiet Over Europe
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-02-14T13:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/major-says-cameron-s-conservatives-should-keep-quiet-over-europe.html
Former U.K. Prime Minister  John Major , whose time in office was dominated by intra-party
squabbles over Europe, told today’s Conservative lawmakers to
lay off the issue and avoid undermining his successor  David Cameron .  Major led the Conservatives from 1990 to 1997, in which
time his government nearly fell as opponents of European
integration in his own party repeatedly voted against him.
Cameron last month tried to pacify the same forces in his party
by pledging to renegotiate membership of the EU and hold a
referendum by the end of 2017 on whether to stay in the bloc.  Speaking at the Chatham House international affairs center,
the former prime minster told lawmakers that they shouldn’t
think “offering advice” to Cameron would lead other countries
to “hear the strength of feeling and immediately capitulate.”
Such behavior means Cameron “would be seen to be acting under
duress,” Major said. “I’ve been there.”  Major said Cameron should appoint a personal negotiator to
the EU, and give them a seat in Cabinet. If the prime minister’s
Liberal Democrat coalition partners were to object, Major said,
“the prime minister should overrule them. The tail must not wag
the dog.”  His advice on negotiations was to hold them “courteously
and with understanding. If we enter them with the aggressive
attitude of ‘give us our way or we will quit,’ we will fail.”  In a Feb. 11 Parliamentary session, some Conservatives
argued that Cameron’s success this month in negotiating a cut in
the EU budget showed that threatening to leave had worked.  Major said that for some in the party, “whatever is
offered to them will be insufficient. They will demand more,
they will only be satisfied with withdrawal.” He said leaving
would hurt the economy, cutting off the U.K. from its largest
market.  “Being inside the EU can often be frustrating, but outside
we would be at a serious competitive disadvantage,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  