-- Make It Easier for China to Buy U.S. Businesses
-- B y   S t e p h e n   H e i f e t z
-- 2013-02-14T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/make-it-easier-for-china-to-buy-u-s-businesses.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration  this week  approved a significant business deal
involving a Chinese company: the acquisition of  Nexen Inc. , a
global energy company, by the China National Offshore Oil Corp.  In the last several months, the administration has approved
Chinese purchases of a U.S.  biotechnology company  and a U.S.
 battery manufacturer . For those interested in free trade,
prosperity and peace, this is good news.  Unfortunately, these approvals come against a backdrop of
difficulties. With increasing frequency, Chinese investments
have run into U.S. national-security concerns from the Committee
on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS, which has
scuttled several acquisitions, including one late last year.  We’re in the midst of a CFIUS outbreak. Without continuing
and visible approvals of Chinese investments, this may damage
the health of U.S.-China relations, which are critical to a more
stable and prosperous 21st century.  The committee  reviews  commercial transactions when foreign
investors -- from Canada, China, Israel, Russia, the U.K.,
Venezuela or anywhere else -- obtain control of U.S. companies.
The U.S. has a policy of welcoming foreign investors, and
research shows that an open investment climate fuels economic
growth. But the foreign-investment committee is in tension with
this open policy.  Generally Painless  Made up of multiple U.S. government agencies, with the
Treasury Department acting as chairman,  CFIUS  helps ensure that
foreign investments don’t threaten national security.
Historically, the committee hasn’t found security concerns in
more than a small percentage of foreign investments. And the
resolution for such cases has generally been painless: CFIUS has
requested commitments from foreign buyers -- insisting, for
example, that a foreign buyer establish a security plan -- in
roughly five to 10 cases each year. The committee has sought to
scuttle a deal no more than a couple times a year, on average.  Periodically, however, circumstances have caused it to
threaten the open investment climate or international trading
relationships. I served on the committee from 2006 to 2010 and
played a role in a lesser outbreak. But the current outbreak
affecting Chinese investments is particularly virulent and
harder to contain.  The first outbreak occurred in the late 1980s. Japanese
investments in the U.S., and Japanese business success more
broadly, fueled envy and fear (Mitsubishi’s 1989  purchase  of the
iconic Rockefeller Center was met with end-of-empire musings by
U.S. elites). This gave rise to the first laws with teeth,
enabling the committee to review foreign investments and
recommend to the President that he block a transaction or force
a divestment if necessary to protect national security.  Fortunately, the crackdown in that era was self-containing.
The mere fact that CFIUS would review investments with an eye
toward national security eased concerns about Japanese
investment. And the economic slowdown in Japan, coupled with the
resurgence of the U.S. in the mid-1990s, ended the perceived
threat.  The second outbreak began with the 9/11 terrorist attacks
and the understandable fears that resulted. In 2006, the
committee approved an acquisition of a U.S. port management
company by  DP World Ltd. , owned by the government of Dubai in
the United Arab Emirates. Though the UAE is a close U.S. ally
and the company is regarded as among the world’s best port-
management companies, Congress  went berserk . Public sentiment
was inflamed by the idea that an Arab company might manage U.S.
ports.  Foreign Commitments  Reacting to congressional pressure, the committee started
to seek many commitments from foreign acquirers -- to develop a
security plan, screen key personnel, provide data to the
committee and the like -- as conditions for approving
acquisitions. Although CFIUS had requested these security
commitments before, we (it was here that I played an active
role)  requested  these agreements with much greater frequency. It
threatened to recommend that the president block the transaction
if these commitments weren’t forthcoming. Playing to a hawkish
Congress and public, CFIUS showed just how tough it could be.  Yet foreign investments in U.S. companies had virtually
nothing to do with the terrorist threat. As with the outbreak
over the Japanese, this episode was largely a result of
perceptions rather than reality. Fortunately, the newly
demonstrated CFIUS toughness helped to ease concerns. So, too,
did broader successes against terrorists and the creation of
homeland-security institutions. There was little damage to U.S.
investment policy.  All the while, however, the third outbreak was beginning.
The Chinese economy was in hyperdrive.  Espionage by China 
against the U.S., and U.S. espionage against China, was rapidly
accelerating. By the end of the first decade of the 21st
century, alarm over U.S. inability to secure cyberspace,
particularly against China, reached fever pitch. That is where
we are today.  CFIUS treats Chinese investments with profound skepticism.
And whereas previous outbreaks were the result of perceived
(generally misperceived) threats, the current outbreak is
troubling in part because more than perception is at work. The
U.S. isn’t wrong to see a threat.  But the committee is far too weak a tool to address
concerns about Chinese spying. Its authority is limited to
transactions that result in foreign control of U.S. companies
and doesn’t extend to sales of equipment or services, leases,
the development of new businesses or myriad other ways to engage
in espionage.  The committee too often builds a Maginot Line that results
in high costs for U.S.-Chinese relations but little gain for
U.S. security.  Deals Denied  For example, in 2009 it prevented a Chinese company from
buying a Nevada  gold mine , on grounds that the site was too
close to a U.S. defense facility. Since then, several other
deals in various parts of the U.S. have foundered on such
“proximity” concerns. Yet it is possible for anyone to come
within the same proximity to a U.S. defense facility in ways
that the committee can’t review, including leasing a building,
visiting a property, and driving trucks on nearby public roads.  Instead, CFIUS should use a balancing test. It needs to
ask: “Is the security gain from preventing this acquisition
marginal and easily circumvented, or is the gain significant
enough to outweigh potential harm to U.S.-Chinese relations?”
The absence of any sort of balancing test has fostered the
current outbreak.  In the long run, the U.S.-Chinese espionage tension will
have to be defused by  cooperation and trust . The continued
development of mutually beneficial institutions, such as the
World Trade Organization, and increasingly close government-to-
government relations can reduce each side’s reliance on spying.
The current outbreak risks real damage by making it harder for
cooperation and trust to grow.  (Stephen Heifetz is a partner in the Washington office of
Steptoe, an international law firm. His clients include parties
subject to review by CFIUS. He is a former deputy assistant
secretary at the Department of Homeland Security, where he was a
representative to CFIUS. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen Heifetz at  sheifetz@steptoe.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 