-- Alpha Results Exceed Estimates After Coal Exports Rise
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-02-14T13:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/alpha-results-exceed-estimates-after-coal-exports-rise.html
Alpha Natural Resources Inc. , the
second-biggest U.S. coal producer by revenue, reported fourth-
quarter results that beat analysts’ estimates as the company
reduced production costs.  The net loss narrowed to $127.6 million, or 58 cents a
share, from $792.9 million, or $3.62, a year earlier, the
Bristol, Virginia-based company said today in a statement. The
loss excluding impairment and restructuring charges and other
one-time items was 19 cents a share, beating the average of 24
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg for a loss of 49 cents. Sales
fell 25 percent to $1.56 billion, topping the $1.55 billion
average estimate.  Alpha’s cost of coal sales in its eastern segment,
including mines in Kentucky, West Virginia and Pennsylvania,
fell 13 percent to $68.55 after the company shut down high-cost
mines in the region as demand and prices slumped. The company’s
costs in Wyoming’s Powder River Basin were little changed at
$9.43.  “The key highlight here is just good cost performance in
the eastern coal segment,” said  Kuni Chen , an analyst at CRT
Capital Group in Stamford, Connecticut. “They’ve done a good
job getting to that cost improvement fairly quickly. You saw a
very big sequential decline in their costs. That’s
encouraging.”  Alpha, which became the country’s largest producer of
metallurgical coal with its $6.67 billion 2011 purchase of
Massey Energy Co., is working to grow sales and exports of the
commodity used in steelmaking.  Alpha said in September it would shut eight mines, cutting
1,200 jobs and 16 million tons of output, as U.S. demand fell
amid mild weather and low natural gas prices.  Benchmark Coal  Central Appalachian thermal coal, the U.S. benchmark, fell
11 percent to average $63.07 a ton in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier on the New York Mercantile Exchange. An increase in
gas produced from U.S. shale-rock formations helped drive prices
for that fuel, which competes with coal at power plants, to a
decade-low closing price of $1.907 per million British thermal
units in April.  The results were released before the start of regular
trading in New York, where Alpha rose 5.1 percent to $8.92 at
8:34 a.m.  The shares  declined 13 percent this year through
yesterday.  Coal Exports  U.S. coal producers exported 19 percent more of the fuel in
the first 11 months of 2012 than in the prior year, according to
the most  recent  data available from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. U.S. exports of thermal coal to Europe jumped as
the average quarterly price of U.K. natural gas, an alternative
power-generating fuel, climbed to its highest in at least five
years.  Alpha plans to ship 81 million to 92 million tons this
year, including 19 million to 22 million tons of metallurgical
coal while spending $300 million to $350 million in capital
expenditures.  “They’re still going to lose money for the year ahead, but
at least you don’t have a situation where the numbers are going
to further decline from here,” CRT’s Chen said in a telephone
interview today.  Peabody Energy Corp. , based in St. Louis, is the biggest
U.S. coal producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  