-- American Eagle’s Future Likely to Be Decided in 2013, CEO Says
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-02-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/american-eagle-future-probably-will-be-decided-in-2013-ceo-says.html
AMR Corp. ’s $11 billion merger with
US Airways Group Inc. will prompt a review of regional airline
American Eagle’s fate, with a spinoff possible as soon as this
year, the unit’s chief executive officer said.  “That is my hope and anticipation, but I completely
understand the need to take a fresh look at it,” American Eagle
CEO  Dan Garton  said of a potential spinoff in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We’re going to go through a review of
that strategy with our new partners, creating an agreed-upon,
unified regional feed strategy.”  American Eagle, which ferries travelers to and from hub
airports and provides more than 90 percent of American Airlines’
passenger feed, may also get larger regional jets that are more
profitable to fly after the review concludes, Garton said. Even
if it isn’t spun off, the carrier could benefit by transporting
more passengers into a larger network of hubs under the combined
American-US Airways, he said.  The regional carrier’s future hasn’t been decided, US
Airways CEO  Doug Parker , who will lead the post-merger company,
said yesterday. While the combined airline will “need Eagle’s
feed” of passengers, Parker said he didn’t know whether the
regional carrier will remain a unit or be divested.  US Airways, based in Tempe, Arizona, owns two regional
partners, Piedmont Airlines and PSA Airlines, that fly under the
US Airways Express name.  Bankruptcy Disruption  AMR, based in Fort Worth, Texas, was close to spinning off
Eagle before its Nov. 29, 2011, bankruptcy filing disrupted that
process. American wanted to divest its partner so it could
secure cheaper rates from other regional carriers.  About 80 percent of Eagle’s fleet is made up of planes with
50 or fewer seats that are costly to fly at high jet-fuel prices
and not favored by passengers. Until AMR’s bankruptcy filing,
the regional unit was limited to flying 47 jets with more than
65 seats.  “An acquisition of regional jets for Eagle to fly is
something I’d see as very much front and center in terms of one
of the first priority,” Garton said. “It’s certainly a first
priority for Eagle and I hope it’s a first priority for the
merged entity.”  Eagle flies a mix of regional jets from Bombardier Inc. and
Embraer SA, according to American’s website.  Union Objections  Unions representing Eagle’s pilots, flight attendants,
mechanics, baggage handlers and other airport ground workers
last week asked the bankruptcy court to block a 12-year contract
American announced on Jan. 24 for Republic Airways Holdings Inc.
to operate 53 Embraer regional jets with 76 seats each.  AMR CEO  Tom Horton  said yesterday that he wasn’t sure
whether the Republic contract would remain in place under the
merged company.  The agreement “would severely divert the flying of large
regional jets to a competitor and would needlessly undermine the
value of American Eagle, threatening the livelihood of Eagle’s
pilots and other employees,” the Air Line Pilots Association
said in its court filing.  The larger Republic planes would let American better match
aircraft size to market demand and diversify its regional feed,
American said. In September, American signed a contract with
SkyWest Inc. to operate 23 Bombardier CRJ200 regional jets under
the Eagle name.  “As we are looking to do deals with third-party providers
and diversify our feed, we absolutely believe Eagle, in whatever
form, will be a part of our regional feed going forward as
well,”  Chuck Schubert , American’s vice president for network
and planning, said in an interview before the merger agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 