-- AMMB Said to Hire Morgan Stanley to Sell Insurance Stake
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-02-14T09:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ammb-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-to-sell-insurance-stake.html
AMMB Holdings Bhd ., a Malaysian
lender, has hired Morgan Stanley to sell about half of its life
insurance operations as it seeks a new partner to develop the
business, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  AMMB may seek as much as 500 million ringgit ($162 million)
for the stakes in AmLIFE Insurance Bhd. and AmTakaful Family
Bhd., one person said, asking not to be identified as the
information is private. The Kuala Lumpur-based bank, which last
month said it bought back 30 percent of the units from U.K.
insurer  Resolution Ltd. , wants to find a partner with the
expertise to help expand the business, the people said.  AMMB may consider selling a controlling stake of 51 percent
in the business, one person said. A sale process could begin as
soon as the end of this month, the people said.  Global insurers are seeking to tap a growing market in
Southeast Asia through acquisitions. Last month, Canada’s Sun
Life Financial Inc. and Malaysia’s sovereign wealth fund to buy
Aviva Plc and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd’s insurance joint venture
in the country for about $600 million. Hong Kong-based AIA Group
Ltd. agreed to pay $1.7 billion for ING Group NV’s Malaysia life
insurance operations in October.  Officials at AMMB couldn’t immediately be reached to
comment on the sale plan.  Shares of the lender fell as much as  1.4 percent  today, the
most in three weeks, and closed down 0.9 percent at 6.34
ringgit. The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index was
unchanged.  AmLIFE has assets totaling 3 billion ringgit at the end of
September, and gross earned premiums of 214.5 million ringgit
for the half year ending that month, according to data published
on the company’s  website . Amtakaful, which offers insurance that
complies with Islam’s ban on interest, had assets of 116.2
million ringgit and gross premiums of 14.2 million ringgit in
the same period, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  