-- AMR-US Airways Merger Adds Atlantic Routes, Flier Plans
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-02-14T15:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/amr-us-airways-merger-adds-atlantic-routes-flier-plans.html
The tie-up of  AMR Corp. ’s American
Airlines and  US Airways Group Inc.  will create a carrier with
more trans-Atlantic routes, a broader network along the U.S.
East Coast and the biggest frequent-flier program.  Together they will have more than 6,700 daily flights to
336 destinations in 56 countries, the companies said today in a
joint statement. They flew 188 million passengers last year.  American will regain its status as the world’s largest
carrier, after sliding to No. 3 in the U.S. as United Airlines
and  Delta Air Lines Inc.  used mergers to vault to the top of the
global rankings. Broader networks help airlines compete for
business-travel contracts.  “Size does matter when you’re going for the most lucrative
parts of the business,” said Dan McKone, a partner at L.E.K.
Consulting in Boston. “The attraction here is the merger is
going to help them reclaim that leadership position they lost.”  The combined company probably will trim some redundant
flights on routes where they both compete in addition to shaving
capacity when they mesh schedules, giving them more power to
raise fares for certain trips, McKone said.  American’s AAdvantage frequent-flier program and US
Airways’ Dividend Miles won’t have any immediate changes and
passengers can accrue and redeem points as they do now,
according to the companies.  Frequent Fliers  The combined American-US Airways plan would have about 101
million members, before accounting for any overlapping
participants, the companies said. United’s plan has about 90
million members and  Delta ’s has 74 million.  US Airways’ hubs include Philadelphia, the sixth-most
populous U.S. metropolitan area, and Charlotte, North Carolina,
the home of  Bank of America Corp.  The carrier also has a base
for domestic flights at Ronald Reagan Washington National
Airport, plus overseas service to cities such as Paris and
London.  Those routes would complement American flights from hubs in
its hometown of Dallas-Fort Worth, plus Chicago O’Hare, Miami,
New York and Los Angeles.  “US Airways will be bringing feed from smaller second-tier
cities to the alpha hubs,” said L.E.K. Consulting’s McKone.  Combining the flights of both carriers would give the
merged company a wider network in the U.S. and funnel passengers
onto American’s flights to Latin America, Europe and Asia.  Overseas Routes  US Airways doesn’t fly to Asia on its own, instead booking
passengers on partners such as Singapore Airlines for flights
between Honolulu and Tokyo. Elsewhere, it would add  destinations 
that American doesn’t serve with its own jets, such as Tel Aviv
and Munich.  American and partner British Airways already dominate
travel between the U.S. and U.K. through a joint venture that
has antitrust immunity, meaning they can collaborate on fares
and schedules and act as one entity.  “American has built a very strong franchise to Latin
America and Europe, and US Airways brings a lot to the table
along the East Coast,” said  Ray Neidl , an independent aviation
analyst based in Connecticut.  Most of the traffic, or miles flown by paying passengers,
that US Airways adds will be domestic, which typically isn’t as
profitable as overseas itineraries. The airline relied on
domestic flying for 75 percent of its traffic in 2012, compared
with 60 percent for American.  Marketing Group  The merger also means US Airways will need to leave the
Star Alliance marketing group anchored by United, in favor of
American’s Oneworld, whose members include British Airways
parent  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA . Star is the
biggest alliance, followed by Delta’s SkyTeam and Oneworld.  American held the top spot in global traffic until Delta
acquired Northwest Airlines in 2008. United grabbed the lead in
2010 when predecessors UAL Corp. and Continental Airlines Inc.
merged to form the carrier’s parent company,  United Continental
Holdings Inc.   Southwest Airlines Co. , which bought AirTran Holdings Inc.
in 2011, will remain in the No. 4 spot in the U.S. industry,
followed by  JetBlue Airways Corp.   Southwest is the top discount carrier, while JetBlue’s
network is based on so-called point-to-point flying rather than
hubs that collect passengers from small airports. Those business
models dim the prospects for a tie-up with a larger carrier.  “This is probably the last big merger we’ll see
domestically,” Neidl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  