-- AMR Creditors With $1.2 Billion in Claims Agree to Merger
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-02-14T20:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/amr-creditors-with-1-2-billion-in-claims-agree-to-merger.html
AMR Corp.  plans to seek bankruptcy
court approval next month for its merger with  US Airways Group
Inc. , a deal backed by creditors holding $1.2 billion in claims.  AMR, the parent of American Airlines, will file documents
by the end of next week seeking approval of the agreement and
plans to go before U.S Bankruptcy Judge  Sean Lane  in Manhattan
in the second half of March,  Stephen Karotkin , an attorney for
the company, said today at a hearing.  The transaction “creates the most value and represents the
best path forward for American Airlines, its creditors and the
stakeholders for both companies,”  Jack Butler , an attorney for
creditors, told Lane.  The $11 billion merger will create the world’s largest
carrier and cap a wave of consolidation that swept up five of
the 10 biggest U.S. carriers since 2005. The deal requires
Lane’s approval and would be implemented through a bankruptcy
reorganization plan for AMR, Karotkin said. The carrier has the
support of creditors holding $1.2 billion in unsecured claims,
he said.  At today’s hearing, Lane extended American’s exclusive
right to file a bankruptcy plan to April 15, preventing
competing plans from being considered by the court. AMR, based
in Fort Worth, Texas, filed for bankruptcy in November 2011.  “No one has negotiated a plan of reorganization yet,”
Butler said. “The creditors’ committee has yet to engage in
plan negotiations with the company.”  Under the agreement, Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways would
own 28 percent of the combined company, with 72 percent going to
AMR, the companies said in a statement.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  