-- AMR, US Airways Affirm Plane Orders in Push to Refresh Fleet
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-02-14T21:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/amr-us-airways-affirm-plane-orders-in-push-to-refresh-fleets.html
AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines and  US
Airways Group Inc.  said they will follow through on orders for
new planes from Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS, rejuvenating fleets
amid  a merger that creates the world’s largest carrier.  The new company will honor American’s July 2011 decision to
buy 460 single-aisle jets from both planemakers, the industry’s
largest order ever. US Airways is slated to receive 76 Airbus
aircraft, according to the manufacturer’s website.  “The existing aircraft orders between the two companies we
like and can remain in place as is, with deliveries as
scheduled,” US Airways Chief Executive Officer  Doug Parker , who
will be CEO at the merged company, said today. “We can still
have the kind of growth rates we think are right for the
combined carrier, which we think are modest. There are so many
replacement opportunities for the combined airline.”  American began overhauling its fleet, one of the oldest
among U.S. carriers, before seeking bankruptcy protection in
November 2011. The airline had historically favored Boeing
planes until its record order. US Airways has preferred Airbus,
taking delivery of its last Boeing jet in 1995, according to the
Chicago-based planemaker’s website.  American’s primary jet total was 608 aircraft as of
Dec. 31. Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways, which says it
“operates the world’s largest fleet of Airbus aircraft,” had
340. United Continental Holdings Inc., which has been the
world’s biggest airline, reported 702 aircraft at year-end.  Newer Planes  American is seeking to replace more than half the 190
Boeing MD-80s in its fleet with more fuel-efficient 737s and
Airbus A320s by 2017, according to a presentation today to
investors and customers. The MD-80, a workhorse of American’s
domestic routes, went out of production in 1999, and Boeing’s
newer 737-800 aircraft are 25 percent more efficient.  At the end of 2011, US Airways had 244 planes made by
Airbus and 81 Boeing jets, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. All of American’s 608
aircraft at that date were manufactured by Boeing or companies
it has acquired, according to a separate filing.  Both carriers have ordered the planemakers’ most advanced
new jets. Fort Worth, Texas-based American last week signed for
a purchase of 42 of Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner wide-body planes,
while US Airways has committed to 22 of Airbus’s A350 aircraft,
according to the planemakers.  Airbus Customer  “Clearly Doug Parker and the guys at US Airways have been
a great Airbus customer, so that might be a big issue for
Boeing,”  Ken Herbert , an analyst with Imperial Capital in San
Francisco, said in an interview yesterday.  On the other hand, he said, Boeing may have gained an
advantage in the 2010 merger of United Airlines, which had a
mixed fleet, and Continental Airlines, which flew all-Boeing.
Continental CEO Jeff Smisek took over in that combination.  Randy Tinseth , Boeing’s marketing chief, said American’s
orders weren’t in jeopardy.  “We have a firm order that was booked last week,” Tinseth
said. “They’re both great customers. We look forward to
continuing the strong relationship we’ve had in the past.”  Justin Dubon , a spokesman for Toulouse, France-based
Airbus, said the company looks forward to “continuing our
strong partnerships with both” airlines.  Boeing climbed 0.2 percent to $74.93 at the close in New
York. Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.
declined 0.8 percent to 34.89 euros in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 