-- AMR Merger Links Lindbergh Roots With Hudson ‘Miracle’
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-02-14T14:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/amr-merger-links-lindbergh-roots-with-hudson-miracle-.html
The merger of  AMR Corp. ’s American
Airlines and  US Airways Group Inc . unites carriers whose paths
diverged after their creation during the early days of U.S. air-
mail flights.  American got its start in 1926 when  Charles A. Lindbergh 
flew a postal route with a DH-4 biplane for one of the carrier’s
forerunners, Robertson Aircraft Corp. While US Airways also
cites those ties, the modern-day carrier was still being
reshaped through deal-making as recently as 2005.  “The two are not the same pedigree,” said  Ray Neidl , an
independent analyst in Connecticut with more than 20 years of
experience covering the industry. “American was a pioneer in
aviation, and US Airways was sort of cobbled together in the
1960s and 70s.”  American’s name will be retained on the merged carrier,
extending the brand to embrace its own innovations such as the
Sabre reservation system and US Airways’ most-iconic moment: the
2009 water landing in New York dubbed “The Miracle on the
Hudson” by pilot  Chesley “Sully” Sullenberger .  The merger also will return American to the top spot in the
global traffic rankings. The airline ceded that crown and fell
to No. 3 in the U.S. as rivals merged in the past five years,
and US Airways is No. 5 among its domestic peers.  Consolidation among American’s predecessor companies in the
post-Lindbergh years created a passenger carrier that by the end
of the 1930s had cemented its place as the biggest domestic
airline based on traffic, according to the Fort Worth, Texas-
based company’s website.  Coach Seats  In 1948, American added coach seats as a cheaper
alternative to first-class travel, and in the 1980s it offered
an “AAirpass” with a fixed cost for travel over periods as
long as a lifetime.  Sabre  grew out of an American- International
Business Machines Corp.  project in the 1960s, when it was the
largest electronic data-processing system for business use, and
was spun off in 2000.  American’s history includes the day considered the darkest
in U.S. aviation: Sept. 11, 2001. Hijackers crashed one of its
planes into the north World Trade Center tower in New York and
another into the Pentagon.  US Airways’ origins date to the 1930s when a predecessor
called All American Aviation flew mail. The company later
rechristened itself Allegheny Airlines after the mountains and
river of the same name in the eastern U.S. that the carrier’s
planes crisscrossed each day.  New Name  In the 1970s it bought Mohawk Airlines to add service
throughout New York and New England, and in 1979 the company
changed its name to USAir to reflect new service to states
including Arizona, Texas and California after airlines were
deregulated.  The 1980s saw USAir buy Piedmont Airlines and Pacific
Southwest Airlines, which was the largest merger in airline
history at the time, according to  the company’s website . In
1997, the carrier again changed its name, to US Airways, and
adopted a red, white, blue and gray livery.  Even with the deal-making, US Airways remained outside the
top ranks of the U.S. industry. It ended 1999 as No. 7 in the
U.S. by traffic, ahead of  Trans World Airlines , which American
would buy in 2001 to become the world’s largest carrier.  “Relatively speaking, US Airways is pretty young,” said
Henry M. Holden, an aviation historian and author of 37 books
who lives in Newton, New Jersey. “Merging with one of the big
originals like American changes everything for them.”  American’s bankruptcy filing on Nov. 29, 2011, came after
most of its U.S. peers restructured in court in the past decade,
a group that included US Airways -- twice.  US Airways’ second go-round, in 2004, preceded its last
merger before the American tie-up. America West Holdings Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Doug Parker  combined the Tempe, Arizona-
based carrier with US Airways, kept the bankrupt airline’s name,
and led the merged company out of bankruptcy in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  