-- Manchester City Readies for $93 Million Overhaul: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-14T06:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/manchester-city-readies-for-93-million-overhaul-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  $93 Million Overhaul  Manchester City is ready to begin a 60 million pound-plus
($93 million) overhaul with offseason moves for Napoli’s  Edinson Cavani  and Celtic’s Victor Wanyama, the  Daily Mail reported .  City opened talks over Cavani last month and was initially
put off by his release clause of 52 million pounds, the
newspaper said. The Premier League champion, which will help
offset its outlay by selling  Edin Dzeko , returned to the Uruguay
striker because Chelsea is the favorite to sign Atletico
Madrid’s  Radamel Falcao , the Mail reported.  Kenyan midfielder Wanyama, who is valued at 10 million
pounds and has 16 months left on his contract, was watched by
City scouts two days ago, the newspaper added.  Osvaldo Interest  Tottenham Hotspur may resurrect its interest in Roma
striker Pablo Osvaldo when the transfer window reopens, the
 Daily Express reported .  Osvaldo was on Spurs manager  Andre Villas-Boas ’s radar
during the January trade period and the Argentine-born striker
is likely being transfer listed, which would pave the way for
Spurs to bid for him, the newspaper added.  Top Target  Barcelona coach  Tito Vilanova  is said to have made
Chelsea’s Brazilian defender  David Luiz  his top offseason
target, the  Daily Star reported .  If the money is right, Chelsea may be tempted to sell a
player who has recently been deployed in a midfield position
with doubts persisting about his reliability as a center-back in
English soccer, the newspaper added.  Icardi Inquiry  Liverpool has inquired about Sampdoria’s teenage striker
Mauro Icardi, who is also being watched by Manchester City and
Tottenham, the  Daily Mail reported .  Inter Milan is said to be leading the race to sign the 19-
year-old Argentine, who was the subject of a bid from Napoli
last month, at the end of the season, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  