-- Handelsbanken Exports ‘Vintage Banking’ to Win European Business
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-02-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/handelsbanken-exports-vintage-banking-to-win-european-business.html
Svenska Handelsbanken AB  is
exporting its Swedish banking model to crisis-hit Europe to
exploit a gap in the market left by job cuts and branch closures
at other lenders.  Handelsbanken will add to its 15 branches in the
Netherlands and introduce card services and Internet banking for
private customers as the Stockholm-based lender builds a sixth
“home market,”  Magnus Uggla , head of the Stockholm-based
lender’s international operations, said in a Feb. 13 interview.  “That we have a business model that we can export is very
exciting,” Uggla said from his unit’s headquarters. “We’ve
exported it to Denmark, Finland and Norway, we have done it to
the U.K., and now we’re doing it to Holland.”  While bailed-out Dutch lenders including  ING Groep NV  and
ABN Amro Group NV have scaled back, Handelsbanken is using its
position as the best-capitalized major bank in the European
Union to expand outside Sweden. The bank’s aversion to risk and
de-centralized business model, where branch managers make most
credit decisions, have won praise from politicians including
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne .  “Handelsbanken is basing the expansion on their local
business model, which is based on the church-tower principle and
which has proven very successful in Sweden,”  Mads Thinggaard ,
an analyst at Nykredit Markets in Copenhagen, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “In contrast to many European
banks, Handelsbanken has capital strength to grow the bank.”  U.K. Expansion  The lender opened five new branches in the Netherlands last
year, winning the company an export award from the Swedish
Chamber of Commerce and the Swedish Trade Council at a time when
shipments of Volvo AB trucks and SKF AB bearings were dented by
by the European debt crisis.  Handelsbanken, which had a core Tier 1 capital ratio of
18.4 percent at the end of December, opens a new branch every 10
working days in the U.K. and this year acquired U.K. investment
bank Heartwood Wealth Group Ltd. Deposits at its 133 U.K.
branches rose 53 percent last year, while lending increased 27
percent to 10.5 billion pounds ($16.3 billion).  The Dutch business, where lending climbed to 14 billion
kronor ($2.2 billion) by the end of last year, will end up
somewhere in size between the U.K. unit and its operations in
Norway, Finland and Denmark, where the number of branches ranged
from 45 to 54, said Uggla.  Generating Risks  The international expansion, which includes offices in
Sydney and Sao Paolo to cater for Nordic and British corporate
clients with operations in Australia and Brazil, is boosting
earnings at Handelsbanken, which reported an  18 percent  increase
in profit to 14.5 billion kronor last year. Operating profit at
the lender’s businesses outside Sweden rose 47 percent, compared
with a 2 percent gain at home.  “Their local business model helps them attract high-value
local customers because centralization and branch closures have
left a hole in the market space for local banks,” Thinggaard of
Nykredit said. “But when you play this contrary growth strategy
-- doing the opposite of everybody else -- it is often in a
shaky market environment, which may in itself generate risks.”  Swedish banks have been hurt by overseas expansion in the
past, with Swedbank AB and SEB AB suffering soaring loan losses
in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in 2009 after the region’s
credit-fuelled housing boom turned to bust. At the height of the
Baltic crisis in 2009, Swedbank had a net loss of 10.5 billion
kronor after a jump in credit impairments.  Exploiting Opportunity  While Handelsbanken didn’t join the Baltic expansion that
started in the late 1990s after the fall of communism, Sweden’s
third-largest lender by market value will look to exploit the
opportunities left by the closure of branches by European and
U.K. banks, said Uggla. Some banks have lost a local presence
and a relying more on call centers, he said.  ING Groep, the largest Dutch financial-services company, on
Feb. 13 announced a further 2,400 job reductions as the bank
seeks to reduce annual costs by 1 billion euros ($1.34 billion)
by 2015. The Dutch government took control of SNS Reaal NV on
Feb. 1 after real-estate losses brought the lender to the brink
of collapse.  In Germany, where Handelsbanken has seven branches, rivals
such as Commerzbank AG are also cutting jobs and exiting
businesses, including shipping and real estate funding.  “We have a business model that is based on us being close
to the customers and that is very appreciated, although it may
seem old-fashioned,” said Uggla. “In the Netherlands, it is
known as ‘vintage banking,’ meaning it’s the way banking was
some 30 years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  