-- ASADA to Grill 150 Players, Staff in Australian Sports Probe
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-14T06:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/anti-doping-body-to-grill-150-sports-people-in-australian-probe.html
Australia’s anti-doping body said it
needs to interview about 150 people from two major sports after
a government probe found widespread use of banned drugs
facilitated by organized crime gangs.  The Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority said that the
scope of its investigation is unprecedented and it won’t
identify any clubs or individuals during inquiries. Six National
Rugby League teams identified themselves as being named in a
Feb. 7 report by the Australian Crime Commission, while
Australian Football League club Essendon is also under scrutiny.  “ASADA anticipates interviewing about 150 players, support
staff and administrators from two major sporting codes based on
current information,” the agency said in a statement. “The
investigation is both complex and wide-ranging and will take
many months to complete.”  The crime commission’s report said the use of banned
substances was widespread across multiple sports, linked
organized criminal groups with elite athletes and said coaches
and doctors were party to doping. The findings have rocked
Australia, home to almost 23 million people for whom sport is
part of the national identity.  The 18-team AFL is Australia’s best-attended sport with
games attracting about 2.8 million spectators, according to the
Australian Bureau of Statistics. The league and the NRL, which
is the third-most popular, both signed broadcasting deals worth
more than A$1 billion ($1.03 billion) in the past two years and
attract sponsors including  Toyota Motor Corp ., National
Australia Bank Ltd. and  Telstra Corp .  NRL Teams  The crime commission’s 43-page summary of its findings
didn’t identify teams, individuals or specific sports, though
NRL clubs Manly, Cronulla, Penrith, Canberra, North Queensland
and Newcastle were told by league officials three days ago that
they were referred to in the report.  North Queensland said it provided ASADA with the
information it required from the club today and that its
involvement on the issue has concluded. At no time were any
allegations made against the Cowboys, the team said in a
statement on its website.  ‘Feel Aggrieved’  “Our club does feel aggrieved that our minor role in this
situation was made public,” Cowboys Chief Executive Officer
Peter Jourdain said in the  statement . “Given the seriousness of
this matter, we will explore our legal options regarding this
issue at the appropriate time.”  Essendon, which had already asked the AFL and ASADA to
investigate supplements given to its players in 2012, is being
probed over the suspected use of performance-enhancing drugs,
the AFL said four days ago. One player at a second club is under
investigation for possible performance-enhancing drug use, the
league said, without providing further details.  “What you want in this situation is you want it to be as
thorough and exact as possible,” Essendon captain Jobe Watson
said in an interview with Fox Sports News today. “However long
that takes, it takes. Certainly the priority is for the correct
findings to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  