-- ANZ Bank First Quarter Profit Drops 20% on Margin Pressure
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-15T05:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/anz-bank-first-quarter-profit-rises-6-on-cost-cuts-asia-growth.html
Australia and New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd.,  the nation’s third-largest bank by market value,
said first-quarter profit fell 20 percent as margins were
squeezed at its New Zealand and international businesses.  Unaudited statutory profit after tax  was A$1.36 billion
($1.41 billion) for the three months ended Dec. 31, the
Melbourne-based bank said in a statement today. That compares
with A$1.7 billion a year earlier. Unaudited cash earnings,
which exclude some one-time items, rose to A$1.53 billion from
A$1.44 billion, it said.  ANZ Bank, the most Asia-focused of Australia’s four largest
lenders, is betting on growth in overseas markets amid the
weakest mortgage demand in Australia since 1977. Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Smith , who cut 1,000  jobs  last year, is reining
in expenses as competition for deposits weighs on funding costs.  “Margin pressure especially for the international and
institutional business is a sore point in an otherwise
reasonable result,” said  Simon Burge , chief investment officer
at Above the Index Asset Management Pty Ltd. “We expect ANZ to
focus on maintaining margins going ahead.”  The lender fell 1 percent to A$27.77 in Sydney, paring
gains for the year to 11 percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index fell 0.1 percent, trimming this year’s gain to 8.3
percent.  Global Volatility  Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country’s largest
lender by market value, on Feb. 13 reported first-half profit
rose 1 percent to a record and said reduced global volatility
may help revive loan demand. National Australia Bank Ltd. said
last week first-quarter cash profit increased 3.6 percent.  ANZ Bank’s net interest margin, a measure of profitability
of its lending, was unchanged from the end of September,
according to today’s statement. Expenses were “slightly down”
and the bank said it expected cost growth to be lower than
income growth for the first half.  “In New Zealand, although cost management has been a
continued focus, margins have been softer,” Smith said in
today’s statement. “In international and institutional banking,
expenses were well controlled however margins remain under
pressure, albeit less so than in 2012.”  Australian home-loan approvals fell in December for a third
month and the proportion to first-home buyers slumped to the
lowest in more than eight years, the country’s statistics bureau
said on Feb. 11.  Average lending assets grew 7.6 percent and customer
deposits climbed 12.3 percent, ANZ Bank said today. It had
raised about half its annual wholesale funding requirement as of
Dec. 31.  “With limited levers left to generate further earnings
growth we expect a strong focus on cost containment,” Sydney-
based  Ben Koo , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said
before the announcement. “In particular, we expect this to be a
feature of ANZ’s international and institutional division.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  