-- Apache Plans $2 Billion of Asset Sales After Buying Spree
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-02-14T21:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/apache-plans-2-billion-of-asset-sales-after-buying-spree.html
Apache Corp. , the fourth-largest
U.S. independent oil and natural gas producer by market value,
plans to sell assets worth about $2 billion after a three-year
buying spree expanded the company’s holdings and its debt.  Proceeds from the divestitures may help pay down debt,
Apache Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Steve Farris  said on
a conference call with analysts and investors today. He declined
to specify which assets he may sell.  Apache, based in Houston, spent more than $16 billion
buying assets from 2010 to 2012, boosting holdings in the U.S.,
Canada, Egypt and the North Sea. The company is now focused on
drilling and major acquisitions aren’t part of the current
strategy, Farris said.  “Having acquired $16 billion of assets over the past three
years and strengthening our asset base, we have been in the
process of reviewing our overall portfolio,” Farris said.  Long-term debt was about $11.4 billion at the end of 2012,
compared with about $6.8 billion at the close of 2011, according
to a statement today.  Apache said fourth-quarter profit excluding one-time costs
and gains was $2.27 a share, 2 cents less than the average of 28
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That marked Apache’s
fourth straight adjusted quarterly profit that  missed  analysts’
estimates.  Apache said on its conference call that production may
climb 3 percent to 5 percent this year, which is less than the
company’s long-term annual growth target of 6 percent to 9
percent, which remains unchanged. The 2013 output forecast may
be adjusted following asset sales, the company said. Apache’s
capital budget is about $10.5 billion for 2013.  Apache fell 4.7 percent to $80.33 at the close in New York.  ConocoPhillips , Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and EOG Resources
Inc. are the largest U.S. independent oil and gas producers by
market value, meaning they don’t have refineries or chemical
units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  