-- Apple-Samsung Judge Says She May Put Patent Case on Hold
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-02-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/apple-samsung-judge-koh-says-she-may-put-patent-case-on-hold-1-.html
Apple Inc.  and  Samsung Electronics
Co.  were asked by a federal judge to agree to freeze their
smartphone patent dispute scheduled for trial next year while an
appeals court reviews an August verdict in an earlier case.  “I was going to ask if we can stay this case while the
other appeal is going on,” U.S. District Judge  Lucy Koh  said
during a hearing yesterday in San Jose, California. Any possible
resolution of the conflict will be “global” and cover
technologies contested in both suits, Koh said. “I don’t know
if we need two cases on this.”  Koh directed attorneys for both sides to file a status
report by March 7 indicating whether they consent to putting the
later case on hold. A lawyer for Cupertino, California-based
Apple,  William Lee , said there are no settlement negotiations
under way in the litigation.  Both companies continued to present the patents at issue in
the newer case, scheduled for  trial  in March 2014. The lawsuit
was filed last year and covers technology in newer smartphones
made by both companies, including Samsung’s Galaxy S III and
Apple’s iPhone 5.  The judge last month rejected Apple’s request to add
additional damages to a $1.05 billion awarded against Samsung in
August by a jury that found the Suwon, South Korea-based company
infringed six of the iPhone maker’s mobile-device patents.  ‘Deliberate Copying’  Apple is challenging a decision by Koh that allows Samsung
to continue selling some products that were found by the jury to
infringe Apple patents.  In a Feb. 12 filing with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in Washington, Apple said that Samsung has taken
market share based on its “deliberate copying of Apple’s
innovative iPhone and iPad products” and asked the court to
halt the  sales . Samsung hasn’t filed a response, and an appeal
of the August jury verdict hasn’t yet been filed with the
appeals court.  Separately, both companies are appealing rulings requiring
them to reveal financial information they want to keep secret.
Apple calls the information its “treasured trade secrets,”
consisting of data on specific products and market research on
its customers. Arguments in those appeals are to be heard March
26 in Washington.  Last year’s case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-1846; the case scheduled for trial next year is
Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-cv-630; both are in
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  