-- Argentina to Almost Triple Gas Purchase Price to Boost Drilling
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-02-14T14:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/argentina-to-almost-triple-gas-purchase-price-to-boost-drilling.html
Argentina will almost triple natural
gas prices to producers to encourage conventional and shale
drilling and stem declining output, according to a subsidy plan
published in the official gazette.  The government will pay producers $7.50 per million British
thermal units, the government said today in a resolution signed
by deputy Economy Minister  Axel Kicillof  and Domestic Trade
secretary Guillermo Moreno. The average price paid to producers
in 2011 was $2.50 per million Btu, gas-producing province
Neuquen’s governor, Jorge Sapag, said in an e-mailed response to
questions in September.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  nationalized
energy producer  YPF SA  in April seeking to stop declining output
and boost production. YPF’s gas production slid 2.3 percent in
2012 compared with the prior year, Chief Executive Officer
 Miguel Galuccio  said yesterday in a speech from Chubut province.
YPF’s gas production dropped 11 percent in 2011 when the Buenos
Aires-based company was controlled by Spain’s  Repsol SA .  “Natural gas reserves are declining as a consequence of
low investments in exploration and exploitation,” the
government said in plan published today.  A unit of Total SA is the country’s largest gas producer
with a 30.45 percent market share, YPF has 22.97 percent,  BP
Plc ’s Pan American Energy LLC has 12.05 percent,  Petrobras
Argentina SA  has 8.92 percent and an  Apache Corp.  unit has 3.9
percent, according to data published on the Argentine Institute
of  Oil and Gas ’s website.  The price increase would also benefit gas transporters
 Transportadora de Gas del Sur SA  and  Transportadora de Gas del
Norte SA  because producers will be paid the higher price for gas
transported through those companies’ pipelines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  