-- Mary Jo White’s Latest Conflict of Interest
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-02-14T23:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/mary-jo-white-s-latest-conflict-of-interest.html
Here’s the big question for  Mary Jo White : If she becomes chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, where will her interests lie? With the public that
pays her salary? Or with the people handing her the big bucks?  White is the white-collar defense lawyer and former U.S.
attorney nominated by President  Barack Obama  to lead the SEC.
Her financial disclosures say that upon leaving New York-based
 Debevoise & Plimpton LLP , the law firm will give her $42,500 a
month in retirement pay for life, or more than $500,000 a year.  This means she has a direct interest in Debevoise’s future
profits, and therefore an incentive to help make sure only good
things come the firm’s way. Debevoise’s partner-retirement plan
is unfunded, meaning the firm pays benefits from its continuing
business operations.  The proof that this poses a problem can be seen in her
proposed solution.  White , 65, said that after she is confirmed
by the U.S. Senate, Debevoise would make a lump-sum payment to
her in lieu of monthly retirement checks for the next four
years. After that, when presumably she is no longer the SEC’s
chairman, her monthly payments would resume for life.  For someone with a  reputation  for caring deeply about her
reputation, this is a serious error in judgment. Think about it:
If there’s nothing wrong with having a financial interest in
Debevoise, why not take the firm’s monthly checks while she’s
SEC chairman and skip the lump sum?  Clean Cut  Alternatively, if she believes there is something wrong
with being owed money by Debevoise while she’s SEC chairman, why
not cut off all ties with the firm and negotiate a one-time
payment that settles everything? There’s no good reason she
shouldn’t. There’s also a precedent for doing so.  The last time a partner from a major law firm was picked as
SEC chairman was in 2001, when President  George W. Bush 
appointed  Harvey Pitt  of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson LLP. Pitt, a renowned securities lawyer who had been at
the firm 23 years, severed all relationships with Fried Frank,
taking a lump-sum payment for all future amounts he was owed,
discounted for the time value of money.  “Because the SEC regulates public companies, it is better
for the public to know that the commissioners of the SEC do not
have any other financial interest other than the U.S. public and
the U.S. government,” Pitt told the Senate Banking Committee at
his confirmation  hearing  in July 2001.  SEC Commissioner  Daniel Gallagher  cut all economic ties
with his former law firm, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr
LLP, when he was appointed in 2011. Another example: When  Donald Nicolaisen  retired from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to become the
SEC’s  chief accountant  in 2003, he cashed out, including his
interest in the accounting firm’s unfunded retirement plan. He
did so to eliminate any questions about his independence.  “When partners leave the firm to join the SEC, all
financial interests in PwC are severed,” said Caroline Nolan, a
spokeswoman for PricewaterhouseCoopers.  White declined to comment for this article. So did a
Debevoise spokeswoman, Gabriella Schoff. A White House
spokesman, Eric Schultz, declined to answer my questions about
White’s disclosures. He e-mailed a one-sentence statement: “The
independent Office of Government Ethics has communicated to the
U.S. Senate that Ms. White is in compliance with all laws
relating to financial interests.” All that shows is that it’s
hard to legislate good ethics.  Cash Out  As for additional steps to address conflicts of interest,
White said she would cash out her capital account at the firm,
as well as her cash-balance retirement plan. (This is different
from the program paying $42,500 a month). She wouldn’t
participate in matters related to Debevoise or former clients
for two years.  Clients listed by White include the accounting firm
Deloitte & Touche LLP, whose China affiliate is being  sued  by
the SEC for refusing to comply with an SEC subpoena. Others
include General Electric Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG,
each of which has reached multiple settlements with the SEC’s
enforcement division.  Some of White’s other proposed remedies are puzzling. Her
husband,  John W. White , is a partner at the law firm  Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP . Her disclosure filing said he would
“convert to a non-equity partner status” and receive a fixed
salary and annual performance bonus. The disclosures didn’t say
how much money he would get for his Cravath stake or his yearly
pay. For all we know, his steps to address conflicts of interest
might make them worse.  White said she would avoid matters involving Cravath or its
clients, unless authorized by the SEC’s chief ethics officer.
Cravath, like Debevoise, is one of the country’s most prominent
corporate-law firms. That means a lot of potential  recusals  --
taking her out of the mix on decisions that might be crucial to
regulating U.S. capital markets, and possibly leaving the five-
member commission deadlocked in 2-2 votes.  White’s husband also sits on  advisory   panels  to the
 Financial Accounting Standards Board  and the  Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board . White said she would decline to
participate during her SEC tenure in any matter involving either
board, unless authorized.  Those are unpaid positions with no authority to set policy.
It isn’t important to the country for John White to be in those
groups, which meet only a few times a year. It is important that
the SEC chairman have unfettered ability to weigh in on U.S.
accounting and auditing standards, as well as the oversight of
audit firms. White’s husband should step down from those posts.  White undoubtedly has solid experience for the job. She
needs to decide which she wants more: to serve the public, or to
cling to the trappings of life as a tall-building lawyer. Most
importantly, her finances shouldn’t be tied to Debevoise’s
fortunes in any way, now or in the future.  She should know this already. So should the senators asking
questions at her confirmation hearing.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  