-- Asia Bond Risk Holds at Two-Week Low as Holidays Slow Debt Sales
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-02-14T03:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/asia-bond-risk-holds-at-two-week-low-as-holidays-slow-debt-sales.html
Asian bond risk held at a two-week
low. Companies held back from marketing dollar-denominated notes
as Lunar New Year holidays continue across the region.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was unchanged at 111 basis points as of
8:10 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices
show. The gauge closed at its lowest level yesterday since Jan.
29 according to data provider CMA. Markets in China, Taiwan, and
Vietnam remain shut, with Hong Kong returning to work today.  Holidays have curtailed U.S. currency debt sales from Asia
outside of Japan this month after companies raised a record
$23.4 billion in January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Indian lenders may seek to offer notes next month, according to
Barclays Plc.  Yield premiums  on dollar debt from the world’s
second-most populous nation shrank to 304 basis points more than
Treasuries yesterday, within 10 basis points of the least since
May 2011, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index shows.  “Many participants are still out due to the Chinese New
Year holidays so the market is just getting ready for next
week,” said  Krishna Hegde , the Singapore-based head of Asia
credit research at Barclays. “Among segments that have been
absent so far this year, we would expect the Indian banks to
issue bonds in March after the budget at month-end.”  Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is
scheduled to unveil the budget on Feb. 28.  Flextronics International Ltd. , a Singapore-based and U.S.-
listed electronics manufacturer, raised $1 billion from a two-
part bond sale on Feb. 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit-Default Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was at 113 basis points
as of 11:09 a.m. in Sydney, according to National Australia Bank
Ltd. prices. The benchmark closed at 113 yesterday, the lowest
since Jan. 10, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private
market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index was unchanged at 122 basis
points as of 9:23 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Citigroup Inc.
prices.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  