-- AT&T Price-Fixing Suit Against LCD Panel Makers Revived
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-02-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/at-t-price-fixing-suit-against-lcd-panel-makers-revived.html
AT&T Inc . won partial reinstatement
of its price-fixing lawsuit against  AU Optronics Corp ., Samsung
Electronics Co.,  LG Display Co . and other makers of liquid
crystal display panels  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in San
Francisco said yesterday that AT&T, the biggest U.S. phone
carrier, could sue the Asian companies under California’s
antitrust law over panel purchases that occurred outside the
state. The alleged price-fixing conspiracy may be sufficiently
connected to California to allow the case to proceed, the court
ruled.  “A defendant cannot reasonably complain that the
application of California law is arbitrary or unfair when its
alleged conspiracy took place, at least in part, in
California,” the court said.  The case is one of several civil antitrust actions filed
against makers of the liquid crystal display panels used in
computers, notebook computers and televisions following a
federal probe. A U.S. Justice Department criminal investigation
of LCD price fixing led to guilty pleas by LG Display Co.,
Chunghwa Picture Tubes, Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp. and Sharp
Corp., which agreed to pay more than $890 million in fines.
Seventeen executives have been charged and 10 have pleaded
guilty and been sentenced to prison, the Justice Department said
last year.  California Conduct  The appeals court sent the case back to a federal judge in
San Francisco to determine whether each defendant’s alleged
conduct was tied tightly enough to California to allow Dallas-
based AT&T to press its claims under state antitrust law.  Eric Miller, a spokesman for the law firm of the LCD
makers’ attorney,  Richard Taffet , declined to comment on the
ruling. Andrew Morgan, an AT&T spokesman didn’t immediately
respond to e-mail messages seeking comment.  AT&T alleged in the Oct. 20, 2009, lawsuit reinstated
yesterday that it paid inflated prices for billions of dollars
of liquid crystal display panels purchased from 1996 to 2006
because the manufacturers orchestrated a global conspiracy to
fix prices.  The company asked for triple damages and an injunction
barring the manufacturers from colluding in the future.  The case is AT&T v. AU Optronics, 11-16188, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this stor
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  