-- Australian Shares Fall From Four-Year High, Japan Futures Drop
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-02-14T23:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/australian-shares-fall-from-four-year-high-japan-futures-drop.html
Australian shares fell, dragging the
benchmark equities gauge from the highest level in four years,
as profit at  Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. 
declined. Japanese stock futures dropped.  ANZ Bank lost 1.6 percent after Australia’s third-largest
bank by market value said first-quarter profit fell 20 percent.
Shares of  Kirin Holdings Co. , Japan’s largest beverage maker,
may be active after forecasting a 60 percent increase in profit
to a record this year as it books a gain from its investment in
Fraser & Neave Ltd.  Auckland International Airport Ltd.  slumped
the most in four years after a New Zealand pension fund reduced
its stake in the nation’s busiest terminal.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring next
month closed at 11,225 in Chicago yesterday, down from 11,250 at
the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
11,220 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index retreated 0.3 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell
1.1 percent. Equity markets in China, Taiwan and Vietnam remain
shut today for public holidays.  “There is a risk of a correction, but it may be shallow,”
 David Cassidy , Sydney-based head of equity strategy at UBS AG,
said in a telephone interview. “A lot of the sentiment
indicators look overbought. We’re seeing some tentative signs
that earnings downgrades have stopped for now, which is good,
but that could be temporary. People aren’t positioned for this
rally and they are still scrambling to buy. So I wouldn’t be
getting too bearish on equities right now.”  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, gained 3.5 percent this year through yesterday.
The measure trades at 14.9 times average estimated earnings
compared with 13.7 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.4
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Of the 328 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
have reported earnings this quarter and for which Bloomberg has
estimates, 52 percent exceeded profit expectations and 51
percent missed sales projections. That compares with 73 percent
of S&P 500 companies that topped profit forecasts during the
period, while 33 percent fell short of sales estimates, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The gauge yesterday climbed 0.1 percent, to a five-year
high, as a drop in jobless claims and Warren Buffett’s deal for
H.J. Heinz Co. overshadowed concern over shrinking economies in
Europe and Japan.  Gross domestic product in the euro area shrank 0.6 percent
in the fourth quarter from the previous three months, the worst
performance since the first quarter of 2009. Japanese GDP
declined for a third straight quarter, stoking speculation Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will step up efforts to end deflation.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 0.3 percent to 96.55 in New
York yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  