-- Australia Aware of Alleged Spy in Israeli Prison
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-02-14T12:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/australia-aware-of-alleged-spy-before-death-in-israel-carr-says.html
Australia was informed about the
arrest of a suspected Mossad agent of Australian origin 10
months before he was found hanged in his Israeli prison cell,
Foreign Minister  Bob Carr  said.  The government “was informed in February 2010 through
intelligence channels that the Israeli authorities had detained
a dual Australian-Israeli citizen, and they provided the name of
the citizen, in relation to serious offenses under Israeli
national security legislation,” Carr told a parliamentary
committee in the capital, Canberra, today. On Dec. 16, 2010,
Australia was informed through “intelligence channels” that
the man, Ben Zygier, had died the previous day, Carr said.  Australian Broadcasting Corp. television reported the story
two days ago. Following the broadcast, top editors of Israeli
media outlets were called into Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s office and told that all reports on the story were
subject to security censorship.  An Israeli court yesterday partially lifted the gag order
on the case, and confirmed some of the facts in the ABC report.  “The Prison Service detained a prisoner who held both
Israeli and foreign citizenship. For security reasons, the
prisoner was held under an alias,” the Justice Ministry said in
an e-mailed statement. “The prisoner was found dead in his cell
approximately two years ago.”  Negligence Investigation  The State Attorney’s Office is evaluating whether there was
negligence involved in the prisoner’s death, the ministry said.  ABC said its investigation linked Zygier, also known as Ben
Alon and 34 years old at the time of his death, to a figure
dubbed “Prisoner X” in a 2010 report by the Ynet news website
that said the detainee was being held in Israel’s Ayalon prison.  After Zygier’s detention, Australia sought assurances from
Israel that he wouldn’t be mistreated and should be allowed
legal representation, Carr said. He ordered a review into
government processes after saying earlier that the Australian
embassy in Tel Aviv had informed him it had no information about
Zygier’s death.  Julie Bishop , deputy leader of Australia’s Liberal-National
opposition, met the Israeli Ambassador to Canberra Yuval Rotem
yesterday and expressed concern over the ABC report, she said
today.  Australian Probe  Zygier was one of at least three dual Australian-Israeli
citizens being investigated in early 2010 by the Australian
Security Intelligence Organisation over suspicions they were
spying for Israel, Fairfax Media said today, without saying
where it obtained the information.  ABC said that Zygier began working for Mossad after
emigrating to Israel 12 years ago. He hanged himself in Ayalon
prison three years ago after being arrested for unknown reasons,
the network reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Zehava Gal-On , chairwoman of Israel’s opposition Meretz
party, yesterday issued a call in parliament for the government
to offer a fuller account of the story and criticized the
censorship of local media.  “It’s funny that some people still think that in this
digital age you can stop information from getting out,” Gal-On
told Army Radio. “The authorities in Israel are fighting
yesterday’s war.”  ‘Seemed Rational’  One of Zygier’s Israeli lawyers said today he spoke with
his client a day before he died and saw no signs to indicate he
was contemplating suicide.  “I patiently heard him out, to my mind he seemed rational,
and he didn’t display any exceptional feelings of self-pity,”
attorney Avigdor Feldman said in an interview on Army Radio.  An Australian journalist spoke with Zygier in 2009 over
allegations that he helped set up a Mossad front company in
Europe to sell electronic equipment to Iran, the Guardian
 reported  today. Zygier “denied everything,” reporter Jason
Katsoukis told the Guardian.  The Brisbane Times  reported  today that unidentified
Australian security officials suspect that prior to his arrest,
Zygier may have been about to expose Israeli use of Australian
passports for espionage purposes. The officials said their
government was informed of his arrest just after Dubai police
announced that Australian passports were used by three of the
suspects in the alleged Mossad assassination a month earlier of
Hamas operative  Mahmoud al-Mabhouh .  In May, 2010, Australia expelled an Israeli diplomat to
protest what it said was the “involvement of state
intelligence” in fake Australian passports linked to the
killing of Mabhouh. Israel has never acknowledged its
involvement in the Dubai operation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  