-- Austrian Speculation Ban ‘First Step,’ Hard to Monitor, S&P Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-02-14T11:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/austrian-speculation-ban-first-step-hard-to-monitor-s-p-says.html
Austria’s planned restrictions on
municipalities’ and provinces’ financial investments are a first
step toward limiting contingent risks and will be difficult to
monitor, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said.  The agreement between the government and Austria’s nine
provinces to abstain from borrowing in foreign currencies and
from investing in derivatives for purposes other than hedging
won’t have an effect on its rating, S&P said in a statement
today. Austria is rated AA+ with a stable outlook by the
company.  “We consider this attempt to regulate potentially risky
financial activities a first step to limiting contingency
elements of debt management,” S&P analysts  Thomas Fischinger 
and  Alois Strasser  said. “We believe that the implementation
and close monitoring of such rules may be challenging,” they
said. The rules still “allow more risk-prone governments to
incur higher risks than usually applied in local and regional
governments’ debt management globally,” according to S&P.  Austria’s government decided to tighten rules on municipal
and regional financial investments after a string of hidden
assets and potential losses in the Alpine republic. Salzburg
province was found to hold 1.35 billion euros ($1.8 billion) in
undeclared investments last month. Lower Austria sold 4.4
billion euros of home loans and invested the proceeds in assets
including hedge funds. The City of Linz was sued for 417 million
euros over a swap with Bawag PSK Bank AG.  The deal, signed yesterday, still needs to be ratified by
regional lawmakers and pass parliament with a two-thirds
majority to become binding for municipalities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  