-- Barrick Rises as CEO Says Assets Attract Interest: Toront
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-02-14T16:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/barrick-rises-as-ceo-says-assets-attract-interest-toront.html
Barrick Gold Corp. , the world’s
largest producer of the metal, rose the most in six months after
saying it is open to anything that boosts shareholder value and
it has been approached by many buyers interested in its assets.  Barrick  climbed  4.5 percent to C$33.16 at 11:13 a.m. in
Toronto, after earlier advancing 5.2 percent, the most intraday
since July 19.  “We continue to actively pursue opportunities to optimize
our existing portfolio,” Barrick Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Sokalsky  said today on a conference call. “We’re open to
anything that will increase shareholder value.”  Sokalsky, who took over as CEO in June after his
predecessor  Aaron Regent  was fired, has previously said he’s
reviewing assets in an effort to improve returns and cash flow
as costs soar. The Toronto-based company is actively seeking to
sell Barrick Energy Inc. and Kabanga, its 50 percent-owned
nickel project.  “When I started talking about portfolio optimization, the
phone actually started ringing off the wall a bit, with a lot of
buyers,” Sokalsky said on the call. “And many of those buyers
are serious buyers that are willing to look at paying a fair
price for assets.”  The company today posted an unexpected fourth-quarter loss
after taking a $3 billion writedown on a Zambian copper mine it
bought in 2011.  Unexpected Loss  The loss was $3.06 billion, or $3.06 a share, compared with
net income of $959 million, or 96 cents, a year earlier, Barrick
said in a statement. Earnings excluding the writedown and other
one-time items were $1.11 a share, beating the $1.05 average of
22  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 11 percent to
$4.19 billion.  The writedown “was twice as big as we expected,”  Pawel Rajszel , an analyst at Veritas Investment Research in Toronto
who has a buy rating on the stock, said by phone. “They
definitely didn’t do their due diligence.”  Barrick is the latest major mining company to take
multibillion impairment charges as it grapples with rising
production costs. The gold producer said it now won’t proceed
with an expansion at the Lumwana copper mine, acquired as part
of its C$7.3 billion ($7.29 billion) takeover of Equinox
Minerals Ltd., Barrick’s second-largest acquisition. It doesn’t
plan to build any new mines in what is a “challenging
environment” for such investments.  “When we bought Equinox, our view was that Lumwana was a
very long-life mine, with exceptional resource potential,”
Sokalsky said in the statement. “Unfortunately, our new mining
plan projects mining costs to be higher than we anticipated.”  Kinross Writedown  Other miners reporting charges include Kinross Gold Corp.,
Canada’s third-largest gold miner, which said yesterday it took
a $3.09 billion writedown on its Tasiast mine in Mauritania.
Kinross acquired the project when it bought Red Back Mining Inc.
for about C$8 billion in 2010.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest miner, today
reported its first full-year loss in at least 21 years after
taking a $14 billion charge on the value of its coal and
aluminum businesses.  Gold, which has risen for 12 straight years, averaged
$1,719 an ounce in the fourth quarter on the Comex in New York,
1.9 percent more than a year earlier and 3.8 percent higher than
in the previous three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  