-- MTBE Rises Fast in New Hampshire Wells, Exxon Jury Told
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-02-14T23:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/mtbe-rises-fast-in-new-hampshire-wells-exxon-jury-told.html
Water wells with no detectable level
of a gasoline additive can show high concentrations a few months
later, a water treatment specialist told a New Hampshire jury
considering whether  ExxonMobil Corp.  is liable for contaminating
some of the state’s supplies.  “If you get a good test today, that’s a snapshot of today,
and it’s no guarantee that you won’t have a problem tomorrow,”
Stephen Guercia, who was hired by the state to estimate the
costs of testing and cleaning wells, said in court in Concord
today. “This is an example of the need to test wells
repeatedly.”  New Hampshire might be seeking more than $200 million from
ExxonMobil, the last of seven defendant oil companies on trial
after they were sued in 2003. The number of wells found to be
contaminated with the additive is one factor in determining
damages if ExxonMobil is found liable.  Guercia said the cost of testing, treating and monitoring
the state’s 250,000 private wells over 20 years would be about
$450 million. That’s in addition to two estimates from other
state witnesses: $195 million to clean up 85 high-risk wells and
$173 million to test and monitor 228 sites with levels of the
additive methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE, in water of 13
parts per billion. Those estimates total $818 million.  ExxonMobil lawyer  David Lender  suggested during cross-
examination today that Guercia relied on estimates of well
contamination by another state witness, Graham Fogg, whose
reliability the oil company has questioned in court.  ‘Unreliable’ Numbers  “If the jury concludes that Dr. Fogg’s projections are
unreliable, then by definition all the numbers we just saw would
also be unreliable, right?”  Guercia replied that he was “comfortable with” Fogg’s
projections and “the numbers he came up with.”  The state has received $213 million from oil companies for
two MTBE cleanup funds since 1989 through a 1.5-cent-per-gallon
fee on all gasoline imported into in the state. The funds have
$4 million left in them, the state said in court.  ExxonMobil, based in Irving, Texas, has argued in court
that it isn’t liable for damage because it added MTBE to
gasoline to comply with federal regulations, which pre-empt
state law. Oil companies added MTBE to make gasoline burn more
thoroughly in order to reduce air pollution, as required under
the 1990  Clean Air Act .  Additive Studies  The state was aware of MTBE’s risks when it opted into a
federal clean-air program in 1991 because there had been studies
of the additive for several years before that, ExxonMobil said
in court.  New Hampshire banned the additive as of January 2007.  State witness Gary Lynn, who works for the Department of
Environmental Services, testified that MTBE still shows up in
wells six years after it was banned.  MTBE is highly soluble in water and can be carried great
distances from where it leaked,  Jessica Grant , a lawyer for New
Hampshire, told the jury during opening statements. It leaked
from gas stations, vehicle junkyards, underground storage tanks
and pipe fittings, she said.  Besides the number of contaminated wells, the state is
seeking monetary damages based on ExxonMobil’s market share of
gasoline sales in New Hampshire during the period covered by the
lawsuit.  ExxonMobil’s share was about 30 percent, the state said.
Based on the estimated cost of $818 million to test for, monitor
and clean up the groundwater, New Hampshire could be seeking
about $245 million from the company.  Citgo Dismissed  On Jan. 15, New Hampshire Superior Court Judge Peter
Fauver agreed to dismiss  Citgo Petroleum Corp. , the other
defendant, from this trial while the company and the state
negotiated a settlement. If an accord isn’t reached by Feb. 15
and no extension is approved, Citgo would be reinstated to the
trial.  Fernando Garay , a spokesman for Citgo, the Houston-based
unit of  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , that country’s state-owned
oil company, declined to comment on a settlement. Mary Maloney,
an assistant attorney general for New Hampshire, also declined
to comment.  The state said it expects to rest its case on Feb. 21.
ExxonMobil will then present its side.  The case is New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  