-- Berkshire Rises to Record as Stock Doubles Since 2009
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-02-14T21:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/berkshire-rises-to-record-as-stock-doubles-since-2009.html
Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. climbed to a  record  closing price as the billionaire joined
with 3G Capital in a $23 billion deal for the ketchup maker HJ
Heinz Co.  Class A shares rose about 1.1 percent to $149,310 at 4 p.m.
in New York. That’s more than double their value in March 2009
when plunging equity markets dragged down the value of the
Omaha, Nebraska-based company’s stock portfolio and a deepening
U.S. recession hurt results at housing, retail and manufacturing
units.  Buffett, the 82-year-old chairman and chief executive
officer, expanded Berkshire through the downturn using its  cash
hoard  to make investments as other sources of liquidity dried
up. In the deal announced today, Berkshire will get more than $4
billion in equity in Pittsburgh-based Heinz and a preferred
stake of $8 billion paying a 9 percent annual dividend. The
transaction is valued at about $28 billion including assumption
of debt.  As the stock “languished for the past three or four years,
the question was, ‘Was it a balloon losing its helium, or was it
a coiled spring?’” said  Tom Russo , a partner at Gardner Russo &
Gardner, who oversees more than $5 billion including shares of
Buffett’s firm. “It’s always felt to me like a coiled spring,”
he said. “The company has built and compressed more value
behind each share.”  Buffett’s Wagers  Since mid-2008, Buffett plowed $13 billion into Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.,  General Electric Co.  and Bank of America Corp.
for preferred stakes and warrants. He also completed two of his
largest acquisitions, buying chemical maker Lubrizol Corp. and
railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, surged
to $111,718 a share on Sept. 30 from about $77,600 four years
earlier. Buffett, Berkshire’s largest shareholder, has said the
metric is a useful gauge of how much the firm is worth.  Buffett and Vice Chairman  Charles Munger  signaled that they
think the firm was undervalued when Berkshire said in December
it bought back $1.2 billion in stock from a longtime investor’s
estate for $131,000 a share. The company also raised the
threshold at which it is willing to repurchase stock.  “If you run any business for a long period of time there
are going to be times when it’s overvalued and times when it’s
undervalued,” Buffett said at Berkshire’s annual shareholder
meeting in May. “The beauty of stocks is that they do sell at
silly prices from time to time, and that’s how Charlie and I
have gotten rich.”  Results at Berkshire’s operating units have been improving.
Buffett’s deal for Burlington Northern, which he called an
“all-in wager” on the U.S. economy, has generated more than $7
billion in dividends for Buffett’s firm since the February 2010
purchase as it  hauled more freight .  “Berkshire is basically a play on the U.S. economy,” said
 David Winters , CEO of Wintergreen Advisers LLC, which oversees
Berkshire shares. “As people have had a little more faith in
the U.S. economy, they’ve had faith in revaluing Berkshire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  