-- Berlusconi Unlikely to Win Italy Lower House, Pollster Says
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2013-02-14T15:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/berlusconi-unlikely-to-win-italy-lower-house-pollster-says.html
Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who has cut the lead of frontrunner  Pier Luigi Bersani ’s by half in polls for this month’s elections, probably
won’t be able to overtake him, a top pollster said.  “The center-left should have a comfortable majority at the
lower house,”  Renato Mannheimer , head of polling company Ispo
Ltd, said at a press conference in Milan. It’s still uncertain
whether Democratic Party leader Bersani can get a majority in
the Senate because large swing regions like Lombardy and Sicily
are too close to call, he said.  Italy entered a blackout period for polls in the two weeks
before elections Feb. 24-25. Berlusconi has been gaining on
Bersani as he steps up his promises to cuts taxes and his anti-
austerity rhetoric. Bersani risks falling short of a majority in
the Senate because Italy’s electoral law assigns seats in that
house on a regional basis. He may have to turn to Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  to form a post-vote alliance.  Bersani’s bloc maintained an average 6 percentage-point
lead over the former premier on Feb. 8, the day before the
blackout for polls kicked in. Bersani’s lead was down from about
14 percentage points a month earlier and one poll had Berlusconi
trailing by less than the 4 percentage-point margin of error.  Anti-Austerity Movement  “Many people are still undecided,” Mannheimer said,
adding that at the last national elections in 2008 about 20
percent of voters made up their minds in the last week, with 10
percent on the last day. “That’s likely going to happen
again.” Mannheimer does polls for Corriere Della Sera, Italy’s
largest newspaper by circulation.  The surge in support for an anti-austerity movement founded
by comic  Beppe Grillo  and corruption scandals such as a false
accounting probe at  Monte Paschi di Siena SpA , are making the
outcome of elections even more unpredictable, Mannheimer said.  Grillo’s support has surged to 16.8 percent, based on the
average of the last five polls published before the blackout,
making it the third-biggest party. Grillo’s Five Star movement
is attracting the highest support for first-time voters, with 30
percent, according to Mannheimer.  “All the scandals could have boosted Grillo’s support,”
Mannheimer said, though his gains won’t probably be enough to
overturn Bersani’s lead in the lower house, he said. Grillo has
gained on both Bersani and Berlusconi. A corruption
investigation involving  Roberto Formigoni , Lombardy’s outgoing
president and a member of Berlusconi’s party, and the arrest of
the head of defense and aerospace company Finmeccanica SpA are
also going to influence the vote.  Berlusconi Gains  “The scandals could hit Berlusconi more,” Mannheimer
said, adding that the Italian media coverage of the pope’s
resignation also could halt his surge in polls.  Italian law forbids the publication and distribution of
poll results in the 15 days before an election, though it allows
pollsters to sell results to private clients. One of the reasons
for the ban is that undecided voters could be prone to vote for
whoever is ahead, Mannheimer said.  Berlusconi’s gains in the polls have rattled investors on
concern that, if elected, he would undo some of Monti’s reforms
and jeopardize Italy’s public finances with tax cuts.  Several financial firms, especially foreign banks, are
buying new polls in the blackout period, Mannheimer said. “Many
are worried about a Berlusconi comeback and about instability,”
he said, adding the interest from foreign investors in polls
hasn’t been this high since the country’s adoption of the euro
from the lira.  “It’s unlikely” that Bersani and Monti won’t be able to
form a coalition government after the election, he said.
“Still, it’s going to be a complicated alliance. The picture
that is shaping up after the vote is of one of instability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marco Bertacche  in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  