-- Berlusconi Tells Italian Firms to Keep Bribing After Orsi Arrest
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-02-14T09:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/berlusconi-tells-italian-firms-to-keep-bribing-after-orsi-arrest.html
Former Italian premier Silvio
Berlusconi criticized prosecutors for arresting  Finmeccanica
SpA ’s ex-chief executive officer, Giuseppe Orsi, and said  global
companies  that shun graft are destined to fall behind.  “Bribes are a phenomenon that exists and it’s useless to
deny the existence of these necessary situations,” Berlusconi,
76, said today in a televised interview on state broadcaster
RAI3. “These are not crimes. We’re talking about paying a
commission to someone in that country. Why, because those are
the rules in that country.”  Berlusconi praised Orsi and said prosecutors were setting
an example that could hurt Italy’s biggest companies from
Finmeccanica to oil company  Eni SpA  and power producer  Enel SpA .
Orsi was jailed this week as Italian prosecutors probed a
helicopter contract he oversaw in India. Rome-based
Finmeccanica, Italy’s biggest defense company, promoted
Alessandro Pansa to CEO yesterday.  “No one will negotiate with Eni or Enel or Finmeccanica
anymore,” said Berlusconi. “It’s pure masochism.”  Berlusconi, a billionaire media magnate, has for years
criticized Italian prosecutors for what he calls poor decisions
and politically motivated charges. Berlusconi was convicted of
tax fraud in October and is standing trial on allegations he
paid a minor for sex and abused the power of his office while
premier.  Shares Tumble  Finmeccanica is moving to reassure shareholders, after the
stock slumped as much as 14 percent on Feb. 12, the day Orsi was
arrested. The company, which  lost  more than half of its market
value during Orsi’s tenure as CEO, said yesterday that it
remains “fully operational,” even as authorities probe
allegations of illegal payments tied to a 560 million-euro ($753
million) contract for helicopters in India in 2010.  Pansa had previously served as chief financial officer
before becoming chief operating officer. Pansa has been a
central figure in shaping Finmeccanica’s transformation,
including asset disposal and efforts to streamline the defense
 subsidiaries .  Finmeccanica said it plans to convene a shareholder meeting
on April 2 to appoint a new board. While Orsi formally retained
the title of chairman, Pansa has effectively been given those
powers because only the shareholder congregation has the
authority to strip Orsi of that position.  Asset Sales  Pansa will now be charged with guiding Finmeccanica through
its biggest revamp in at least a decade as it seeks to deliver 1
billion euros in asset sales to reduce more than 4 billion euros
in  debt . The company had been pushing to dispose of its Ansaldo
Energia business, with the goal of announcing a buyer before
Italian elections begin on Feb. 24.  The Milan offices of Finmeccanica, Orsi’s house and
premises of the AgustaWestland helicopter subsidiary in Italy
were searched this week, two people familiar with the probe
said, who asked not to be identified because the investigation
is continuing.  Orsi became CEO of Finmeccanica in 2011 after winning the
endorsement of Berlusconi, then serving his third term as prime
minister. The Italian Finance Ministry owns 30 percent of
Finmeccanica and 31 percent of Rome-based Enel. The ministry has
indirect control over Eni through a 26 percent stake owned by
state lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA.  ‘Absurd Moralisms’  “These are absurd moralisms,” Berlusconi said of those
who condemn bribery conducted outside of Western democracies.
“If you want to make moralisms like that, you can’t be an
entrepreneur on a global scale.”  The Indian Defense Ministry has asked the country’s Central
Bureau of Investigation to probe the charges. The contract
signed with AgustaWestland includes “specific contractual
provisions against bribery and the use of undue influence as
well as an integrity pact,” the ministry said on Feb. 12.  Orsi’s lawyer,  Ennio Amodio , said in a statement that
evidence against his client is “inconsistent” and that the
arrest is “unjustified.”  Berlusconi is seeking a political comeback and campaigning
ahead of Feb. 24-25 parliamentary elections. He is running
second in opinion polls to a coalition led by Pier Luigi
Bersani. Berlusconi is appealing the tax fraud conviction, which
carries a four-year prison sentence, and has denied the abuse-
of-power and sex charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  