-- Biblical Baddie Herod Gets Royal Treatment in Israel Show
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-02-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/biblical-baddie-herod-gets-royal-treatment-in-israel-show.html
Herod the Great, who ruled ancient
Judea 2,000 years ago at the time of the birth of Christ, has
suffered two millennia of bad press. Now he’s finally getting
his due in an exhibition at Jerusalem’s Israel Museum.  Herod was condemned in the New Testament as a bloodthirsty
tyrant who ordered the massacre of infants in Bethlehem to
prevent the prophesied birth of a new king of the Jews. He was
described by 1st-century historian Josephus Flavius as a
paranoid despot who executed three of his male offspring for
suspected plotting.  Even his friend and patron, the first Roman Emperor
Augustus Caesar, is said to have quipped -- in a reference to
Herod’s observance of Jewish dietary laws forbidding pork --
“Better to be Herod’s pig than one of his sons.”  There is another side to Herod, though: that of the
cosmopolitan master builder whose monumental projects, including
Masada, the port city of Caesarea and Jerusalem’s Temple Mount,
still shape the cultural landscape of Israel and the West Bank.  This Herod is the focus of what Israel Museum Director
 James Snyder  calls the first exhibition exclusively devoted to
the monarch, and the most ambitious archaeological show ever
mounted at his institution.  “In just about everyone’s mind, there is a sense of who
Herod is as a man,” Snyder said. “Our exhibition really tries
very hard to be about Herod’s achievements as a regional
imperial ruler.”  Palace Fortress  The undertaking is as much a tribute to Israeli
archaeologist Ehud Netzer as it is to its subject. Netzer spent
four decades excavating at Herodium, a palace-fortress built by
Herod just south of Jerusalem, and it was his discovery of the
ruler’s long-lost tomb there in 2007 that paved the way for the
Israel Museum show.  Sadly, Netzer died in 2010 from injuries he sustained in a
fall at Herodium: Faulty railing gave way on the first visit by
the museum’s curatorial team -- which “could not be a stranger
and, perhaps even more biblical story,” Snyder said.  The  exhibition , titled “Herod the Great: The King’s Final
Journey,” starts with the ruler’s death at his winter palace in
Jericho in 4 B.C. The first room recreates his throne room and
incorporates some of the actual colorful wall frescoes from the
site, “built in what was then the latest Roman fashion,”
according to curator David Mevorah.  Dominant Empire  The entire exhibition emphasizes how Herod served as a
cultural bridge between the Jewish kingdom of Judea and the
dominant imperial empire of Rome, which placed him on the throne
as a vassal-ruler in 37 B.C.  Herod himself was of Idumaenan descent, a regional tribe
that had converted to Judaism several generations earlier, and
was viewed with distrust by his Jewish subjects, despite his
many efforts to court them.  The most ambitious of these projects was his ground-up
renovation of Jerusalem’s Holy Temple, which rivaled and even
surpassed the grandest of Rome’s religious structures until it
was leveled by Roman troops in 70 A.D. during the Jewish
rebellion.  The remaining Temple Mount and its retaining walls, which
today houses the Muslim Dome of the Rock shrine and the Al-Aqsa
mosque, may well be the world’s most disputed piece of real
estate.  The exhibition includes the top of an Ionic column from the
Temple Mount site, as well as a four-ton example of the massive
“Herodian stones” used to construct its retaining walls.  Reinforced Floor  About 30 tons of stone artifacts in total were taken from
various Herodian sites for the show, which required a
reinforcement of the museum’s floors.  That includes pieces from Herod’s tomb at Herodian put on
display for the first tomb, including three stone sarcophagi
from the king’s burial chamber.  Originally topped by a tower that could be seen from
Jerusalem miles away, the tomb is believed by historians to have
been vandalized by the Jewish Zealots during their rebellion
against Rome six decades after Herod’s death, leading to its
obscurity until Netzer’s rediscovery 20 centuries later.  Like Shelley’s Ozymandias, Herod constructed monumental
projects that virtually command future generations to “Look on
my works, ye Mighty, and despair!”  His, however, had the good fortune not to end up buried
under “lone and level sands.” They remain enduring tourist
attractions and tributes to his ambition, ingenuity and
arrogance.  “Herod has had some bad P.R.,” curator Mevorah said, with
considerable understatement. “Our exhibition shows that he was
also a multifaceted man of great achievements, and above, a
great builder.”  “Herod the Great: The King’s Final Journey” opened
yesterday and runs through Oct. 5 at Israel Museum on Ruppin
Blvd., Jerusalem. Information:
 http://www.english.imjnet.org.il/HTMLs/Home.aspx   Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Scott Reyburn 
on the art market and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  (Calev Ben-David writes for Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  