-- BlackRock’s Fisher Leaves Bond Post for Research Role
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2013-02-14T23:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/blackrock-s-fisher-leaves-fixed-income-post-for-research-role.html
Peter Fisher , head of fixed income
at BlackRock Inc., will leave his post to join the company’s
group that provides market research and analysis, according to a
memo sent to employees.  Fisher, 56, will become senior director of the BlackRock
Investment Institute following the completion last year of a
restructuring of the bond team.  Rick Rieder  and Kevin Holt will
become co-heads of Americas fixed income, according to the memo.  BlackRock , the world’s largest money manager, has worked to
improve the performance of its actively-managed bond funds as
deposits trailed those of index-based investments. Fisher last
year led a reorganization of the bond division, giving unit
heads like Reider and Holt greater autonomy and accountability.
BlackRock’s Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink has also
overhauled the firm’s active stock-fund unit to improve
performance and reverse redemptions.  “As a natural extension of last year’s realignment, we are
structuring fixed income to allow our lead investors to spend as
much time as possible focused on investing,” Fink said in the
memo. “There will be no change to the way any portfolios are
managed or any impact on our clients.”  Rieder, Holt  Rieder will continue as chief investment officer of
fundamental fixed income, while Holt will take on the business-
management duties for the Americas bond division. Tim Webb will
continue as head of fixed-income for Europe, the Middle East,
Africa and the Asia-Pacific region. Peter Hayes will continue to
run tax-exempt strategies such as municipal bonds and will
report to Holt. Rieder, Holt and Webb report to Quintin Price,
who heads BlackRock’s so-called Alpha Strategies unit, according
to the memo.  BlackRock had net deposits of $892 million in its active
bond funds last year as investors poured $29 billion into
passive fixed-income exchange-traded funds, the firm said in its
fourth-quarter earnings release.  Fisher, who didn’t manage any investments at BlackRock, is
a former Treasury undersecretary for domestic finance, and
before that spent 16 years at the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York. He joined BlackRock in 2004.  “Peter’s move fulfills the desire he has had for some time
to take on a role that allows him more freedom from day-to-day
management and expand on his role working with investors and
clients more broadly across the firm,” Fink said in the memo.  BlackRock topped the ranks of asset managers through a
series of acquisitions, culminating in the December 2009
purchase of Barclays Global Investors. It had about $3.79
trillion in assets as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  