-- BlackBerry’s Former Co-CEO Jim Balsillie Sells Stake
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/blackberry-co-founder-balsillie-reports-0-stake-in-phone-maker.html
Jim Balsillie ,  Research In Motion
Ltd. ’s co-chief executive officer until January of last year,
cut his last formal ties to a company he helped found 20 years
ago when he reported yesterday that he no longer holds a stake.  Balsillie disclosed owning zero shares in RIM as of Dec. 31
in a  U.S. regulatory filing , down from 5.1 percent a year ago.
Investors who hold a stake in a company of less than 5 percent
aren’t required to report when they buy or sell the shares,
according to Securities & Exchange Commission rules.  Balsillie had been the third-largest shareholder and helped
lead the company during its heyday as a smartphone pioneer and
market leader. He departed last year along with co-CEO  Mike Lazaridis  after fumbling product introductions and losing market
share to  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and to Android devices.  “It’s another tie severed,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst
at BGC Partners in New York. “When there’s so much turmoil in
his effort to turn the company around, it’s not unreasonable for
someone to sell his stake and move on.”  The company doesn’t comment on the holdings of individual
shareholders, said  Heidi Davidson , a spokeswoman for the
Waterloo, Ontario-based business, which this year changed its 
name to just BlackBerry. Balsillie also declined to comment when 
approached through his assistant and the company.  Balsillie may have benefited from the stock’s fourth-
quarter rally before selling it. Optimism about the company’s
new BlackBerry 10 lineup of phones fueled a 58 percent stock
rally in the period, rewarding investors after years of
declines.  Slow Rollout  Since the Jan. 30 unveiling of the new phones, concerns
about a slow rollout in the U.S., BlackBerry’s biggest single
market, have weighed on the stock. While the new Z10 model is
already available in the U.K., Canada and the United Arab
Emirates, it won’t come to the U.S. until next month.  Donald Yacktman ’s $21 billion mutual-fund firm, once the
smartphone maker’s fifth-largest holder, sold almost half its
holdings in the weeks before the BlackBerry 10 debut.  “The dilemma in a company like this is that there are vast
differences in outcome potential,” Yacktman said in an
interview last week. The stock had gotten more expensive with no
guarantee the new phones would succeed in turning the company
around, he said.  After Balsillie’s disclosure yesterday, BlackBerry shares
tumbled as much as 7.5 percent. The stock later recovered and
gained 7.7 percent to $15.07.  ‘Two-Way Pager’  Lazaridis, a fellow co-founder who invented the BlackBerry
device itself, held 29.9 million shares as of Dec. 31, according
to a separate filing yesterday. That was an increase of about
200,000 shares from the end of the third quarter, and gives him
a stake of 5.7 percent in the company.  Balsillie, who has an MBA from Harvard University, teamed
up with Lazaridis in 1992. Together, they introduced the
BlackBerry “two-way pager” in 1999. Balsillie made early trips
to New York and Washington to sell bankers, lawyers and
government agencies on the device, building a loyal BlackBerry
following in the process.  He was also credited with building relationships with
carriers so that more than 200 wireless operators offered
BlackBerry devices at its peak. More recently, he was criticized
by shareholders such as  Vic Alboini , who said his side interests
had become too much of a distraction from day-to-day management
of the company.  Hockey Shutout  Balsillie tried and failed on three separate occasions to
buy National Hockey League franchises -- the Pittsburgh
Penguins, Nashville Predators and Phoenix Coyotes.  Since resigning , Balsillie has made few public
appearances. Communitech, a startup incubator in Waterloo,
posted a  video interview  with Balsillie in November in which he
discussed his time at RIM and his plans for the future.  “I’ve had my fair share of cold sweats over the tricky
commercial issues over the decades,” Balsillie said, calling
the job of running RIM “very demanding.” He said he planned to
take the advice of others to not rush into anything, otherwise
revealing little about future business plans.  “I would expect he’ll be back in the landscape,” said
Gillis. “Give it a year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  