-- BNP Paribas Follows Bank of Italy’s Call to Bolster Local Funds
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-02-14T16:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/bnp-paribas-follows-bank-of-italy-s-call-to-bolster-local-funds.html
BNP Paribas SA, facing mounting bad-
loan provisions at its Italian unit Banca Nazionale del Lavoro,
wrote down the division’s goodwill following a Bank of Italy
call to bolster capital locally.  BNP Paribas, France’s largest bank, took 298 million euros
($397 million) in fourth-quarter goodwill writedowns at Rome-
based BNL “due to the expected increase in the Bank of Italy’s
capital requirements,” it said today in a statement.  Italy’s central bank is requiring the company to boost the
common equity Tier 1 capital ratio to 8 percent from 7 percent
at BNL, which will comply by retaining profits, BNP Paribas
said. The French bank had 1.4 billion euros of goodwill related
to BNL on its balance sheet at the end of December, down from
1.7 billion euros a year earlier, according to its financial
statements.  European Central Bank council member  Ignazio Visco , who
heads the Bank of Italy, said some Italian banks need more
capital as the country’s recession drags on.  “Some large- and medium-sized groups still must make
progress on the road to broadening their resources,” Visco said
in a speech in Bergamo, Italy, on Feb. 9. Increasing capital
“allows a reduction of financial leverage without cutting
credit support to the real economy.”  Italian Elections  Italian voters will go to polls on Feb. 24 and Feb. 25 for
national elections as the economy, the euro-region’s third
largest, remains mired in a fourth recession since 2001.
Unemployment reached the highest level in 13 years in December
and consumer confidence fell in January to the lowest since at
least 1996 as Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s policies to contain
the budget deficit curbed domestic demand.  BNL had fourth-quarter pretax earnings of 68 million euros,
down 42 percent from a year earlier and below analysts’
estimates for 91 million euros. BNP Paribas, which acquired BNL
in 2006 for 9 billion euros, took 283 million euros in bad-loan
provisions at the unit, a 39 percent increase from a year
earlier.  The increase in BNL’s bad-loan provisions is “nothing
dramatic,” BNP’s Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Laurent Bonnafe 
told Bloomberg Television today. “BNL is to stay a profitable
operation.”  BNP Paribas has also reduced its parent funding to BNL to
below 7 billion euros, Bonnafe said today. The French bank,
which is reimbursing three-year loans from the ECB’s Longer-Term
Refinancing Operations, “kept the LTRO for BNL in Italy and
that’s it,” Bonnafe told Bloomberg Television.  BNP Paribas plans no acquisitions to develop its Italian
franchises and the French bank was “contacted by no one”
regarding Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA, Bonnafe told
reporters at a Paris press conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  