-- BOJ Rejects Keeping Virtually Zero Rates Until Price Goal Near
-- B y   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-02-14T03:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/boj-rejects-keeping-virtually-zero-rates-until-price-goal-near.html
The Bank of Japan rejected a
proposal for keeping interest rates virtually at zero until a
price target is in sight and refrained from adding to stimulus,
ahead of leadership changes next month.  The central bank kept its asset purchase fund unchanged at
76 trillion yen ($813 billion), according to a BOJ statement
released in Tokyo today. That was in line with analysts’
forecasts. Policy makers rejected board member  Ryuzo Miyao ’s
call for the pledge on rates.  A report today showing that gross domestic product shrank
for a third straight quarter strengthens Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s case for boosting fiscal and monetary stimulus to counter
deflation and revive the world’s third-biggest economy. BOJ
Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and two of his deputies are set to
step down on March 19, leaving behind a global debate on whether
Japan’s government is triggering an excessive depreciation in
the yen.  “The BOJ will probably wait until the installment of new
leadership,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at
Norinchukin Research Institute Co. “Whoever takes the position,
the BOJ will have to be more aggressive to help the economy as
Abe is eying elections.”  Twenty analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted no
easing after the bank pledged last month to begin open-ended
asset purchases in January 2014 and set a 2 percent inflation
target. The central bank kept  its key interest rate  unchanged
between zero and 0.1 percent and monthly purchases of government
bonds at 1.8 trillion yen, today’s statement showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  