-- Swedish Krona Will Stay Strong for Years, Borg Tells Businesses
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-02-14T16:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/borg-says-must-accept-swedish-krona-to-stay-strong-for-years-1-.html
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said businesses in the largest Nordic economy need to accept the
krona’s recent appreciation as he predicts the currency will
stay strong for a “couple of years.”  The remarks follow yesterday’s decision by the central bank
not to give in to calls to lower interest rates even as some
exporters argue the krona’s gains are eroding competitiveness.
Governor  Stefan Ingves  said the currency’s ascent has brought it
to an appropriate level.  “One has to get used to that Sweden has a strong currency
in the next couple of years,” Borg said today in Malmoe,
Sweden. “You shouldn’t expect to mitigate some of your
production costs from currencies.”  The krona rose 0.3 percent against the euro to trade at
8.4335 as of 4:11 p.m. in Stockholm. The gains brought the
currency to its strongest versus the euro since Oct. 1. It had
traded down 0.1 percent before Borg spoke today.  Sweden has distanced itself from talk of manipulating
exchange rates as policy makers across the globe shift their
attention from indebtedness to trade competitiveness. Talks
aimed at preventing currency interventions look set to dominate
a meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers in Moscow over the
weekend. Sweden gets half its output from exports, about 70
percent of which go to Europe.  Manufacturers shouldn’t rely on currency devaluations to
boost their competitiveness, Borg said. He reiterated his
readiness to deploy stimulus measures should Sweden’s economy
need it.  ‘Volatile World’  “We live in a volatile world, we’re small and we’re an
open economy, and Sweden is more exposed than most others, as we
have our own currency, which adds to the insecurity,” Borg
said. “That was more common in the past, while now we have
large currencies all around.”  Ingves yesterday left the Riksbank’s benchmark interest
rate at 1 percent. Nine of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had predicted the bank would cut its rate by a quarter of a
percentage point.  The Riksbank is committed to its inflation target and will
accept the shifts in the krona exchange rate that the market
delivers, Ingves said yesterday. The bank’s main rate is a
quarter point higher than the European Central Bank’s benchmark.
Main rates in the U.S. and Japan are close to zero.  “Anything we can do to help stabilize the economy is
good,” Borg said. “We can make sure we have price stability,
so we don’t have to worry about prices affecting costs. We can
make sure we have strong fiscal balances. We can make sure we
have stable banks and a financial sector that doesn’t build up
bubbles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  