-- Brazil's Sugar Ship Line-Up Drops, Vessels Bound to India
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-14T10:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/brazil-s-sugar-ship-line-up-drops-vessels-bound-to-india.html
The amount of sugar awaiting loading
at ports in top producer Brazil fell 8.9 percent over the past
week, with vessels still bound for Algeria and India, according
to shipping agency Williams Servicos Maritimos Ltda.  As many as 1.4 million metric tons of sugar was waiting to
be loaded onto ships at the ports of Vitoria, Paranagua and
Santos, the country’s biggest, figures e-mailed yesterday from
the Recife, Brazil-based shipping agency showed. That compares
with 1.54 million tons a week earlier.  About 15 percent of all the sugar awaiting loading would
head to Algeria and India, the world’s second-biggest producer
and largest consumer. Last week, about 25 percent of all the
sugar to be loaded onto ships was heading to the two nations.
While Algeria needs to import raw sugar for refining as it
doesn’t produce the sweetener, Indian processors are importing
to take advantage of lower world market prices.  Vessels scheduled to go to India are set to take 123,500
tons of raw sugar, according to Williams Brasil. Ships bound to
Algeria would carry 93,550 tons, the data showed. Algeria is
this year’s fourth-biggest buyer of raw sugar from Brazil after
the U.A.E., Malaysia and the Black Sea region, broker and
consultancy SA Commodities in Santos said yesterday in a report.  Algeria’s Cevital plans to increase purchases of raw sugar
for its refinery to 1.5 million tons this year from 1.4 million
tons a year earlier as it expands sales of the refined variety
in Africa, Alaoa Cheguettine, a trader at the company’s sugar
division, said on Feb. 3. Indian refiners are importing the raw
sweetener to process and re-export, according to the New Delhi-
based Indian Sugar Mills Association. Some of the sugar also has
been imported for domestic consumption even though the country
will have a surplus this season, according to ISMA.  About 32 percent of all the crystal sugar waiting loading
was bound for Ghana, the data showed. Vessels scheduled to sail
to the West African nation would take 59,000 tons of the crystal
variety, from a total of 183,000 tons.  Raw sugar for delivery in May delivery fell 0.7 percent to
18.07 cents a pound by 10:52 a.m. London time on the ICE Futures
U.S. exchange in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 