-- Broadbent Suggests King Letter Angst Probably Won’t Be Repeated
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-14T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/broadbent-suggests-king-letter-angst-probably-won-t-be-repeated.html
Bank of England policy maker  Ben Broadbent  said the letter sent to Governor  Mervyn King  last year
by officials protesting at being kept uninformed on a policy
initiative arose in a situation that’s unlikely to be repeated.  “I don’t imagine this will crop up again,” Broadbent said
in an interview today in London. “I don’t think it will.”  Broadbent,  David Miles ,  Adam Posen  and  Martin Weale  wrote
to King in June after finding out that he and key aides were
privately designing the Funding for Lending Scheme, two people
with knowledge of the matter said in December. The episode
highlights the management challenge Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will inherit in coordinating varying areas of policy
making and different committees when he succeeds King in July.  “It is inevitable that once you get to zero interest
rates, that the boundaries, formerly distinct, between monetary
policy and prudential, and liquidity, and fiscal policy become
fuzzier,” Broadbent said. “It would be hard to have gone
through the last three to four years without these things
cropping up.”  Posen, speaking to lawmakers in January, referred to the
FLS episode as a “mess.” That was partly because “there were
all these incredible machinations going on between Treasury and
the bank executive to get this through,” he said.  Coordination ‘Challenges’  “Inevitably, there has to be coordination across different
parts of the bank and different institutions entirely, and that
presents its own challenges,” Broadbent said today.  Broadbent suggested that the matter is closed and that he
now knows all he needs to in his role as a member of the
Monetary Policy Committee. He said he plans to keep fully
informed on whatever goes on across the bank’s operations when
it’s relevant to monetary policy.  “We were making a particular point on a particular
thing,” Broadbent said. “The timing was inevitably very
difficult. Despite the fact that I’m on the MPC, I’m nowhere
near all these new policy areas, and I feel fully informed of
everything, there are no constraints at all”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  