-- Buffett Deal Highlights Fondness for Snacks, Ceding Management
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-14T18:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/buffett-deal-highlights-fondness-for-snacks-ceding-management.html
Warren Buffett ’s latest deal, the
agreement with 3G Capital to buy H.J. Heinz Co., highlights three
of the billionaire’s favorite strategies: betting on snack
foods, investing in companies he trusts others to manage, and
locking in above-market fixed returns.  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G will run the maker of condiments
and Ore-Ida potato snacks after the $23 billion deal, even as
Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  commits more than $12 billion
for equity and a preferred stake.  Buffett helped finance Mars Inc.’s purchase of Wm. Wrigley
Jr. Co. in 2008 for about $23 billion and controls the largest
 stockholding  of Coca-Cola Co. Berkshire also owns See’s Candies
and ice-cream company Dairy Queen.  Heinz “just comes to mind as almost synonymous with
ketchup, just as Coca-Cola is almost synonymous with soda,”
said  David Kass , a professor at the University of Maryland’s
Robert H. Smith School of Business.  Buffett has said that while he struggles to assess the
long-term prospects of technology companies, he has more
confidence in established brands of treats that can benefit from
expanding sales outside the U.S.  “More people will be drinking Coca-Cola 10 years from now,
or chewing Wrigley’s gum,” Buffett told Bloomberg Television’s
 Betty Liu  in an interview last year. “I know that.”  Berkshire and 3G will each have more than $4 billion in
equity in Heinz, and Buffett’s firm will also take a preferred
stake of $8 billion, which gets an annual dividend of 9 percent,
according to three people familiar with the deal. The people
asked not to be identified because the terms are private.
Buffett will leave Heinz oversight to 3G, he told CNBC today.  Almost Abdication  The billionaire wrote in 1999 that he and Vice Chairman
 Charles Munger  delegate responsibility to the heads of operating
units “almost to the point of  abdication .”  Buffett wrote in 2010, after striking a deal with Leucadia
National Corp. to establish Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC,
that he favors deals where partners run joint investments. He
praised Leucadia executives  Joe Steinberg  and  Ian Cumming  for a
“terrific experience” in an earlier venture when they bought
Finova Group Inc., a Scottsdale, Arizona-based lender.  “Joe and Ian did far more than their share of the work, an
arrangement I always encourage,” Buffett said in a letter to
shareholders. “Naturally, I was delighted when they called me
to partner again.”  Buffett and Lemann served together as directors of razor-
maker Gillette Co. Buffett resigned from that board in 2003.
Lemann has also invested in consumer products, with bets on
brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev NV and Burger King Worldwide Inc.  ‘Sustained Success’  “Possessing a powerful worldwide brand is essential for
sustained success” in some lines of business, Buffett wrote in
his annual  letter  to shareholders in 2008, explaining his
preference for companies with a “moat” protecting them from
competitors. “Long-term competitive advantage in a stable
industry is what we seek.”  The Heinz transaction also shows how Buffett likes to lock
in fixed returns from preferred stakes on the same deals in
which he gets the chance for greater growth through equity bets.
Buffett got preferred shares and warrants to buy stock after he
injected funds in Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in 2008 and Bank of
America Corp. in 2011.  Berkshire got $4.4 billion of 10-year bonds paying 11.45
percent as part of the 2008 Wrigley deal in which the company
also acquired $2.1 billion of 5 percent preferred stock.  The Heinz preferred shares provide a “phenomenal rate, and
I think it’s relatively trustworthy,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said in an interview. “Any other
company that could put out $12.4 billion would gain access to
similar returns, but there aren’t that many of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  