-- Build America Rally Waning as Subsidy Threatened: Muni Credit
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-02-14T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/build-america-rally-waning-as-subsidy-threatened-muni-credit.html
Investors in the $188 billion market
for Build America Bonds, which has outperformed all municipal
debt the past three years, are at risk of getting caught up in
federal spending cuts set to take effect March 1.  From Hawaii to Maine, localities sold the taxable
securities before the program expired in 2010, benefiting from a
federal subsidy on interest costs while luring global buyers to
the $3.7 trillion muni market. If the Treasury Department trims
payments amid federal cutbacks, some issuers can repurchase the
bonds, in some cases at 10 percent or more below market prices.  The most vulnerable bonds are those that may be bought back
at face value, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Eaton
Vance Management emptied its $100 million Build America  fund  of
such debt in September. Buyers demand the most extra yield since
June to hold that type of Build America Bonds, Bank of America
data show.  “Issuers were quite aware and were always up front in
saying we don’t 100 percent trust the federal government is
going to do the right thing” as far as maintaining the subsidy,
said  Craig Brandon , a senior portfolio manager in Boston at
Eaton Vance, which oversees about $29 billion of munis. “It was
one of the risks that they looked at, and that we looked at.”  Annual Cost  The program gives issuers a 35 percent subsidy on interest,
costing the U.S. about $3.4 billion a year. It is among hundreds
facing reductions as a result of legislation passed in 2011 to
shrink the federal deficit by $1.2 trillion over a decade. In
January, as cuts were set to take effect, Congress delayed them
until March 1.  The bonds, created as part of President  Barack Obama ’s 2009
stimulus, became the fastest-growing part of the muni market.
Localities used the proceeds for infrastructure projects. Buyers
liked the securities’ higher yields. On average, the bonds yield
about 1.2 percentage points more than benchmark Treasuries,
according to Wells Fargo & Co.  data .  Build America Bonds beat the broader muni market and
Treasuries the past three years. The debt gained 11.5 percent in
2012, compared with 7.3 percent for all munis and 2.2 percent
for Treasuries, Bank of America data show. In 2013, Build
Americas are trailing the broader market. They have lost 0.3
percent, while all munis have earned 0.8 percent.  September Bill  In September, Obama’s administration said the subsidies
would drop by $255 million, or 7.6 percent, unless Congress
agrees on a plan to avert the reductions.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said this week that
Democrats intend to advance a measure to avert the cuts through
a package including steps to raise revenue. Senator  Mitch McConnell , the Republican leader, said he doubted the cuts could
be averted.  Build America borrowers routinely included clauses giving
them the right to buy back the securities if the subsidy is cut.
That would allow them to refinance the debt at lower interest
rates, if doing so would save them money.  Often, the issuer has to pay a premium above Treasury
yields, an option that may not be economical, according to
 John Hallacy , head of muni research at Bank of America in New
York. However, in other cases localities can buy them for par,
or $100 for $100 worth. Because of the rally in the bonds, the
debt typically trades above par, putting investors at risk.  Growing Penalty  Investors have already marked down bonds in that category.
Holders require 0.27 percentage point of extra yield to hold
par-call Build America Bonds instead of debt with no call
option, up from no gap in September, Bank of America data show.  One case is securities sold by Savannah, Georgia, for work
on its water system. Bonds maturing in December 2018 traded for
an average price of $112 on Jan. 9 to yield 2.19 percent, down
from $115 in September, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Similar bonds sold by Columbus, Ohio, that mature in June
2031 traded for an average price of $111 on Jan. 31 to yield
4.21 percent. That’s down from $117 in October.  Such securities are in the minority, said  Michael Zezas , a
muni strategist for Morgan Stanley in New York.  “It’s a risk, but we think it’s isolated to the par-call
segment of the market, which we think should be relatively
small,” he said.  Bank of America found that about 6 percent of bonds it
reviewed had face-value calls that could hurt investors. More
than 80 percent require borrowers to pay a specified interest
rate above Treasuries, while about 12 percent had no call
clause.  Cynthia Clemson , co-director of muni investments at Eaton
Vance, said prices haven’t fallen enough to compensate for the
risk on bonds that can be repurchased at face value.  “They’re not trading at low enough levels for us to be
interested,” Clemson said.  Following is a pending sale:  NEW YORK CITY plans to borrow $1.4 billion of general-
obligation bonds as soon as Feb. 25, according to the Office of
Management and Budget. Proceeds will finance capital projects,
refund debt and refinance variable-rate bonds into a fixed
interest rate. (Added Feb. 14)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Chappatta  in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  