-- Bulgaria Finance Minister Says Nation to Delay Euro Entry
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-14T23:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/bulgaria-finance-minister-says-nation-to-delay-euro-entry.html
Bulgaria, which delayed entry into
the euro area in 2011, won’t join it “until the dust settles”
possibly several years from now, the nation’s finance minister
said.  “We are going to wait, probably a number of additional
years,” said the minister,  Simeon Djankov , speaking at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington
yesterday. Djankov said in July 2011 Bulgaria was putting its
euro-adoption plans on hold until the currency union overhauled
its rules to prevent future crises  “If I start the path of entry, I don’t know exactly what
I’m entering,” Djankov said yesterday. “We are basically going
to wait until we see all the institutions that are in the euro
zone.”  Bulgaria pegs the value of its currency, the lev, to the
value of the euro, the common currency of 17 European countries.
The economy of the European Union’s poorest country by per-
capita output relies on the rest of the 27-nation bloc to buy
its exports of machinery, metals and furniture.  “Bulgaria also wants to join the euro, and we have
multiple times said that,” he said. “Do we have to pay for the
bad policies of others already in the euro zone?”  EU finance ministers agreed to a plan in December that will
place euro-area banks under a single supervisor, which Djankov
said is a step in the right direction.  Not Enough  “Is it enough? No, I don’t think it’s enough,” he said.  Bulgaria has the lowest corporate and personal income tax
rate in the European Union at 10 percent, according to the
finance minister. Djankov said he is concerned that the EU could
adopt a policy of tax harmonization.  “We want to make sure that such ideas are not a part of
the future set of institutions of the euro zone,” he said.  Djankov said he expects Latvia will become the 18th member
of the euro zone by the beginning of next year.  Bulgaria’s economy expanded for a 10th quarter as rising
domestic demand offset a drop in exports to European nations
struggling to emerge from the debt crisis.  Gross domestic product rose 0.5 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, matching the rate in the previous
three months, the Sofia-based Statistics Institute said
yesterday in a preliminary estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  