-- Bullard Says Balance Sheet Growth Raises Fed Exit Concern
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-14T20:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/bullard-says-balance-sheet-growth-raises-fed-exit-concern.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said central bank stimulus has been
ramped up this year with the decision to increase outright bond
purchases to $85 billion a month and that a growing balance
sheet could be complicated to unwind.  “The current stance of U.S. monetary policy is
considerably easier than it was in 2012,” Bullard said in a
speech prepared for delivery today in Starkville, Mississippi.
“The size of the balance sheet could inhibit” the Fed’s
“ability to exit appropriately from the current very expansive
monetary policy.”  Bullard, who votes on policy this year, yesterday predicted
U.S. growth will accelerate to 3.2 percent in 2013, a pace he
said would allow the Federal Open Market Committee to consider
slowing its bond buying after this spring from a rate of $85
billion a month. Policy makers have pushed the benchmark
interest rate close to zero and expanded  Fed assets  to a record
exceeding $3 trillion to fuel growth and reduce 7.9 percent
unemployment.  “As labor markets improve somewhat, the pace of asset
purchases could be reduced somewhat, but not ended altogether,”
Bullard said at Mississippi State University. “Without an end
date, the Committee may have to alter the pace of purchases as
news arrives concerning U.S. macroeconomic performance.”  Asset Purchases  Bullard told his audience that asset purchases could be
reduced to “$75 billion or $65 billion” in response to
improved data.  The St. Louis Fed leader told reporters after his speech
the central bank could consider a formula to guide a slowing of
asset purchases, for example, reducing monthly purchases by $15
billion for each tenth of a percentage point drop in
unemployment.  “Something like that I think would be reasonable” though
the committee hasn’t backed any kind of formulaic approach, he
said. “I’m very cognizant we are not in that position right
now.”  One challenge with a reduction in stimulus is that record
profits that the Fed has turned over to the U.S. Treasury may
disappear as the central bank shrinks its balance sheet and
interest rates rise, Bullard said.  Treasury Remittances  “We are remitting a lot to the Treasury today, on order of
$80 billion or $90 billion. But those remittances will drop a
lot” and may near zero, he said, citing a recent Fed paper.
“Things are going to change dramatically, going forward.”  Bullard told reporters that monetary policy was appropriate
in his view now. “We have room to maneuver” with inflation
low.  In his prepared remarks, Bullard said changes in asset
purchases should be made in response to changes in the labor
market, including the unemployment rate, employment, hours
worked, and Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey data.  In one sign of an improving labor market, jobless claims
decreased by 27,000, the most in a month, to 341,000 in the week
ended Feb. 9, Labor Department figures showed today. Employers
added 157,000 workers to payrolls in January after hiring a
revised 196,000 the month before, and the unemployment rate
climbed to 7.9 percent, Labor Department figures showed Feb. 1.  Current measures of inflation are “rather low,” which
Bullard said may give the FOMC some leeway to continue asset
purchases for longer than otherwise.  Fed Stimulus  Bullard said the potency of Fed stimulus today may be
misunderstood, because in December it replaced the end of its
Operation Twist program, in which it swapped short-term
Treasuries for longer-term bonds, with outright bond purchases.  “Open-ended outright purchases are a more potent tool,”
he said. “2013 is characterized by a relatively potent open-
ended outright asset purchase program combined with more
effective threshold-based forward guidance.”  The Fed last month left unchanged its December link of its
interest-rate outlook to economic thresholds, saying borrowing
costs will stay low “at least as long” as joblessness exceeds
6.5 percent and if projected inflation won’t go beyond 2.5
percent between one and two years in the future.  The FOMC in September started a third round of asset
purchases and expanded it in December, saying the quantitative
easing will continue until the labor market is improving
“substantially.”  Bullard, 51, who calls himself the “North Pole of inflation
hawks,” has been viewed as a bellwether for investors because
his views have sometimes foreshadowed policy changes. He was the
first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of asset
purchases.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of Arkansas and parts of Illinois,
Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  