-- California Pension Fights Disney Over Iger Chairman Role
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-14T21:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/california-pension-to-oppose-disney-pay-iger-election-to-board.html
The California State Teachers’
Retirement System, in a governance dispute with  Walt Disney Co. ,
will oppose the election of six directors, including Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger .  The $158 billion state pension, with 5.28 million Disney
shares, will oppose an amendment to the company’s stock
incentive plan and cast a “no” advisory vote on executive pay,
according to a statement today. Calstrs also will vote in favor
of splitting the chairman and CEO roles in the future.  The opposition comes after Disney, the world’s largest
entertainment company, reported earnings-per-share growth of 24
percent in its last fiscal year and share-price returns more
than double the S&P 500 Index. Iger, 62, has said he will  step
down  as chief executive in March 2015 and serve as chairman
until June 2016. His predecessor,  Michael Eisner , had tangled
with investors over board composition before his departure.  “Here we go again, sliding back into a governance
structure that has already proved detrimental to the company’s
long-term growth and to its shareholders’ interests,”  Anne Sheehan , Calstrs director of corporate governance, said in the
statement. “We’ve been through this fight before, in 2004-05,
which resulted in the ouster of then-CEO Michael Eisner and a
shareholder revolt that led to the separation of the board chair
and CEO positions.”  Stock Grants  Disney has come under fire from investors and proxy
advisers in the past year over its executive pay and the
decision to combine the top jobs under Iger. The Burbank,
California-based company’s CEO received $40.2 million in total
compensation last year, based on regulatory reporting rules.  Disney’s standards for electing a chairman are “clear and
workable,” the company said in a January  filing . The suggestion
“that the current standard led to a poor decision to elect Mr.
Iger Chairman is unfounded.”  According to the filing, Disney changed Iger’s pay criteria
based on feedback from investors. He must now meet earnings per
share and stock-price targets before receiving all of his stock
grants. Ninety-two percent of the target value of Iger’s
compensation is contingent on financial results and the stock’s
performance, according to the filing.  Earnings Growth  The company declined to comment today beyond what it
previously published in the Jan. 18 proxy statement.  Disney’s earnings rose 24 percent to $3.13 a share in the
fiscal year ended Sept. 29. Over Iger’s eight-year tenure as
CEO, earnings have risen at a 14.8 percent average annual rate,
according to Disney’s filings.  Disney’s total return to shareholders for the fiscal year
was 76 percent, more than double the 30 percent return for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The stock fell 0.2 percent to $54.88 at the close in New
York York, after hitting an all-time high last week.  Disney  has
gained 10 percent this year.  At last year’s annual meeting, Calstrs opposed Disney’s
executive pay plan and the decision to combine the top jobs.
This year’s shareholder meeting is scheduled for March 6 in
Phoenix, Arizona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  