-- Canada May Need Measures to Curb Household Debt, IMF Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-02-14T20:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/canada-may-need-measures-to-curb-household-debt-imf-says.html
Canada may need to take further
policy steps to curb growing household debt that makes the
country vulnerable to economic shocks, the International
Monetary Fund said.  The ratio of Canadian household debt to disposable income
rose to a record last quarter, even after Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  and the country’s banking regulator tightened mortgage
rules. The housing sector is an “important source of
vulnerability” and “additional measures may be needed” if
debt levels continue to climb, the IMF said in its annual report
on Canada, released today.  “High household debt and an exuberant housing market make
Canada more vulnerable to adverse macroeconomic shocks,”
especially if export demand weakens, commodity prices fall and
global financial conditions tighten, IMF staff said.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has warned that
mounting household debt poses the greatest domestic threat to
the country’s financial system and economy, which probably had
its worst six-month  performance  since the end of the 2009
recession in the second half of 2012.  While economic growth should pick up later this year,
downside risks remain “elevated” from a potential U.S.
slowdown, a worsening of Europe’s debt troubles or a slump in
commodity prices due to weak demand from emerging markets, the
IMF said in its so-called Article IV report.  The Washington-based lender forecasts the Canadian economy
will grow 1.8 percent in 2013, followed by a 2.3 percent
expansion in 2014. That compares with the Bank of Canada’s
forecast of 2.0 percent this year and 2.7 percent next year.  Further Easing  Most directors on the IMF’s executive board agreed the Bank
of Canada has “scope for further monetary policy easing” if
economic conditions were to worsen, according to the report.
Still, a “few” directors believe a cut in the bank’s  policy
interest rate  probably wouldn’t be effective and would worsen
the financial risks of low borrowing costs, according to the IMF
report.  Carney said Jan. 23 the need to raise the central bank’s
benchmark rate had become “less imminent,” a position he
repeated this week in testimony to a parliamentary committee.  Flaherty introduced stricter rules on mortgages insured by
the government in July, while the Office of the Superintendent
of Financial Institutions recommended tougher standards on home
loans in June.  Canada’s housing agency reported Feb. 8 the annual pace of
home  starts  dropped 19 percent in January from a month earlier.
The average resale price rose 0.3 percent nationally in 2012 to
C$363,740, according to the Canadian Real Estate Association.  Housing Prices  Housing  prices  will probably drop 11.5 percent over the
next five years, IMF staff said in the report released today.
Still, if employment doesn’t grow from its 2012 level, home
prices may fall 18 percent by 2017, they said.  Canada’s  banks  are “largely protected” from a housing
downturn, due to conservative lending practices and the support
of government-backed insurance, IMF staff said.  “However, pressure on margins from low interest rates and
lower growth in household loans may induce banks to increase
their exposure to more volatile capital market operations and
expand more aggressively abroad,” they said in the report.  IMF staff also expressed concern about the increasing
exposure of the country’s economy to swings in prices of
commodities, in particular energy.  Canada recorded its ninth straight trade deficit in
December. While weak U.S. demand has been a factor, Canada’s
export position is also being eroded by a strong currency,
according to IMF staff. Part of the dollar’s rise over the last
decade can be attributed to rising commodity prices, they said.  To blunt the impact of swings in commodity prices, the
federal government and its provincial counterparts should
consider setting aside savings during resources booms, said IMF
staff.  Flaherty said in November he planned to balance the federal
budget by 2015 by clamping down on spending. While the federal
government will probably eliminate its deficit by 2016, some
provinces may have difficulty cutting spending as planned, IMF
staff said in their report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  