-- Cardinal Health Agrees to Buy AssuraMed for $2.07 Billion
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2013-02-14T21:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/cardinal-health-agrees-to-purchase-assuramed-for-2-07-billion.html
Cardinal Health Inc ., the second-
largest U.S. drug distributor by revenue, said it agreed to buy
closely held AssuraMed for $2.07 billion to add home delivery
services of health-care products.  The price will be $1.94 billion once the present value of
tax benefits is added, Dublin, Ohio-based  Cardinal Health  said
in a statement today. The company plans to finance the deal with
$1.3 billion in senior unsecured notes and the rest in cash.  AssuraMed, based in Twinsburg, Ohio, has about $1 billion
in revenue and more than 1 million customers. With the purchase,
Cardinal Health will start supplying 30,000 products in areas
such as diabetes and wound care to patients in their homes, an
important service as the elderly and chronically ill
increasingly receive care there, according to the company.  “Strategically, it makes a lot of sense,”  Thomas Gallucci , an analyst with Lazard Capital Markets, said in a
telephone interview today. “They’ve been looking to grow their
distribution scale outside of the hospital.”  Cardinal Health gained 1.2 percent to $46 at 4:03 p.m. New
York time. The shares have increased 9.4 percent in the last 12
months.  Earnings Impact  The deal is expected to close by early April, and to add 2
to 3 cents a share to adjusted earnings in 2013, the company
said. In 2014, the acquisition will add at least 18 cents a
share, Cardinal Health said.  Cardinal Health is paying about two times revenue and about
nine times 2014 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, assuming $50 million of “synergies,” said
 Ross Muken , an analyst with ISI Group. That’s about in-line with
other deals in the industry, he wrote in a note to clients.  Cardinal Health has made seven takeovers of companies in
the last five years, with an average disclosed size of $813.1
million and an average premium of 36 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. AssuraMed is the largest, the data show.  “The timing seemed really right for us,” Cardinal Health
Chief Executive Officer  George Barrett  said in an interview.
“We have the capital, we see the trends accelerating. We have
watched this industry over the last couple of years go through a
maturation process in the home-health area.”  Cardinal Health was advised by  Bank of America  Corp. and
 Wachtell Lipton Rosen  and Katz. AssuraMed shareholders Clayton,
Dubilier & Rice and  GS Capital Partners  were advised by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co ., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and  Debevoise & Plimpton
LLP .  McKesson Corp., based in San Francisco, is the top drug
distributor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  