-- Cars With Personality Vanish Along With Cadillac Fins
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2013-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/cars-with-personality-vanish-along-with-cadillac-fins.html
As I cruised down a New Jersey
interstate in a late model Infiniti, a 1971  Buick Riviera 
“Boattail” floated alongside.  Imagine a gargantuan two-door coupe with a shiny canted
grill and a radical “V“-shaped rear. And, oh, that fast-back
rear window!  What an utterly shameless piece of extravagant design,
showing an optimistic, hedonistic, we-won’t-be-denied bravura.  That thing had personality.  My Infiniti, a conveyance stuffed with conveniences,
suddenly felt a little pale. Banal.  It got me to wondering. In this age of mass production and
global distribution, have we seen the last taillights of cars
with personality? Where are the oddball autos that appeal to
only a heartfelt few?  While those mid-century American cars with big fins weren’t
practical or even always beautiful, they sure had charisma.  Perhaps we’ve lost something along the way. While our cars
rarely break down and are safer and more efficient than earlier
autos, one has to wonder if we are now living in an age of
characterless cars.  Saab Proclamation  The death of  Saab  certainly points in that direction. The
much-loved Saab 900, for instance, was so nerdy that it was
cool, with a flat roof, odd angles and an ignition in the center
console. Driving a Saab was a proclamation that your marching
drummer was actually playing a trombone.  General Motors Co.  took over full ownership of the Swedish
automaker in 2000 and sucked out the remaining quirk, going so
far as to develop a Saab SUV based on a Chevy Trailblazer. A
decade later, GM dumped the brand, where the marketplace toyed
with it until it slumped out of existence.  Citroen  is also struggling, partly because the French
themselves are ignoring the maker in droves. Shame.  Google the term “Citroen DS” and then goggle the sedan,
produced from the 1950s to 1970s. I challenge you to find
another wackadoo contraption so chockfull of unadulterated
charm.  Zooey Deschanel , eat your heart out.  Speaking of dysfunctional makes, the British leap to mind.
Not Jaguar and the Land Rover, but Rover, Triumph and Morris.
I’m surrounded by car colleagues who shamelessly adore defunct
British models that I’ve never even heard of.  Morris Minor  Take John Voelcker, editor of Green Car Reports, who
focuses on ruthlessly aerodynamic and efficient modern vehicles.
He owns a 1961 Morris Minor Traveller, a car his dad originally
bought new in London.  How odd is this car? The rear frame is made out of wood and
the roof is attached by brad tacks. It requires, he said, “as
much maintenance as a boat.”  “The Morris has a rounded front end and it comes across as
very friendly,” he said. “People look at it and smile. You get
that reaction from many older cars, from the extreme fins on a
1959 Cadillac or the humped gangster profile of a 1940s Chrysler
Windsor. People think, ‘Wow, that’s wild.’”  Asked how that compares to today’s cars, he said,
“Relatively few new cars give me that warm fuzzy feeling. Of
course I don’t expect an old car to do the same things as a new
one. We make allowances.”  Thunderbird Style  Modern cars must meet a phalanx of safety regulations set
by the Americans, Europeans and others. This includes crumple
zones and pedestrian safety parameters, which influence the
dimensions of the hood. One wonders what regulators would think
of the fins and protrusions found on a 1950s  Ford  Thunderbird.  Not necessarily, say some. “We like to blame regulation,
but I really think the issue is globalization,”  Vic Doolan 
said, a longtime industry executive who was president of both
BMW North America and  Volvo  North America.  “I was walking around the Detroit show, and all the cars
were competent. Very nice. But other than a few that are truly
set apart, like  Ferraris  and Maserati, none were driven by
passion.”  “People want to make money, which means more mainstream,
predictable designs. Look at  BMW , Mercedes and Audi: These days
they are high-volume brands. It’s difficult to stand out in the
crowd when you are the crowd,” he said.  He makes a good point. I can think of only a few, recent,
oddball designs, like the  Nissan  Murano CrossCabriolet, a
convertible SUV. It is surprising and interesting. It is also
hideous.  Fisker, Tesla  The others are from Silicon Valley startups: The Fisker
Karma and the Tesla Model S. The Fisker, an electric-gas hybrid,
is a design-forward car with sensuous curves, a wacky nose and
madcap interior details.  The Model S, meanwhile, is conservative on the exterior.
The interior is full of innovation including a flat floor and
storage under the front hood, both owing to its all-electric
powertrain.  Doolan agrees that electric technology will influence
future cars, allowing for innovations that surprise and
stimulate. “Hopefully we’ll see designs that stir both the
passion of a six-year-old boy and a 60-year-old boy.”  ( Jason H. Harper  writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Rich Jaroslovsky on  tech  and Scott
Reyburn on the  art market .  To contact the writer of this column:
 Jason H. Harper  at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 