-- Cash Makes BCE, Rogers Likely Winners in Spectrum Auction
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-02-14T21:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/cash-makes-bce-rogers-likely-winners-in-spectrum-auction.html
BCE Inc . and  Rogers Communications
Inc . are building cash reserves and making strategic
acquisitions as Canada’s biggest carriers prepare to spend as
much as C$1.8 billion ($1.8 billion) on an auction of wireless
spectrum critical to their growth.  Montreal-based BCE last week said excess cash will be put
toward the auction and that bidding should be limited to those
with firm plans to use the airwaves, signaling its determination
to secure as much 700-megahertz spectrum as it can. Rogers,
Canada’s largest wireless carrier, reports earnings tomorrow
after spending about C$300 million last month to buy unused
spectrum from  Shaw Communications  Inc.  Rogers, BCE and No. 3 carrier  Telus Corp ., which together
account for 90 percent of Canadian wireless subscribers, will
probably get a better deal than at the 2008 auction when new
entrants such as Mobilicity bought spectrum to start service.  “Things are looking very good in wireless for the
incumbents,” said  Dvai Ghose , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
Corp in Toronto, who expects the three companies to spend about
C$600 million each in bidding. “They have all the significant
spectrum in the country. It doesn’t look like the new entrants
can afford this incremental spectrum.”  The Canadian government hasn’t set a date for the auction.
BCE has said it expects it to happen in the fourth quarter.  Spectrum Physics  The three largest providers need more wireless spectrum to
secure their future as more customers cut fixed-line phone and
cable packages. The 700-mhz frequency is particularly sought
after for its ability to transmit data through densely-packed
buildings where demand on networks is heaviest.  “By way of the law of physics, if you don’t have spectrum
then you don’t have a wireless business,” Ghose said. “The
importance of spectrum cannot be overestimated.”  Wireless revenue at BCE has climbed 22 percent over the
past three years fueled by smartphone spending on video and Web
browsing. Fixed-line revenue dropped 4.2 percent. Its data
revenue alone jumped 28 percent last quarter.  Rogers’s wireless 
revenue climbed 3.1 percent last quarter from a year earlier as
fixed-line revenue was unchanged.  Rogers had C$459 million in cash at the end of the third
quarter and BCE had C$127 million in cash and near cash at the
close of 2012. The incumbents may issue debt of as much as C$800
million each to finance the spectrum spending, says  Andrew Calder , a credit analyst at Royal Bank of Canada.  ‘Financial Flexibility’  BCE Chief Financial Officer  Siim Vanaselja  said last week
issuing debt was a possibility, saying BCE’s capital structure
gives it a “very high level of overall financial flexibility.”  BCE’s management has done a good job of returning money to
shareholders in recent years, said  Paul Harris , portfolio
manager at Avenue Investment Management in Toronto, which
manages about C$300 million including BCE shares. Still, he said
that issuing debt would be the logical option for financing the
spectrum spending given low borrowing costs.  Buying spectrum is inherently more risky than buying
another company as “it’s very hard to know whether you’re
overpaying or underpaying,” said Harris. The competing bidders
will be fewer this time, which reduces the risk for investors.  “The ability for them to pay too much has gone down quite
dramatically,” he said.  George Cope , BCE’s chief executive officer, told analysts
last week he doesn’t want to see anyone bidding for airwaves
without serious plans to use them.  “We just don’t want to have spectrum not going anywhere
and not deployed, and we’ve just seen that happen already,” he
said.  Usage Explosion  Shaw, a Calgary-based cable provider, spent about C$190
million on wireless spectrum in the last Canadian government
auction in 2008 before canceling plans to build a mobile-phone
business in 2011. Last month, in a sign of how valuable that
spectrum had become, Rogers CEO  Nadir Mohamed  agreed to spend
C$300 million for those airwaves to meet what he called an
“explosion in terms of usage” of smartphones.  Toronto-based Rogers is expected to report a fourth-quarter
profit of 72 cents a share, with sales little changed from a
year earlier at C$3.19 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey
of analysts. Vancouver-based Telus, which also reports tomorrow,
will probably deliver a profit of 87 cents a share and say
revenue grew 4.7 percent to C$2.82 billion, the survey showed.  BCE has climbed 13 percent in the past year before
dividends, as Rogers climbed 22 percent and Telus gained 19
percent. BCE fell 0.4 percent to C$44.34 at the close in Toronto
today, Rogers slipped 0.5 percent at C$45.47 while Telus was
little changed at C$66.78.  Spur Competition  The Canadian government reserved spectrum for new carriers
in the last auction to spur competition. More than five new
companies bought airwaves. This time, the stiffest bidding will
be among the incumbents and deeper-pocketed  Quebecor Inc ., not
the newest players --  Mobilicity, Wind Mobile and Public Mobile
-- which either don’t have the money or the desire to bid
heavily, said Ghose.  “Only the incumbents are well-positioned to buy new
spectrum from a capital perspective,” he said.  The 2008 auction netted the government C$4.25 billion in
revenue. Rogers spent C$999 million on airwaves, Telus C$880
million and BCE made an outlay of C$741 million. Wind’s parent
company spent C$442 million, Quebecor shelled out C$554 million
and Shaw C$190 million.  Some Regrets  Shaw never entered the wireless market. Wind Mobile founder
 Anthony Lacavera  last month transferred his stake in the carrier
to its original backer  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE .  Naguib Sawiris , an Egyptian billionaire who was Orascom’s former CEO,
has said he “totally” regrets his decision to invest in
Canada. Quebecor’s Videotron wireless unit, Mobilicity, Wind
Mobile and Public Mobile accounted for 6 percent of the market
by subscriber at the end of last year, according to the SeaBoard
Group.  The government’s attempts to stimulate competition have
been less than successful even if it’s premature to label them a
failure, said Canaccord’s Ghose. While the 700-mhz airwaves
should be more expensive given their growing strategic
importance, the lack of competition may mean BCE, Rogers and
Telus pay less this time around with the auction netting closer
to C$2 billion overall, he said.  “Ironically, per megahertz valuations may be lower simply
because of supply and demand,” said Ghose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  