-- CBOE Eight-Day Rally Sends Stock to Record on Merger Speculation
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-02-14T22:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/cboe-eight-day-rally-sends-stock-to-record-on-merger-speculation.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. , the largest U.S.
options market by volume, rose for an eighth day and for the
29th time in 33 sessions amid speculation takeovers will
accelerate the 12 percent rally in exchanges this year.  Shares of the Chicago-based company gained 2 percent to a
record $35.69 today. The stock is up 21 percent this year,
compared with a 12 percent advance for the Bloomberg World
 Exchanges Index , which includes CBOE and 24 of its peers.  “CBOE is a relatively small exchange in terms of market
capitalization, so it’s quite possible” that it could be taken
over,  Ed Ditmire , a New York-based analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd., said in a phone interview. “There seems to be more deals
in the air.”  Companies that operate securities markets have been the
subject of $50 billion in attempted takeovers since 2010 amid
shrinking profits for stock trading. Intercontinental Exchange
Inc. agreed in December to buy NYSE Euronext, the owner of the
largest American equity exchange, in a $8.2 billion deal. Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. held preliminary talks with Carlyle Group LP
about going private, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said on Feb. 11. CBOE is the smallest publicly traded
U.S. exchange with a market value of $3.1 billion.  Gail Osten , a spokeswoman for CBOE, declined to comment on
whether the company may be acquired.  The stock-market rally is also boosting CBOE’s price,
Ditmire said. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has climbed 6.7
percent in 2013, bringing it within 3 percent of an all-time
high. U.S. stock mutual funds received $5.77 billion in deposits
last week as investors returned to equities, the Investment
Company Institute in Washington said yesterday.  ‘Terrific Spot’  “We’re in a terrific spot right now,”  Ed Tilly , CBOE
president and chief operating officer, said today at the Credit
Suisse Financial Services Forum in Miami. “We’re finding
ourselves getting into nice rhythm as a public company.”  Tilly said the company would evaluate going private if it
would boost value for shareholders.  Executives at CBOE told directors on Feb. 8, 2011, that
they are open to strategic partnerships, a person with direct
knowledge of the discussion said. A buyer would get a company
with exclusive rights to options on the S&P 500 and Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX.  CBOE has beaten  earnings estimates  10 of 11 quarters since
going public in June 2010. Net income increased 25 percent in
the fourth quarter as revenue from transactions increased, the
company said in a statement Feb. 8.  Total volume in futures on the CBOE’s Volatility Index,
known as the VIX, rose 98 percent to a record 23.79 million in
2012, according to the CBOE Futures Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  