-- CBS Gains on Plans for Licensing Fees, Share Repurchases
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-02-15T15:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/cbs-profit-misses-estimates-as-streaming-revenue-slumps.html
CBS Corp. , owner of the most-watched
U.S. television network, rose the most in almost a month after
forecasting growth in licensing fees and an increase in its
share buybacks.  CBS, based in New York,  gained  3.8 percent to $44.59 at
9:49 a.m., the biggest intraday gain since Jan. 17. The stock
had risen 13 percent through yesterday, outpacing the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index’s 6.7 percent climb.  The network is counting on revenue sources such as online
streaming and retransmission fees from cable services to bolster
slower growing broadcasting and publishing businesses. The
company will get $500 million in cable and broadcast licensing
fees this year, halfway toward its goal of $1 billion by 2017,
Chief Financial Officer  Joseph Ianniello  said.  “We’re going to approach the halfway mark,” Ianniello
said yesterday on a conference call with investors. “We’re well
on our way.”  Revenue from pay-TV systems such as Comcast Corp. and  Time
Warner Cable Inc . that carry CBS programming more than doubled
to $72 million in the period from $34 million a year earlier,
 Martin Pyykkonen , an analyst at Wedge Partners Corp., estimated
in a report this week. CBS also receives a share of fees
collected by affiliates stations.  The broadcaster added $1 billion to its budget for Class B
stock repurchases this year, almost double what it had
previously planned. CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone ,
spent $1.17 billion on buybacks in 2012. At yesterday’s closing
price, the broadcaster could have bought almost 4 percent of the
stock with the additional $1 billion.  Looking Past  The repurchase plan and fee forecast helped investors look
past fourth-quarter results that missed analysts’ estimates on a
decline in online licensing fees.  Net income rose 6.2 percent to $393 million, or 60 cents a
share, from $370 million, or 55 cents, a year earlier, CBS said
yesterday in a statement. Excluding items, profit of 64 cents
missed the 69-cent average of analysts’ estimates.  Sales increased 2.4 percent to $3.7 billion from $3.61
billion a year earlier, missing the $3.85 billion average of 25
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The network will be renewing pay-TV agreements for about 20
percent of its television footprint this year, producing growth
in affiliate and subscription  revenue , led by retransmission
fees, Ianniello said.  The drop in online revenue, after a surge sparked by a new
contract a year earlier, underscores the short-term volatility
of newer ventures even as the company predicts higher streaming
revenue for all of 2013.  More Streaming  CBS is making more of its TV shows available for streaming
on Internet services including  Netflix Inc. , Amazon.com Inc.,
Hulu LLC and others. A year ago, CBS began its initial streaming
agreement with Netflix and Hulu Plus for CW programs.  CBS said on Feb. 11 it would provide episodes of “Under
The Dome,” a show based on a  Stephen King  book, exclusively to
Amazon four days after they are broadcast.  Operating profit at CBS’s entertainment division, which
includes the broadcast network, climbed 19 percent to $280
million on sales that were unchanged at $1.99 billion.  Profit from local broadcasting, including CBS’s TV and
radio stations, gained 22 percent to $295 million from a year
earlier, an off-election cycle year. Sales totaled $787 million,
rising 9.2 percent on record advertising during the 2012
political campaigns.  Outdoor Americas operating profit fell 19 percent to $52
million on sales that were virtually unchanged at $340 million.
The Simon & Schuster publishing unit’s operating profit rose 8
percent to $27 million on sales of $215 million, down 6.1
percent. Results a year earlier benefited from the  Steve Jobs 
biography.  Cable Profit  Operating profit at the cable networks, including Showtime,
increased 4.1 percent to $176 million on sales of $438 million,
up 11 percent.  The company announced plans in January to convert its
outdoor advertising unit into a real estate investment trust and
seek a buyer for the European and Asian parts of that business.
The stock rose 9.7 percent last month.  The conversion could be finished in the 2014 tax year, CBS
said at the time. The European and Asian businesses will be
classified as discontinued operations as of Dec. 31, 2012.  “We’ve had considerable interest in our outdoor business
in Europe and Asia,” Ianniello said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  