-- McCarthy Backs Piecemeal Gun-Control Strategy in Congress
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-02-14T19:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/mccarthy-backs-piecemeal-gun-control-strategy-in-congress.html
A ban on high-capacity gun magazines
has a good chance of passing the Republican-led U.S. House if
it’s offered as a stand-alone bill, said Representative  Carolyn McCarthy , a New York Democrat.  With opposition in Congress to an assault-weapons ban,
advancing a broad package of firearms restrictions could imperil
President  Barack Obama ’s initiative to curb gun violence,
McCarthy said today at a Bloomberg Government breakfast. She
said a ban on the high-capacity devices that feed bullets and
expanded background checks have support among lawmakers and
could be approved.  Democrats initially had wanted to advance one major
legislative package, including a ban on assault weapons, in the
aftermath of the Dec. 14 shootings that killed 20 children and
six adults in Newtown, Connecticut. Now, McCarthy says she’s
“come around to thinking” a piecemeal approach is best.  “I was one that wanted a comprehensive package,” said
McCarthy, whose husband was killed in a 1993 shooting on a Long
Island Rail Road train. “I’m not going to derail everything.”  “There are things that I know members can vote on,” and
“I have to probably hold back what I believe, that I really
would like to push through,” she told a group of reporters and
editors today.  House Democrats  McCarthy is among the House Democrats who last week made
recommendations that mirror Obama’s gun-control proposals,
including a ban on assault weapons and a 10-round limit on high-
capacity feeding devices. Now, the House is looking to the
Democratic-led Senate to act first.  An individual familiar with the plans of  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat who heads the Senate Judiciary Committee, said
the chairman is set to pursue the approach McCarthy outlined by
introducing separate gun-control bills, most likely at the end
of March. The individual asked not to be identified because the
plans haven’t been made public.  Jessica Brady, a spokeswoman for Leahy, declined to comment
today.  A bipartisan group of Senate lawmakers is working on a plan
to expand background checks for weapons purchases, including
private sales at gun shows, McCarthy said. Several House
Republicans privately have said they would support a high-
capacity magazine ban, she said.  “We quietly have been working with them. They don’t want
to be out there with us yet,” she said.  Even so, the group has no more than 25 lawmakers and
Democrats probably need 58 Republican votes to move a bill
through the House, she said.  ‘A Battle’  “It will be a battle,” said McCarthy. She said that
because of the shootings at the elementary school in Newtown,
“this time is different.”  “If you take away the large magazines it’s not going to
make any difference what kind of a gun you have because you’ll
have less bullets into it,” she said. An assault-weapons ban
“is more symbolic.”  A number of Republicans, including Representatives  Patrick Meehan  and  Michael Fitzpatrick  of Pennsylvania, have spoken
publicly in support of enhanced background checks for gun
purchases. Polls also show strong public backing. A Quinnipiac
University poll released Feb. 7 found more than 9 in 10
Americans support universal background checks.  Even so, McCarthy said many Republicans still find it
difficult to speak out in favor of new laws. Based on
discussions with Republican colleagues, it appears “the subject
is never brought up” in their party meetings, she said.  “It’s like it never happened,” she said. “It’s a wait-
and-see game.”  Political Backlash  The Republican takeover of the U.S. House in 1994 followed
by months the passage of an assault-weapons ban. The ban lapsed
in 2004 and there’s been little effort to renew it amid concerns
about a similar political backlash.  The political dynamics have shifted after Newtown, with
more members worried about the fallout in the next election for
failing to back gun restrictions, McCarthy said.  “It’s a myth” that Democrats lost the House on the gun
issue, she said. This time, there are many more groups pushing
for new gun laws “out there that will be ready for the next
election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  