-- Cemex Targets 80% Ebitda Increase as U.S. Pricing Power Sought
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-02-15T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/cemex-targets-80-ebitda-gain-as-u-s-rebound-lifts-pricing-power.html
Cemex SAB  is targeting an 80 percent
increase in a benchmark profit gauge through 2016 as a recovery
in the U.S. housing market lifts pricing power for the largest
cement maker in the Americas, Chief Executive Officer  Lorenzo Zambrano  said.  More than half the advance in earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, will come from
the U.S. as the housing industry accelerates in Cemex’s biggest
foreign market, the company said in a presentation to analysts
in New York yesterday. Most of the rest will come from Mexico
and other markets in the Americas, pushing the profit measure to
$4.7 billion in 2016 from almost $2.62 billion  last year ,
Zambrano said during the event.  Cemex seeks to return to profitability and regain an
investment grade capital structure after 13 straight quarterly
losses as the U.S. housing bust hurt its business there. The
Monterrey, Mexico-based company has quelled worries it was
sinking toward default by extending maturities on $6.7 billion
of debt last year, raising $960 million in an initial public
offering of a unit and posting its largest Ebitda margin since
2009.  “We have repositioned the company,” Zambrano said in a
webcast of the meeting with analysts, saying Cemex is now poised
for “significant organic growth” in the coming years. “We
expect to generate substantial value through our pricing.”  Cemex climbed 2.6 percent to 13.97 pesos in Mexico City
yesterday, its largest gain in more than two weeks.  Americas Expansion  “Management transmitted a bullish outlook reinforcing the
company’s commitment to generate cash and regain financial
flexibility,”  Esteban Polidura , an analyst with Deutsche Bank
who attended the meeting, wrote in a report yesterday. “Pricing
was clearly set as the main tool.”  Polidura, who rates Cemex shares a buy, estimates 2016
Ebitda of $4.4 billion, he said in the e-mailed report.  Cemex said $1.15 billion of the approximately $2.1 billion
 projected increase in Ebitda  by 2016 would come from the U.S.,
with $350 million coming from Mexico and another $350 million
coming from its South America, Central America and Caribbean
market.  Projected Ebitda increases and plans to continue paying
debt will put the company in “investment grade territory” by
2016, Zambrano said. Standard & Poor’s raised the company’s
rating last month to B, five steps below investment grade.  U.S. Prices  While Cemex’s Northern Europe unit faces a “difficult”
year in 2013, growth is expected to resume in 2014, regional
president  Ignacio Madridejos  said. Cement demand in Spain is at
“1962 levels,” according to  Jaime Muguiro , president of the
company’s Mediterranean region. Cemex’s cement volumes in Spain
fell 40 percent last year.  The head of Cemex’s U.S. operations,  Karl Watson Jr. , said
in November that the company would raise prices by almost 20
percent this year with increases in January and July. The
success of price increases in Florida has been a “stunning
surprise,” he said yesterday, and Cemex has also boosted prices
in the Midwest and at a Colorado plant.  Increases in Texas and the Southeast have been postponed
until April and efforts to charge more in California have proved
a “stunning disappointment,” Watson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  