-- CenturyLink Shares Tumble After Carrier Cuts Dividend by 26%
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-02-14T22:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/centurylink-shares-tumble-after-carrier-cuts-dividend-by-26-.html
CenturyLink Inc.  tumbled the most in
more than three decades, wiping out about $6 billion in market
value, after the phone and Internet carrier slashed its dividend
by 26 percent and analysts downgraded the stock.  The quarterly dividend will fall to 54 cents a share from
72.5 cents, according to a statement yesterday from Monroe,
Louisiana-based CenturyLink. At least six analysts downgraded
the stock today following the move, unappeased by the company’s
plans to buy back as much as $2 billion in stock.  “This is one of the most unusual capital allocation
decisions I have ever seen,” said  Todd Rethemeier , an analyst
with Hudson Square Research in New York.  The shares tumbled 23 percent to $32.27 as of the close in
New York, the biggest one-day decline since at least 1980. The
stock had climbed 6.6 percent this year through yesterday, in
line with the gains of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The selloff reflects the appeal of CenturyLink’s dividend,
which is a more permanent return of cash to investors than
discretionary share buybacks, said Rethemeier.  “Anytime there’s a dividend cut, there’s going to be
selling pressure,” the analyst said. “I think this caught
people off guard.”  He said he’s maintaining his buy rating on CenturyLink
because the selloff presents an opportunity to purchase shares.  While investors punished the company for its plans,
CenturyLink’s  workers  moved closer to an escalation of their own
dispute with management.  Strike Date  The Communication Workers of America, the union
representing 13,000 CenturyLink employees, said it authorized
its executive board to set a strike date. The labor contract
expired in October and bargaining, which started in August,
continues, according to a CWA  statement . The organization’s
president must choose the date before a strike can begin, a step
that hasn’t happened yet, the labor group said.  CenturyLink was formed after CenturyTel Inc. bought Embarq
Corp. in 2009. The company acquired Qwest Communications
International Inc. two years later. The company operates almost
14 million phone lines across 37 states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  