-- Bale Gives Tottenham Europa League Soccer Win; Liverpool Loses
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-14T23:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/chelsea-beats-sparta-prague-in-europa-league-as-liverpool-loses.html
Gareth Bale  scored with two free
kicks to give Tottenham a 2-1 win over Lyon in their Europa
League soccer round of 32 opener. Liverpool lost 2-0 at Zenit St.
Petersburg.  Bale’s second strike came in the third minute of stoppage
time at White Hart Lane in north London last night. The Welsh
winger has scored all six of Spurs’ goals over the past four
games to push his season total to 17.  “I’ve been practicing free kicks on the training ground,”
Bale told ITV. “Both came at good times in the game.”  Liverpool went down to two second-half goals from Zenit in
Russia and defending champion Atletico Madrid also lost 2-0.
Oscar came off the bench to score the only goal with eight
minutes left as Chelsea beat Sparta Prague 1-0, while Newcastle
had a scoreless home draw with Metalist Kharkiv.  The return matches in all 16 two-game series in Europe’s
second-tier club competition will be played Feb. 21.  Bale gave Tottenham the lead in first-half stoppage time
with a swerving free kick from about 35 yards out (32 meters).
Lyon’s Samuel Umtiti fired a shot into the top right corner in
the 55th minute to make it 1-1.  Bale struck again just before the final whistle after being
fouled by Lyon captain Maxime Gonalons, sending his free kick
over the wall and past goalkeeper  Remy Vercoutre .  “I see Gareth practice those free kicks quite a lot after
training,” Spurs midfielder  Scott Parker  told ITV. “That’s
what you deserve when you put the practice in.”  Oscar Night  Oscar had been on the field for just 33 seconds when he
scored to give Chelsea the win in Prague. The Blues are playing
in the Europa League after being eliminated from the elite
Champions League, which they won last season.  “This is the competition we have to play now,” Chelsea
manager  Rafael Benitez  said on the club’s website. “The players
have to realize it’s another opportunity to win a trophy.”  Goals from  Hulk  and  Sergei Semak  three minutes apart in the
second half gave 2008 UEFA Cup champion Zenit the home win over
Liverpool, while scores from Gokdeniz Karadeniz and Pablo Orbaiz
lifted Rubin Kazan past Atletico Madrid in Spain.  Newcastle’s Papiss Cisse had two goals disallowed for
offside in his team’s draw with Metalist Kharkiv, Rodrigo
Palacio scored both goals as three-time UEFA Cup winner Inter
Milan beat Cluj 2-0 and  Samuel Eto’o  was among the scorers as
Anzhi Makhachkala beat Hannover 3-1.  Viktoria Plzen won 3-0 at Napoli and Levante beat
Olympiacos by the same score, getting two goals after Djamel
Abdoun was sent off for the Greek side.  Fenerbahce overcame  Raul Meireles ’s third-minute red card
to draw 0-0 at BATE Borisov, Ajax defeated Steaua Bucharest 2-0,
Benfica won 1-0 at Bayer Leverkusen and Dynamo Kiev missed a
penalty kick in drawing 1-1 at home with Bordeaux.  Libor Kozak’s second goal of the game in stoppage time gave
Lazio a 3-3 draw at Borussia Moenchengladbach, Basel beat Dnipro
2-0, and a last-minute goal from Glynor Plet gave Genk a 1-1 tie
at Stuttgart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 