-- Chicago Shamed by Murder as Aurora Has Homicide-Free Year
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-02-14T06:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/chicago-shamed-by-murder-as-aurora-has-homicide-free-year.html
The murder of 18-year-old Abigail
Villalpando, bludgeoned to death with a hammer last month in the
Chicago suburb of Aurora, was distinctive less for its brutality
than its rarity. It was the first homicide in  Illinois ’s second-
largest city in 13 months.  Chicago is struggling to get control of a surge in
homicides so dramatic that President Barack Obama is returning
home tomorrow to speak a few miles from where a 15-year-old girl
who attended his inauguration was fatally shot. The old
manufacturing hub of Aurora reported no murders in 2012.  While Aurora’s population is less than a 10th of Chicago’s
2.7 million, both cities share a common heritage of industrial
decline, dynamically changing populations from waves of Hispanic
immigration, and violence driven by gangs such as the Latin
Kings and Vice Lords. Their recent experience underscores the
importance of police relations with neighborhood groups, which
have grown in Aurora and diminished in Chicago.  “We were used to going to those community group meetings
and getting beat up about violence and drugs and gangs,” said
Gregory Thomas, Aurora’s police chief. “Now you get beat up
about speeding in the neighborhood, loud music and parking
issues.”  Community Partnering  Aurora saw its factories shrivel and its street gangs
thrive until the past five years, when its police methodically
smothered the criminals by partnering with neighborhood groups
as well as state and federal law enforcement. The agencies drew
from the playbook used to get the Chicago crime icon Al Capone -
- attacking the enterprise, not just the violence it spawns.  Aurora’s violent-crime rate has plunged, even as the city’s
population soared 38 percent in the last decade to almost
200,000, roughly the size of Salt Lake City. Aurora’s annual
homicide total in the past five years averaged fewer than 3,
down from 26 in 2002, according to police. The last year for
which the city recorded no killings was 1946.  “Officers now will talk about how boring it is out
there,” said Thomas, 52, who joined the department at 18.  Aurora officials are reluctant to assert crime-control
lessons for Chicago, their much-larger neighbor to the east. Yet
even comparably sized cities have reported much higher homicide
numbers. Richmond, Virginia, had 36 in 2011 and there were 27
that year in Akron, Ohio, according to FBI statistics. Aurora
recorded two that year.  Grim Reminder  The Jan. 31 killing of Villalpando, a high school senior,
served as a reminder that staying homicide-free isn’t
sustainable. Five consecutive years of just a few murders,
though, tells them they’re doing something right.  “I would not pretend to lecture or even advise other
communities,” said Mayor  Tom Weisner , 63, the gray-bearded
former Peace Corps volunteer who is finishing his second term in
office in Aurora, 41 miles (66 kilometers) west of Chicago.  Aurora’s population is roughly 40 percent non-Hispanic
white, 41 percent Hispanic and 11 percent black, according to
the U.S. Census Bureau. Its downtown, divided by the Fox River,
is dotted with empty storefronts and dominated by a casino. The
city was the fictional home of the 1992 comedy “Wayne’s
World,” a film released in a decade of murderous gang activity.
“We just had constant shootings going on,” Thomas said.  Chicago’s Shift  The city’s turnaround is partly a tribute to police working
with neighborhood groups, Weisner said. By contrast, Chicago’s
2013 spending plan reduces its community policing budget from
$4.6 million to zero, though it is simply “moving CAPS
resources out of downtown and back into the districts where they
belong,” according to a budget overview.  While some neighborhood activists have faulted the move, in
which resources were deployed from headquarters into districts,
Chicago Police Superintendent  Garry McCarthy  said last month
that the shift would revitalize the program.  “We cannot apply a cookie-cutter approach to CAPS outreach
and services,” he said.  Weisner said Aurora’s force also has boosted coordination
with federal and state agencies. Working with the FBI, the U.S.
Drug Enforcement Administration, state police and others, they
focused on the business of gangs, not just their violence.  “ Al Capone  wasn’t taken off for any of the violence -- Al
Capone was taken off for tax evasion,” Thomas said in an
interview at police headquarters. “So we went after the gangs’
criminal enterprises and how they operate. What’s their money-
making engine? Drugs.”  Declining Gangs  From 2005 through 2007, authorities arrested 145 gang
members and obtained convictions on federal drug charges and
other crimes. That disrupted gang activity, Thomas said,
reducing membership from 1,000 in the 1990s to about 300 today.  Aurora’s murder rate plummeted 81 percent from 2001 to
2011. During that time, the rate of robberies dropped 57
percent, car thefts fell 72 percent and criminal sexual assault
slid 39 percent, according to FBI data.  “I see cops on the corner and I think they’re doing a
really good job,” said Myra Portillo, a 22-year resident of
Aurora who works at a downtown dry cleaner near City Hall. “I
feel safer most of the time.”  Clayton Mohammad, who helped start the local chapter of the
mentoring group Boys II Men in 2002, said youngsters in Aurora
can now “grow up not ducking bullets and not knowing a friend
or family member who was killed.”  Size Matters  For all its success, Aurora’s strategy might not work in
larger cities, said Howard Pollack, co-director of the
University of Chicago Crime Lab, which assists government
agencies in developing programs to reduce violence.  With its 234 square miles (600 square kilometers), Chicago
covers five times the area of Aurora, Pollack said. Gangs in the
nation’s third-most-populous city have fractured into smaller
and less organized units, making them harder to handle, he said.  “In Chicago, a lot of the homicides are linked to other
kinds of disputes, not just gangs and territory,” Pollack said.
“The violence is more complicated.”  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  in October proposed hiring 457
patrol officers to bolster the 12,500-member force, which was 24
percent smaller than in 2002. In Aurora, the department is at
about the same strength, 289, as a decade ago, Thomas said. He
says its recent success “is no fluke.”  “It’s a city that keeps on keeping on,” Weisner said. “I
know what works in my town.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  