-- Chicago’s 99-Year Parking Garage Lease Draws Taxpayer Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-14T00:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/chicago-s-99-year-parking-garage-lease-draws-taxpayer-suit-1-.html
Chicago’s 99-year agreement to lease
four downtown parking garages to an entity controlled by two
 Morgan Stanley  investment vehicles faces a legal challenge from
an Illinois taxpayers’ group.  The Independent Voters of Illinois and Chicago resident
Aviva Patt filed papers today asking a state court in Chicago
for permission to proceed with a lawsuit.  They contend that terms of the lease ceding parking garage
rights in the east side of the third-largest U.S. city’s
business district to a private entity and agreeing to pay
indemnity if a competing garage is allowed to be built in that
zone constitutes an illegal delegation of Chicago’s legislative
and police powers.  “This is an illegal and offensive sale or lease of its
sovereignty and exacerbated by the 99-year term,” lead
plaintiffs’ lawyer  Clint Krislov  wrote the proposed complaint.  Chicago Loop Parking LLC paid the city $563 million for the
lease in 2006 and, in 2011, submitted a demand for $200 million
for lost revenue after the city allowed a new garage to be built
within the restricted zone, according to the filing.  Morgan Stanley  That entity is controlled in equal parts by  Morgan Stanley
Infrastructure Partners LP  and Morgan Stanley Infrastructure
Investors LP, according to the complaint.  Matt Burkhard , a spokesman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message
seeking comment.  Chicago comptroller  Amer Ahmad  is also a named defendant in
the lawsuit. Roderick Drew, a spokesman for the city’s
Department of Law, said the municipality hadn’t yet been served
with the court papers and that he couldn’t comment on the
allegations.  Patt and the citizen’s group seek a court order declaring
the challenged provisions are void and barring Ahmad from paying
out public money under the agreement. No argument date for the
request to go forward with the suit was immediately available.  The case is Independent Voters of Illinois v. Ahmad,
2013CH04219, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court, Chancery
Division (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  