-- Chile Keeps 5% Rate as Policy Makers Trapped in ‘Sweet Spot’
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-02-14T21:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/chile-keeps-5-rate-as-policy-makers-trapped-in-sweet-spot-1-.html
Chile kept the  key interest rate 
unchanged today for a 13th straight month as the central bank
maintains Latin America’s slowest inflation with the region’s
second-fastest growth rate.  Policy makers, led by bank President  Rodrigo Vergara , held
the benchmark rate at 5 percent, as forecast by all 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank last changed borrowing costs in
January 2012 with a quarter-point reduction that surprised
economists.  With economic growth beating analyst estimates in nine of
the past 12 months, while inflation remains below the target
range, Chile has little need to change borrowing costs, said
 Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Traders
in the interest rate swap market forecast borrowing costs may
remain on hold in the first half of this year.  “This is a central bank that to be honest does not have
that much to worry about,” Ramos said by phone from New York
before today’s decision. “As far as we can see, they are
trapped in a sweet spot.”  Two-year rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views of
average borrowing costs, declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 5.22 percent yesterday from the end of last
month. That indicates traders expect the key rate to rise a
quarter-point to 5.25 percent by August, according to
calculations by Banco de Chile.  No Pressure  The central bank is under no great pressure to raise rates
because  inflation  has remained below the lower limit of the
central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range for two
straight months after starting last year above the band,  Rodrigo Aravena , chief economist at Banchile Inversiones, said Feb. 11.  Traders and investors surveyed Feb. 12 by the central bank
estimated inflation will accelerate to 3 percent in a year from
1.6 percent in January, staying at the mid-point of the target
range through February 2015.  “We don’t yet see the kind of pressure that would justify
a rate increase,” Aravena said by phone from Santiago. “The
central bank must be sure of several things before it raises the
interest rate. In the first place, it must be sure inflation
projected out two years from now will be above 3 percent.”  At 3.4 percent, Chile has the highest inflation-adjusted
borrowing costs in the world after Ukraine, which has 7.7
percent, and China, at 4 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Chile’s real borrowing costs are more than three
times higher than those of Brazil, Latin America’s largest
economy.  Economic Growth  High real interest rates haven’t curbed economic growth.
Unemployment fell to 6.1 percent at the end of 2012 from 6.6
percent a year earlier, while wages climbed 4.7 percent above
inflation in December -- the fastest gain in three years.  “Domestically, recent output and demand indicators
exceeded forecasts,” the central bank said in a statement
accompanying today’s decision. “The labor market is still
tight.”  Chile’s economy grew 5.45 percent last year, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, compared with 6.2 percent in
Peru and 1 percent in Brazil.  In December, Chile’s economy expanded a seasonally-adjusted
1.2 percent in the month, the second-fastest rate in 2012, on
gains in retail and services. Internal demand is driving gains,
with retail spending climbing 8.8 percent in 2012 and
supermarket sales rising 7.4 percent.  Raising interest rates to cool that growth would put
pressure on the peso, which has appreciated 3 percent against
the U.S. dollar in the past three months, Ramos said. On the
other hand, any temptation to reduce borrowing costs will be
tempered by concern that easing monetary policy would stimulate
an economy that doesn’t need an additional boost, he said.  “There is nothing that looks imminent on the rates front,
unless you see the macro reality shifting,” Ramos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 