-- China Steps Back From War Over Rocks
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-02-14T01:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/china-shifts-ever-so-slightly-on-debate-over-islands.html
Is China really ready to go to war
over a pile of rocks? Six months ago, it certainly felt that
way. Now, not quite as much.  Back in  August and September , anti-Japanese riots were
springing up around China, catalyzed by  competing claims  over
what the Chinese call the Diaoyu Islands and the Japanese call
the Senkaku Islands. The  small archipelago  (five islets and
three rocks), located 90 miles northeast of Taiwan, is notable
only for the oil, minerals and fish that allegedly lie beneath
it and the intense emotions and claims that surround it.  Then, China’s microblogs were filled with  mixed feelings 
about the riots but not about the islands themselves:
Sovereignty, in the eyes of the Chinese, is indisputably theirs.
And while not every Chinese netizen was martially minded, the
voices calling for diplomacy or moderation amid the escalating
crisis were certainly few.  In the last several weeks, that hyped state of commentary
has begun to ebb as prominent voices in social and traditional
media have started to argue that perhaps war may not actually be
in China’s best interest. Such voices aren’t popular, at least
if measured in terms of the often-abusive comments directed at
them on Chinese microblogs. Still, they represent a significant
new perspective.  The need for this perspective is critical. Since August,
the crisis has rarely left the news and opinion pages of China’s
major newspapers or the trending-topic lists of the country’s
microblogs. Diplomatic  skirmishes ,  military brinkmanship  and
 heightened rhetoric  in both Japan and China have contributed to
its popularity.  Robust Response  Among the most prominent Chinese voices calling for a more
robust response to Japan has been the Global Times, the
Communist Party-owned, hypernationalist, saber-rattling
newspaper widely assumed to represent -- among other factions --
hawkish elements of China’s military. On Dec. 24 last year, the
paper  editorialized :  “The Chinese government is playing the leading role in
securing Diaoyu’s sovereignty. Japan’s provocation in the
islands is no longer aimed at individual Chinese but is a
direct challenge to China’s reputation. If the government 
steps back, it will become the world’s laughing stock. If
it goes forward, it will face military confrontation
between the two.  “Going forward is the only choice for the Chinese
government, while it needs to think carefully about how to
strike Japan’s arrogance and at the same time maintain peace
and stability in the Asia-Pacific region.”  For much of January, the online and editorial rhetoric
surrounding the islands didn’t waver much from the Global
Times template. Then, in mid-January, the rhetoric shifted
to a more moderate tone,with one of the most commented-upon
examples of the shift appearing in, of all places, a Jan. 22
editorial in the Global Times. Ma Yong, a frequent contributor
to the paper’s opinion pages and a researcher at the Institute
of Modern History at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences,
published a nominally  anti-war editorial  (a watered-down
version of the piece  appeared  in the paper’s English-language
edition on Feb. 3). It opens with a blunt, characteristic,
responsibility-shifting historical analysis:  “From 1860-1945, Japan was largely the bane of China’s
development. It interrupted two important development
opportunities of China.”  The Sino-Japanese War of 1894 to 1895 and World War II are
the culprits he references. According to Ma, the same disaster
could happen again if China allows Japan to lure it into war:
“But for China, if a war over the Diaoyu Islands dispute erupts,
even if China wins the war, its modernization process would be
broken for a third time, with solutions to existing problems
delayed infinitely rather than solved.”  Shifting Tone  What accounts for the shift in tone at the Global Times? On
Dec. 13, Japanese jets  were scrambled  against a Chinese
surveillance plane near the islands and tensions escalated
considerably. Perhaps cooler heads at the paper (and the
Communist Party units that control it) decided to tone down the
rhetoric in fear of where it was leading.  Whatever the reason, over the last several weeks, the
argument that war over the Diaoyu Islands -- win or lose --
isn’t in China’s interests has begun to appear in  the news
media . No doubt, this pullback has been further inspired by
Japanese allegations ( officially disputed  by China) that on Jan.
19 and 30, Chinese ships  had locked  fire-control radar on a
Japanese helicopter and vessel, respectively, near the islands.  Online, the pragmatic anti-war case has been paralleled by
an emerging, even more unexpected argument: The Communist Party
uses the islands dispute  to distract  Chinese from governance
issues. Typically, that argument is made by anonymous, poorly
followed individuals. But in recent days, more credible voices
have begun to question whether the government’s approach to
conflict is in the interest of China’s people or just its
rulers.  On Feb. 11,  Mao Yushi , an iconoclastic economist and
social reformer with a  history of challenging  Communist Party
orthodoxy, logged into Sina Weibo, China’s leading microblog,
and tweeted one of the more remarkable and  controversial
tweets  in recent Chinese social-media history to his
1-million-plus followers:  “My fellow citizens (including you sober-minded
politicians): For thousands of years, rulers have taught us to
be patriotic. It is they who represent the nation. To love the
nation is to love them and their political power. They seldom
tell us why we should love the nation. I think patriotism is
ultimately for the benefit of the common people, and that
patriotism which is detrimental to the people is wrong. … To
fight for Diaoyu islands is patriotic, but it is of no benefit
to the people.”  Serious Traffic  As of the evening of Feb. 13 in China, Mao’s tweet had been
forwarded more than 25,400 times and had generated more than
18,500 comments. This is serious traffic for a political issue
on Sina Weibo (which tends to be more concerned with celebrity
gossip and reality television), even one as popular as the
Diaoyu Islands. Nonetheless, it’s very much the case that most
of those comments were negative, with feedback ranging from the
polite (“I do not agree with what you write”) to the more direct
(“You are a traitor”) to certain profanities quite harsh to be
directed at an 84-year-old man.  Still, Mao Yushi isn’t without his supporters, the most
prominent and political among these being  Chen Zhiwu , a reform-
minded Chinese national who is a professor at the Yale School of
Management and has amassed an amazing 6.5 million followers on
Sina Weibo.  On Feb. 12, he  tweeted  in defense of Mao’s anti-war
sentiments: “Mao Yushi’s point is simple: If the goal of
protecting the islands is achieving food security, then we can
go and buy a wide stretch of land in America, Brazil or other
places. After you buy that land, your rights as a landlord are
nearly boundless. If protecting the islands is done to secure
mineral or other resources, keep in mind that we can buy them in
other countries. If land and resources can be purchased and
achieve the same goals, why should we go to war to obtain them?
Is a war worth ruining the whole Chinese economy and society?”  It’s an audacious argument to make on China’s patriotic
microblogs, but it differs only marginally from Mo Yong’s
January argument in the Global Times for an economically
minded assessment of what would be lost in a war with Japan.
As of the evening of Feb. 13 in China, Chen’s tweet had been
forwarded more than 3,100 times and had generated more 
than 2,500 comments, the majority of which were negative.
But unlike Mao Yushi’s comment thread, Chen’s, at least,
has garnered some positive, if muted, support.  That’s hardly indicative of a shift in Chinese public
opinion toward a more moderate approach to Japan. But the fact
that prominent voices in both traditional and social media
spheres are emerging in opposition to military action as a way
to solve the islands conflict is critically important to
achieving stability in East Asia’s unsettled waters.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the
World View blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on
the global recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Adam Minter at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Zara Kessler at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 