-- Coach’s Victor Luis to Succeed Frankfort as CEO in 201
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-02-14T21:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/coach-s-victor-luis-to-succeed-frankfort-as-ceo-in-201.html
Coach Inc ., the largest U.S. luxury-
handbag maker, named  Victor Luis , head of the company’s
international business, to succeed Chief Executive Officer  Lew Frankfort  next year.  Frankfort, who was named CEO in 1995, will become executive
chairman as of January, the New York-based company said today in
a statement. Coach named Luis president and chief commercial
officer in the interim and said he’ll also join the board.  Coach’s North American same-store sales have declined amid
economic pressure on consumers and growing competition from
Michael Kors Holdings Ltd., Fifth & Pacific Cos.’ Kate Spade
brand and Tory Burch LLC. Coach is working to transform into a
so-called lifestyle brand by building on its footwear, jewelry
and clothing lines to help expand its business.  “The succession comes at a time when the company is
undergoing significant strategic change,”  Liz Dunn , an analyst
with Macquarie Group, wrote in a note to clients today. It “is
the right move to support Coach’s geographic growth
opportunities and expansion into new lifestyle categories.”  Dunn, based in New York, rates the shares outperform, the
equivalent of buy.  The shares fell 1.2 percent to $48.20 at the close in New
York. Coach has declined 36 percent in the past 12 months, the
 fourth-worst performance  in the 82-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Consumer Discretionary Sector Index.  Market Share  Frankfort, 66, joined Coach in 1979 as vice president of
new business development. In 2000, he led Coach’s transition to
a publicly traded company and built it into the dominant U.S.
handbag company, claiming a 30 percent share of the market. The
company’s annual sales were $953.2 million in 2003 and will be
$5.1 billion in this financial year, according to the average of
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Frankfort is “highly regarded” in the industry, Dunn
wrote. While “there are sure to be some who view this
transition with disappointment,” Frankfort will still be
actively engaged in the business, she said.  Frankfort presided over a constant pace of handbag
collection introductions, with names such as Poppy, Madison and
Kristen, culminating in a Legacy line introduced last year that
harked back to the company’s original streamlined and chunky
leather look.  China Expansion  The CEO oversaw expansion in China, where the company had
built up 117 stores as of Dec. 29, and in recent years he has
targeted male customers with stores of their own and well as
dual-gender locations. He supported  Reed Krakoff , the company’s
executive creative director, in developing the namesake Reed
Krakoff luxury women’s apparel and accessories line.  Luis led Coach’s businesses in Japan and China before
becoming president of international retail in 2010 and then head
of all of its operations outside North America last February.
Before joining Coach, Luis ran the North American operations of
French luxury brand Baccarat.  “It is telling that the company, despite recent
challenges, still picked the successor that most signaled its
emphasis on topline growth,” Dunn wrote. Luis has presided over
the company’s most significant growth drivers over the past
seven years, she said.  Coach reported fiscal second-quarter profit that trailed
analysts’ estimates last month as sales at stores open at least
a year in North America dropped 2 percent.  Net income  rose 1.5 percent to $352.8 million, or $1.23 a
share, in the three months ended Dec. 29. Analysts projected
$1.28, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Total
revenue in the quarter increased 3.8 percent to $1.5 billion,
trailing the $1.6 billion average estimate.  Michael Kors this week boosted its annual profit and
revenue forecasts in anticipation of a jump in same-store sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  