-- Coal Miners at BHP’s Colombia Unit Lower Wage Demand Amid Strike
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y
-- 2013-02-14T18:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/coal-miners-at-bhp-s-colombia-unit-lower-wage-demand-amid-strike.html
Striking coal miners at BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s Cerrejon joint venture with Xstrata Plc and Anglo
American Plc in Colombia lowered demands for a wage increase as
the mine considers seeking arbitration.  The workers, who walked off the job at the mine on Feb. 7,
are pushing for a 5.8 percent increase, down from 7 percent
previously, said Marlon Gomez, a negotiator for the National
Coal Industry Workers Union, known as  Sintracarbon . Melbourne-
based BHP, Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata and London-based
Anglo, which each own 33 percent of Cerrejon, are offering 5.1
percent, he said.  “The union has shown a will to continue dialog to end the
strike,” Gomez said in a telephone interview from La Guajira
province where Cerrejon is located. “The Labor Ministry is
willing for both parties to sit down together, because since we
started the strike, we’ve had no other contact.”  Cerrejon, the world’s largest export-focused, open-pit coal
mine, produced 34.6 million tons last year, according to its
website. Along with Drummond Co., whose loading license was
suspended last week, it accounted for 80 percent of Colombia’s
coal exports of about 75 million metric tons in 2011, according
to the  World Coal Association .  Cerrejon will seek a solution from an arbitration panel if
no “realistic” agreement is reached or talks continue,
Cerrejon spokesman Juan Carlos Restrepo said in an e-mailed
reply to questions.  Thermal coal for 2014 delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or
Antwerp fell 0.6 percent to $98.90 a ton today. The benchmark
price for hard-coking coal in the first quarter is $165 a ton,
down 2.9 percent from the fourth quarter and the lowest since
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  