-- Congo and IMF to Discuss Disputed Mine Deal, Premier Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-02-14T18:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/congo-and-imf-to-discuss-disputed-mine-contract-premier-says.html
Officials from Democratic Republic
of Congo and the International Monetary Fund will meet to
discuss a mining deal that led the IMF to cancel loans to the
country last year, Congo’s prime minister said.  The Washington-based lender terminated its $532 million
loan agreement on Nov. 30 after Congo failed to publish
sufficient detail of a 2011 asset sale by state-owned copper
miner Gecamines to a company associated with Israeli billionaire
 Dan Gertler . Congo wants to settle the dispute and begin a new
program with the fund, Prime Minister  Matata Ponyo  told
reporters today in the capital, Kinshasa.  “We agree that the question of the contract that brought
down our relationship needs to be resolved,” he said. “There
will be bilateral discussions between experts of the
International Monetary Fund and the DRC so we can end this and
propose a basis for a new beginning.”  Congo had the lowest per capita gross domestic product in
the world last year, according to IMF data adjusted for
purchasing power. The premature end to the three-year loan
program, which was meant to promote growth and reduce poverty,
cost Congo about $225 million, according to the IMF.  The Central African country produces about half the world’s
cobalt and about 3 percent of its copper and has large deposits
of gold, coltan, tin and diamonds.  Under the terms of its accord with the IMF, the government
agreed to publish all contracts related to oil, mining and
forestry to improve transparency in its revenue collection from
those industries.  Copper Project  The IMF canceled the program when the government did not
provide enough detail of Gecamines’ June 2011 sale of its 25
percent in the Comide Sprl copper project to Gertler’s Straker
International Corp. The deal was one of five sales in 2011 by
Congo’s state-owned mining companies to Gertler that the IMF
questioned amid concerns about how the country was managing its
mining industry.  In December, Gertler sold Straker’s stakes in Comide to
London-listed Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. along with his
shareholdings in several other properties for $550 million.  There will be a meeting in Kinshasa about the Comide
contract “when the authorities are ready,” Oscar Melhado, the
IMF’s resident representative in Congo, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Ponyo said he met with IMF managing director  Christine Lagarde  twice in Washington last week to discuss mining
governance and the possibility of a new loan agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  