-- Congress Starts Examining Changes to Charitable Tax Break
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-02-14T17:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/congress-starts-examining-changes-to-charitable-tax-break.html
U.S. lawmakers are considering
changes to the tax deductibility of charitable contributions,
scrutinizing a benefit that is expected to allow 38.7 million
households to claim a deduction for 2012.  Possible changes would include imposing a dollar cap on all
itemized deductions, limiting the tax rate at which
contributions can be deducted and replacing the deduction with a
credit.  “We want to ensure that whichever policies we ultimately
decide to pursue are crafted in a way that makes the tax code
simpler, fairer and easier to comply with,” said Representative
 Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, which
is holding a hearing today on the subject. “We want to hear
from this community before considering proposals.”  The 96-year-old deduction has come under scrutiny as
lawmakers in both parties look for ways to broaden the tax base,
either to lower rates or reduce the budget deficit. President
 Barack Obama  has proposed limiting the deduction’s benefit for
those in the top three tax brackets.  Critics of the charitable tax break note that it benefits
only the one-third of taxpayers who itemize their deductions,
particularly those with the highest incomes who can donate the
most.  Top 20 Percent  In 2015, 82.3 percent of the tax benefit from the deduction
will go to the top 20 percent of taxpayers, and about half of
that will go to the top 1 percent, or those making more than
about $573,000, according to the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center 
in Washington.  Camp, a Michigan Republican, wants his committee this year
to approve a rewrite of the U.S. tax code that would lower rates
and curb some tax breaks.  Nonprofit executives from across the country testified at
the hearing, maintaining that the deduction differs from other
breaks and noting the work their groups do to reduce poverty.
They warned that limits on the deduction would reduce giving.  “The charitable deduction and its encouragement of
charitable giving is hardly a loophole or a benefit for the
rich,” said Kevin Murphy, president of the Berks County
Community Foundation in Reading, Pennsylvania, and chairman of
the board of directors of the Council on Foundations Inc. in
Arlington, Virginia.  ‘Hungry Children’  “We cannot allow ourselves to lose sight of the fact that
the person who benefits from those charitable gifts isn’t the
donor,” Murphy said. “It’s those hungry children.”  Representative  Jim McDermott , a Washington Democrat, said
he wondered about the purpose of the hearing, which he said was
scaring charitable groups.  “Is it that we’re softening them up for the fact that
they’re going to get clipped?” he asked, while also questioning
whether Republicans plan to leave the deduction alone.  Camp said he was approaching the issue with an “open
mind” and might look at changes that would make the tax code
simpler.  Eugene Steuerle , a fellow at the Urban Institute in
Washington, said that allowing deductions only for contributions
that exceed a set amount or percentage of income would be an
alternative to the current rule, which allows deductions for
many gifts that would be given anyway.  One way to increase giving, he said, would be to allow
taxpayers to take deductions through April 15 of the following
year so they could instantly see the effect of benefits when
they are preparing their taxes instead of having a lag between
the donation and the tax benefit.  Lawmakers should consider limits on noncash contributions
of property because of the difficulty of enforcing rules and
valuing property, said Roger Colinvaux, a law professor at
Catholic University in Washington.  “The costs are high,” he said. “Unfortunately, the
benefits although very real are difficult to assess.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  