-- Constellation Brands Gains Most 27 Years on Corona Deal
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-02-14T21:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/constellation-brands-gains-most-27-years-on-corona-deal.html
Constellation Brands Inc.  soared the
most in more than two decades after winning full control of the
Corona beer brand in the U.S. as Anheuser-Busch InBev NV sought
to salvage its bid to buy the rest of Grupo Modelo SAB.  The shares advanced 37 percent to $43.75 at the close in
New York. The jump for the Victor, New York-based company was
the biggest since July 1986 and the  largest  gain in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index today.  Constellation will gain Modelo’s brewery in Piedras Negras,
which is located in Mexico near the Texas border, and perpetual
rights for the Corona and Modelo brands in the U.S. for about
$2.9 billion, AB InBev said today in a statement. AB InBev
agreed to the sale to appease U.S. regulators who said its
Modelo deal would give it too much control over the nations’
beer market.  The deal price is “breathtaking” and “more favorable
than we previously envisioned,”  Tim Ramey , an analyst with D.A.
Davidson & Co, in Lake Oswego, Oregon, said today in a note.  Constellation, which previously shared the rights to
distribute Modelo brands in the U.S. through 2017, declined 17
percent on Jan. 31 after U.S. regulators sued to block the $20.1
billion deal between AB InBev and Modelo.  AB InBev controls almost half the U.S. beer market, while
Corona is the country’s biggest imported brand.  Third-Largest  Constellation brands will become the third-largest brewer
and seller of beer to U.S. consumers after AB InBev and
MillerCoors LLC, a joint venture between London-based  SABMiller
Plc  and Denver-based Molson Coors Brewing Co.  “This transaction represents a significant milestone in
the history of Constellation and the next transformational step
in the evolution of our business, as it will solidify our place
in the U.S. beer market for the long term,” Chief Executive
Officer  Rob Sands  said during a conference call. “It will also
make Constellation the largest multi-category supplier for beer,
wine, and spirits.”  Constellation is open to expanding its beer operations
through acquisitions including craft beers, Sands said today in
an interview. In the meantime, the company will look to extend
Modelo’s brands into new offerings to help grow sales.  The Piedras Negras brewery is the crown jewel of Modelo’s
manufacturing network, Sands said. The plant currently can brew
10 million hectoliters of beer a year and be tripled in size. It
produces about 60 percent of the existing supply needs for
Modelo brands in the U.S., Sands said. The plant will be
expanded over three years at a cost of about $400 million to
supply all of the U.S. demand.  Purchase Valuation  The $2.9 billion purchase price for the production assets
and rights is based on assumed 2012 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of $310 million, AB InBev
said. That gives an implied purchase multiple of about 9 times,
which  Dirk Van Vlaanderen , an analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. in
London, described as “fair.”  “It’s a very favorable transaction for Constellation
shareholders for sure,” Sands said today in the interview.
“Both parties were interested in making a fair deal that
resolved the issues as quickly as possible.”  As previously agreed, Constellation will pay $1.85 billion
for the full rights to distribute the Modelo brands.
Constellation already owned half of those rights.  Modelo’s brands in the U.S. generate about $2.4 billion in
annual revenue, according to the government’s lawsuit. As of
early February, investors valued AB InBev at 3.5 times its
annual trailing sales, while Sam Adams-maker Boston Beer Co. was
valued at three times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  If Modelo’s U.S. sales commanded the same multiple as
 Boston Beer ’s, they would be worth $7.2 billion, according to
 Kenneth Shea , a consumer-products analyst for Bloomberg
Industries in Skillman, New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  