-- Corn Extends Longest Slump Since 1965 on South America Weather
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   T o n y   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-02-14T22:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/corn-heads-for-longest-slump-since-1965-on-south-america-weather.html
Corn futures fell, capping the
longest slump since 1965, as rain improved prospects for
harvests in Brazil and Argentina and U.S. exports lagged behind
year-earlier shipments. Soybeans and wheat also declined.  As much as 1.5 inches (3.8 centimeters) of rain will fall
over the next seven days in Argentina, and 3 inches are forecast
in southern Brazil, QT Weather said in a report today.  Corn prices retreated for the 10th straight session, the
longest decline in 48 years. Combined output from Argentina and
Brazil will jump 5.9 percent to a record 94 million bushels, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture said Feb. 8. U.S. export sales
for delivery before Sept. 1 are 53 percent lower than a year
earlier, and heading for the smallest annual total since 1972,
 data  show.  “The rains will assure record crops this year in South
America,”  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst for Northstar
Commodity Investment Co. in Minneapolis, said in a telephone
interview. “Prices are not low enough to spur increased
overseas buying of U.S. corn.”  Corn futures for May delivery fell 0.1 percent to close at
$6.9275 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Yesterday, the grain touched $6.855, the lowest for a most-
active contract since Jan. 11.  Prices have fallen 18 percent from a record high of $8.49
on Aug. 10, following a drought that cut production for a third
straight year in the U.S., the top exporter. Farmers probably
will boost output to a record this year as weather returns to
normal, the USDA said Feb. 11.  Larger supplies may reduce livestock-feed costs for pork
producer  Smithfield Foods Inc . and poultry processor Sanderson
Farms Inc.  Ethanol Production  Weekly U.S. grain-based ethanol  production  declined last
month to the lowest since June 2010. Brazil shipped $83.5
million of corn to the U.S. in January, compared with none a
year earlier, the Trade Ministry in Brasilia said today.  Soybeans erased gains after the USDA reported that China
canceled earlier U.S. purchases. U.S.  exporters  reported net
sales reductions of 109,200 metric tons in the week ended Feb.
7, led by 230,600 tons postponed by China, the world’s biggest
buyer and consumer of the oilseed.  “The Chinese sales cancellations are another indication
that demand will shift to South American soybeans,” Schultz
said.  Soybean futures for May delivery dropped 0.4 percent to
$14.085 a bushel in Chicago, the sixth decline in seven
sessions. The price had risen as much as 0.4%.  Wheat Drops  Wheat fell for the third time in four days on speculation
that rain and snow in Oklahoma and Texas will improve crop
prospects. As much as six times the normal amount of
precipitation has fallen in the panhandles of both states in the
past week, National Weather Service data show.  “Earlier this week we saw snow in parts of Oklahoma and
Texas, and that is beneficial,”  Tom Leffler , the owner of
Leffler Commodities LLC in Augusta, Kansas, said by telephone.
In Kansas, “we picked up an inch or 2 inches in some places,
but it’s been very isolated. A lot of areas picked up nothing.
It’s like putting a Band-Aid over a bleeding artery. It’s eased
the drought, but it hasn’t stopped it.”  Wheat futures for March delivery retreated 0.5 percent to
$7.32 a bushel on the CBOT, after yesterday touching a seven-
month low of $7.225.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures
show. Wheat is the fourth-largest at $14.4 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomber.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 