-- Cyprus Presidential Hopeful Sees Gas Income Covering Debt
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-02-14T15:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/cyprus-presidential-hopeful-sees-gas-income-covering-debt.html
Cyprus plans to use part of future
revenue from gas reserves to pay down public debt and should
strengthen ties with Russia so it participates in a bailout for
the island nation, said presidential candidate  Stavros Malas .  Some income from natural gas should be used “for
development of the country and, more importantly, we should use
some as a deposit for future generations, as the Norwegians are
doing,” Malas, a former health minister who is backed by the
Communist party, said in an interview at his office in Nicosia
yesterday. Offshore gas deposits have been found in Cyprus and
the government has issued licenses for hydrocarbon exploration.  Cyprus has been in negotiations with the European
Commission, the European Central Bank and the International
Monetary Fund over the size and terms of a bailout since June,
when it became the fifth euro-area country to request aid.
Completing an agreement on the rescue will fall to the winner of
the Feb. 17 presidential election.  Malas, 45, who would come second in the vote according to
the last three polls released before the vote, said he would
reinforce financial ties with Russia, which counts Cyprus as its
biggest source of foreign direct investment and granted it a 2.5
billion-euro ($3.3 billion) loan in 2011. Cypriot Finance
Minister  Vassos Shiarly  said earlier this week that he expects
an extension requested on the loan to be granted “very soon.”  “I will strongly, strongly encourage Russia to get
involved in financing Cyprus because it sends out a political
statement at the same time as helping the country,” Malas said.  Money Laundering  Germany insists that Russia contribute to any international
bailout because Russian capital, legal or illegal, dominates the
Cypriot banking system. Some European Union states, including
Germany, have accused Cyprus of money laundering and euro-area
finance ministers said on Feb. 11 that Cyprus needs an
independent money-laundering audit.  Malas said he would be open to a probe into Cyprus’s
implementation of money-laundering laws, provided it’s approved
by Cypriot authorities. Still, “you have to really wonder why
open this discussion for Cyprus now,” he said. “These types of
allegations have been fired against a number of countries,
including those that are today firing these allegations at
Cyprus.”  Cypriot lenders including  Bank of Cyprus Plc  and  Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl  lost more than 4 billion euros last year in
Greece’s sovereign-debt writedown, the biggest such
restructuring in history. Pacific Investment Management Co. was
hired to review the portfolios of Cypriot banks to assess their
recapitalization needs, which will determine the size of the
nation’s bailout.  Helping Cyprus  “A political decision, which was taken in Europe in 2011
to bail out Greece and help the euro zone, had a
disproportionately negative impact on our banking sector,”
Malas said. “That needs to be counteracted by political
decisions taken at the European level to help out Cyprus.”  No losses will be imposed on depositors, who aren’t
responsible for the political decisions made by Europe to reduce
Greece’s debt burden, Malas said. Cyprus’s banking industry will
shrink because “it can no longer maintain overseas
operations,” he said.  As a small nation with a “versatile” economy, Cyprus can
overcome its crisis quickly and attract foreign direct
investment once uncertainty has been lifted, Malas said. Any
talk of Cyprus exiting the euro is a “no-go area,” he added.  Malas was trailing DISY party leader  Nicos Anastasiades  in
the last opinion polls released on Feb. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Georgios Georgiou in Nicosia at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  