-- Dodd-Frank Implementation Defended by U.S. Regulators
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-02-14T16:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/dodd-frank-implementation-defended-by-u-s-regulators.html
U.S. regulators told lawmakers they
are making significant progress to prevent a repeat of the 2008
credit crisis, pushing back against complaints of slow progress
and efforts to undo parts of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Officials from agencies including the Treasury Department,
Federal Reserve and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., testifying
today at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on implementation of
the 2010 regulatory overhaul, delivered opening remarks that
highlight finished work and rules nearing completion while
warning against attempts to roll back key provisions of the law.  “Efforts to repeal the Dodd-Frank Act in whole or
piecemeal or to starve regulators by underfunding them will
hamper growth, allow uncertainty to fester, and be corrosive to
the strength and stability of our financial system,”  Mary Miller , Treasury undersecretary for domestic finance, said in
her statement. “Progress we have made so far is because of the
reforms that we are putting in place, not in spite of them.”  Fewer than half the rules mandated by Dodd-Frank have been
implemented by regulators, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Among the measures awaiting completion are the
Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading, and rules designed to
increase transparency in derivatives markets and improve
consumer protections for mortgage borrowers.  ‘More Stable’  “Successful implementation of the various provisions of
the Dodd-Frank Act will provide a foundation for a financial
system that is more stable and less susceptible to crises, and a
regulatory system that is better able to respond to future
crises,” Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Martin J. Gruenberg  said in his remarks. “Significant progress has been
made in implementing these reforms.”  In addition to Miller and Gruenberg, the Senate Banking
Committee is hearing from Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo ,
Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  and Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau Director  Richard Cordray .  Tarullo’s statement lays out specific target dates for
remaining Dodd-Frank provisions and other banking rules. The Fed
this year will propose risk-based capital standards for the
largest banks and Basel III international capital standards will
be finalized “this spring,” he said.  “I think there is a widespread view that the proposed rule
erred on the side of too much complexity,” Tarullo said of
Basel, speaking to community banks’ arguments that they should
be exempt from the standards and large banks’ complaints the
accord’s classification of mortgages would constrain credit.  Early Remediation  The Fed plans to finalize its proposal for enhanced
prudential standards and early remediation for systemic banks,
Tarullo said. The central bank will conduct a quantitative
impact study of its single-counterparty credit limit rule, he
said. That step would effectively delay implementation of the
measure to limit interconnectedness of large banks, which has
been strongly contested by industry groups.  Senator  Tim Johnson , the South Dakota Democrat who leads
the Banking Committee, used his remarks to seek confirmation of
Cordray. The consumer bureau chief was renominated this month by
President  Barack Obama , who gave him the job last year in a
recess appointment after Republicans blocked consideration.  “He has done good work, and I urge my colleagues to
confirm Director Cordray to a full term without delay and allow
the CFPB to continue its important work,” Johnson said.  Qualified Mortgages  Cordray told lawmakers that the qualified mortgage rules
his agency adopted last month to ensure lenders determine a
borrower’s ability to repay strike “an appropriate balance to
ensure consumers can continue to access this source of valuable
and responsible credit.”  With that measure complete, six regulators are drafting a
so-called qualified residential mortgage rule in which they must
decide whether to go beyond the consumer bureau’s rule and
whether to maintain a 20 percent down payment requirement.  “I am committed to completing these rulemakings as quickly
as possible while recognizing the need to carefully consider and
address the important issues that commenters have raised with
the proposals,” Curry said.  Senator  Michael Crapo  of Idaho, the Banking Committee’s top
Republican, questioned whether Dodd-Frank rules are “too
complex, offering confusing and often contradictory standards
and regulatory proposals.”  “I am concerned that the regulators do not understand the
cumulative effect of the hundreds of proposed rules, and that
there is a lack of coordination among them, both domestically
and internationally,” Crapo said in his opening statement.  Tracking Report  Of the 398 Dodd-Frank rules, 148 have been finalized and
124 haven’t yet been proposed, according to a Feb. 1 tracking
report released by law firm  Davis Polk & Wardwell  LLP .
Regulators have missed 279 Dodd-Frank rulemaking deadlines,
according to the report.  With respect to the refined so-called living wills for
complex financial firms required by Dodd-Frank, Gruenberg said
regulators will focus on obstacles to orderly resolution and
bankruptcy including global cooperation and the risk of “ring-
fencing.”  “To assess this potential risk, the firms will need to
provide detailed, jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction analyses of the
actions each would need to take in a resolution, as well as the
discretionary actions or forbearances required to be taken by
host authorities,” Gruenberg said.  The living wills are meant to be self-written plans for
financial firms to shut themselves down through an orderly
bankruptcy if faced with failure. Last year, 11 of the largest
banks were required to file plans, including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co .,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc . and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . Those banks face a second filing deadline July 1.  ‘Legal Certainty’  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Elisse Walter 
said her agency’s final rules and interpretations of the law’s
derivatives section has provided a road map to implementation
and “legal certainty to market participants.”  The SEC hasn’t addressed security-based swaps provisions
for cross-border application piecemeal and instead plans to
address them “holistically in a single proposing release.”  “We believe this approach will provide investors, market
participants, foreign regulators and other interested parties
with the opportunity to consider, as an integrated whole, the
Commission’s proposed approach to the application of the
security-based swap provisions,” she said in her statement.  Clearing Rules  Gary Gensler , the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, said his agency will soon complete a rule exempting
inter-company swaps from clearing rules and take up
clearinghouse changes to meet international standards.  One area of concern, he said, is that banks may be helping
hedge funds circumvent rules meant to reduce market risk by
routing trades through overseas offices.  “The CFTC is working to ensure that this idea does not
prevail and develop into a practice that leaves the American
public at risk,” Gensler said in the prepared remarks.  International regulators including the CFTC are expected to
complete collateral requirements for non-cleared trades in the
second half of this year, Gensler said in his statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  