-- Drone Tests Must Adhere to Privacy Rules, U.S. FAA Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-02-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/drone-tests-must-adhere-to-privacy-rules-u-s-faa-says.html
U.S. aviation regulators will
require test facilities for unmanned aircraft to comply with
federal and state privacy laws, as the government develops the
first rules for operating drones in U.S. skies.  “Each site operator and its team members will be required
to operate in accordance with federal, state and other laws
regarding the protection of an individual’s right to privacy,”
the Federal Aviation Administration said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The agency is opening a contest to create six drone test
sites to be run by government agencies or universities, it said
in the statement. That process had been delayed while the agency
considered privacy concerns, FAA Administrator  Michael Huerta 
said in a Nov. 1 letter to members of Congress.  Privacy worries have prompted lawmakers in Congress and
more than a dozen states to seek privacy safeguards to shield
Americans from spying by domestic drones.  The drone test sites were mandated in federal legislation
that passed in 2011 and 2012. The legislation also said the FAA
must integrate unmanned craft into the nation’s airways by 2015.  The  Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International ,
an Arlington, Virginia-based trade group, praised the FAA
announcement in an e-mailed statement. States are eager to vie
for the FAA’s approval to open test sites, it said in the
statement.  Streamline Approvals  “Today’s announcement by the FAA is an important milestone
on the path toward unlocking the potential of unmanned aircraft,
and creating thousands of American jobs,” the association said
in the statement.  Under current rules, civilian drone flights must receive
special permission from the FAA. The agency had 345 such active
permits as of Nov. 30, according to a fact sheet.  Congress directed the agency to streamline the approval
process and to eventually make flights as routine as on
traditional aircraft.  Representatives  Ted Poe , a Texas Republican, and  Zoe Lofgren , a California Democrat, introduced a measure yesterday
that would require a warrant or court order for law enforcement
use of drones. Exceptions include immediate danger of death and
other emergency situations. The bill also bans law enforcement
from using drones equipped with a firearm.  “Individuals are rightfully concerned that these new eyes
in the sky may threaten their privacy,” Poe said in an e-mail.
“Just because Big Brother can look into someone’s backyard
doesn’t mean it should. Technology may change, but the
Constitution does not.”  Global Market  Chris Calabrese, legislative counsel for the American Civil
Liberties Union, called the FAA’s announcement a good first
step. “It’s a smart start to this to use the test phase to also
test what works best to protect privacy,” he said.  The U.S. still needs to regulate drone use by law
enforcement, Calabrese said.  The global market for drones will grow to $11.4 billion in
2022 from $6.6 billion this year, according to Teal Group Corp.
of Fairfax, Virginia, which analyzes the industry. Major drone
makers include  Northrop Grumman Corp. , General Atomics
Aeronautical Systems Inc., and  Aerovironment Inc. , which make
most sales to the U.S. military, said  Steve Zaloga , a Teal Group
analyst.  The FAA currently has one drone test  site  at New Mexico
State University, which began operations in June 2011, according
to the agency.  Drone Standards  In addition to adhering to existing laws, testing
facilities would have to enact privacy policies that follow
guidelines known as the Fair Information Practice Principles,
the FAA said in the release.  The guidelines are used by the U.S. and other nations to
oversee the collection and dissemination of private information.
They include protections such as notifying people when
information about them is collected, according to a posting on
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission website.  The test sites would also be prohibited from releasing any
information beyond the technical flight data they gather,
according to the FAA’s  proposal  to be published in the U.S.
Federal Register.  The FAA also was directed by Congress to develop a five-
year road map for eventually allowing unmanned aircraft full
access into the skies. It has not been released.  ‘Safe Integration’  The laws call on the FAA to create a set of standards for
drone operations equivalent to those governing other aircraft,
from pilot licensing to procedures that ensure the craft can be
safely flown alongside other aircraft.  Those were designed to lay out a path to reach the next
milestone, a Sept. 30, 2015, deadline for the “safe
integration” of drones into the nation’s airways.  Unmanned craft probably won’t be crowding the skies by that
date, Kevin Hiatt, president of the Alexandria, Virginia-based
Flight Safety Foundation, said in an interview.  “There are a lot of issues that will have to be carefully
vetted,” Hiatt said.  He predicted the FAA will move slowly. Even after the 2015
deadline there will be many restrictions on unmanned craft, he
said.  Drones lack the safety systems to enable them to operate in
proximity to traditional planes and helicopters, the Government
Accountability Office said in a September 2012  report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  