-- Dubai Plans to Trump New York’s Bid for Tallest Ferris Wheel
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-02-14T13:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/dubai-plans-biggest-ferris-wheel-as-part-of-1-6-billion-project.html
Dubai, the Persian Gulf sheikhdom
with the tallest building and biggest shopping mall, plans to
build a Ferris wheel that would beat New York’s attempt to set
the world height record with a Staten Island attraction.  The  Dubai Eye  will cost 1 billion dirhams to build and will
stand at 210 meters (688 feet), according to a statement on the
website of the emirate’s ruler. It will be the centerpiece of a
6 billion-dirham ($1.6 billion) project known as Bluewaters that
includes a hotel, restaurants and a family entertainment center
on a man-made island off Dubai’s coast. The first phase is set
to start in April.  Competition for the tallest wheel is so fierce that
projects are losing claims to a record before they are built.
Dubai becomes the third city with plans to top the 165-meter
Singapore Flyer. In September, New York officials announced
plans for a 190-meter wheel would be the centerpiece of a
development on Staten Island valued at almost $500 million. That
ride would beat Las Vegas’s High Roller, a 167-meter wheel under
construction.  “Ferris wheels have been proven successful in attracting
visitors and generating revenue,” said  Craig Plumb , regional
head of research at broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. “The London
Eye and the Singapore Flyer have been among the most visited
attractions in both cities.”  Dubai Revival  Dubai is starting new projects and reviving developments
that stalled when the property market collapsed in 2008. The
emirate, which racked up $113 billion of debt turning itself
into a business and tourism hub, last year approved the
construction of five theme parks days after saying it plans to
build a new district to include a shopping mall that will break
the size record currently held by the Dubai Mall.  The Dubai Eye will be built on an island connected to the
city by a road and monorail and will feature a traditional
Middle Eastern market, or souq, encircled by a promenade lined
with restaurants, according to the statement. The second phase
of the projects includes low rise residential buildings.  The EDF Energy London Eye is the world’s largest
cantilevered observation wheel, which is equivalent to 64 of the
city’s iconic red telephone boxes piled on top of each other,
according to its website. On average, 3.75 million people ride
the wheel each year. Dubai says it plans to attract about 3
million a year.  Creating Tourism  “Dubai needs to boost its tourism offering to compete with
markets in Europe and the U.S. that have natural tourism drivers
that Dubai doesn’t have,” said  Matthew Green , head of U.A.E.
research at CBRE Group Inc. In Dubai, “attractions have to be
built whether its theme parks, museums or golf courses to
generate new demand,” he said.  While tourism developments tend to be a safer bet than
homes and offices, those projects should be built over longer
intervals and should be built according to demand, Green said.
The roads and bridges for the surrounding areas should be
expanded and improved to cope with the increased traffic flow,
he said.  Meraas Holding, a Dubai-based real estate  developer , will
start building the Dubai Eye in the second quarter, according to
the ruler’s website. Starneth BV has been hired to design the
attraction. The engineering firm, which includes members of the
team that built the London Eye, is also working on New York
City’s Ferris wheel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  