-- Dijsselbloem Seeks Dutch Law for Central-Bank Audit
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-02-14T16:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/dutch-lawmakers-slam-nation-s-central-bank-supervision-after-sns.html
The Dutch government wants to
propose an emergency law to let the Court of Audit oversee
institutions such as the central bank, Finance Minister  Jeroen Dijsselbloem  said.  “I don’t want to wait for Europe on this; I want an
emergency law to make this possible,” Dijsselbloem told
parliament in The Hague today. Lawmakers from across the
political spectrum said earlier in the day that failures in
supervision by the central bank helped lead to the Feb. 1
nationalization of  SNS Reaal NV , the fourth-largest Dutch
lender.  The Hague-based  Court of Audit  checks on the government’s
revenue and expenditure and on whether policies are implemented
as intended. Most lawmakers are seeking a hearing into the
central bank’s role in the events leading up to the
nationalization. Its president,  Klaas Knot , said Feb. 12 he will
attend.  Dijsselbloem took over SNS after real-estate losses brought
the bank to the brink of collapse. The bailout will cost
taxpayers 3.7 billion euros ($4.9 billion) in write-offs and
capital injections; the government is also providing 6.1 billion
euros in loans and guarantees.  “We’ve seen with SNS that big mistakes have been made,”
Arnold Merkies, a member of the opposition Socialist Party, told
parliament. “We’re not there yet, as we’ve seen with the SNS
debacle,” said Aukje De Vries of Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s
Liberal party.  Court Ruling  The top Dutch administrative court will hear investors’
appeals tomorrow against the government’s decision to
expropriate their holdings. The administrative court of the
Council of State will rule on the legality of the
nationalization by Feb. 25, Wendy van der Sluijs, a spokeswoman
for the court in The Hague, said Feb. 7.  The central bank asked the government last year to
intervene in SNS to prevent the rescue from becoming more
costly, RTL Nieuws television reported Feb. 11, citing letters
from the lender to  Jan Kees de Jager , who was finance minister
at that time. RTL published the letter dated Oct. 2 on the
website.  Parliament today debated the conclusions of a commission
report on the nation’s financial system. The government took on
“large” risks with too little transparency and poor execution
in its bailouts of Fortis, ABN Amro and  ING Groep NV  in 2008 and
2009, the commission said.  In 2008, the Netherlands bought Fortis’s Dutch banking and
insurance units and its stake in ABN Amro for 16.8 billion
euros. The government also provided aid to ING, the biggest
Dutch financial-services company, and  Aegon NV  at the time, and
reimbursed Dutch depositors of Landsbanki Islands hf’s Icesave
unit after the firm collapsed.  “The Dutch financial system needs to become simpler, less
complex,” said Henk Nijboer of the Labor Party, Rutte’s
coalition partner. “We shouldn’t be fooled by lobbyists, it is
now time to act.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  