-- Dworkin’s Death Deprives Scalia of His Moral Foil
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-02-14T23:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/dworkin-s-death-deprives-scalia-of-his-moral-foil.html
Ronald Dworkin, who has died at age
81, was the leading liberal constitutional theorist of his era.
But that is not why his ideas are so important nor is it why
history will remember him.  Instead, Dworkin’s essential contribution applies equally
to American liberal and conservative legal thought:
Constitutional decision-making rests on a bedrock of the judges’
political morality -- and so do the rights we enjoy.  If this thought seems obvious today, Dworkin had much to do
with making it so. Until he started writing in the 1960s, the
dominant trend in legal theory in the English-speaking world was
to the contrary. Ever since Jeremy Bentham had declared that
natural law was “nonsense on stilts,” the leading British and
American legal philosophers had insisted on a strict distinction
between law and morals.  The apotheosis of this view could be found in the writings
of Justice  Oliver Wendell Holmes , who believed that law had
nothing to do with right and wrong; it was just a prediction of
what courts would do. In fact, Holmes said, if you wanted to
know the law, you should to take the perspective of a bad man
who hoped to avoid punishment -- whatever he could get away with
 was the law . This view fit hand in glove with Holmes’ nihilistic
judicial restraint. He thought that the courts shouldn’t invoke
morals to stop legislatures from adopting laws, whether the laws
embodied socialism or eugenics.  Interpreting Words  To Dworkin, who came of age in the era of Brown v. Board of
Education, the idea of separating law from morals made no sense.
Part of the judge’s job is to apply the Constitution. The
Constitution, for its part, speaks in vague terms, using words
like “equal protection,” “due process” and even “the right
to bear arms.” None of these terms could be understood without
interpretation. And that interpretation, Dworkin argued,
necessarily involved moral judgments about what would make the
law the best law that it could be.  Dworkin’s theory of law as interpretation is just as
relevant for conservatives as liberals. What is the best way to
interpret “the right to bear arms”? It depends on your moral
vision for the country. If you see guns as crucial to self-
defense and a secure, robust citizenry, then you should
interpret the Second Amendment broadly to protect assault
weapons. If your moral vision is one that rejects a self-armed,
self-protecting populace, then you should interpret the right
narrowly.  To Justice  Antonin Scalia , the leading contemporary
judicial exponent of law independent of morality, Dworkin’s
approach was heresy. To Scalia, the judge’s job is simply to say
what the law is, never what it should be. Interpretation, while
inevitable, should be mechanical -- and above all, it should
exclude moral beliefs.  In response to Scalia, Dworkin had a devastating riposte.
How, he asked, did Scalia know that the judge’s job was simply
to apply the law? The Constitution never expressly says so, and
in fact never specifies how it should be interpreted. The
answer, Dworkin explained, was that Scalia had to rely on his
own theory of the best moral vision for the country. In Scalia’s
political morality, judges should exercise restraint. But that
belief itself was a product of interpretation and moral judgment
-- and logically couldn’t be otherwise. Scalia’s “love affair
with textual fidelity,” as Dworkin  put  it, was therefore proof
that he was interpreting the Constitution in the light of his
moral judgment.  Continued Insistence  Needless to say, Dworkin’s argument hasn’t stopped Scalia
from continuing to insist that his jurisprudence leaves morals
to one side. But it is increasingly difficult to find anyone who
takes that insistence seriously. Anyone who even vaguely
remembers the Bush v. Gore decision understands that
conservatives and liberals interpret the Constitution in keeping
with their moral preferences.  Yet having accepted this reality as unavoidable, Dworkin
never succumbed to cynicism about constitutional interpretation
-- and therein lies his historical importance. Many people,
observing the justices using the language of the law to debate
their moral visions, conclude that something has gone terribly
wrong and that the judges are hiding something from the public.  Dworkin looked at judges’ heated discussions and saw the
exact opposite: conscientious decision makers trying to find the
truth using the proper moral tools. It would be preposterous, he
believed, to think that the judges somehow didn’t know their job
when they relied on morality to understand the meaning of the
Constitution. Indeed, any theory that didn’t treat the judges’
moral debates as part of the legal process wasn’t describing law
at all.  The polar opposite of a relativist, Dworkin firmly believed
that there were right and true answers to even the hardest legal
questions. The way to find them was through careful and correct
moral analysis and judgment. Although his own politically
liberal views led him to conclude almost all the time that the
liberal view of the Constitution was the true one, that useful
coincidence shouldn’t cast any doubt on the value of his overall
constitutional approach.  Above all, Ronald Dworkin looked on our vigorous
constitutional debates and saw in them something noble,
worthwhile and meaningful. He insisted that arguing about what
the Constitution means in the light of our values is the very
essence of our constitutional genius. Seeing this clearly, and
defending it confidently, was his.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at Harvard University and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 