-- ECB Says Euro Appreciation Risks Pushing Inflation Lower
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-14T09:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ecb-says-recent-euro-appreciation-risks-pushing-inflation-lower.html
The European Central Bank said the
strength of the euro is threatening to damp inflation,
suggesting policy makers may be open to cutting interest rates
if the currency appreciates further.  While “risks to the outlook for price developments
continue to be seen as broadly balanced over the medium term,”
downside risks relate to “weaker economic activity and, more
recently, the appreciation of the euro exchange rate,” the
Frankfurt-based ECB said in its monthly bulletin today, echoing
President  Mario Draghi ’s Feb. 7 policy statement.  While latest data show the 17-nation euro economy is
starting to stabilize after the sovereign debt crisis drove it
into recession last year, the euro’s gains could stymie a
recovery before it has begun by curbing exports and pushing
inflation too low. Eurostat, the region’s statistics office in
Luxembourg, will report gross-domestic-product data for the
fourth quarter at 11 a.m. today, and the ECB is set to publish
new economic projections next month.  Draghi indicated last week that policy makers are concerned
about the strength of the euro, which has appreciated 9 percent
against the dollar since late July, when he pledged to do
whatever it takes to protect the single currency.  “The exchange rate is not a policy target, but it is
important for growth and price stability,” Draghi said after
the ECB kept its benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75 percent.
“We want to see if the appreciation is sustained, and if it
alters our assessment of the risks to price stability.”  Euro’s Gains  The ECB noted in today’s bulletin that the euro gained 3.3
percent against the currencies of its 20 biggest trading
partners in the first month of this year. Against the yen, it
was up 11.3 percent, the ECB said. The single currency fell 0.4
percent today to $1.3393.  Professional forecasters surveyed by the ECB cut their
estimates for growth and inflation in the euro area for this
year and next.  Forecasters predict inflation of 1.8 percent in 2013 and
2014, down from the 1.9 percent estimated for both years three
months ago, the ECB said, citing its quarterly survey.
Forecasters foresee zero growth this year and expansion of 1.1
percent next year, less than the previous estimates for 0.3
percent and 1.3 percent growth, it said.  The ECB currently predicts inflation will average 1.6
percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2014. It aims to keep the
rate just below 2 percent. In December the ECB forecast the
economy will contract 0.3 percent in 2013 before growing 1.2
percent in 2014.  “The economic weakness in the euro area is expected to
prevail in the early part of 2013,” the ECB said today. “Later
in 2013 economic activity should gradually recover, supported by
our accommodative monetary policy stance, the improvement in
financial market confidence and reduced fragmentation, as well
as a strengthening of global demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  