-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for February (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2013-02-14T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-february-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s February monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 7 February to keep
the key ECB interest rates unchanged. HICP inflation rates have
declined further, as anticipated, and are expected to fall below
2% in the coming months. Over the policy-relevant horizon,
inflationary pressures should remain contained. The underlying
pace of monetary expansion continues to be subdued. Medium to
longer-term inflation expectations for the euro area remain
firmly anchored in line with the Governing Council’s aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2%. Overall,
this allows the monetary policy stance to remain accommodative.
The economic weakness in the euro area is expected to prevail in
the early part of 2013. In particular, necessary balance sheet
adjustments in the public and private sectors will continue to
weigh on economic activity. Later in 2013 economic activity
should gradually recover, supported by the accommodative
monetary policy stance, the improvement in financial market
confidence and reduced fragmentation, as well as a strengthening
of global demand. In order to sustain confidence, it is
essential for governments to reduce further both fiscal and
structural imbalances and to proceed with financial sector
restructuring.  With regard to the liquidity situation of banks, counterparties
have so far repaid €140.6 billion of the €489.2 billion obtained
in the first of the two three-year longer-term refinancing
operations (LTROs) settled in December 2011 and March 2012. This
reflects the improvement in financial market confidence.
Repayments are provided for in the modalities of the three-year
LTROs and are at the discretion of the counterparties, who must
appropriately assess their funding situation, their ability to
provide new loans to the economy and their resilience to shocks.
The Governing Council will closely monitor conditions in the
money market and their potential impact on the stance of
monetary policy, which will remain accommodative with the full
allotment mode of liquidity provision.  With regard to the economic analysis, euro area real GDP
declined by 0.1%, quarter on quarter, in the third quarter of
2012, following a contraction of 0.2% in the second quarter.
Available data continue to signal further weakness in activity
in the fourth quarter and at the beginning of 2013. This
weakness reflects the adverse impact of low consumer and
investor sentiment on domestic expenditure, as well as subdued
foreign demand. However, financial market sentiment has improved
and the latest survey indicators confirm earlier evidence of a
stabilisation in business and consumer confidence, albeit at low
levels. Later in 2013 a gradual recovery should start, with
domestic demand being supported by the accommodative monetary
policy stance, the improvement in financial market confidence
and reduced fragmentation, and export growth benefiting from a
strengthening of global demand.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. They relate to the possibility
of weaker than expected domestic demand and exports, slow
implementation of structural reforms in the euro area, as well
as geopolitical issues and imbalances in major industrialised
countries which could both have an impact on developments in
global commodities and financial markets. These factors have the
potential to dampen the ongoing improvement in confidence and
thereby delay the recovery. According to Eurostat’s flash
estimate, euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.0% in January
2013, down from 2.2% in November and December and from 2.5% in
October. On the basis of current futures prices for oil,
inflation rates are expected to decline further to below 2% in
the coming months. Over the policy-relevant horizon, in an
environment of weak economic activity in the euro area and well-
anchored long-term inflation expectations, underlying price
pressures should remain contained.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be seen
as broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside risks
relating to higher administered prices and indirect taxes, as
well as higher oil prices, and downside risks stemming from
weaker economic activity and, more recently, the appreciation of
the euro exchange rate.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. The annual growth
rate of M3 decreased to 3.3% in December 2012, from 3.8% in
November. Shifts from overnight deposits to short-term time
deposits led to a decrease in the annual rate of growth of M1,
which declined to 6.2% in December, from 6.7% in November, and
outflows from marketable instruments dampened overall M3 growth.
A further strengthening in the deposit base of MFIs in a number
of stressed countries took place in December, in combination
with further capital inflows into the euro area, both of which
continued to reduce fragmentation.  The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector (adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation) remained negative in December.
This mainly reflected ongoing negative annual growth of loans to
non-financial corporations, which was -1.3% in December after -
1.5% in November. However, annual growth in MFI loans to
households remained broadly unchanged at 0.7% in December. To a
large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect the current stage of
the business cycle, heightened credit risk and the ongoing
adjustment in the balance sheets of the financial and non-
financial sectors. In line with these developments, the bank
lending survey for the fourth quarter of 2012 confirms the
weakness in credit demand and the continued effect of credit
risk considerations on the tightening of credit standards. At
the same time, the survey confirms the positive impact of
Eurosystem measures on banks’ overall funding and liquidity
situation. In particular, banks reported improvements across all
funding categories in the fourth quarter.  In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy to
the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential
to continue strengthening the resilience of banks where needed.
Decisive steps for establishing an integrated financial
framework will help to accomplish this objective. The future
single supervisory mechanism (SSM) is one of the main building
blocks. It is a crucial move towards re-integrating the banking
system.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  As regards other policy areas, structural reforms and fiscal
adjustment can complement each other, thereby improving the
outlook for job creation, economic growth and debt
sustainability. Past policy action is bearing fruit, in terms of
both the unwinding of existing fiscal imbalances and the
reduction of current account deficits. In particular, in several
countries with particular adjustment needs, contained growth in
unit labour costs signals greater price competitiveness and
exports are performing better. Governments should build on the
progress achieved in fiscal consolidation, strengthen
competition in product markets and continue with labour market
reforms. This would boost the euro area’s growth potential,
reduce high structural unemployment and improve the adjustment
capacities of the euro area countries.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains two articles. The
first article takes stock of the existing national fiscal
frameworks in the EU Member States and identifies reforms needed
to bring them into line with the requirements of the new EU
fiscal governance framework. The second article illustrates the
importance of monitoring shadow banking from a central banking
perspective.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristian Siedenburg  in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  