-- EDF Advances in Paris on Higher Dividend, Cost-Cuts Plan
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-14T17:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/edf-full-year-net-income-rises-5-as-proglio-pledges-cost-cuts.html
Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power generator, jumped in Paris trading after
announcing a surprise dividend increase and cost-cutting plans.  EDF  advanced 5 percent to 14.95 euros. Almost four times
more shares were traded today compared with the three-month
average.  The utility plans to save 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion)
and keep investment stable at 12 billion euros in 2013, it said
in a statement, having previously forecast an increase in
spending. The company raised the full-year dividend to 1.25
euros a share from 1.15 euros, a payout ratio of 55 percent, and
offered investors a stock payment option for a portion.  EDF is sending a “very strong signal by increasing the
dividend,” Ingo Becker, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
Frankfurt, said today in a note. Either EDF is “over-optimistic
on future development” or it has “clear political backing” on
such issues as French power prices, he said.  State-controlled EDF has sought higher electricity prices
from the government to help finance investments and cover its
costs. While the regulator has pushed for a 30 percent increase
in regulated tariffs by 2016, President  Francois Hollande  has
pledged to contain household energy expenses even as he drives
an expansion in renewable-power generation.  Reactor Safety  EDF faces billions of euros of costs to improve safety at
its 58 French reactors after the country’s atomic authority
tightened regulations following the 2011 Fukushima meltdown in
Japan. Work to replace equipment may also allow it to operate
the reactors for as long as six decades, Chief Executive Officer
Henri Proglio has said.  Net income increased to 3.3 billion euros in 2012 from a
restated 3.15 billion euros a year earlier, Paris-based EDF said
today. That missed the 3.9 billion-euro median estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Profit was boosted by a 629 million euros payment from the
government as part of an accord reached last month to be
compensated for a renewable tax deficit of 4.9 billin euros. The
payback will come by the end of 2018.  Lowering the outlook for annual spending will “enable the
group to respond to industrial issues while continuing to
improve the company’s financial structure,” Proglio said today.
EDF reported debt rose to 39.2 billion euros at the end of
December from 33.3 billion euros a year earlier.  French wholesale and consumer electricity prices don’t
adequately reflect the costs of producing nuclear power, he
said, adding that talks with the government this year on
possible tariff adjustments will be crucial.  Curb Nuclear  Hollande has vowed to lower the nation’s dependence on
atomic energy, and decided in September that EDF’s oldest
reactor at Fessenheim must shut in 2016. The utility’s reactors
supply three-quarters of France’s power output, making it the
world’s most nuclear-dependent country.  EDF’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 7.7 percent to 16.1 billion euros last year,
in line with the 15.95 billion-euro median estimate of 19
analysts. Ebitda may hold steady or climb as much as 3 percent
this year, excluding the  Edison  unit, EDF said. It had a
previous goal for average annual growth of 4 percent to 6
percent through 2015.  Edison’s results may fluctuate this year and next, EDF
said, citing talks on gas-supply agreements. Earnings at the
Italian unit are “highly dependent on the timetable for
renegotiating gas contracts,” EDF said in a presentation.  The company expects French atomic output of 410 terawatt-
hours to 415 terawatt-hours this year, and a busier schedule for
in-depth reactor inspections. The utility’s French nuclear
production fell to 405 terawatt-hours last year from 421
terawatt-hours in 2011.  EDF last year said investment would increase to as much as
15 billion euros in 2015 from 10.5 billion euros in 2011 to pay
for reactor equipment, safety upgrades and new atomic plants.
Spending of 13 billion euros had been planned for this year
after 11.8 billion euros in 2012. The company has estimated it
will have to spend 55 billion euros through 2025 on safety and
equipment upgrades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  