-- Egypt Sells $38.3 Million at FX Auction, 24% of Dollars Demanded
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-02-14T12:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/egypt-offers-40-million-at-dollar-auction-as-demand-increases.html
Egypt’s central bank sold $38.3
million at a currency auction today, meeting only 24 percent of
the amount demanded by banks after a plunge in the nation’s
currency. Dollar bonds advanced.  The regulator sold the dollars at a weighted average of
6.7204 pounds, little changed from yesterday’s sale, according
to its data on Bloomberg. It’s the third successive auction in
which the central bank supplied less than 33 percent of the
amount of dollars requested by banks.  The pound has depreciated 8 percent since the central bank
began the auctions on Dec. 30 in an attempt to reduce the
availability of the U.S. currency to stem a drop in foreign
reserves. The country will invite the International Monetary
Fund to resume talks for a $4.8 billion loan agreement this
month, Prime Minister  Hisham Qandil  told reporters today.  “It’s clear the central bank has an idea of how much it is
willing to let the currency depreciate until the country can
secure IMF assistance,”  Mona Mansour , chief economist at Cairo-
based investment bank CI Capital, said by phone. “It’s a policy
that can be successful in the short term but it can’t be
sustained in the long term because we’re running out of dollars
and Egypt is a net importer.”  Egypt’s  foreign reserves  slumped $1.4 billion last month to
$13.6 billion, the lowest level in more than 15 years. That’s
enough to cover three months of imports, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on central bank data. The decline, along with
continued political instability, prompted Moody’s Investors
Service this week to cut the country’s rating to B3, on par with
Argentina and six levels below investment grade.  Luxury Duties  To boost the appeal of holding pounds, state-owned banks,
among others, have raised interest rates on local currency
deposit certificates. The government has also prepared a list of
more than 100 items classified as luxury products or ones that
are matched by local production that will incur higher customs
duties, state-run Al Ahram newspaper reported today.  The pound, whose interbank rate is capped at 1 piaster over
the weighted average price of dollars at the most recent
auction, was little changed at 6.7304 a dollar as of 1:28 p.m.
in Cairo, according to National Bank of Egypt prices on
Bloomberg show.  The government’s benchmark 5.75 percent dollar-denominated
bonds due in April 2020 gained, sending the yield down two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.78 percent, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Egypt’s local borrowing costs retreated at a 6.5 billion
6.5 billion-pound ($966 million) auction of treasury bills
today. The average yield on six-month notes fell 14 basis points
from last week’s sale to 13.42 percent, according to Finance
Ministry data. The 12-month yield declined seven basis points to
14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  