-- Lehman Seeks to Question Ex-JPMorgan ‘London Whale’
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-02-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/lehman-seeks-to-question-ex-jpmorgan-london-whale-.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  wants
 Bruno Iksil , the former  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  trader known as the
London Whale, to answer questions about losses Lehman says
spurred unnecessary collateral calls that helped force it into
bankruptcy.  JPMorgan in May disclosed billions of dollars in losses by
London-based Iksil, who got his nickname because his positions
were so big. Lehman, which has been fighting JPMorgan over $8.6
billion since 2008, said in a filing Feb. 13 in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Manhattan that Iksil may have knowledge of the role
JPMorgan’s chief investment office played in managing exposure
to Lehman.  Lehman, which is gathering money to pay creditors an
average of 18 cents on the dollar, said that it realized Iksil
could help it after JPMorgan disclosed “risk management
failures.” Iksil was “central” to a dispute with JPMorgan
over valuing derivatives, New York-based Lehman said.  JPMorgan, a key lender to Lehman during the 2008 credit
crisis, “largely” agreed that Lehman can conduct interviews on
the alleged link between its failure and Iksil’s losses,
although the trader, a French national, doesn’t want to talk,
Lehman said in the filing. Lehman said in the filing that it
wants to seek international judicial assistance in forcing Iksil
to answer questions.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on Lehman’s request. Dow Jones earlier
reported the filing about Iksil.  Biggest Bankruptcy  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
2008, after piling on debt and making high-risk bets, according
to an examiner’s report. Technically out of bankruptcy since
March, the company has said it will continue to liquidate
through about 2016.  A year ago, Lehman sued U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy
Geithner to get him to testify in its legal fight with JPMorgan.
He ultimately agreed to answer questions in writing.  JPMorgan last month detailed lapses behind its biggest-ever
trading loss in a 129-page report, saying employees were
overwhelmed by the complexity of their bets, risk managers were
ill-equipped and leaders including Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  weren’t aggressive enough in responding.  Internal Controls  The loss at JPMorgan, considered one of the industry’s
best-managed firms after remaining profitable during the credit
crisis, has prompted lawsuits and probes in the U.S. and abroad.
Last month, it led to regulatory sanctions, as banking watchdogs
found internal-control “deficiencies.” The loss also has
pushed lawmakers to tighten trading curbs.  London traders initially tried to hide losses that
ballooned beyond $6.2 billion in last year’s first nine months,
the bank said in its report. Dimon’s pay for last year was cut
in half to $11.5 million following the debacle, which helped
reduce shareholder value by as much as $51 billion last year.  The pay decision was announced as the firm reported a 53
percent jump in fourth-quarter  profit  to $5.69 billion, driven
by earnings on mortgages.  Dimon ousted three London traders involved in the loss,
shuffled senior managers and accepted resignations from
executives. The report highlighted blunders tied to measuring
risk.  Higher Yields  In the years before the trading losses, Dimon had pushed
the chief investment office to generate more profit by boosting
the size and risk of its bets to include higher-yielding assets,
Bloomberg News reported in April, citing former executives. The
shift had made the unit an increasingly important customer to
Wall Street’s trading desks, with bets that could move markets.  The Federal Reserve and Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency on Jan. 14 took the first regulatory actions stemming
from the trade, ordering the bank to strengthen risk and
auditing controls. The board of directors also was told to
consider control weaknesses and “adverse risk outcomes” while
awarding compensation for Dimon and other top managers.  Lehman hasn’t so far succeeded with its two biggest
lawsuits against banks. It got none of the $11 billion it
demanded from London-based Barclays Plc, which bought the
defunct firm’s North American business in 2008. Lehman also
failed last year to get a bankruptcy judge to restore key claims
against JPMorgan.  Collateral Demand  Lehman’s lawsuit against JPMorgan alleges that the New
York-based lender helped cause its collapse by demanding $8.6
billion in collateral. JPMorgan said a year ago it would give
Lehman almost $700 million to settle part of the suit. It
continues to fight most of Lehman’s claims.  The two parties also are fighting over a demand by JPMorgan
for $6.3 billion it says it is owed.  The liquidation case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., 08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). Lehman’s lawsuit against JPMorgan is Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  