-- Einhorn’s Greenlight Buys Google, Aetna; Sells WellPoint
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-02-14T22:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/einhorn-s-greenlight-buys-google-aetna-sells-wellpoint.html
David Einhorn’s  Greenlight Capital
Inc. bought shares of Google Inc. and Aetna Inc. and sold out of
WellPoint Inc. during the fourth quarter.  Greenlight also took new positions in Vodafone Group Plc
and Western Digital Corp., according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission today.  Einhorn took a $44.6 million stake in  Google , a $40.3
million position in Vodafone and $25.5 million of Western
Digital, according to the filing. He increased his holding of
Aetna, the third-biggest U.S. health insurer, to $301.4 million,
and added about 216,000 shares of Apple Inc., bringing his stake
to $695.6 million, or 11.2 percent of the portfolio, the largest
position in the fund.  Einhorn, who now owns 1.31 million shares of Apple, has
been calling for the maker of iPhones and iPads to issue high-
yielding preferred stock to provide more value to shareholders
from a $137 billion stockpile of cash and equivalents. The
technology company has said it will fight Einhorn’s effort to
block a shareholder vote on allowing the company to adopt a
measure restricting its ability to issue preferred stock.  “Several hundred dollars per share would be unlocked if
Apple were to follow through on this suggestion,” Einhorn said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television earlier this year. “It
doesn’t put the company at risk. It’s not financial leverage in
the sense that debt’s considered to be.”  Greenlight and hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman  are also
involved in a dispute with Herbalife Ltd. Ackman’s Pershing
Square Capital Management LP has sold short 20 million shares of
the nutrition-products company, claiming it is a pyramid scheme,
and Einhorn had raised questions on a company conference call
about Herbalife disclosures last year. He said on Feb. 7 he
doesn’t hold a position. Herbalife has fallen 46 percent from
the day before Einhorn questioned questioned its disclosures on
May 1.  Einhorn, 44, established a reputation as a short seller by
betting against Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before it
collapsed in 2008. In a short sale, a trader sells borrowed
shares in a bet they can be repurchased at a lower price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  