-- Heinz Said to Rebuff Buffett’s First Bid in Speedy Deal Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/heinz-said-to-rebuff-buffett-s-first-bid-in-speedy-deal-talks.html
 H.J. Heinz Co. rebuffed the initial
takeover bid by billionaires  Warren Buffett  and  Jorge Paulo Lemann  before agreeing to a higher price in the $23 billion deal
that was put together in a quick two months, said people
familiar with the matter.  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  and Lemann’s 3G Capital
made a $70-a-share bid for Heinz in a letter sent on Jan. 14,
the people said. Heinz sought a better price, so within weeks
Buffett and Lemann had offered $72.50 a share and got the deal
done, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
process was private. The stock closed at $60.48 on Feb. 13, the
day before the deal was announced.  The rapid transaction shows how when you have the combined
coffers of the 82-year-old Buffett, worth $52.7 billion
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, and Brazil’s
richest man, Lemann, 73, worth $19.1 billion, it’s a lot easier
to pull off a buyout of an American icon like Heinz.  “You have two guys with decision-making power and really
big check books,” said  Erik Gordon , business professor at the
University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. “They were able to make
the deal happen without a lot of screaming and yelling. And it
probably takes about 20 minutes to line up the debt for a deal
like this.”  Berkshire’s investment will include a preferred stake of $8
billion, which gets an annual dividend of 9 percent, Buffett’s
firm said in a regulatory filing. Berkshire and 3G will each
have more than $4 billion in equity in Heinz, according to three
people familiar with the deal.  Lemann’s Approach  Lemann initiated the buyout in early December when he
approached Buffett. The two knew each other from their time
serving together on Gillette Co.’s board before it was acquired
by  Procter & Gamble Co.  They both also have been investors in
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV. Buffett was an easy sell, said people
familiar with the conversations.  Lemann had been watching Heinz for some time, those people
said. Like Buffett, he has a penchant for companies with popular
brands, strong cash flow and global growth. With investments in
Anheuser-Busch and Burger King Worldwide Inc., Heinz was right
in his wheel house.  For his part, Buffett has been seeking deals after the cash
pile at Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire climbed to more than $45
billion. He has previously wagered on consumer products through
equity investments in Coca-Cola Co. and he helped finance Mars
Inc.’s purchase of chewing gum maker Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co.  Heinz Meeting  The two men discussed the deal for about two weeks before
Lemann, a 3G co-founder, and  Alex Behring , who runs the firm’s
New York office, went to Pittsburgh to meet with Heinz Chief
Executive Officer  Bill Johnson  at his house and make an
introduction, the people said. Johnson was open to listening.
After the meeting, he asked for time to think about a deal, said
people familiar with the matter.  Johnson hadn’t seen this coming, said one of those people.
He quickly contacted his board and Centerview Partners LLC,
which had been advising Heinz on other matters. The Heinz board
formed a special committee to review the offer and brought in
advisory firm Moelis & Co. to have a separate adviser look at
the deal.  3G had been studying Heinz using public financial
statements for some time, the people said. They calculated that
the company had enough cash flow to carry more debt and they
liked Heinz’s growth overseas. Heinz’s business outside North
America and Europe grew 27 percent last year to $3.6 billion and
is now 31 percent of its business.  First Offer  On Jan. 14, 3G and Berkshire made an offer of $70 a share,
a 19 percent premium over the closing price that day. Both
Johnson and the board said it wasn’t good enough.  While they were advised that “Buffett doesn’t budge,” one
of the people said, they knew that Heinz, with a strong brand
name and about $1.5 billion in operating cash flow, was an
attractive target and they could hold out for more, the people
said. They also knew that Buffett and 3G, like many private-
equity firms, have a lot of cash that needs to be invested.  Heinz has been  trading  above $60 a share since Jan. 18 and
at record levels since then. The board and management wanted a
20 percent jump over that price. Buffett budged and settled on
$72.50.  Once Heinz’s board was convinced that it was getting a good
price, selling the banks was easy. Of the $28 billion value,
including debt, $16 billion of it comes straight from the
pockets of Berkshire Hathaway and 3G. With that much equity,
banks were comfortable lending the $12 billion in debt needed to
finance the rest, the people said.  Low End  While the 20 percent premium is on the low end of what is
typical for such deals, food company stocks are trading above
the overall market so investors might be easily pleased with
this deal, said  Jay Ritter , finance professor at the University
of Florida in Gainesville.  “Berkshire Hathaway isn’t known for paying top dollar,”
Ritter said in a phone interview. “But when the market is
selling for around 12 times earnings and Heinz was around 20,
demanding a bigger premium is unrealistic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  