-- Electronic Bond Trading Faces ‘Darwinian’ Struggle, HSBC Says
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-02-14T11:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/electronic-bond-trading-faces-darwinian-struggle-hsbc-says.html
Electronic corporate bond trading
platforms face a “Darwinian” struggle over the next two to
three years,  Niall Cameron , global head of credit trading at
HSBC Holdings Plc said in an interview yesterday.  On the proliferation of banks setting up electronic bond trading
platforms:  “Liquidity is very fast moving. People will see there is
another model with more liquidity, better spreads or better
execution and they’ll move their business over by the flick of
the switch. It is a Darwinian process as lots of models will
start but they won’t all work. Within two to three years we
should see a map of the winning strategies. There could be up to
ten winning platforms.”  On market liquidity:  “Dealers in corporate bonds put out streaming prices into
various systems but they may not actually have positions. They
might not hold that bond in their inventory. These indicative
prices may give an impression that there is more liquidity in
the market than is actually the case.”  On pre-trade and post-trade transparency proposed by Mifid II,
the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive:  “Many of the regulations coming out look on the surface
like they’ll hurt liquidity. Post-trade publication pricing
makes it more difficult for the larger fund managers to execute
large trades because they have to show the market their hand.
There are also some worries about the potential for pre-trade
transparency because that could discourage dealers from
providing pricing at all.”  On banks cutting their inventory of corporate bonds:  “The secular shift to banks running lower balance sheets
is here to stay. A combination of risk-weighted asset control
and a global desire from regulators to reduce risk has caused
dealers to keep their inventory of corporate bonds low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  