-- Emerging ETF Falls on Hungary as Hong Kong Stocks Climb
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-14T23:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/emerging-stocks-rise-for-third-day-as-chinese-developers-advance.html
The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
exchange-traded fund fell as the recession in the euro area and
Hungary deepened. Chinese developers advanced in Hong Kong as
trading resumed after the New Year holiday.  OTP Bank Nyrt.  helped pace declines in Hungary’s BUX stock
index, slumping 2.2 percent. Telekomunikacja Polska SA retreated
9.4 percent, extending this week’s plunge to 40 percent, as
Poland’s biggest phone company cut its dividend proposal.
Brazil’s  Bovespa  index retreated to a two-month low. China
Resources Land Ltd. and China State Construction International
Holdings Ltd. rose more than 3.2 percent.  The iShares emerging-markets ETF dropped 0.1 percent to
$44.15 at the close in New York. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index 
added 0.1 percent to 1,065.84 as 333 stocks rose while 333 fell.
The euro-area gross domestic product had the worst performance
since 2009 as the region’s three biggest economies suffered
slumping output. Hungary’s GDP tumbled the most in three years.
Stocks in Poland and the Czech Republic also slid.  “A lot of eastern European countries happen to have their
markets very closely tied to western Europe and that is not a
very good situation to be in,”  Jan Dehn , co-head of research at
Ashmore Investment Management Ltd., said in an interview in
London yesterday. “If you are looking at the year as a whole,
the two regions I like the most are Asia and Latin America.”  The MSCI Emerging Europe, Middle East and Africa  Index  lost
0.7 percent. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets
ETF Volatility Index , a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, was unchanged at 15.84.  Utility, Energy  Utility and energy companies lost at least 0.2 percent,
leading declines among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. A gauge of industrial stocks gained the
most, rising 0.3 percent.  OTP, Hungary’s largest lender, sank 2.2 percent in
Budapest. Telekomunikacja Polska, controlled by France Telecom
SA, dropped 9.4 percent to a record low in Warsaw. The company
cut its dividend proposal for the second time in four months on
Feb. 12.  Russia’s  Micex  Index retreated 1.2 percent, the most since
November. OAO Gazprom, Russia’s biggest energy producer, fell
2.2 percent.  Brazil’s  Bovespa  slipped 0.6 percent to the lowest close
since Dec. 6.  Vale SA  dropped 1.4 percent. Lender Banco do
Estado do Rio Grande do Sul SA helped pace declines on the MSCI
EM Latin America Index, with preferred shares falling 2.8
percent as profit missed estimates.  Hong Kong  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong gained the most since Jan. 18 as trading
resumed. China and Taiwan are shut for the week. The Jakarta
Composite Index rose 0.4 percent to a record with trading volume
117 percent above the 30-day average. The  BSE India Sensitive
Index , or Sensex, fell 0.6 percent.  China Resources Land, a state-owned developer, advanced 3.3
percent, after last week slumping 7.6 percent on concern more
property curbs will be introduced. China State Construction rose
6.7 percent. Wynn Macau Ltd. gained 2.2 percent, pacing gains in
Macau casino operators, on increased tourist arrivals during a
three-day holiday.  MSCI Inc.’s decision to add  People’s Insurance Co.  and New
China Life Insurance Co. to its China index sent the shares up
more than 2.1 percent. Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. slumped 3.1
percent after it was cut from the India Index. The changes take
effect after Feb. 28, according to MSCI, whose indexes are
tracked by investors with about $7 billion in assets.  Tata Motors  U.S. shares of  Tata Motors Ltd.  tumbled 4.9 percent in New
York, the most since Jan. 23, to $27.25. India’s biggest
automaker posted profit that missed analyst estimates as costs
climbed and increased demand for its lower-priced Evoque model
cut earnings at the Jaguar Land Rover Ltd. unit.  PT Bumi Resources rose 26 percent, the most in more than
nine years in Jakarta trading, on optimism next week’s
shareholder meeting of Bumi Plc, its largest shareholder, will
resolve an ownership dispute.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has risen 1 percent this
year, trailing a 5.5 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of
developed nations. The  gauge  of developing nations trades for
10.4 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 275, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  