-- Emergency Contraception Use Doubles in U.S. to Avert Pregnancy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-02-14T18:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/emergency-contraception-use-doubles-in-u-s-to-avert-pregnancy.html
About 6 million American women said
they have used emergency contraception in a survey concluded in
2010, more than double since 2002, according to government
statistics.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in 1998 approved the
high-dose birth control pills for use after unprotected
intercourse to prevent pregnancy. The so-called morning-after
pills are sold without a prescription to women ages 17 and
older, and with a prescription for those younger, at pharmacies
and health clinics.  More women are turning to emergency contraception, such as
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. ’s Plan B One-Step, even as
reproductive rights become embroiled in controversy after the
2010 passage of the  Affordable Care Act . The health-care law
requires employers to pay for preventive services such as birth
control without copayments, an issue that has triggered dozens
of lawsuits against the government by religious organizations.  Eleven percent of women surveyed from 2006 to 2010 said
they had used emergency contraception at some point in their
lives compared with 4.2 percent in 2002, according to the  report 
today by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. A
second analysis showed 99 percent of sexually active women used
birth control during their child-bearing years, with increases
in reliance on the Depo-Provera injection and intrauterine
devices that provide longer-lasting contraception.  Law’s Benefits  “Safe and effective contraception is an issue and expense
that confronts millions of women in the U.S., underlining the
clear benefits of the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that all
health insurance plans provide the full range of contraceptives
to women without a copay,” said Luisa Cabal, vice president of
programs at the New York-based  Center for Reproductive Rights .
“We must continue to push back against some employers’ efforts
to discriminate against their female employees and refuse this
critical benefit based on religious objections.”  The U.S. government issued rules on Feb. 1 that require
insurers who administer health coverage for religious nonprofits
to cover birth control for employees, without charging the
religious group or the workers. The decision would make it
possible for employees to have access to contraception, without
requiring religious groups to pay for it.  The CDC survey found emergency contraception hasn’t become
a routine method of birth control, with 59 percent of women
saying they have used it only once. About one-quarter of women
reported using morning-after pills twice, while 17 percent have
used it three or more times, the report found.  Young Adults  Young adult women are the most likely to use the method to
prevent unwanted pregnancies, the CDC said. Twenty-three percent
of women 20- to 24 years old said they have used it. The reasons
for using emergency contraception were evenly split among those
who feared their current method of birth control had failed and
those who had unprotected sex.  “These findings reconfirm the fact that all types of
women, regardless of age, marital status, race or education,
have used emergency contraception to prevent unintended
pregnancy after unprotected sex or when another method of birth
control has failed,” Cabal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  