-- Enbridge Sees Expansion Projects Eliminating Rail Advantage
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-02-14T18:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/enbridge-sees-expansion-projects-eliminating-rail-advantage.html
Enbridge Energy Partners LP  expects
volumes on the North Dakota system to decline this year because
of rail competition before rising as the company increases
capacity to move crude to refineries.  Constraints on pipeline capacity have produced a glut of
light crude oil in the U.S. Midwest that has widened the
discount of West Texas Intermediate to Brent crude. That led
refiners such as  PBF Energy Inc . and Philadelphia Energy
Solutions to pursue rail options for shipping Bakken crude,
pushing down Enbridge’s volumes.  Volumes on the North Dakota system declined 16 percent in
the fourth quarter and will slip to 190,000 barrels a day in
2013,  Steve Neyland , Enbridge’s vice president of finance, said
today on an earnings conference call. President  Mark Maki  said
new lines and expansions will eventually allow Enbridge to move
the crude at a lower price than rail does.  “You have a price that is constrained by pipeline market
access at the moment,”  Stephen Wuori , president of liquids
pipelines for Enbridge Inc., told analysts. He said shippers are
paying $12 to $17 a barrel to send oil by rail to coastal
refineries.  By 2016, Enbridge plans to complete six projects or
expansions in North Dakota and nearby states, according to its
earnings presentation. Company executives said that will
eliminate rail’s advantage.  “Pipe can live on a far lower-sustaining differential than
rail can,” Wuori said. “So the wild differentials that are so
attractive today, particularly out of the Bakken by rail, will
inevitably close due to greater supply into those markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliot Caroom in New York at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Stubbe at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net  