-- Encana Cuts 2013 Spending as Company Seeks Oil Output
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-14T21:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/encana-reports-narrower-fourth-quarter-loss.html
Encana Corp.  cut its planned
spending and lowered its forecast for oil and petroleum liquids
output this year as Canada’s biggest natural gas producer seeks
to sell higher-priced fuels.  Encana plans $3.75 billion to $3.95 billion in capital
expenditures with the majority focused on almost doubling oil
and liquids production to as much as 60,000 barrels a day this
year, the Calgary-based company said in a statement today. Both
figures are lower than the company gave at its investor day in
June, when it forecast $4 billion to $5 billion in spending and
70,000 barrels a day of liquids output.  “It’s disappointing that they can’t grow their liquids
production which is where they’re focusing their capital in this
low gas price environment,” said  Daniel Cheng , a money manager
at Matco Financial Inc. in Calgary who helps oversee C$375
million ($374 million), including Encana shares.  A glut in North American supply because of shale-gas
drilling has reduced profits for producers of the heating- and
power-plant fuel, which fell to a 10-year low in April. Oil and
petroleum liquids typically fetch higher prices than gas.  Encana fell 6.6 percent to C$18.20 at the close in Toronto,
the lowest since April 24.  The company sees  gas production  remaining near current
levels this year, at about 2.8 billion to 3 billion cubic feet a
day.  Balancing Portfolio  The company “is expected to still remain roughly 90
percent natural gas this year, confirming our concern that it
will be a struggle to balance the portfolio organically,”  Phil Skolnick , a New York-based analyst for Canaccord Genuity, wrote
in a note today.  Cash flow will be $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion and Encana
plans to sell $500 million to $1 billion in assets this year.  Encana reduced its reserves as of the end of last year by
7.7 percent to 13.1 trillion cubic feet, primarily because of
lower gas prices.  The company reported a narrower net loss in the fourth
quarter, down to $80 million, or 11 cents a share, from $476
million, or 65 cents, a year earlier. Excluding losses from
hedging, foreign exchange and impairments, profit was 40 cents a
share, 1 cent above the average of 18  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales fell 35 percent in the fourth quarter to $1.61
billion.  Encana, which had its last profitable fourth quarter in
2009, has three buy, 17 hold and five sell  recommendations  from
analysts.  CEO Search  Chief Executive Officer  Randy Eresman  stepped down last
month after seven years in charge of the company. The search for
a new chief executive is under way and may take three to six
months, interim CEO  Clayton Woitas  said on a conference call
today.  Encana has brought in several joint venture partners,
including PetroChina Co., to help fund development costs.
PetroChina, Asia’s biggest oil producer, in December agreed to
pay C$1.18 billion ($1.18 billion) for a 49.9 percent stake in
Encana’s Duvernay acreage, which holds petroleum liquids.  The 2013 spending plan includes $3 billion to $3.2 billion
from Encana, with its joint-venture partners adding another $750
million.  “We had tremendous success last year with joint venture
and other third-party agreements and we expect that joint
ventures and strategic divestitures will remain a key aspect of
our strategy,” Woitas said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  