-- Equiduct CEO Randall Steps Down, Artur Fischer to Be CEO
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-02-14T16:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/equiduct-ceo-randall-steps-down-artur-fischer-to-be-ceo.html
Peter Randall  has stepped down as
chief executive officer of Equiduct Systems Ltd. and will be
replaced by  Artur Fischer , a board member of the alternative-
trading system’s parent company.  Equiduct has appointed Fischer, who is also the joint CEO
of Boerse Berlin, as interim CEO, the London-based company said
in an e-mailed statement today. The trading venue’s shareholders
have considered closing the business, two people with knowledge
of the situation said on Feb. 11. They plan to hold a meeting to
discuss funding for Equiduct, according to the people, who asked
not to be identified because the information is private.  Randall, 56, brought alternative-trading systems to Europe
in 2007 as CEO of Chi-X Europe Ltd., which he turned into the
largest venue in the region. His success encouraged others,
including Turquoise and Bats Europe, to enter the market as
European Union regulations removed national stock exchanges’
monopolies over trading. The former Instinet broker once wore
boxing gloves to give a speech on competition and was known to
leave phone messages for rival executives when Chi-X posted
record trading days.  Equiduct is a trading platform for retail brokers, owned by
Citadel Investment Group LLC and Knight Capital Group Inc. and
operated by the Berlin bourse. Randall became chief executive in
December 2009, seeking to take market share from incumbent
exchanges such as Deutsche Boerse AG, London Stock Exchange
Group Plc and NYSE Euronext.  Citadel, which is closing its direct-execution services
business in Europe, has pressed for clarity on Equiduct’s
future, the people said on Feb 11. Equiduct last year held talks
with securities firms and exchanges about selling a stake or
adding partners, people familiar with the situation said in
June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  