-- Merck to Pay $688 Million to Settle Vytorin Litigation
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-14T20:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/merck-says-it-will-pay-688-million-to-resolve-two-lawsuits.html
Merck & Co.  said it will pay
$688 million to resolve class-action litigation claiming it
defrauded shareholders by withholding adverse results of a
clinical trial of the anti-cholesterol drugs Vytorin and Zetia.  The settlement announced today must be approved by U.S.
District Judge  Dennis Cavanaugh  in Newark, New Jersey. He was to
oversee a trial starting March 4. The accord benefits holders of
securities of Merck and Schering-Plough, which Merck acquired in
2009. The companies earlier joined to develop Vytorin, which
combined Merck’s Zocor and Schering’s Zetia.  The clinical drug trial, known as Enhance, sought to
determine whether adding Zetia to less-expensive Zocor helped
lower atherosclerosis more than Zocor alone. Investors claimed
Enhance was an “unqualified disaster,” showing no benefit to
Vytorin in slowing atherosclerosis compared to Zocor. Investors
said Merck withheld those findings for a year before releasing
top-line results on Jan. 14, 2008, and full results on March 30,
2008.  “It’s a terrific settlement,” said  Daniel Berger , an
attorney for investors at Grant & Eisenhofer PA. “When you have
material information about the results of a drug trial on an
important product, you’re required to disclose it so that
investors can make an informed decision.”  Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, said
holders of Schering-Plough securities will receive $473 million
and holders of Merck securities will get $215 million, according
to the statement. Merck said it will record a charge of $493
million, which reflects anticipated insurance recoveries of $195
million.  ‘No Admission’  Merck “continues to believe that both companies acted
responsibly in connection with the Enhance study, and this
agreement contains no admission of liability or wrongdoing,”
according to the statement.  “This agreement avoids the uncertainties of a jury trial
and will resolve all of the remaining litigation in connection
with the Enhance study,” Merck General Counsel  Bruce N. Kuhlik 
said in the statement.  Merck expects to receive court approval within about eight
months,  Ron Rogers , a Merck spokesman, said today.  Merck’s lead trial attorney was  Theodore V. Wells Jr.  of
 Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP .  The lead investors in the litigation included public
pension systems in Massachusetts, Arkansas, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Detroit and Jacksonville, Florida.  ‘Widespread Problem’  “Hopefully, this will serve as a deterrent in the
pharmaceutical industry,” said investor attorney  Salvatore Graziano  of  Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP . “It
continues to be a widespread problem that companies report good
results in clinical drug trials quickly and delay or don’t
report at all adverse results.”  Worldwide sales of Zetia were $2.57 billion last year,
while Vytorin generated $1.75 billion in sales, Rogers said.
Sales of Vytorin have been falling because of questions about
its effectiveness.  The case is In re Schering-Plough Corp./Enhance Securities
Litigation, 08-cv-397, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  