-- Ericsson Wins Five-Year Management Deal From VimpelCom
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-02-14T12:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ericsson-wins-five-year-management-deal-from-vimpelcom.html
Ericsson AB , the world’s largest
maker of wireless networks, won a five-year contract to manage
 VimpelCom Ltd. ’s system in the Siberia and Ural regions,
expanding its services business in Russia.  About 400 VimpelCom workers will move to Stockholm-based
Ericsson as part of the deal, VimpelCom said today in a
statement. Ericsson will manage and service more than 10,000
base stations and 10,000 kilometers (6,200 miles) of fiber-optic
lines for VimpelCom starting in April.  Ericsson is trying to sell more services such as network
management and maintenance as wireless carriers in Europe curb
infrastructure investment amid contracting economies and
increasing competition. Last year, Ericsson’s services  revenue 
expanded 16 percent as network-equipment sales fell 11 percent.  “The traditional driving force for deals like this is the
operating expenditure savings, but beyond the savings common in
these deals there’s also the increased network quality and the
competence in the new technology,” Valter D’Avino, head of
Ericsson’s managed services, said in a phone interview, adding a
typical deal can save a carrier about 20 percent in operating
costs. “This is huge growth in the market.”  VimpelCom  is cutting costs to help reduce debt. The company
is seeking to outsource network maintenance and “optimize” its
headcount to cut costs, Russia head  Anton Kudryashov  said in a
presentation last month.  Shares of Ericsson fell 0.7 percent to 77.65 kronor at 1:16
p.m. in Stockholm, recovering some of their earlier losses.
VimpelCom added 0.4 percent to $12.40 in New York trading
yesterday.  This week, Ericsson won a $1 billion services contract from
India’s Reliance Communications Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  