-- Hess Call Option Trading Rises to Highest Level Since April
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   N i c k   B a k e r
-- 2013-02-14T00:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/hess-call-option-trading-rises-to-highest-level-since-april.html
Hess Corp . call-option trading
surged to the highest level since April as  Paul Singer ’s Elliott
Management Corp. presses for a strategic review that could
include selling all or parts of the company.  The volume of Hess calls changing hands today rose to
almost  45,000 contracts , the most in more than nine months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hess shares climbed 1.5
percent to $67.96. The most-active options were $70 calls
expiring after the close of trading on Feb. 15.  Singer’s Elliott took a 4 percent stake in New York-based
Hess last month, making it the second-largest shareholder. The
activist investor has been joined by Relational Investors LLC,
which holds about a 2 percent stake, in calling for the company
to overhaul its board. Elliott has proposed a slate of five new
board members and said Hess should streamline its business
through asset sales.  The company should spin off its U.S. shale business and
sell gasoline stations and its energy market unit, according to
a Jan. 29 letter Elliott sent to Hess shareholders.  “You have an activist shareholder that is pushing for
changes in the company and that has caused investors to have an
improved outlook,”  Brian Youngberg , an analyst at Edward Jones
in St. Louis, said in a telephone interview. Those changes could
include “more drastic steps including spinning off assets,
selling assets or potentially putting the company up for sale,”
said Youngberg, who rates the company a “buy” and doesn’t own
shares.  Jon Pepper, a Hess spokesman, declined to comment on the
reasons behind the increase in call option trading on the
company.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  John Hess  has rejected
Elliott’s demands, and said Jan. 30 that he wants to keep the
company’s offshore oil fields and its production assets in North
Dakota’s Bakken shale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker in Chicago at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  