-- MetLife Becomes Fourth Global Sponsor of World Baseball Classic
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-02-14T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/metlife-becomes-fourth-global-sponsor-of-world-baseball-classic.html
MetLife Inc ., the largest U.S. life
insurer, will be a global sponsor for the third edition of the
 World Baseball Classic .  MetLife, which operates in 46 countries, will be the fourth
and final global sponsor of the March 2-19 tournament, joining
 Delta Air Lines Inc. , video gamemaker  Konami Corp.  and travel
promoter  Brand USA .  New York-based MetLife, which is working internationally
with Major League Baseball for the first time, also will be the
title sponsor of the all-tournament team.  “It’s a significant investment in the event that weaves
them throughout all the pools,”  Paul Archey , senior vice
president of MLB’s international business, said in a telephone
interview, declining to specify the financial value of the deal.
“It’s a great fit for us because of their global exposure.”  MetLife’s Snoopy-themed blimps will provide video coverage
of games. Two are based in the U.S. and one in Japan, which won
the both previous editions of the tournament, in 2006 and 2009.  “In Japan and Korea, the ratings for the final games in
the last go-round of the tournament rivaled that of World Cup
soccer,” Richard Hong, vice president of brand, advertising &
promotion at MetLife, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
tremendously popular over there.”  MetLife will have television commercials running in
“virtually all of the broadcasts around the world,” Hong said.  There will be 39 World Baseball Classic games played at
seven venues in four countries and territories. The semifinals
and championship will be held at  AT&T Park  in San Francisco.
First-round games are scheduled in Fukuoka, Japan; Taichung,
Taiwan; San Juan, Puerto Rico, and Phoenix. Second-round games
will take place in Tokyo and Miami.  Brazil, Canada, Taiwan and Spain advanced in qualifiers for
this year’s tournament, joining Australia, China, Cuba, the
Dominican Republic, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, the
Netherlands, Puerto Rico, the U.S. and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  