-- Paulson Considers Opposing MetroPCS Merger With T-Mobile
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-02-15T09:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/metropcs-investor-plans-to-lead-fight-against-t-mobile.html
Paulson & Co., the biggest
shareholder of  MetroPCS Communications Inc. , said it may oppose
the wireless carrier’s combination with  Deutsche Telekom AG’s  T-
Mobile USA unit due to the debt the combined company would hold.  Paulson agrees with arguments presented by P. Schoenfeld
Asset Management LP, which opposes the deal, according to an
e-mailed statement yesterday. Paulson, which acquired 8 million
shares of MetroPCS last quarter to boost its stake to 8.7
percent, is withholding its decision on whether to vote for the
transaction until it sees the final proxy statement, it said.  The new company “has too much debt, the interest rate on
Deutsche Telekom’s debt financing is too high, and the exchange
ratio is too low for PCS stockholders,” said Paulson. “It may
be more prudent for PCS to remain independent and explore other
higher value alternatives.”  The deal, as presented in October, would give Germany’s
largest phone company 74 percent of the combined business, and
MetroPCS shareholders would get $1.5 billion in cash. Deutsche
Telekom is trying to reinvigorate T-Mobile USA, the fourth-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, which would add more subscribers
and capacity from MetroPCS to compete with Verizon Wireless,
AT&T Inc. and Sprint Nextel Corp.  MetroPCS shares are  down  25 percent since the merger was
announced, a signal that investors aren’t optimistic about a
higher offer. Since the Deutsche Telekom proposal, other
companies that had explored a deal with Richardson, Texas-based
MetroPCS have formed their own agreements, reducing the
potential for competing counterbids.  Recruiting Opponents  Deutsche Telekom fell 1.7 percent to 8.33 euros at 10:30
a.m. in Frankfurt. MetroPCS was  little changed  at $10.24 at
yesterday’s close in New York, down from $13.57 on Oct. 2, the
day before the transaction was announced. Bloomberg News
reported Paulson’s comments after the close of trading.  P. Schoenfeld Asset Management, which owns 7.5 million
shares, or about a 2 percent stake, is seeking to recruit fellow
investors like Paulson to oppose the transaction. The New York-
based investment firm demanded this week to see MetroPCS’s books
so it can share details of the transaction with other holders
and encourage them to join the opposition. The request follows a
Jan. 30 letter to the boards of Deutsche Telekom and MetroPCS
asking for changes to the deal.  “Shareholders deserve a capital structure that reflects
reality in the marketplace and Deutsche Telekom’s confidence in
the new T-Mobile/Metro PCS business plan,”  Peter Schoenfeld ,
chairman and chief executive officer of P. Schoenfeld Asset
Management, said in an interview. The firm, known as PSAM,
managed $2.1 billion at the beginning of this year.  Onerous Element  A Deutsche Telekom spokesman today didn’t immediately have
a comment on Paulson’s position. The Bonn-based company last
week reaffirmed its commitment to the deal in a  statement . The
combination of MetroPCS and T-Mobile USA will substantially
benefit the shareholders and customers of both companies, it
said.  “The MetroPCS board of directors believes that the
proposed combination with T-Mobile is in the best interests of
MetroPCS and all MetroPCS stockholders,” MetroPCS said
yesterday in a statement.  One of the more onerous elements of the Deutsche Telekom
deal, according to PSAM, is that it would leave the combined
company with $15 billion in debt and an interest rate of as much
as 8 percent.  Demand Better  Schoenfeld said he was “upset” with the financial burden
this would put on the company. Cutting the level of debt or
giving MetroPCS  shareholders  a greater stake would be more fair
to shareholders, he said. The objective, he said, is to get more
shareholders to demand better terms for the deal or, if
necessary, keep MetroPCS independent.  “I suspect Schoenfeld will not be alone,” said  Jonathan Chaplin , a New York-based analyst with New Street Research LLP.
“Other dissatisfied investors will probably oppose the deal.”  Without T-Mobile, Chaplin says MetroPCS is worth $10 a
share. Under the current terms, the combined company may only be
worth $7 to $8 a share, said Chaplin, who has a neutral rating
on the stock.  “PCS shareholders are worse off for this deal,” Chaplin
said. “And the debt is so large that if things don’t go
according to plan, the equity value could evaporate quickly.”  Deutsche Telekom and MetroPCS need to cut the combined
company’s  debt  by about $6.6 billion, or 44 percent, to be fair
to shareholders and to give the new wireless carrier a chance,
Chaplin said.  Voting Against  While MetroPCS once had many suitors, finding a new buyer
now could be difficult. Prior to accepting the Deutsche Telekom
offer, the company had a frenzy of deal discussions with eight
potential partners, it said in a November filing.  Sprint considered a $13.39 a share cash and stock offer for
MetroPCS year ago, according to people familiar with the matter.
Sprint has since moved on, offering $2.97 a share to buy out its
wireless venture partner Clearwire Corp.  And Dish Network Corp. offered $11 a share, including $1.2
billion in cash, for MetroPCS. The offer was rejected, according
to the filing. Dish, the U.S. satellite carrier, has also turned
to Clearwire, offering $3.30 a share in a counterbid to Sprint.  Clearwire has also faced opposition from some shareholders
over its agreement with Sprint. Crest Financial Ltd. and Mount
Kellett Capital Management LP have lobbied for a better offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  