-- Euro Irreversible as Currency Approaches ‘Puberty,’ Olsen Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-02-14T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/euro-irreversible-as-currency-approaches-puberty-olsen-says.html
Norwegian central bank Governor
 Oeystein Olsen  said there’s no way back now for Europe’s
monetary union as the common currency has reached what he
described as adolescence amid a decade of stagnant growth.  “There’s little point in discussing whether the original
idea was a good one or not,” Olsen said in the text of his
annual speech today in Oslo. “The child was born and is now a
teenager. As expected, puberty has presented problems.”  The debt crisis that broke out in southern Europe in 2009
turned into a near-death experience for the euro, then only 10
years old. Sentiment has since improved after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  last year pledged to do whatever it
takes to keep the 17-nation currency bloc intact.  Norway, western Europe’s largest oil producer, has joined
Switzerland in staying outside the European Union. The country’s
oil wealth has helped it withstand the fallout of the debt
crisis further south, keeping unemployment at about 3 percent.  Growth in the mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and
shipping, will slow to 3 percent in 2013 from 3.75 percent last
year, the central bank predicts. That compares with a 0.3
percent contraction in the euro area, according to the European
Central Bank’s forecast.  Firm Footing  Olsen said recent steps in Europe, including closer
cooperation and coordination of economy policy, have put the
region on a path to recovery. The region is also reducing
deficits even amid “strong headwinds” from austerity measures,
he said.  “However, the path ahead is long,” Olsen said. “We may
have to wait until the next decade before growth gains a firm
footing in Europe.”  The recession in the euro area was worse than economists
forecast as the region’s three biggest economies saw output
slump, a separate report showed today. GDP fell 0.6 percent in
the fourth quarter from the third, marking the deepest decline
since the first quarter of 2009.  Norway’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate at
1.5 percent for a fifth meeting in December and signaled it may
raise rates as early as next month to cool record debt growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  