-- Euro Drops to Three-Week Low as Recession Deepens; Krone Slides
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-02-14T22:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/euro-weakens-as-german-french-economies-shrink-kiwi-advances.html
The euro slid to a three-week low
against the dollar after a report showed Europe’s recession
deepened more than forecast last quarter, sapping demand for the
region’s assets and spurring bets on lower interest rates.  The 17-nation currency dropped for a third day versus the
yen as separate data showed gross domestic product shrank in
Germany and France. The yen rose against most major peers as
Russia’s finance minister said Group-of-20 nations should take a
stronger stance against currency manipulation. Norway’s krone
sank after the nation’s central bank said it’s ready to cut
interest rates.  “The weak results from the euro zone’s two core economies
highlight the difficulties in growth in the overall region and
suggest that a strong euro-dollar may make matters even more
difficult in 2013,”  Boris Schlossberg , managing director of
foreign exchange at BK Asset Management, an investment advisory
firm in New York, wrote today in a client note.  The euro fell 0.7 percent to $1.3363 at 5 p.m. New York
time and touched $1.3315, the lowest level since Jan. 24. The
shared currency slid 1.2 percent to 124.11 yen. The yen
appreciated 0.6 percent to 92.88 per dollar.  The European currency strengthened 4.9 percent against the
dollar over the past three months.  “The GDP data out of the euro zone was quite poor, putting
the idea of a potential rate cut by the European Central Bank
back on the table,”  Brian Daingerfield , a currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stamford, Connecticut,
said in a telephone interview. “The market priced in further
potential for easier monetary policy coming out of the ECB,
which led to a weaker euro.”  Krone Weakens  The Norwegian krone fell versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said the
central bank has room to cut interest rates further to counter
gains in the currency that interfere with the inflation target.
It lost 1.1 percent to 5.5370 per dollar, slipping as much as
1.4 percent in its biggest intraday drop since Jan. 15. The
krone declined 0.4 percent to 7.3991 per euro.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, climbed to the
strongest in 17 months after manufacturing expanded, backing the
case for the nation’s central bank to raise interest rates.  The Performance of Manufacturing Index increased to 55.2 in
January from 50.4 in December, Business New Zealand and the Bank
of New Zealand Ltd. said. A gauge of consumer confidence rose to
the highest since June 2010, ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. and Roy
Morgan Research said in a separate report.  The kiwi rose 0.6 percent to 85.07 U.S. cents. It reached
85.17 cents, the highest since Sept. 2, 2011.  Economy Shrank  Gross domestic product in the euro area fell 0.6 percent in
the fourth quarter from the previous three months, the European
Union’s statistics office said. That was the worst performance
since the first quarter of 2009 and exceeded the 0.4 percent
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Separate data showed GDP shrank 0.6 percent in Germany and 0.3
percent in France, both more than economists estimated.  Options traders were the most bearish on the euro in three
months. The premium for three-month options granting the right
to sell the euro against the dollar relative to those allowing
for purchases reached 0.88 percentage point, the most since Nov.
14, the 25-delta risk-reversal rate shows.  The euro has strengthened 7 percent in the past six months
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It was the best performance. The
dollar weakened 2.5 percent, and the yen tumbled 19 percent.  Yen Advances  Japan’s currency advanced after Russian Finance Minister
Anton Siluanov said that his country wanted more “specific”
language opposing exchange-rate interference in a communique to
be issued after talks among finance chiefs this week.  “The G-20 countries have always held the position that
currency policy should be based on market conditions,” he said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Ryan Chilcote . “We
should take a more specific stance on this.”  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers start a two-day
meeting tomorrow in Moscow. The group will pledge in a joint
statement to avoid policies that lead to competitive currency
devaluations, Japan’s Asahi newspaper said, citing people
familiar with the matter.  The yen has slumped over the past three months as Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe pressed the Bank of Japan to introduce
additional stimulus measures that tend to weaken a currency. BOJ
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and two deputies will step down next
month, allowing Abe to pick leaders to implement his plan for
expanded monetary easing.  ‘Less Confident’  “We’ll get above 95 at some point,” said  Adam Cole , head
of global foreign-exchange strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in
London, referring to the dollar-yen rate. “Whether it can
really extend much further in the absence of any real policy
developments, I’m less confident. If there is a watershed moment
it’s probably the appointment and first action of the BOJ
officials.”  The Japanese currency has traded increasingly weaker than
its 200-day moving average since Nov. 14. The average was 81.56
yen today. Moving averages are seen by some traders as turning
points.  The greenback gained versus the euro after initial claims
for U.S.  jobless benefits  fell more than forecast. Claims
decreased by 27,000, to 341,000 in the week ended Feb. 9, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. The level of
filings was lower than any projection in a Bloomberg survey in
which the median projection was 360,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  