-- Yen Climbs to 2-Week High Versus Euro as G-20 Meets; Kron
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-02-15T12:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/euro-remains-lower-on-economy-concern-before-g-20-kiwi-climbs.html
The yen climbed to the strongest in
more than two weeks against the euro as Group-of-20 officials
begin talks in Moscow, fueling speculation they may criticize
Japanese policies that have helped weaken the currency.  The yen gained for a fourth day versus the dollar as
investors speculated the next Bank of Japan governor may be the
candidate who is the least aggressive on monetary stimulus. The
euro declined after data yesterday showed recession in the
currency bloc deepened at the end of last year. Sweden’s krona
depreciated against all of its 16 major peers.  “What we’re seeing right now is a bit of a fright with the
G-20 meeting happening in Moscow,” said  Sonja Marten , a
currency strategist at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt. “The trend is
going to resume and dollar-yen is going to go back up, quite
possibly next week, once the G-20 is behind us.”  The yen appreciated 0.5 percent to 123.49 per euro at 7:06
a.m. New York time after touching 122.90, the strongest since
Jan. 30. It gained 0.2 percent to 92.68 versus the dollar. The
17-nation common currency dropped 0.3 percent to $1.3326, after
sliding to $1.3311, the least since Jan. 24.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers meeting in the
Russian capital will reaffirm a pledge to “refrain from
competitive devaluation” and commit to monitoring “possible
monetary-policy spillover,” according to a draft statement
obtained by Bloomberg and dated Feb. 11.  G-20 Criticism  “The yen is being bought as the market remains cautious
about statements from the G-20 about currency policies,” said
 Masato Yanagiya , the head of currency and money trading in New
York at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s second-
biggest financial group by market value. “There may be some
criticism about the pace of the yen’s depreciation.”  Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said today
that the communique won’t include the words “currency war,”
and Russia won’t issue a separate statement on Japan.  The premium for one-month options granting the right to
sell the yen versus the dollar relative to those allowing for
purchases dropped to 0.205 today, the least since Oct. 31
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The risk-reversal rate
rose to a 1.068 percentage-point premium for yen puts earlier
this month. A put option gives the right, but not the
obligation, to sell a currency.  BOJ Appointment  The yen headed for a second weekly gain versus the euro
after Reuters reported that former BOJ Deputy Governor  Toshiro Muto  is the leading contender to become the next central bank
chief, citing people close to the selection process.  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , criticized by politicians
for not doing enough to end deflation, said last week he’ll step
down on March 19, about three weeks before his five-year term is
due to end. Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  is close to choosing his
nominee for the top BOJ post, and the decision may come in a few
days, Reuters reported.  “Muto is perceived as not as dovish as some of the
candidates, so that’s weighing on dollar-yen,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac
Banking Corp. “A significant amount of the yen’s decline has
been in not so much what the BOJ has done in the period but what
they’re expected to do in the next year or two.”  Other candidates to replace Shirakawa may include Asian
Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda and former BOJ Deputy
Governor Kazumasa Iwata.  Yen’s Slide  Japan’s currency has tumbled 15 percent in the past three
months, the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
declined 1.3 percent and the euro rose 3.3 percent.  The 17-nation common currency fell after reports yesterday
signaled that the region’s recession deepened more than forecast
last quarter. Gross domestic product fell 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months, the European
Union’s statistics office said, the worst performance since the
first quarter of 2009.  “Economic growth in Europe is not strong,” said Sumitomo
Mitsui’s Yanagiya. “The euro is vulnerable to the downside.”  European Central Bank Governing Council member  Jens Weidmann  today said a rising euro alone won’t trigger interest-
rate cuts.  Sweden’s central bank Governor  Stefan Ingves  said Feb. 13
that the krona’s appreciation has brought it to an appropriate
level and predicted the currency’s exchange rate will probably
remain where it is.  The krona weakened 0.5 percent to 6.3461 per dollar. It
fell 0.2 percent to 8.4546 per euro. It has climbed 8.1 percent
since the start of the last year against the U.S. currency.  The Riksbank’s interest-rate policy is “unfortunate” for
the nation’s exporters and employment as it is encouraging a
strong krona, Sverker Martin-Loef, chairman of Swedish companies
including SSAB AB and Industrivaerden AB, said in an interview
with Dagens Industri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  