-- Europe’s Financial Transaction Tax Could Be Boost to Loan Market
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p
-- 2013-02-14T17:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/europe-s-financial-transaction-tax-could-be-boost-to-loan-market.html
The European Union’s proposed tax on
financial transactions could benefit the region’s loan market,
which would be exempt from the charge.  “The financial transaction tax includes all financial
instruments and derivatives, but not loans,” according to a
 report  from Clifford Chance LLP written by attorneys led by Dan
Neidle, a London-based tax lawyer. “The pricing of corporate
and government bonds may reflect direct and indirect FTT
charges, and this may cause a move by corporates away from bond
financing and towards loan financing,” it said.  The EU is trying to curb what it sees as a “patchwork” of
local levies with a tax that it believes could raise 30 billion
euros ($40 billion) to 35 billion euros a year. Today’s plan
would set a rate of 0.1 percent for stock and bond trades and
0.01 percent on derivatives trades.  “The FTT will not apply to day-to-day financial activities
of citizens and businesses in order to protect the real
economy,” the European Commission said in a  statement .
“Traditional investment banking activities” such as raising
capital or restructuring deals will also be exempt, the
Commission said.  The tax could be collected worldwide as soon as the start
of next year by the 11 nations that have so far signed up to
participate. French and German banks’ London branches would be
fully subject to the tax despite opposition to the charge from
the U.K. government, according to the Clifford Chance report.  Companies may stop raising floating-rate interest loans and
entering into swap transactions to make them fixed-rate because
of the tax, Clifford Chance said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  