-- Evercore Rises to Record Amid Market-Share, Profit Gains
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-02-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/evercore-rises-to-record-amid-market-share-profit-gains.html
Evercore Partners Inc . reached a
record in New York trading, extending this year’s gain to 33
percent, as merger volume surged and revenue and profit reached
all-time highs.  Evercore closed yesterday at $40.15 after almost $40
billion in deals were announced, led by H.J. Heinz Co.’s $23
billion takeover by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 3G Capital. The
share price exceeded the previous record of $39.40 set on Oct.
26, 2006, less than three months after the New York-based
company’s initial public offering.  Industrywide transaction volume increased 27 percent this
year, and Evercore, run by Chief Executive Officer  Ralph Schlosstein , has been taking a bigger share of advisory fees
after at least two years of hiring senior managing directors.
Record corporate profits and cheap borrowing costs are
encouraging deals, with more than $140 billion of announced
takeovers this month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They’ve picked up market share, which they should have
because they’ve added all these people,”  Devin Ryan , an analyst
at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. said in a Feb. 12 phone
interview. “What’s even more relevant to me and I think to
investors and to the stock price is the fact that they’ve done
it in a way that’s improving earnings power.”  Dana Gorman, a spokesman for Evercore, declined to comment
on the share price.  Revenue Gains  Evercore, founded by former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary
 Roger Altman , took in $556 million in adjusted investment-
banking  revenue  last year, an 88 percent increase from 2007,
when merger-and-acquisition volume was almost double the 2012
level, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Evercore’s
investment-banking business includes fees from advising on
mergers and restructurings as well as revenue from the
institutional-equities unit, which was started in 2010.  Adjusted net income for last year increased 24 percent to a
record $78.1 million. The company said yesterday it awarded
Schlosstein 52,150 shares, which will vest in coming years. 
The stake was valued at $2.05 million on the Feb. 12 grant date.  Larger competitors including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
 Morgan Stanley  haven’t regained advisory-revenue levels they
reached in 2007, when M&A volume was $4.06 trillion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Goldman Sach’s financial advisory
revenue was $1.98 billion in 2012, less than half the $4.22
billion in 2007.  Lazard, Greenhill  Other independent investment banks -- firms that don’t have
trading or underwriting operations -- are also benefiting from
investors seeking to capitalize on an upturn in the M&A market,
 David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC, said in a phone
interview.  Lazard Ltd ., the largest independent merger adviser, has
advanced 26 percent this year, and Greenhill & Co., the firm
founded by  Robert Greenhill , has gained 17 percent.  In the fourth quarter, global M&A activity reached the
highest level since the three months ended Sept. 30, 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Altman said in January
he expects the environment for M&A to be better in 2013 than it
was in 2012.  Top talent has been more willing to move from larger banks,
which have been enacting less-generous compensation plans to cut
costs after the financial crisis, Ryan at Sandler O’Neill said.  Evercore added six senior managing directors in 2012 and
plans to add about that many in 2013, Schlosstein, 61, said last
month. The company had 60 investment-banking senior managing
directors as of Dec. 31, compared with 47 two years earlier.  George Estey  joined in June from Greenhill to lead the
firm’s Canadian business. The company also hired  Randolph Sesson , previously a managing director at Morgan Stanley, to
lead its European transportation group, based in London.  “There’s been a real cultural shift where the attitude
towards the bulge brackets is pretty negative right now,” Trone
said. Because of “bad press, bureaucracy, the average banker is
looking pretty favorably on the boutiques,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  