-- Ex-CEO Daniels Says Lloyds Was on ‘Side of the Angels’ on PPI
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-02-14T13:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ex-ceo-daniels-says-lloyds-was-on-side-of-the-angels-on-ppi.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc ’s ex-chief
executive officer said the firm’s payment protection insurance
sales practices put it “on the side of the angels” even after
setting aside $8.2 billion to redress missold products.  The majority of PPI products were sold correctly and
represented “good value” to customers,  Eric Daniels , who
stepped down in February 2011, told the Parliamentary Commission
on Banking Standards today. He said he was deeply regretful if
any were improperly sold.  “We thought that with our consistent and constant dialogue
with the regulators that we were on the side of the angels,”
Daniels, 61, told the lawmakers in London. “We thought we were
giving very good value to the customer.”  Lloyds has set aside more than any other U.K. bank to
compensate clients who were forced to buy or didn’t know they
had bought insurance to cover their repayments on mortgages,
credit cards and other loans. Daniels had about 580,000 pounds
($899,000) of his 1.45 million-pound bonus for 2010 clawed back
as a result of the PPI scandal, London-based Lloyds, the U.K.’s
largest mortgage lender, said last year.  The “vast majority” of the provisions that have been made
weren’t as a result of products being improperly sold and
stemmed from differences in understanding between the regulators
and the banks, Daniels said.  “That difference in understanding comes from what would
constitute a reasonable sale at point of purchase and were
representations made in addition to the written contract that
would have been critical for the customer,” Daniels said. “We
could not prove that those other representations had been made.
That accounts for the great majority of the claims today.”  About half of all compensation claims were from people who
hadn’t even taken out loans from Lloyds, Daniels said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  