-- Ex-San Diego Mayor Misused Charity Funds for Gambling
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2013-02-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ex-san-diego-mayor-misused-charity-funds-for-gambling-u-s-says.html
Former San Diego Mayor Maureen
O’Connor was spared prison in a plea deal after taking almost
$2.1 million from a charity started by her late husband,  Jack in
the Box Inc .’s founder, to finance a gambling spree in which she
made and then lost more than $1 billion.  The former mayor’s betting streak lasted from 2000 to 2009
in casinos from Las Vegas to Atlantic City, New Jersey, and she
misappropriated the funds from the R.P. Foundation to cover her
losses, prosecutors said in court filings.  O’Connor, 66, pleaded not guilty yesterday to a charge of
money laundering in federal court in San Diego. An agreement
with prosecutors will let her avoid incarceration and have the
charge dismissed if she repays the charity’s money and completes
psychiatric treatment for her gambling addiction in two years,
according to court filings.  As one of three trustees of the charity, O’Connor “was
specifically prohibited from receiving a benefit from the
foundation,” the government said in a court filing. She
“turned to the foundation’s assets to both pay her outstanding
debts and continue her high-stakes gambling.”  The R.P. Foundation was created by O’Connor’s deceased
husband, Robert Peterson, who founded the national fast-food
chain and, with other people, set up the charity before his
death in 1994, according to court records.  Democratic Mayor  O’Connor, a Democrat, was the city’s first female mayor and
served two terms from 1986 to 1992.  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in San Diego said the foundation
was designated a nonprofit and dispensed funds to such charities
as the City of Hope, the Alzheimer’s Association, Little Wishes
Foundation, San Diego Hospice and the John Burton Foundation.  O’Connor reported her winnings and losses to the Internal
Revenue Service, according to the court filings.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Phillip Halpern said his office
agreed to a so-called deferred prosecution in the case because
O’Connor is in poor health and probably wouldn’t have been able
to face a trial.  “Two years ago surgeons removed a large tumor from her
brain and she has suffered a pulmonary embolism and cognitive
impairment since,” Halpern said in a telephone interview.
O’Connor appeared to have trouble speaking during the court
hearing yesterday and walked with the support of a cane, he
said.  ‘Very Sad’  “This is a very sad case to see someone fall from as high
as she was because of a gambling addiction,” he said. “She
came from humble origins to become the first female mayor in San
Diego and has a long history of charitable works and other deeds
that helped improve this city.”  Halpern said the agreement ensures that the charitable
fund, which prosecutors said was left bankrupt by the
misappropriations, will be paid back the money.  By early 2008, O’Connor was so in debt to casinos that she
liquidated her savings, sold numerous real estate holdings and
auctioned valuable personal items. She also obtained second and
third mortgages on her personal residence in the tony beachside
community of La Jolla, California, according to the court
filings.  Even after taking more than $2,088,000 from the R.P.
Foundation from September 2008 to March 2009, O’Connor continued
her high-stakes gambling and won $100,000 in April 2009 at the
Barona Resort & Casino in Lakeside, California, near San Diego,
prosecutors said. That same month, the foundation’s bank
accounts were closed, according to the filing.  The agreement with prosecutors allows O’Connor to remain
free without posting bail or a bond.  The case is U.S. v. O’Connor, 13-00537, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of California (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Callahan in federal court in San Diego at
 Callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  