-- Ex-Singapore Official Acquitted in Sex-for-Contracts Case
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-02-14T09:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ex-singapore-official-acquitted-in-sex-for-contracts-case.html
The former head of Singapore’s
Central Narcotics Bureau was acquitted of corruptly obtaining
sexual favors from a woman seeking agency contracts.  Ng Boon Gay, 46, the former director at the drug
enforcement agency, gave evidence in a forthright manner while
the woman’s testimony had several discrepancies, subordinate
courts Judge Siva Shanmugam said today.  Ng and former civil defense chief Peter Lim, both charged
with obtaining sex from women seeking contracts at their
agencies, were Singapore’s most senior officials accused of
corruption since 1995 when they were dismissed last year. Ng,
who admitted to an affair with a 36-year-old female executive,
said he didn’t help her secure business. Lim, whose trial is
scheduled to start Feb. 18, denies the charges.  The prosecution failed to prove its case beyond a
reasonable doubt, Shanmugam said. Ng could have been jailed for
as long as five years and fined as much as S$100,000 ($81,000)
on each of the four corruption charges if convicted.  Tan Ken Hwee, deputy chief prosecutor in Singapore’s
economic crimes and governance division, said at Ng’s trial that
a civil servant obtaining gratification from a person seeking
business with the government is presumed to have done so
corruptly.  Shanmugam ruled that while the case triggered the
presumption of Ng’s corruption, the accused was able to rebut
that presumption regarding four instances of oral sex with the
woman, which the judge found occured in the context of an
intimate relationship.  “The prosecution will study the grounds of the ruling and
assess whether or not to appeal,” the attorney general’s office
said in an emailed statement.  The criminal case is Public Prosecutor v Ng Boon Gay.
DAC21011-14/2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  