-- Ex-Vitesse Executives Misstated Revenue, Prosecutor Tells Jurors
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-02-14T00:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ex-vitesse-executives-misstated-revenue-prosecutor-tells-jurors.html
Two former  Vitesse Semiconductor
Corp.  executives conspired to misstate earnings at the chipmaker
from 2001 to 2006, a prosecutor said in his closing argument in
their criminal trial.  Louis Tomasetta , a co-founder and former chief executive
officer of Vitesse, and former chief financial officer  Eugene Hovanec  are charged with a scheme to meet financial targets by
backdating stock options and falsely inflating sales at the
Camarillo, California-based maker of integrated circuits.  “This is a single overarching scheme to make their company
look like it was doing better than it really was,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney John O’Donnell told jurors today in Manhattan
federal court.  This is the second time Tomasetta and Hovanec have faced
trial. U.S. District Judge  Paul Crotty  in April declared a
mistrial on the fourth day of deliberations after jurors said
they couldn’t reach a unanimous decision on any of the seven
criminal counts against the two men. Their retrial began Jan.
22.  Prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara 
filed a new indictment in December, dropping most of the counts
and charging each of the men with a single count of conspiracy
to commit securities fraud. If convicted, Tomasetta and Hovanec
face as long as five years in prison.  Nu Horizons  O’Donnell told jurors that the former executives shipped
millions of dollars worth of products to Nu Horizons Electronics
Corp., a distributor, near the end of financial quarters and
fraudulently recorded the shipments as revenue.  Vitesse and Nu Horizons had a secret side agreement that
let the distributor make unlimited returns of the products to
Vitesse, he said. The practice allowed Vitesse to meet its
quarterly revenue targets when sales started to slump beginning
in 2001.  Prosecutors said the men later created phony documents,
including compensation committee minutes, to show that options
were approved at earlier meetings and weren’t backdated.  “Mr. Tomasetta built this company. It was his baby,”
O’Donnell argued. “He couldn’t tolerate negative revenues.”  Tomasetta and Hovanec were both fired in May 2006.  Other Employees  The two men claim other employees were responsible for the
company’s accounting.  “He is somebody who could not possibly know everything at
a company that employs more than 1,000 people,”  Daniel Marmalefsky , a lawyer for Tomasetta, argued to the jury in his
closing argument today.  Jurors heard testimony from  Yatin Mody , Vitesse’s former
vice president of finance, and its ex-director of accounting,
Nicole Kaplan. The two former executives pleaded guilty to
securities fraud in 2010 and are cooperating with prosecutors in
hopes of leniency when they’re sentenced.  Marmalefsky told jurors today that the allegations about
inflated revenue and backdated options don’t have anything to do
with one another and aren’t part of the single conspiracy
charged by prosecutors. At the start of the trial, lawyers for
both men argued that Mody and Kaplan, who also testified in the
first trial, weren’t telling the truth.  SEC Claims  Vitesse agreed in 2007 to pay $8.75 million to settle
shareholder suits related to the alleged accounting fraud and in
2010 settled claims by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for $3 million.  Marmalefsky is scheduled to finish his closing argument on
behalf of Tomasetta tomorrow morning. Hovanec’s lawyer will
follow.  The case is U.S. v. Tomasetta, 10-1205, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  