-- Mexico Peso Falls as Europe Slump Overshadows U.S. Jobs, Modelo
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-02-15T01:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/mexico-peso-falls-as-euro-area-recession-overshadows-u-s-jobs.html
Mexico’s peso fell as a bigger-than-
forecast contraction in euro-area economies damped the outlook
for global growth and the Latin American country’s exports.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 12.6958 per U.S. dollar at 4
p.m. in Mexico City. It has advanced 1.2 percent this year,
adding to an 8.4 percent rally in 2012.  While a decline in U.S. jobless claims and mounting
speculation regulators may allow the purchase of Corona-maker
Grupo Modelo SAB to go forward fueled demand for the peso today,
it was overshadowed by investor concern about Europe, according
to  Mario Copca , a currency strategist at Metanalisis SA. Gross
domestic product in the 17-nation euro area fell 0.7 percent in
the fourth quarter, the European Union’s statistics office said.
The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey was for
a contraction of 0.4 percent.  The currency “has been a bit under pressure, above all
because of the growth data from Europe,”  Rafael Camarena , an
economist at Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB, said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City.  The peso briefly rose today amid speculation that
regulators would let Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s purchase of
Modelo proceed, Copca said by phone from Mexico City. The
world’s biggest brewer, offered to cede full control of Corona
distribution in the U.S. to Constellation Brands Inc. for $2.9
billion in a bid to salvage the Modelo deal.  Concern has mounted that the agreement, which is expected
to bring a payout for holders of Mexico’s biggest brewer and a
surge in peso demand, won’t go through after the U.S. sued to
block the deal last month, saying it would hurt competition and
raise prices for consumers.  The peso also briefly pared losses in earlier trading after
a report showed U.S. jobless claims decreased by 27,000, the
most in a month, to 341,000 in the week ended Feb. 9.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 5.11 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.29 centavo to 143.37
centavos per peso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  