-- EZchip Plunges Most in Six Months as Huawei Dims Sales Outlook
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-02-14T09:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ezchip-cheapest-in-year-as-huawei-dims-outlook-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd.  tumbled
the most since August in Tel Aviv on concern more customers may
develop the Israeli chipmaker’s technology in-house, reducing
revenue growth.  Shares of the chipmaker dropped 20 percent, the most since
Aug. 9, to 94.85 shekels, or the equivalent of $25.75 at 10:24
a.m. in Tel Aviv. The company’s U.S.-traded shares slumped 21
percent to $25.56 in the U.S. yesterday, sending valuations to
 20 times  estimated earnings, the lowest level since
December 2011.  Yokneam, Israel-based EZchip was the worst performer on the
 Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index  of the largest Israeli
companies traded yesterday in New York after Huawei Technologies
Co., a Chinese maker of telecommunications equipment, is
developing an internal processor and will use EZchip’s product
only “when needed,”  Eli Fruchter , the chief executive officer
of the Israeli company, said on a conference call yesterday
after EZchip reported 2012 earnings.  “The long-term thesis on this company is no longer as rosy
as people thought it would be, and I would expect you’ll see
further downside,”  Jay Srivatsa , an analyst at Chardan Capital
Markets LLC who rates the stock sell, said by phone yesterday
from New York. “They don’t have the wherewithal to sustain the
market share loss that comes with an internal solution or losing
to their competitors.”  Fruchter said that Huawei’s development was still “mere
speculation,” according to the call transcript. A phone message
and e-mail left for Jannie Luong, a North American spokeswoman
for Shenzhen-based Huawei, was not returned.  ‘Serious Impact’  Huawei, together with Ericsson AB and  Tellabs Inc. ,
comprised about 5 percent of EZchip’s revenue in 2012, Fruchter
said on the call. If a company like Cisco Systems Inc., which
accounted for 43 percent of last year’s sales, decided to
internally develop its processors, “investors would essentially
throw in the towel on this one,” Srivatsa said.  Juniper, which in 2009 accounted for 54 percent of EZchip’s
revenue, is transitioning to internally developed chips for its
networking systems, a move that could “seriously impact”
EZchip’s sales if other customers don’t make up for the loss,
Srivatsa wrote in a note to clients.  EZchip said yesterday that 2012 revenue  fell  14 percent to
$54.7 million as adjusted earnings sank 16 percent to 92 cents
per share. Revenue could reach $160 million by 2016, down from
the roughly $250 million the company earlier expected based on
previous predictions.  Lost Opportunity  “Huawei is a very, very big company, and if they have
designs to become a major player in EZchip’s market, this could
be a huge opportunity lost,”  Mike Burton , an analyst at Brean
Capital LLC who has a hold rating on EZchip, said by phone from
New York.  Shares in New York traded at a 25 percent  premium  to the
average valuation for companies on the Nasdaq Composite Index,
the smallest gap in six months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. EZchip’s slump yesterday was the biggest since Aug. 8
when the company forecast third-quarter sales that missed
analyst estimates by about 50 percent.  Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 Index  dropped 0.2 percent
today to 1,223.37.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  