-- MF Parent, Creditor Plan ‘Not Confirmable’ on Fees, Suits
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-02-14T22:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/mf-parent-creditor-plan-not-confirmable-on-fees-suits.html
A proposed liquidation plan for  MF
Global Holdings Ltd . isn’t “confirmable” because of two key
provisions, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Martin Glenn  said today at a
court hearing in Manhattan.  Under the plan, drawn up by banks and hedge funds including
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Silver Point Capital LP, and
revised with the MF Global parent’s trustee, the creditor group
would be immune from lawsuits over their work on the case. Glenn
said the release was contrary to law. He also faulted the group
members’ claim to fees and expenses for themselves and their
lawyers, citing an objection by the U.S. Trustee who supervises
bankruptcies.  Trustee  Louis Freeh , unwinding the parent of the failed
brokerage formerly headed by Jon Corzine, joined the banks and
hedge funds and proposed to distribute as much as 34 cents on
the dollar to unsecured claimholders. While they amended the
proposed plan and information document to deal with objections,
including some by lender  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , they left other
“showstoppers” intact, the judge said.  Glenn, who had provisionally set an April 5 hearing on the
liquidation plan, said keeping to that schedule “would be a
tougher issue for me if the proponents won’t say on the record
that they’re willing to move toward confirmation without those
provisions” about fees and lawsuits.  JPMorgan Opposed  Separately, New York-based JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank,
said it remains opposed to the proposed liquidation plan.  Bruce Bennett , a lawyer for the creditor group, told Glenn
he aimed to deal with the issues in a way the judge would find
“appropriate.”  By law, Freeh is entitled to fees and immunity from
lawsuits because he is acting for the bankrupt company. The
appointed creditor committee also gets fees.  Citigroup, Silver Point and other debtholders, representing
themselves, can’t legally claim either fees or immunity from
lawsuits, although judges may allow them to take fees if they
make a so-called major contribution to the case.  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  creditors who published a rebel liquidation plan
got millions of dollars from the defunct investment bank.  While customers of brokerage MF Global Inc. have recouped
almost all of their money, Freeh didn’t come up with a plan to
pay holding company creditors until after the group of banks and
hedge funds filed a rebel plan of their own on Jan. 10.  Revised Plan  After joining the group, Freeh negotiated a revised plan
and is pressing with them for court approval of the amended
information document and payment scheme.  Martin Bienenstock , a lawyer for the MF Global parent’s
official creditor group, told Glenn he has the power to approve
fees for the banks and hedge funds, which have “accelerated”
the progress of the case by nine months.  “Your honor, you can do anything you want, as long as
there’s no objection,” he said.  “I don’t do that,” Glenn told Bienenstock. “I try to
follow the law.” The U.S. trustee objected to the fees, Glenn
said.  Glenn told Bennett he might allow some fees for negotiating
the plan, although he wouldn’t approve payment for the group’s
activities from the start of the October 2011 bankruptcy.  “I’m happy we’re here today and not in nine months’
time,” he said. “But I want to see you back up your claim for
fees. Read the U.S. Trustee’s objection. Then we’ll see what
happens.”  Disclosure Statement  Bennett said he intends by the end of tomorrow to give the
judge an amended disclosure statement, which must be approved
before the judge can consider the liquidation plan. Glenn said
he plans to continue the hearing Feb. 20.  JPMorgan, a creditor and arranger of a $1.2 billion loan to
the defunct holding company, has faulted the proposed plan for
its handling of liability for the loan, which obliges the
holding company’s finance unit to pay not only the lenders but
also the holding company that passed it the money. A change
might bring creditors almost 60 cents on the dollar, instead of
34 cents, JPMorgan said in a filing.  Today, Peter Pantaleo, a lawyer for JPMorgan, told Glenn
the bank needed time to try to convince the judge that the
finance unit shouldn’t have to pay the same debt twice.  Rewrite Sought  The plan also should be rewritten ahead of a creditor vote
“to tell people this might or might not be allowed,” he said.
“Now people are being told this is the plan, this is the
outcome.”  JPMorgan was trying to slow the case down because it owed
money to MF Global, said Bennett, who revised the rebel group’s
first filing after JPMorgan said creditors should be told about
the double obligation and how it cut potential payouts.  The group’s members, including Blue Mountain Timberline
Ltd., Cyrus Capital Partners LP, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
and Waterstone Capital Management LP, hold about 65 percent of
certain MF Global  loans and bonds , they have said.  Professional fees and expenses are eroding the assets left
for MF Global creditors, according to the group’s filings.
Bankruptcy lawyers and advisers have put in bills for
$48.7 million, of which about $27.2 million was unpaid as of
Nov. 30.  MF Global filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct.
31, 2011, after getting margin calls and bank demands for money
following its investment in the debt of troubled European
economies. The company, which was headed by former New Jersey
Governor Corzine, listed assets of $41 billion and debt of $39.7
billion in its Chapter 11 filing.  Trustee  James Giddens  is separately liquidating the
brokerage.  The case is In re MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-15059, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  