-- Facebook Seeking Sales Boost Lets Users Tout Friend Posts
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/facebook-unveils-tool-for-users-to-promote-friends-posts.html
Facebook Inc. , operator of the
world’s largest social network, is rolling out a feature that
will let users pay to promote friends’ posts on the website as
it seeks new sources of revenue.  The tool expands on a service introduced last year that
lets users pay to promote their own posts. The new service will
cost about $7 in the U.S., though prices may vary, the company
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Sluggish profitability growth and sagging shares are
pressuring Facebook to find new ways to generate more revenue
from its 1.1 billion members. In the past year, the company has
announced mobile-advertising, tools for marketers on desktops
and a feature for users to send friends gifts via the site.  “If your friend is running a marathon for charity and has
posted that information publicly, you can help that friend by
promoting their post to all of your friends,” the company said.
“If your friend is renting their apartment out and she tells
her friends on Facebook, you can share the post with the people
you and your friend have in common so that it shows up higher in
news feed and more people notice it.”  The tool for promoting friends’ posts will be gradually
introduced globally, Facebook said. The social network already
operates a service that lets companies pay to promote posts.  To safeguard privacy, promoted posts will be visible only
to users permitted to see the original messages.  Facebook rose 2.1 percent to $28.50 at yesterday’s close in
New York. Shares of the Menlo Park, California-based company
have declined 25 percent since an initial public offering in
May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  