-- Female Biological Clock Runs Out as Egg Repair Genes Wane
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/female-biological-clock-runs-out-as-egg-repair-genes-wane.html
Scientists have found a possible
reason why women lose their fertility in middle age, in a
discovery that could pave the way for treatments to extend
women’s childbearing years beyond what is naturally possible.  In a series of experiments on eggs from women getting
fertility treatments, researchers learned that the function of
several DNA repair genes weaken with age. This decline is
accelerated in women near the end of their childbearing years,
according to the results published in the journal  Science
Translational Medicine.   The experiments hint at why the female biological clock
runs out as women reach their early 40s. The ability to repair
DNA inside their egg cells may become impaired, leading to
accumulating damage to the eggs that causes them to die off more
rapidly, said  Kutluk Oktay , senior author on the study and a
professor at New York Medical College in Valhalla, New York.  “We found a reason behind age-related infertility, why
women become infertile as they become older,” said Oktay, who
is also a fertility specialist at the  Institute for Fertility
Preservation  in Rye, New York. “We are saying here is how
women’s eggs age.”  The results suggest it may be possible to safely extend a
woman’s childbearing years by devising a treatment that
preserves the functions of the DNA repair genes inside the eggs.
Oktay is beginning to test substances that may accomplish this
in his laboratory, he said in a telephone interview. He wouldn’t
provide any details.  Such a treatment might be able to extend a woman’s ability
to have children into her early 50s, he said.  BRCA1 Gene  The researchers began the work after discovering several
years ago that women with the breast-cancer risk gene BRCA1 were
less responsive to drugs used to stimulate the ovary to produce
eggs in fertility preservation procedures.  “We noticed those women produced fewer eggs than those
without the mutations,” said Oktay.  BRCA1  is a DNA repair gene, and the result caused the
researchers to examine more broadly the role it and other DNA
repair genes play in female age-related fertility decline.  In the new study, the researchers took eggs from 24 women
ages 24 to 41. In laboratory experiments, they found that the
BRCA1 gene and three other DNA repair genes were much less
active in eggs from older women than younger woman, indicating a
decreasing ability to repair DNA damage to the eggs that occurs
over time.  Women are born with about 1 million egg cells in their
ovaries, and the number declines gradually over time, Oktay
said. Yet when women reach their late 30s the eggs start to
degrade at a much faster rate, for reasons that have long been
mysterious. By age 37, a woman has perhaps only 25,000 egg cells
left, he said.  ‘Compelling Evidence’  The findings “provide compelling evidence for a new
mechanism” why a woman’s eggs become dysfunctional with age,
wrote David Keefe of the New York University Langone Medical
Center and Joshua Johnson of the  Yale University School of
Medicine  in New Haven, Connecticut, in a commentary accompanying
the study.  Oktay and his colleagues also indirectly measured egg
levels in women with the bad BRCA1 gene, and compared them with
a control group of women of the same age without the genetic
mutation. The women with the BRCA1 mutation had lower levels of
a blood marker that correlates with how many egg cells are left
in their ovaries, indicating that the mutation in the DNA repair
gene was accelerating the aging of their egg cells.  The finding indicates that women with BRCA1 mutations may
lose fertility somewhat earlier and may want to consider having
children sooner, perhaps having all the children before age 35
or 36, Oktay said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  