-- Foley, Venable, Davis, Weil, Herbert: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/foley-venable-davis-weil-herbert-business-of-law.html
Foley & Lardner LLP hired labor and
employment attorney Jonathan L. Israel in the firm’s sports
industry team and labor and employment practice as a partner in
the New York office. Israel, who was an assistant general
counsel for the National Basketball Association and has
represented the New York Jets, was previously a shareholder at
Greenberg Traurig LLP, the firm said.  In addition to his sports experience, Israel has provided
corporate clients with litigation and counseling services on
labor and employment matters, including restrictive covenants
and trade secret protection, employment discrimination, wage-
and-hour issues and other matters, the firm said.  “As we continue to grow the capabilities of our New York
office, Jon’s extensive experience, combined with his deep
knowledge of labor and employment law, is an outstanding
addition for us on two fronts -- for our nationally prominent
labor and employment practice group and for an already strong
group of sports attorneys in New York, which includes former
Major League Baseball President and Chief Operating Officer Bob
DuPuy,”  Peter Wang , managing partner of Foley’s New York
office, said in a statement.  Foley’s sports practice counts the Green Bay Packers, Miami
Dolphins, Buffalo Bills, Milwaukee Brewers, Washington Nationals
and Milwaukee Bucks among its clients, the firm said. Last year,
Foley represented Guggenheim Baseball Management in its
acquisition of the Dodgers, the firm said.  Foley & Lardner has 900 attorneys in 21 offices in North
America, Europe and Asia.  Venable Hires Environmental and Regulatory Team  Environmental and regulatory affairs partner Kathryn Kusske
Floyd and of counsel Jay Johnson moved to Venable LLP’s
Washington office. Both attorneys, who have practiced together
for a decade, were previously at Dorsey & Whitney LLP.  Floyd and Johnson advise companies in the environmental
compliance, regulatory and litigation aspects of large
infrastructure and development projects. They provide counsel
regarding controversial projects that draw attention from
regulatory agencies and outside groups threatening litigation or
other disruptions, the firm said.  Douglas Green, who heads Venable’s environmental practice
group said in a statement that none of the projects the two
lawyers have taken on have ever successfully been challenged in
court. “That’s an enviable track record, one from which our
clients will benefit greatly.”  Venable has seven U.S. offices.  Sheppard Mullin Hires IP Partner in Palo Alto  James W. Soong  has joined the Palo Alto, California, office
of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP as a partner in the
firm’s intellectual property practice group. He was previously
at Greenberg Traurig LLP.  Soong counsels clients on worldwide intellectual property
strategy, including patent, trademark, copyright and trade
secret portfolio procurement and other matters. He advises
clients on patent licensing, enforcement and litigation, as well
as avoidance strategies, the firm said.  Sheppard Mullin has 30 attorneys based in Palo Alto. The
firm’s intellectual property practice group now includes more
than 85 attorneys. The firm has 630 attorneys in 16 offices in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Deals  Comcast Will Buy GE’s NBC Universal Stake for $16.7 Billion  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is advising  Comcast Corp. , the
largest U.S. cable company, which will buy out General Electric
Co.’s ownership of NBC Universal for $16.7 billion, following
through on the cable company’s purchase of a controlling stake
two years ago. Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP represented GE on all
aspects of the transaction. Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP served
as FCC regulatory counsel for Comcast.  The Davis Polk corporate team includes partners  David L. Caplan  and  Marc O. Williams . The Davis Polk team partners also
included  Avishai Shachar  and  Neil Barr , tax;  Thomas Patrick Dore Jr , real estate;  Bruce K. Dallas , capital markets advice; and
 Jason Kyrwood , credit advice.  Weil’s team included partners  Howard Chatzinoff , Jackie
Cohen,  Samuel Zylberberg ,  Jennifer Bensch  and  Kenneth Heitner .  Willkie Farr partners on the deal were  Michael Hammer  and
 Francis Buono .  The deal also involves buying the properties used by NBC
Universal at Manhattan’s 30 Rockefeller Center and CNBC’s
headquarters in New Jersey for $1.4 billion, Comcast said today
in a statement. The enterprise value of NBC Universal is now
$39.1 billion, up from $37.5 billion when Philadelphia-based
Comcast bought the stake in 2011.  Comcast, the biggest U.S. cable company, bought 51 percent
of NBC on Jan. 29 of that year for $13.8 billion in cash and
assets. Since then, the company has benefited from improving
ratings at the NBC broadcast network and better-than-expected ad
revenue from the Olympics. For GE, the deal turns an asset that
didn’t fit with its business into a source of cash.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Herbert Smith Opens German Office With Thaeter From Gleiss Lutz  Herbert Smith Freehills LLP will open a German branch and
hired Ralf Thaeter, a corporate partner from Gleiss Lutz, its
former alliance partner in the country.  The law firm will open an office in Frankfurt during the
second quarter, it said in a  statement  on its website today.
Thaeter will move to the firm in April, he said in an interview.  “At Herbert Smith Freehills I see the chance to expand my
practice further on a global and international platform,” said
Thaeter, who last year advised Germany in its role as
shareholder in European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. during
the largest revamp in the company’s ownership since its
creation. “Setting up the German presence is a really exciting
job.”  Herbert Smith ended a decade-long alliance with Gleiss Lutz
after the German firm rejected a merger offer. The London-based
firm merged with Australia’s Freehills last year.  King & Wood Mallesons Australia Appoints New Chairman  King & Wood Mallesons  (Australia) appointed Stephen Minns
chairman of the Australian Board. Minns replaces  Tim Bednall ,
who served as chairman for three years overseeing the firm’s
combination with China’s King & Wood last year.  Minns joined the firm in 1986 from investment banking in
Sydney and in London. He will continue his practice specializing
in public company acquisitions and equity issues, as well as
general corporate work, the firm said.  Bednall returns to his mergers and acquisitions, corporate
advisory and competition law practice.  “The past year has been an extraordinary one for the firm.
The combination to create a powerhouse legal brand in the Asian
region coupled with a challenging economic environment has meant
that we’ve had to adopt new ways of thinking, and more
meaningful ways of engaging with clients,” Tony O’Malley,
managing partner, Australia said in a statement. “Tim has been
at the center of this drive and I thank him for his support.
Stephen’s appointment will bring a seasoned insight into our
business and I look forward to working with him to realize the
benefits of our combination for both our clients and our
people.”  Litigation  Former Mercury Interactive Lawyer Skaer Must Face SEC Case  Susan Skaer , former general counsel of  Hewlett-Packard
Co .’s Mercury Interactive unit, lost her bid for dismissal of a
U.S. lawsuit alleging she took part in a scheme to improperly
backdate stock options.  U.S. District Judge  William Alsup  in San Francisco denied
Skaer’s request to throw out U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission claims, according to a court filing yesterday.  “A jury could reasonably find that attorney Skaer was a
knowing participant in a scheme by which defendants caused
Mercury to issue backdated stock options in violation of
Mercury’s internal stock options plans and without reporting
compensation expenses,” Alsup said. He also rejected her
arguments that the SEC waited too long to sue her.  James Kramer , an attorney for Skaer, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is SEC v. Landan, 07-2822, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  