-- Henry Ford Great-Great Granddaughter Gets Promotion
-- B y   B i l l   K o e n i g   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ford-promotes-executive-chairman-s-cousin-vice-president.html
Ford Motor Co. , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, elevated Elena Ford , a cousin of Executive
Chairman Bill Ford, to vice president.  Elena Ford, 46, will head a new global dealer and consumer
experience group, the Dearborn, Michigan-based company said in a
statement. She will report to Jim Farley , the company’s global
marketing chief. She is the great-great-granddaughter of company
founder Henry Ford.  Ford is zeroing in on the customer experience to follow the
overhauling of its lineup under Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally . The company told dealers this week that it will match
as much as $750,000 of investments in their stores. The Lincoln
luxury brand has introduced a concierge service to the car-
shopping process and “Lincoln Date Night,” a test-drive
program in which potential buyers are treated to dinner.  Elena Ford is the first member of the Ford family to become
a vice president of the company since Bill Ford was appointed to
lead the commercial truck division in 1994.  The Ford family controls the automaker through 70.9 million
Class B shares. Two family members,  Bill Ford , 55, and  Edsel Ford , 64, are directors. Bill Ford was also chief executive
officer from 2001 until 2006, when he yielded the post to
Mulally, 67.  Ford also named  Ray Day  group vice president of
communications. He has led the communications group as vice
president for the past five years.  The shares gained 0.5 percent to $13.11 at the close in New
York. Ford has risen 1.2 percent this year, compared with the
6.7 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Koenig in Southfield. Michigan at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  