-- Foreclosure Filings Drop to 6-Year Low on California Law
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/foreclosure-filings-drop-to-6-year-low-on-california-law.html
U.S.  foreclosure filings  fell 28
percent last month from a year earlier to the lowest level since
April 2007, as a new California law slowed first-time defaults
in the most-populous state, according to  RealtyTrac .  Filings across the nation dropped 7 percent from December
to 150,864, with one in 869 U.S. households receiving a notice,
according to the data provider. New homeowner protections in
 California  played an outsized role in the national decrease, as
notices of defaults there slid 62 percent from a year earlier to
an 87-month low, RealtyTrac said.  “The U.S. foreclosure landscape in January was profoundly
altered by the effects of new legislation that took effect in
California on the first of the year,”  Daren Blomquist , vice
president at Irvine, California-based RealtyTrac, said in the
report. A slowdown in the state’s defaults “accelerated into
hyper speed.”  A drop in foreclosures is helping to fuel a U.S. housing
recovery that’s even more pronounced in California. Prices
increased in 88 percent of U.S. metropolitan areas in the fourth
quarter, with five cities in the state ranking among the 20
costliest, the National Association of Realtors said this week.  In Southern California, sales last month were the highest
for a January in six years, while the median price of a property
jumped almost 24 percent from a year earlier to $321,000,
research firm DataQuick reported yesterday. The number of
purchases between $300,000 and $800,000 in the six-county region
soared almost 50 percent from January 2012, according to the San
Diego-based company.  New Law  The new California law includes stricter standards for
mortgage servicers such as a prohibition on “dual tracking” --
simultaneously pursuing a foreclosure while borrowers are in the
process of applying for a loan modification -- and fines of as
much as $7,500 per loan for filing unverified foreclosure
documents, according to Blomquist.  “In the short-term, the new law will probably prop up
prices by restricting inventory, but it’s artificially holding
back supply that would otherwise be listed for sale,” Blomquist
said in an interview. Sellers, however, may be persuaded to
“move off the fence” with less competition from distressed
inventory, he said.  Nationwide, tight  supply  and borrowing costs near record
lows may drive prices higher this year and reduce the inventory
of distressed homes, according to a Feb. 12 report from JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Falling Inventory  “We could see home prices improve in states like Florida
by as much as 10 percent as investors compete for property and
the distressed sale discount diminishes,” analysts led by  John Sim  in New York wrote in the report.  Florida  led the U.S. with the most foreclosure filings in
January, the first month since 2007 that California hasn’t held
the top spot. Florida also had the nation’s highest foreclosure
rate for the fifth straight month, at one in 300 households,
RealtyTrac said.  First-time default notices increased in states without
court supervision of the process, led by a more than sixfold
gain in Arkansas, a 179 percent increase in Washington and an 87
percent rise in Nevada, said RealtyTrac, which sells default
data from counties representing 90 percent of the U.S.
population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  