-- Forint Drops First Time in Week as Recession Spurs Rate Cut Bets
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-14T15:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/forint-heads-for-first-drop-in-week-as-hungary-recession-deepens.html
The forint weakened for the first
time in more than a week and yields fell to a three-year low at
a Treasury-bill sale as Hungary’s recession deepened and
inflation slowed, fueling speculation for interest-rate cuts.  Hungary’s currency fell from the strongest in a month in
the biggest plunge among major currencies worldwide after
reports showed gross domestic product fell 2.7 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the most in three years.
Inflation cooled to 3.7 percent in January, the lowest since
September 2011. Traders increased on bets on rate cuts to the
highest in a month.  “The bleak data and heightened expectations of further
rate cuts have clearly weakened the forint today,”  Annika Lindblad , a Helsinki-based analyst at Nordea Bank AB, wrote in
e-mailed comments. “Dismal, the only word that properly
describes Hungary’s GDP data.”  The forint depreciated 0.8 percent to 292.34 per euro by 4
p.m. in Budapest and 1.7 percent versus the dollar. Borrowing
costs fell to the  lowest  since May 2010 at the auction of 75
billion forint ($342 million) of 12-month bills, 50 percent more
than planned, according to the Debt Management Agency in
Budapest.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has lowered the benchmark rate by a
cumulative 1.5 percentage points since August to 5.5 percent,
the lowest level since 2010.  Rate Bets  Forward-rate agreements fixing interest in 12 months fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.33 percent,
the lowest intraday level in almost three years. The FRA
contracts traded 112 basis points below the Budapest Interbank
Offered Rate, the widest spread in a month.  The forint tumbled about 11 percent versus the euro in
2011, its worst performance since records began in 1999, after
Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s government levied special taxes on
companies, nationalized privately managed pension fund holdings
and forced banks to take losses on foreign-currency loans to
shore up the public finances.  The currency rebounded from an all-time low on Jan. 5 last
year, recovering 62 percent of its losses from 2011, as near-
zero rates in the U.S. and Europe boosted demand for riskier
assets and Orban took steps to cut government debt.  The nation slipped into its second recession in four years
as spending cuts damped demand, a drought cut agricultural
output and the euro region’s debt crisis weakened demand for
exports. The 2.7 percent contraction in the fourth quarter was
more than the 1.9 percent decline predicted in a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  Unpredictable Policies  Hungary’s “unpredictable” economic policies expose the
country to changes in risk appetite,  Matteo Napolitano , a
London-based director at Fitch Ratings, said in a statement
today.  Fitch rates Hungary at BB+, one step below investment
grade, with a stable outlook, as the country can access
international debt markets and can finance itself through next
year, Napolitano said. “However, the medium-term growth outlook
is weak,” he said.  The forint rallied in the five days through yesterday as
the government raised $3.25 billion in its first sale of foreign
bonds in 21 months, after getting $12 billion in bids.  “The forint has had a little jerk up here because they
came to market and raised some money, but I don’t think that
changes the fundamental situation,”  Jan Dehn , co-head of
research at Ashmore Investment Management Ltd., said in an
interview in London yesterday. “Hungary is going to struggle
with growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  