-- France Says Spanghero Suspected in Swapping Horse-Meat Labels
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-14T19:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/france-says-spanghero-suspected-in-swapping-horse-meat-labels.html
Spanghero SAS, a French meat-
processing company, received at least 750 tons of meat coded as
horse that left its facility labeled as European Union beef,
France’s government said.  Comigel, which produced several of the prepared meals
including beef lasagne and spaghetti Bolognese that were later
found to contain horse, got meat from Spanghero that was labeled
as EU beef,  Benoit Hamon , junior minister for consumer affairs,
told reporters in Paris today.  “Once the meat was unpacked and unfrozen, Comigel could
have questioned the fact that the color and smell of the meat
was not that of beef,” Hamon said. Also, fresh meat in the
European Union must indicate the country of origin, he said.  Spanghero didn’t knowingly order or resell horse meat, a
spokesman for the Castelnaudry, France-based company said. He
declined to give his name.  Supermarkets in the U.K., Ireland, France, the Netherlands
and Germany have pulled tainted frozen beef burgers and lasagnas
from shelves in the past month. EU Health and Consumer
Commissioner  Tonio Borg  told reporters after a meeting of
European ministers in Brussels yesterday that criminal
investigations will be coordinated by Europol.  France will hand the information on Spanghero to
prosecutors who will determine if charges will be filed, Hamon
said. “It’s either a major case of absent-mindedness or a
massive deceit,” he said. “It’s very possible that complicity
exists on a European level.”  U.K. Arrests  U.K. police investigating allegations that horsemeat was
mislabelled as beef have arrested three men, the British
Broadcasting Corp. reported, citing Dyfed-Powys Police.  EU nations should test thousands of processed beef products
for horse meat to establish the scale of the labeling scandal
and analyze slaughtered horses for the veterinary drug
phenylbutazone, known as bute, the EU said yesterday.  The U.K. Food Standards Agency will announce the results of
industry tests on beef products for the presence of horse meat
tomorrow. The FSA said today that no bute was found in Findus
products withdrawn after horse meat was detected.  Six slaughtered horses that tested positive for bute may
have entered the food chain in France, the agency said. The drug
poses a very low risk to human health, the U.K. chief medical
officer said in a statement. A person would have to eat 500 to
600 burgers of pure tainted horse meat a day to consume close to
a human’s daily dose.  Three horse carcasses contaminated with bute entered France
from the U.K., and French inspectors found the dead animals
today at a company in the country’s northern Nord-Pas-de-Calais
region, Agriculture Minister  Stephane Le Foll  told reporters.
The carcasses were found after France was alerted by U.K.
authorities and will be destroyed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  