-- Fresno Mayor Orders Worker Cuts to Fend Off Insolvency
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-02-14T00:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/fresno-mayor-orders-worker-cuts-to-fend-off-insolvency.html
The mayor of Fresno, California,
ordered more city workers fired to cut payroll costs after
municipal unions gathered enough signatures to block part of her
plan to keep the city out of bankruptcy.  Mayor  Ashley Swearengin  said she ordered the city manager
to draw up layoff plans after a union-led petition drive forced
the City Council to consider a ballot measure on her plan to
privatize residential trash services, according to a  statement .
The plan, approved by the council in December, was projected to
raise $200,000 a month beginning in March.  Fresno, California’s fifth-largest city at about 510,000,
has seen labor costs rise after tax revenue fell in the longest
recession since the 1930s. Moody’s Investors Service lowered the
city’s issuer debt rating in July to A3, the fourth-lowest
investment grade, from A2, and cut its lease-supported
obligations last month to Ba1, a non-investment grade, from
Baa2.  “There are two actions that we must take to protect our
city from complete decimation of public safety and, potentially,
insolvency -- privatizing our solid waste services and
relatively modest concessions from our bargaining groups,”
Swearengin said.  Stockton , with 292,000 people about 80 miles east of San
Francisco, became the biggest U.S. city by population to go
bankrupt with a filing in June amid rising labor, pension and
retiree health costs.  San Bernardino , a city of about 213,000
people 60 miles east of Los Angeles, sought court protection
Aug. 1.  Fresno officials have repeatedly said they don’t intend to
follow the path taken by those cities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  