-- Russia Urges Stronger G-20 Stance on Currency Manipulation
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r ,   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-02-14T14:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/g-20-head-russia-seeks-stronger-stance-on-currency-manipulation.html
The Group of 20 nations should take
a stronger stance against currency manipulation at a meeting in
Moscow, Russian Finance Minister  Anton Siluanov  said after
conflicting statements on the weakening yen roiled markets.  Russia wants more “specific” language opposing exchange-
rate interference in the communique that will be issued after
talks among finance chiefs this week, Siluanov said in an
interview today with Bloomberg Television’s  Ryan Chilcote .
Russia holds the G-20’s rotating presidency this year.  “The G-20 countries have always held the position that
currency policy should be based on market conditions,” Siluanov
said. “I think we should take a more specific stance on this.”  Russian central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexey Ulyukayev 
warned last month that the world was nearing the brink of a
fresh “currency war” as countries weaken their currencies to
make their exports more competitive. The yen has tumbled 17
percent in the past three months against the dollar. Financial
markets whipsawed two days ago as the Group of Seven major
industrialized countries issued a statement viewed by investors
as accepting a declining yen, only for officials to then split
over whether Japan was being singled out.  Yen Tolerance  The spotlight now falls on this weekend’s G-20 meeting in
the Russian capital as investors question how much tolerance
there is for a weaker yen.  G-20 finance chiefs in November called for member nations
to refrain from competitive devaluations and move rapidly toward
more market-based exchange rates. One issue that will be
addressed in Moscow is how foreign bond purchases can influence
exchange rates, Siluanov said.  “Sharp moves in exchange rates of any country should be
predictable, and actually shouldn’t happen at all,” he said.
“We need to speak out more precisely about this issue and
perhaps move from general phrases to more specific measures.”  New Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s government denies
driving a devaluation, saying its two-month effort to revive the
economy through looser monetary policy is aimed at ending
deflation.  Japanese Stimulus  The yen’s 55 percent surge over the five years through 2011
hammered Japan’s exporters, and helped spur the Liberal
Democratic Party to adopt monetary stimulus as a campaign issue
during the election that ushered it back to office in December.  Finance Minister  Taro Aso  on Dec. 31 rejected trading
partners’ right to criticize Japan’s currency policies. He said
that the U.S. should have a stronger dollar and questioned
whether major G-20 nations had stuck to pledges from 2009 to
avoid competitive devaluations. During his election campaign,
Abe said foreign-bond purchases were a possible monetary tool.  G-20 nations will press Japan to clarify its policy toward
exchange-rate movements, said the Russian finance minister.  “We have to get to the bottom of this of course, listen to
our Japanese colleagues and how they explain this and what
decisions they will take and what exchange-rate policy they will
follow,” Siluanov said.  Major G-20 economies have reached a consensus that market-
determined exchange rates are an “important element of firm,
stable and long-term growth” and that’s it’s not worth
interfering with market forces, Ulyukayev told Bloomberg News
today.  Broad Agreement  Still, the confusion surrounding the G-7 stance on the
yen’s decline makes it unlikely the larger G-20 group can agree
on effective action, according to  Daragh Maher , a currency
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.  “The G-7 ended with three different interpretations of a
communique,” Maher said in a radio interview today on
“Bloomberg the First Word” with  Michael McKee . “What’s the
likelihood we can get agreement from 20 people around a table?”  If Japan wants to see the yen sold against other G-7
currencies, “it will very likely happen,”  Steven Englander ,
head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc., said in
an e-mailed research note yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  