-- G-20 Pledge to Refrain From Competitive Devaluations, Draft Says
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-02-14T16:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/g-20-pledge-to-refrain-from-competitive-devaluations-draft-says.html
Group of 20  finance chiefs will
reaffirm a pledge to “refrain from competitive devaluation”
and will commit to monitoring “possible monetary-policy
spillover,” according to a draft statement obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The language on currencies in the draft is similar to the
last statement released by G-20 officials on Nov. 5, and
predates by one day a Feb. 12 statement by Group of Seven
officials that commits the major industrial countries to not use
domestic policies to target exchange rates.  “We reaffirm our commitment to achieve a lasting reduction
in global imbalances through our joint actions to avoid
persistent exchange-rate misalignment, refrain from competitive
devaluation, resist protectionism in all forms and keep markets
open,” the group said in the draft, which is dated Feb. 11.  Russian Finance Minister  Anton Siluanov , who is chairing
the meetings of G-20 finance ministers and central bankers in
Moscow on Feb. 15-16, said today he is pushing for a stronger
stance against currency manipulation than the group has adopted
in the past. Financial markets whipsawed two days ago as the G-7
issued a statement viewed by investors as accepting a declining
yen, only for officials to then split over whether Japan was
being singled out.  The draft communique also says the G-20 is “mindful”
there could be spillovers of monetary policy between countries
and will continue to monitor their impact.  “Monetary policy should be directed toward domestic price
stability, while continuing to support economic recovery,”
according to the draft. The G-20 will continue to take into
account “country-specific circumstances” in determining
sustainable levels of debt, while monitoring spillovers between
public debt on the financial sector, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  