-- LG Electronics Targets 15% Increase in Flat-Screen TV Sales
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-02-14T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/lg-electronics-plans-to-boost-flat-screen-tv-sales-15-this-year.html
LG Electronics Inc. , the world’s
second-largest maker of TVs, plans to increase television sales
15 percent this year by offering sets with new display
technology and more advanced functions.  The target is about 10 percentage points higher than
projected growth in the global flat-screen TV market, LG said in
a statement today. The Seoul-based manufacturer sold about 30
million flat-screen TVs last year, it said.  LG plans to focus more on higher-margin TVs using new
display technologies, including ultra-high definition screens
and organic light-emitting diodes, or OLED, to combat slowing
profitability in the industry as consumers shift toward portable
devices. The company released an upgraded version of an
Internet-enabled TV with 3-D capability in South Korea today.  LG said Jan. 30 its fourth-quarter  net loss  widened to 468
billion won ($432 million) from a 112 billion-won loss a year
earlier as the strengthening South Korean currency hampered
efforts to compete against overseas rivals.  Operating profit at LG’s home-entertainment division, which
includes TVs, fell to 19.2 billion won in the quarter from 168.2
billion won a year earlier. The company shipped 9.25 million
flat-screen TVs in the October-December period.  LG  rose  1 percent to 73,700 won as of 1:51 p.m. in Seoul
trading, erasing its decline for the year. South Korea’s
benchmark Kospi index has dropped 1.1 percent this year.  Market Outlook  Global TV shipments probably fell more than 4 percent last
year and will be little changed in 2013, market researcher
DisplaySearch said in an Oct. 24 report.  “The global TV market this year doesn’t seem that
bright,”  Havis Kwon , head of LG’s TV business, told reporters
today in Seoul. “The weakening yen is also helping Japanese
companies rebound, and helping lift their price
competitiveness.”  LG said Jan. 2 it started selling a 55-inch OLED set in
South Korea for 11 million won ($10,140), giving the company a
head start in mass-marketing the technology as its larger rival,
Samsung Electronics Co., has yet to begin sales. LG will expand
OLED TV sales to North America, Europe and other Asian markets
in the first quarter, it said at the time.  OLED screens are thinner and use less power than current
liquid-crystal-display panels, while offering sharper images.  Advance orders for LG’s OLED models have reached 100 so
far, the company said.  High-margin TV models helped Samsung boost fourth-quarter
operating profit at its  consumer-electronics unit , which makes
televisions and home appliances, to 740 billion won from 540
billion won a year earlier, the Suwon, South Korea-based company
said Jan. 25.  Samsung sold more than 51 million flat-screen TVs worldwide
last year, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  