-- German Stocks Fall as Euro-Area Economy Shrinks
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-02-14T17:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/german-stocks-are-little-changed-as-economy-shrinks.html
German stocks  fell for the first
time in three days as a report showed the economy of the 17
nations using the euro contracted more than forecast.  Infineon Technologies AG and Pfeiffer Vacuum Technology AG
dropped more than 2 percent as HSBC Holdings Plc recommended
that investors sell the shares. Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank
AG, Germany’s two biggest lenders, lost more than 1 percent.  The benchmark  DAX Index  slid 1.1 percent to 7,631.19 at the
close, paring the gauge’s advance this year to 0.3 percent, the
worst performance among 24 developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg. The broader HDAX Index slipped 1 percent today.  “We have the headwind of fiscal austerity across Europe
this year,” said  Michael Morris , who oversees $1 billion as
head of European equities at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management in
London, and is now investing in European companies with sales in
the U.S. “This is a time for risk-off sentiment after the
strong run the market has had. The market is vulnerable at these
levels, but there are still a lot of investors on the sidelines
who see this as an opportunity.”  The number of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 13 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The  euro area’s recession  deepened in the fourth quarter,
with the combined economy of the 17 nations that use the
currency contracting the most since the first quarter of 2009.
Gross domestic product fell 0.6 percent from the third quarter,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said. That
was wider than the 0.4 percent contraction called for in a
survey of  45 economists .  Germany’s Economy  The  German economy , Europe’s largest, shrank more than
economists had forecast as exports declined. Gross domestic
product fell 0.6 percent from the third quarter, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said. The median projection in a
Bloomberg News survey had called for it to shrink 0.5 percent.  Infineon Technologies  retreated 2.2 percent to 6.29 euros.
HSBC downgraded its rating on Europe’s second-largest
semiconductor manufacturer to underweight, the equivalent of a
sell recommendation, from neutral. The brokerage said Infineon’s
margins most improve over the next few quarters to justify its
current valuation.  Pfeiffer Vacuum , which produces vacuum pumps, slid 3.3
percent to 90.77 euros. HSBC also cut its recommendation on the
stock to underweight from neutral.  Deutsche Bank and  Commerzbank  dropped 1.2 percent to 36.32
euros and 1.5 percent to 1.47 euros, respectively.  ThyssenKrupp Slips  ThyssenKrupp AG , Germany’s largest steelmaker, fell 1.6
percent to 17.62 euros. Finnish peer Outokumpu Oyj predicted
that operating profit will decline in the first quarter.  Suess Microtec AG  retreated 3.8 percent to 8.81 euros,
dropping the most in almost 16 months. The Garching, Germany-
based technology company predicted that earnings before interest
and taxes will drop to the low single-digit million euros in
2013 from 11.7 million euros ($15.6 million) last year. The
company will report its final full-year earnings on March 28.  Rheinmetall AG  surged 7.3 percent to 43.31 euros, its
biggest gain in 15 months. The arms company posted Ebit of 301
million euros for 2012, more than the median analyst estimate of
291 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  