-- German Yields Fall Most in Two Weeks as Recession Deepens
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-14T16:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/german-bonds-are-little-changed-before-euro-area-gdp-data.html
Germany’s bonds rose, with two-year
yields falling the most in almost two weeks, as data showed the
 euro-area recession  deepened more than economists predicted,
spurring demand for the region’s safest assets.  Benchmark  10-year bund  yields dropped from within a basis
point of the highest level in more than a week as separate
reports showed gross domestic product in France and Germany also
declined. French and Dutch bonds advanced as European Central
Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said that negative deposit
rates are “always possible” if needed. The European Financial
Stability Facility sold 1 billion euros of bonds maturing in
April 2037 through banks.  “The weaker-than-expected performance of the euro-zone
economy in the fourth quarter will trigger further downward
revisions of 2013 GDP growth forecasts,” said  Marius Daheim , a
senior fixed-income strategist at Bayerische Landesbank in
Munich. “Constancio has also said that the ECB is technically
prepared for negative interest rates and that these are possible
any time. The commentary is crucial as we have seen a parallel
downmove in German yields.”  Germany’s 10-year bund yield fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.64 percent at 4:50 p.m. London time.
It climbed to 1.70 percent yesterday, the highest since Feb. 4.
The 1.5 percent security due in February 2023 rose 0.295 or 2.95
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,333) face amount, to 98.73.  The  two-year  note yield dropped four basis points to 0.18
percent, after falling as much as five basis points, the biggest
intraday decline since Feb. 1.  Constancio Comments  The ECB is “technically ready” to reduce its deposit rate
below zero, Constancio said in Brussels today. “It’s not clear
cut. It’s a possibility,” he said.  The ECB’s deposit rate is currently at zero percent. The
Frankfurt-based central bank usually moves its three interest
rates in tandem. Policy makers kept the main refinancing rate at
a record-low 0.75 percent at a Feb. 7 meeting.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation region fell 0.6
percent in the fourth quarter from the previous three months,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That’s the worst performance since the first quarter of 2009 and
exceeded the 0.4 percent median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The data “reminds us that Europe isn’t an economic
powerhouse,” said  Niels From , chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB
in Copenhagen. “The improvement in sentiment is still
overshadowing this data.”  Growth Data  German  GDP  contracted 0.6 percent from the third quarter,
when it gained 0.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said earlier today. That compares with a median
forecast of a 0.5 percent drop in a Bloomberg survey. The French
economy also shrank more than forecast, with GDP falling 0.3
percent in the fourth quarter.  Dutch 10-year bond yields declined two basis points to 1.86
percent. The rate on similar-maturity French bonds also dropped
two basis points, to 2.26 percent.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of the Netherlands and Belgium,
according to measures of 10-year or similar-maturity debt, the
yield spread between two-year and 10-year securities, and
credit-default swaps.  The EFSF, Europe’s temporary bailout fund, sold 25-year
securities at 45 basis points more than the mid-swap rate,
implying a yield of 2.959 percent, it said in an e-mailed report
today.  German government bonds handed investors a loss of 1.8
percent this year through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Italian debt returned 1.2 percent and
Spanish securities gained 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  