-- Merkel’s Coalition Agrees to Limit Power-Price Increases
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-02-14T13:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/german-ministers-agree-on-plan-to-limit-power-price-increases.html
Germany’s environment and economy
ministers, coalition partners from different parties who have
clashed over the country’s shift from nuclear power, forged a
joint plan to slow power-price increases caused by subsidies for
renewable energy.  The agreement by Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  and
Economy Minister  Philipp Roesler  includes reduced compensation
for both existing and new renewable sites and fewer exceptions
for energy-intensive companies, Altmaier’s ministry said in a
 statement . The proposals limit the surcharge consumers pay for
funding renewables to 5.28 euro cents (7.04 cents) a kilowatt-
hour next year and an annual increase to 2.5 percent in future.  The deal, which would save consumers an estimated 1.86
billion euros in 2014, sets up an election-year conflict between
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government and opposition-controlled
states, which can block the changes in the upper house. Both
ministers are holding talks with regional officials today.  “The states have to look very carefully at whether they
want to back or reject this brake on power prices,” Roesler
said today on ARD television. “Whoever refuses the model will
be politically responsible for any further price increase.”  Law This Year  The cost of Merkel’s decision made following the Fukushima
disaster to shutter atomic plants in favor of renewables such as
solar and wind power is becoming a campaign theme before the
Sept. 22 elections. Roesler said the “way is now open” for
legislation before the election.  The planned subsidy cuts may “throttle” renewables
expansion by curbing investment, the Berlin-based BEE renewable
energy federation said in a statement after the proposals were
announced. Merkel should instead cut energy tax that comprises
about 25 percent of power prices, the BEE said.  Germany wants to more than triple the share of renewables
in the energy mix by 2050 as it phases out nuclear generation.
The scale of the energy transformation, the most dramatic
overhaul since World War II, and the risks it carries to
Europe’s biggest economy has moved the soaring cost of
electricity to the center of the political and economic agenda.  Germany’s four electricity grid operators said in October
that consumers would shoulder an average increase in subsidies
for renewables of 47 percent per kilowatt-hour this year.  Solar Panels  While it was a coalition government of Social Democrats and
the Green Party that first legislated to shutter all Germany’s
nuclear plants, they oppose aspects of Merkel’s energy overhaul.
Now in opposition, the SPD and Greens used their majority in the
upper house, the Bundesrat, to block a law last year lowering
subsidies to the solar industry, saying that the reduced tariffs
put panel makers at risk. The legislation was passed after going
to a mediation committee. The SPD says that the latest
government moves will slow the expansion of renewables.  The planned savings, if agreed by the opposition-controlled
states, may lower the estimated 20.36 billion euros that Germans
are set to pay this year for electricity from renewable sources.
Electricity companies are compelled to pay for power from solar
plants and wind parks that is tapped into the national grid, the
costs of which are then passed on to consumers and industry.  Altmaier proposed a shift in clean-energy expansion costs
last month to producers from consumers to stem the price surge.
Roesler, who leads the pro-business Free Democratic Party,
Merkel’s junior coalition partner, had resisted the change.  Consumers could face a 10 percent increase in the
renewables surcharge next fall without any action, Altmaier said
in an interview with Phoenix television. The government proposes
limiting any rise to 2.5 percent per year. “A lot of citizens
are prepared to pay that for the energy overhaul,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  