-- Ramsay Hands U.K. Spotted Pig Trademark to U.S. Owners
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-02-14T21:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/gordon-ramsay-succeeds-in-spotted-pig-u-k-application.html
Gordon Ramsay  Holdings International
Ltd. has obtained the U.K. trademark for “The Spotted Pig” and
immediately handed it over to owners to the New York restaurant
and bar of the same name.  “We have been liaising with The Spotted Pig in New York for
some months, and had arranged for the trademark to be passed to
them once it was registered,” according to an e-mailed statement
from Gordon Ramsay Holdings today. “This has now happened.”  The New York venue is owned by chefs  Mario Batali  and  April Bloomfield  and a group including restaurateur  Ken Friedman . It
also attracted attention because of investments from celebrities
such as  Bono  and  Jay-Z .  Ramsay’s application for the U.K. trademark caused
controversy after it was reported by Bloomberg News on Nov. 20
last year.  One party expressed an intention to oppose the application,
and the opposition period has now expired, the Intellectual
Property Office said in an e-mailed response to a query by
Bloomberg News. The office does not identify objectors. The
right to use the name lasts for 10 years.  Anthony Bourdain  and  Jamie Oliver  were among chefs who
criticized the application. Bourdain said the attempt to use the
name was shameful.  “Gordon Ramsay registers name ‘Spotted Pig’ in England?”
Bourdain said in a message posted on Twitter on Nov. 20,
according to  Eater.com .  Oliver responded: “April & Ken have built something very
special & one day I hope they will bring it to London. We like
originals,” the  Daily Mail  reported.  The Intellectual Property Office website shows one other
 trademark application  by the Gordon Ramsay Holdings since 2008.
That is for the name Cafe Nick.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  