-- Greencoat Taps $63 Billion Wind Assets in U.K. IPO
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-02-14T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/greencoat-taps-63-billion-wind-assets-in-u-k-ipo.html
Greencoat U.K. Wind Plc, planning
Britain’s biggest renewable energy IPO, expects to tap a 40
billion pound ($63 billion) pool of assets that will drive
payouts to shareholders almost triple what bonds yield.  The initial public offering aimed at raising 205 million
pounds next month marks the first time an infrastructure fund
will list on the stock exchange to buy power plants driven by
low-carbon fuels, said  Laurence Fumagalli , a partner at
Greencoat Capital LLP, which manages the fund.  The IPO would help the U.K. government lure investment for
its aging electricity network as funding dries up from
traditional sources such as private equity and bank lending. For
investors, Greencoat intends to pay a dividend of 6 percent on
each 100-pence share, beating yields of about 2.2 percent for
10-year U.K. government gilts.  “The government is trying to mobilize up to 100 billion
pounds into this sector in the next 10 to 15 years,” Fumagalli
said in an interview in London. “This is not going to come
through the private equity route.”  Greencoat already has agreed to buy wind farms from  RWE AG 
and  SSE Plc . Utilities and developers may put similar facilities
worth as much as 40 billion pounds in operation, under
construction or in approvals in the next few years and that the
fund is a natural buyer for some of those assets, said  Stephen Lilley , partner at Greencoat Capital.  VC Alternative  Venture capital and private equity slashed investment in
renewable energy 34 percent to $5.8 billion last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. VC firms traditionally seek to
realize gains from their investments within seven years, and
wind farms often operate for 20 or more.  “The 10-year closed end structure was born in the private
equity world and was perfectly suited to that, but it’s utterly
unsuited to long-term asset ownership,” Fumagalli said.
“Listed investors are the natural long-term owner of these
assets. If you look at the kind of yields from other asset
classes, the 6 percent inflating yield that we’re intending to
pay looks very attractive.”  Greencoat’s strategy matches the tenor of wind assets with
its fund, which doesn’t have a time limit like many VC
investments. It allows utilities to release cash by selling
assets while giving investors a way to tap into renewables that
doesn’t commit capital through time-limited VC investment.  Replicating Model  That sort of structure may be duplicated elsewhere in the
coming years because it’s attractive both to investors and
industry, said  Richard Simon-Lewis , senior director for  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc ’s team working on project finance for
renewables.  “The IPO being progressed by Greencoat Capital is an 
elegant solution, and something that is likely to be
replicated,” Simon-Lewis said.  With predictable and low operating costs, wind assets are
more suited to ownership through a fund than traditional forms
of generation, Fumagalli said. Returns from natural gas and coal
plants depend on the cost of the fuel, which isn’t as easy to
predict as output over the course of a year from wind turbines,
he said.  Funds like Greencoat tap a deeper pool of capital than VC
firms that helped start the renewables industry. Equities
typically account for 40 percent of the resources in pension
funds, with bonds making up much of the rest. VC and PE
investments take a smaller portion, Fumagalli said.  Government Backing  The British government supports Greencoat’s IPO and plans
to take shares worth about 50 million pounds through the
Department of Business, Innovation and Skills. Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s administration has a target to get 30 percent of
its power from renewables by 2020, up from about 12 percent now.  The sum is part of the 3 billion pounds of state funds
allocated to the U.K. Green Investment Bank set up to spur low-
carbon infrastructure, a BIS spokeswoman said by phone.
Greencoat approached the government about the investment in 2011
and developed it with a team at BIS before the European
Commission granted the GIB approval to operate on Oct. 17,
according to both BIS and Greencoat officials.  Greencoat hasn’t disclosed a target for how many wind farms
it will acquire or the value of investments it will make after
the IPO. Other investors such as pension funds and renewable
asset owners will compete with Greencoat for those assets,
Lilley said.  Growth Plan  “As an illustration, even if the fund were to grow and be
a billion pounds in size by then, that would be only 3 percent
of the market,” Lilley said in an interview.  SSE, based in Perth, Scotland, agreed to sell four wind
farms for 140 million pounds to Greencoat, with as much as 43
million pounds of that to be invested in the IPO. RWE Innogy,
the German utility’s renewables unit, will sell 49.9 percent in
its Rhyl Flats offshore park to Greencoat and the Green
Investment Bank, along with shares in another venture.  Greencoat agreed to pay 1.8 million pounds a megawatt for
the onshore wind parks, which the company said was in line with
market prices.  “The utilities have been building and developing these
assets for the last decade. They’re looking to sell out of some
of their existing asset fleet and recycle the capital so they
can build more capacity,” Fumagalli said.  The Greencoat IPO is the biggest for the U.K. wind industry
after turbine manufacturer Clipper Windpower Ltd. listed on
London’s Alternative Investment Market in 2005, raising 75
million pounds. Developer Renewable Energy Generation Ltd.
raised 25 million pounds in an IPO that year.  Tim Ingram, former chief executive of  Caledonia Investments
Plc , will be chairman of the company board.  William Rickett ,
former director general for the U.K. Department of Energy and
Climate Change, is also on the board. He left the department
before the fund’s concept was created, according to an e-mail
from  Richard Nourse , Greencoat Capital managing partner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  