-- Iberdrola Net Drops 33% in Fourth Quarter on Spain, Brazil
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-02-14T09:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/iberdrola-profit-drops-33-in-fourth-quarter-on-spain-brazil.html
Iberdrola SA , Spain’s largest
electricity utility, said fourth-quarter profit declined 33
percent on lower income from Brazil and at home.  Net income fell to 440 million euros ($589 million) from
661.6 million euros a year earlier, the company said today in a
filing. That missed the 520 million-euro average estimate of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company’s share
buyback plan was expanded today, and the stock climbed.  Chairman  Ignacio Galan  announced plans in October to cut
about 4 percent of the workforce and sell assets worth as much
as 5 billion euros by 2014 as the utility made a priority of
reducing leverage and investing in regulated businesses.
Divestments totaled about 850 million euros as of Dec. 31.  The plan “will expectedly solve its still too-high
leverage and at the same time shift towards the less-volatile
regulated business, setting the grounds for future secure
growth,” BPI analysts  Bruno Silva  and  Gonzalo Sanchez-Bordona 
wrote in a Feb. 8 report.  Before the earnings release today, the Bilbao-based company
said it would  buy back  as much as 1.1 percent of its shares and
cancel 1.4 percent, held as treasury stock.  Iberdrola rose 0.7 percent to 3.86 euros a share in Madrid
as of 10:41 a.m. The stock is down 8 percent this year,
underperforming the average of rival Spanish power companies,
European utilities and Spain’s benchmark IBEX 35 index, which is
up 1 percent since Dec. 31.  Ebitda Decline  Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization, or Ebitda, fell 5.6 percent to 1.95 billion
euros, almost matching estimates of eight analyst surveyed by
Bloomberg.  In Brazil, Ebitda dropped almost in half, to 134 million
euros from 256 million euros, subtracting nine-month figures
from the full-year results, as divisional results weren’t given
for quarters. Using the same method, Spanish Ebitda tumbled to
134 million euros from 337 million euros a year earlier.  Iberdrola, the world’s largest wind-farm operator, has
suffered under a series of regulations led by Industry Minister
 Jose Manuel Soria  to eliminate Spain’s power deficit and cut
consumer costs for clean power. The latest forces wind-power
generators to choose between a fixed tariff or the market price
for power and revises subsidized feed-in tariffs annually based
on a reduced inflation index. This follows a 7 percent tax on
income from power generation approved in December.  In Spain, regulatory measures and reduced sales were
expected to cut Ebitda by 9.9 percent to 2.8 billion euros,
according to an analysis by Banco Sabadell before earnings.  Tariff Deficit  Other government measures, such as a 2.2 billion-euro
credit line from the Spanish budget to cover the tariff deficit,
will have a positive impact on the Bilbao-based utility as it
helps to cover any shortfall in regulated income, analysts at
Banco Sabadell said.  The tariff deficit, the shortfall between regulated tariffs
and the cost of generating electricity, has “mainly been
shouldered in recent years by the large utilities,” such as
Iberdrola, according to a report by Fitch published Feb. 8.  The company, which last year targeted 26 billion euros of
debt by 2014, lowered its net debt 4.4 percent from a year
earlier to 30.3 billion euros.  “We think Iberdrola’s plan is on track, assuming no
further negative changes in Spain in the coming months,” Morgan
Stanley analysts  Carolina Dores  and  Anna Maria Scaglia  wrote in
a Feb. 7 report.  Brazilian earnings are also “under pressure” according to
a JPMorgan Feb. 7 report. Government regulations in Brazil seek
to cut electricity prices by as much as 32 percent as the
government plans to make Brazilian industries more competitive
and lower the fourth-highest rates in the world.  Iberdrola is seeking compensation after the nationalization
of its four Bolivian units in December. Representatives from
both sides met on Jan. 21 in an “atmosphere of total
cordiality,” the Bolivian Energy Ministry said, without giving
terms for a proposed resolution.  The company planned to claim just compensation, according
to an Iberdrola spokeswoman on Jan. 22. The units represented
0.4 percent of Iberdrola’s 2011 net profit and a stake valued at
about 65 million euros, according to BPI estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  