-- Libya Braces for Unrest on Anniversary of Qaddafi Revolt
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2013-02-14T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/libya-braces-for-unrest-on-anniversary-of-qaddafi-revolt.html
Long lines of foreigners massed over
the past couple of weeks at Tripoli International Airport
looking to secure a flight out. Across town, Libya’s parliament
meets in a tent.  As Libya gears up for the second anniversary of the
revolution that ousted  Muammar Qaddafi , the euphoria from his
toppling and death after more than 40 years has given way to
violence and political gridlock.  “Most people have taken the sensible decision, foreigners
in particular, not to be around, it could be a celebration or a
civil war,” said John Hamilton, of Cross Border Information, a
U.K.-based consultancy. “It’s hard to imagine any politician
from any country being able to tackle these challenges.”  The test may come today, when protests are expected in
Benghazi, the birthplace of the uprising, raising the
possibility of violence. Official commemorations are on Feb. 17.  The protests, in part, are against the militias and
Islamists who are blamed for the attack on the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi that left the American ambassador,  Chris Stevens , dead.
The Islamists argue the protests are an attempt by pro-Qaddafi
elements to undermine the revolution, said Firas Abi Ali, head
of Middle East and North Africa Forecasting with Exclusive
Analysis, a political risk consultancy.  “If fighting leads to tens or hundreds of casualties,
there would be a severe risk that rival militias would attempt
to seize key government buildings and infrastructure, including
refineries, state energy firms’ offices and airports,” he said
in an e-mailed note.  Security Boosted  The authorities have boosted security and temporarily
shuttered the land borders with Egypt and Tunisia before the
anniversary. Officials said 1,400 roadblocks are being set up by
government security forces and allied militias.  While Prime Minister  Ali Zaidan  appealed last week for
calm, the call has not impressed Libyans like 22-year-old Hani
Al Aswad, who says the government, like its post-Qaddafi
predecessor, has done nothing.  “We were all expecting so much, for it to be better, and
there’s nothing,” the unemployed 22-year-old said in a recent
interview in Tripoli. “Nobody gets a job, and look, there is
rubbish everywhere.”  Unlike other nations that saw leaders ousted in the Arab
Spring uprisings, Libya has no external financing needs because
of its oil wealth. The country’s gross domestic product, which
contracted 60 percent in 2011, is expected to grow by 17 percent
in 2013 and average 7 percent for the period between 2014 and
2017, assuming an improvement in the domestic security
situation, the International Monetary Fund said in November.  Islamist Militias  Zaidan, who assumed his post on Oct. 31, inherited a nation
saddled with a dilapidated infrastructure, few functioning state
institutions and an upsurge in Islamist militia activity. In
addition, there are regional grievances, including unresolved
demands for local autonomy in the east and south.  A declaration issued earlier this month by several
political parties in Benghazi blamed the government for
“leading the country into an abyss of extremism and anarchy.”
Other groups and militias billed today as a “Day of Rage,” and
are calling for protests.  Such warnings may have helped prompt a temporary suspension
in flights to the country by Germany’s Lufthansa and Austrian
Airways. Last month, the British Embassy advised its citizens to
evacuate Benghazi -- a warning that came two weeks after the
Italian consul-general’s car was shot at.  ‘Significant Deterrents’  Attacks on foreign diplomats and the “enduring security
concerns remain significant deterrents to foreign investment,”
Torbjorn Soltvedt, senior analyst at U.K. risk consultancy
Maplecroft, said in e-mailed comments.  Libya and the nations that supported the uprising against
Qaddafi met on Feb. 12 in Paris, with the focus on border
security. The issue gained importance after the widened conflict
in Mali and the fatal attack by militants on an Algerian natural
gas facility last month that left 38 foreigners dead. Algerian
authorities say the attackers crossed through Libya as they made
their way into the country.  The attack signaled increased risk for international oil
company executives in Libya, many of whom work in desolate
desert regions where security has been organized by the Libyan
military and a new Oil Ministry security force.  Reviving investor confidence in Libya has also been made
harder by a still-incomplete legal reform.  “To be fair, Rome wasn’t built in a day,” said John
Brooke, an attorney with international law firm Clyde and Co,
referring to a review of contracts by the government signed
during the Qaddafi era. “The government is being sensibly
cautious, but it’s reaching a stage where sensible caution is
starting to look indecisive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brigitte Scheffer in Tripoli at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  