-- Icahn Ups Stakes in Ackman Feud With Herbalife Holding
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-02-15T21:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/icahn-reports-13-stake-in-herbalife-plans-to-seek-talks.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  took
a 13 percent holding in  Herbalife Ltd . and said he would seek
talks with the nutritional-supplements company, raising the
stakes in a public dispute with rival hedge-fund manager  Bill Ackman  over whether the company is a legitimate business.  Icahn, 76, said strategic alternatives for Herbalife may
include taking it private, according to a filing yesterday with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in which he reported
his stake. Herbalife rose 1.2 percent after gaining as much as
17 percent earlier.  Further stock purchases or going private may increase
Herbalife’s share price and put pressure on Ackman, who
disclosed in December that his Pershing Square Capital
Management LP had sold short 20 million shares of Herbalife,
calling the company a pyramid scheme. Icahn, reviving a decade-
old feud in an interview with Bloomberg Television last month,
has said Ackman, 46, was “disingenuous” and his trade may
become the “mother of all short squeezes.”  “The bigger the short position, the more enticing it is,”
Icahn said today during an interview on CNBC. “The fact that
you have a major short position is one of the indices I look
at” in buying a stock.  Short Squeeze  In a short sale, an investor borrows stock and then sells
the shares in anticipation of returning them at a lower price in
the future. A short squeeze occurs when other investors begin
buying the same stock, pushing its price up and forcing the
short seller to buy back the shares, possibly at a loss.  Herbalife  pared  gains after Icahn’s comments today and as
Robert Chapman, another hedge fund manager who had bought
Herbalife stock, said he had sold his position. Chapman,
speaking today in an interview with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg
Television’s “Money Moves,” said he sold his stake as the
shares soared last yesterday and today, exiting at prices
ranging between $47 and $49 a share. Chapman said he would
reinvest should Ackman’s effort to spark an investigation of
Herbalife push the stock back into the “thirties.”  Ackman first disclosed his bet against Herbalife on Dec. 19
and a day later appeared at a Sohn Investment Conference in New
York, accusing Herbalife of using inflated pricing, misleading
sales information and a complicated incentive structure to hide
a pyramid scheme. The stock has dropped 8.9 percent since Dec.
18, to $38.74.  Not ‘Sorry’  Herbalife executives and consultants hit back on Jan. 10,
arguing that all of Herbalife’s payments to distributors are
tied to product sales and the company’s accounting practices are
legal.  Icahn said in the CNBC interview that his decision to
invest in Herbalife was driven by the opportunity to make money,
not a personal vendetta against Ackman, his opponent in a seven-
year-plus legal battle over a $4.5 million claim.  “I’m not going to lie to you and say, ‘If Ackman gets
squeezed, I will feel very sorry’,” Icahn said today. “But
that is not the reason I am doing this.”  Icahn said that Herbalife is at the center of a “paradigm
shift” in which people are becoming more concerned about
nutrition and obesity. Its multilevel marketing approach
provides an effective way to sell products in countries that
don’t have the retail infrastructure of the U.S., Icahn said,
adding that the Internet makes it easier for Herbalife
representatives to reach potential customers.  Legitimate Business  Ackman in an interview questioned whether Icahn’s
investment is just for show, adding that shareholders who own
Herbalife stock will lose money. On Feb. 7, Ackman renewed his
thesis on Herbalife in a detailed 40-page treatise questioning
everything from the company’s sales accounting to claims that it
makes millionaires.  U.S. regulators at the Federal Trade Commission and the SEC
have declined to say whether they are investigating Herbalife or
intend to do so.  Herbalife has repeatedly denied Ackman’s accusation that it
is a pyramid scheme.  Ackman built a “very deep Rolodex” of contacts among
state and federal regulators through a prior bet against MBIA
Inc., Chapman said today. “All he needs is just one of those
guys” to start an investigation, Chapman said, and it will make
it “look like Ackman will win.” Chapman predicted that
Ackman’s strategy will eventually fail though.  Ackman’s Price  Ackman began shorting Herbalife shares in May, according to
investors, and disclosed the trade on Dec. 19. In that period,
Herbalife shares traded at an average price of $48.58 each,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Icahn, who didn’t respond to a telephone request for
comment, purchased about 1.6 million Herbalife shares between
Dec. 20 and Dec. 24, according to the filing. After first
challenging Ackman’s strategy in a Jan. 24 interview with
Bloomberg Television, he resumed building the stake. On Jan. 28
and Jan. 29, Icahn acquired another 3.6 million shares and
options. He purchased the remainder of his stake, comprised of
2.47 million shares and options on another 11.54 million,
through yesterday, according to the document.  Ackman’s wager had already put him at odds with Daniel
Loeb, founder of Third Point LLC. Three weeks after Ackman
disclosed his bet against Herbalife, Third Point reported in a
regulatory filing that it had bought 8.9 million of the
company’s shares, an 8.2 percent stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  