-- Michael Dell Valued His Shares Below Market Price in LBO
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2013-02-14T21:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/michael-dell-valued-his-shares-in-lbo-at-13-36-apiece.html
Dell Inc.  founder  Michael Dell 
valued his stock rolled into a $24.4 billion buyout of the
computer maker at $13.36 apiece, less than the $13.65-a-share
price offered to common shareholders.  After Michael Dell approached the board last August to
propose going private, three financial firms were permitted to
conduct due diligence by a special committee of the board, the
Round Rock, Texas-based company said in a regulatory  filing .  Silver Lake Management LLC, and one other private equity
firm separately submitted bids to the committee that proposed
teaming up with Michael Dell to acquire the company, according
to the filing. After the other firm dropped out, Dell agreed to
value his shares at less than the transaction price to help
convince Silver Lake to increase its initial offer.  After six months of talks, Michael Dell and Silver Lake
said on Feb. 5 that they agreed to take the personal-computer
maker private in the largest leveraged buyout since the
financial crisis. Since then, the transaction has drawn
opposition from Dell’s biggest outside shareholders,
Southeastern Asset Management and T. Rowe Price Group Inc., who
say the deal undervalues the company.  Alternatives Reviewed  A majority of shareholders, excluding Michael Dell, must
approve the transaction, a prospect that’s diminishing as the
opposition gains momentum. Dell’s stake is about 14 percent.  Michael Dell is seeking to take back majority control of
the company he founded in 1984 after losing ground in the PC
market and as consumer demand shifted to tablets from
competitors, including Apple Inc. Dell, the No. 3 maker of PCs,
lost almost one-third of its  value  in 2012 as mobile and cloud
computing diminished the need for PCs.  The special board committee reviewed several alternatives
to going private, including a possible sale of Dell’s PC support
and financial services businesses, according to the filing.
Changing the dividend policy and accelerating acquisitions were
also considered.  Dell’s  shares  retreated less than 1 percent to $13.71 at
the close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  