-- IDB Development Bonds Drop After Holders Meeting on Debt Plans
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-02-14T15:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/idb-development-holders-meet-on-debt-amid-clal-stake-sale-report.html
IDB Development Corp. ’s 2025 bonds
dropped, pushing the yield up for the first time in more than a
week, after the Israeli company’s bondholders met to discuss the
next steps on debt settlement plans. Government bonds rose.  The yield on IDB’s 4.95 percent notes maturing June 2025
added four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, the first
increase since Feb. 6, to 13.09 percent, at the close in Tel
Aviv. The yield on the 4.25 percent benchmark government bonds
due in 2023 fell two basis points to 4.09 percent, trimming this
week’s gain to two basis points.  IDB Development debt holders met today partly to consider
starting talks to restructure debt as the company’s parent  IDB
Holding Corp.  strives to avoid default. Standard & Poor’s Maalot
last month cut IDB Development’s rating, saying it may fall 1
billion shekels ($272 million) short of cash to cover
liabilities in 2014. The company may sell as much as 20 percent
of  Clal Insurance Enterprises Holdings Ltd.  for as much as 750
million shekels to a foreign fund, Calcalist reported today.  “There are a few parties who are trying to take over IDB
Development’s good assets,”  Haim Gavrieli , chief executive
officer of IDB Holding Corp., said at the meeting in Tel Aviv
today. “The needless aggressive actions by IDB Development
trustees raise serious concern about hidden agendas that are not
in the interest of the company.”  York Capital Management, the biggest IDB Development
bondholder, suggested converting more than half of IDB debt owed
to bondholders and banks into shares, Calcalist reported Feb.
10. IDB Holding  shares  dropped for the first time in almost a
week, retreating 1.3 percent to 10.50 shekels.  “York has acquired a critical mass of IDB debt and is only
interested in a quick turnaround which may not be in the best
interest of all bondholders,” Moshe Tal, a private bondholder
of both IDB Holding and IDB Development, said on the sidelines
of today’s meeting.  Stake Sale  IDB Holding’s controlling shareholder  Nochi Dankner  is
seeking funds to avoid defaulting on 2 billion shekels of debt.
The Israeli tycoon last year arranged an equity investment of as
much as $100 million from Argentine businessman  Eduardo Elsztain 
and sold an insurance company to a unit of Warren Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. for $221 million.  Today’s Calcalist report comes after IDB Development, which
owns 55 percent of Clal Insurance, approached  Koor Industries
Ltd.  for talks to sell a full or partial stake in the insurer.
S&P Maalot said last month that deal approval will be “very
challenging.” An IDB spokeswoman, who asked not to be
identified due to company policy, declined to comment on today’s
Calcalist report.  “IDB Development has liquid reserves to meet all of its
commitments through the first quarter of 2014 and assets with an
economic value to cover all of its commitments,” Gavrieli said
at the meeting, which was attended by about 50 bondholders
including York Capital’s Israeli representative  Jeremy Blank .
“The company is considering steps to strengthen its capital
structure such as the attempt to sell IDB Development’s holding
in Clal Insurance to Koor.”  Inflation Data  The  Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index , which measures inflation-linked
and fixed-rate corporate bonds, rose for the first time since
Feb. 10, gaining 0.1 percent to 282.95.  Annual inflation may be unchanged at 1.6 percent in January
when data is released tomorrow, according to the   median
estimate  of 11 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The rate
unexpectedly accelerated in December.  Average annual inflation expectations today increased two
basis points to 212, according to the two-year break-even rate,
the yield difference between the inflation-linked bonds and
fixed-rate government debt of similar maturity. The shekel was
little changed at 3.6803 a dollar at 5 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The
currency gained 0.8 percent this month, according to data by
Bloomberg.  One-year interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, declined three basis
points to 1.71 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  