-- Miliband Pledges U.K. Mansion Levy to Fund Income-Tax Cut
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-02-14T15:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/miliband-says-labour-would-tax-homes-over-2-million-pounds.html
A Labour government would tax U.K.
homes valued at over 2 million pounds ($3.1 million) to pay for
a new 10 percent income-tax band for low earners, the opposition
party’s leader,  Ed Miliband , announced today.  The move adopts a key policy of the Liberal Democrats, the
junior party in the current Conservative-led coalition and a
possible partner for a future Labour government, while reversing
one of the last Labour administration’s most unpopular policies.  Gordon Brown  abolished the 10 percent tax band in his final
budget before becoming Labour prime minister in 2007 to fund a 2
percentage-point cut in the basic rate of income tax to 20
percent. The change left more than 5 million people worse off
and led to widespread criticism from within the Labour Party.
Brown announced in 2008 he would compensate those affected by
raising the threshold at which people begin paying income tax.  “We would put right a mistake made by Gordon Brown and the
last Labour government,” Miliband said in a speech today in
Bedford, north of London. “We would use the money raised by a
mansion tax to reintroduce a lower 10-pence starting rate of
tax, with the size of the band depending on the amount raised.
This would benefit 25 million basic-rate taxpayers.”  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , the leader of the Liberal
Democrats, said this month he had been unable to convince his
Conservative coalition partners to adopt his proposal to
introduce a 1 percent levy on the value of homes above 2 million
pounds. Clegg said the current system of local-property taxes
sees the rich paying relatively less of their value than the
rest of the country.  ‘Right Signals’  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , the second-most senior
Liberal Democrat in the Cabinet, welcomed Miliband’s
announcement on the high-value homes levy.  “The mansion tax is not just about fairness, it is also
about giving the right signals to the economy,” Cable said in
response to a question at an event in London. “It is a good
thing to do not just from the point of view of the distribution
of wealth but also because it penalizes investment in extremely
unproductive activities.”  Miliband’s announcement is “an appeal to the Lib Dems,
who’ll be important if the next parliament is also a hung one”
and no party wins a majority, meaning a coalition is needed,
 Steve Fielding , a professor of politics at Nottingham
University, said in a telephone interview. “He’s saying Labour
is a low-tax party for the people who’re suffering, and will be
a necessary-tax party for people who can afford it.”  ‘Cobbled Together’  Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron  yesterday
criticized the decision to abolish the 10 percent tax rate,
fueling speculation that his coalition may reintroduce it to
help people on low incomes struggling with the rising cost of
living.  “My prediction is that they won’t have thought it through
or costed it properly, and we will discover over the course of
the day all sorts of problems and issues with a policy that
looks like it has been cobbled together overnight,” the premier
told Sky News television today, when asked about Miliband’s
announcement.  “It’s a risk that raising this possibility again actually
could be slightly self-defeating,”  Lucian Cook , a director of
residential research at real-estate broker Savills Plc in
London, said in a telephone interview. “Any impact it
could have in creating uncertainty in the market could actually
in the short term reduce” tax receipts.  Prime Prices  Knight Frank LLP’s index of luxury-home prices in central
London rose 8.1 percent in the 12 months through January. That
compares with the 1.1 percent increase across the country as a
whole measured by the Halifax mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking
Group Plc.  Prime London prices continued to climb even though
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  introduced a 7
percent tax rate on purchases of the most expensive residential
properties last year.  “We’ve already had quite a hard attack on properties over
2 million pounds,”  Richard Barber , a partner at prime real-
estate broker W.A. Ellis LLP, said by telephone. “I do think it
would be detrimental.”  Cable said he didn’t want to comment on Labour’s plan for a
10 percent tax band. The Tory-Liberal Democrat coalition has
been raising the point at which people start paying income tax,
with the aim of increasing it to 10,000 pounds a year by 2015.  Even so, it also cut the top 50 percent rate of tax on
earnings over 150,000 pounds to 45 percent, arguing that the
higher rate generated almost no revenue. Labour says that move
shows the Tories are the party of the rich.  Osborne is due to announce his annual budget on March 20.
Miliband’s Labour Party has led the Conservatives in the polls
for much of the past year. The latest YouGov Plc survey put
Labour on 42 percent support compared with 32 percent for the
Tories and 9 percent for the Liberal Democrats. YouGov
questioned 1,946 adults Feb. 12-13. No margin of error was
specified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  