-- Illinois Lawmakers Lead Midwest Toward Gay Marriage Law
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/illinois-senate-approves-measure-legalizing-gay-marriage.html
The road to Midwestern acceptance of
same-sex marriage runs through  Illinois , the home of President
 Barack Obama  that’s poised to be the 10th state and the first
legislature in the region to endorse such unions.  In a few short years, attitudes about same-sex marriage are
changing in the industrial Midwest. Iowa voters ousted three
Supreme Court justices in 2010 who backed a unanimous ruling
supporting gay marriage a year earlier. However, last November a
fourth judge who was part of that decision survived a recall
effort. In Minnesota, voters rejected a constitutional amendment
that would’ve limited marriage to a man and a woman.  Then yesterday -- Valentines Day -- 33 Democrats and one
Republican in the Illinois Senate passed and sent to the House
of Representatives a gay marriage bill, affirming the growing
support for same-sex unions reflected in opinion polls less
than a decade after many banned the practice.  “It’s been legalized in several states, and the world
didn’t end, so a lot of the fears have been ameliorated,” said
 John Green , a University of Akron political scientist who
specializes in religion and politics. “That doesn’t mean people
are happy about it, but the issue doesn’t produce the same
negative impact it did several years ago.”  Growing Support  Passage in Illinois could spur movements in other states,
Green said. In  Ohio , an effort begun by groups including
FreedomOhio is gathering the signatures needed to put a measure
repealing the 2004 constitutional amendment banning gay marriage
on the statewide ballot as soon as November.  The groups staged a rally yesterday outside the Franklin
County Courthouse in Columbus, where couples obtain marriage
licenses, to collect signatures and advocate for repeal.  In November, voters in Washington, Maryland and Maine
approved same-sex weddings. The ballot-box success spurred the
movement in Illinois, which made civil unions between same-sex
couples legal in 2011.  Yesterday’s 34-21 Senate vote sending the bill to the House
occurred as voter support appears to be growing in the state. A
poll by the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute at Southern
Illinois University in Carbondale showed 45 percent of those
surveyed back gay marriage, up from 34 percent in 2010. At the
same time, opposition dropped to 20 percent from 26 percent.
Pollsters spoke with 600 registered voters Jan. 27-Feb. 8.  Repealing ‘Gravity’  The Senate debate was often emotional, revolving around
biblical references, analogies to breaking down discriminatory
barriers and warnings of societal chaos. Republican Senator  Kyle McCarter  of Lebanon said lawmakers “might as well repeal the
law of gravity” if it’s going to legalize gay marriage. Other
opponents called the bill an attack on religious freedom.  “We are knocking down one of the basic foundations of
society,” said Senator  Tim Bivins , a Republican from Dixon.
“From the Old Testament to the New, there is nothing to support
gay marriage.”  Democratic state Senator  Kwame Raoul , who filled  Barack Obama ’s old seat representing Chicago’s South Side, said fears
of destroying society’s pillars are unfounded. He said allowing
gay marriage is consistent with the nation’s removal of
discriminatory laws.  “Let’s knock down this wall because it’s the right thing
to do,” Raoul said from the Senate floor. “The sky is not
falling, Chicken Little.”  Impassioned Debate  Senator  Martin Sandoval , a Chicago Democrat, asked during
debate, “Why is it so wrong today to be able to share licensure
with your life partner? You do. Why can’t everyone else?”  Obama and other top Democrats have endorsed the measure,
while Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn  has promised to sign the bill
into law. Republicans are split. State party chairman  Pat Brady 
supported the measure.  The sole Republican vote in favor came from Senator  Jason Barickman  of Bloomington, who said he believes in freedom and
that “this is the right thing to do.”  Changing public attitudes are driven by younger voters and
represent a challenge for Barickman’s party, said  David Yepsen ,
director of the Paul Simon Institute. “This has been such a
rapid transformation,” he said, resembling in some ways shifts
from support to opposition to the Vietnam War.  “Gay marriage is sort of a gateway issue for younger
voters, and that’s a problem for Republicans,” Yepsen said.  House Odds  Thirty states have constitutional amendments defining
marriage as between a man and a woman. Before November,
legalization had come solely through legislative or judicial
action as gay marriage was defeated all 32 times it appeared on
a ballot. Lawmakers in Delaware, Hawaii, Minnesota, New Jersey
and Rhode Island plan to consider or revisit the issue this
year.  Backing for gay marriage in the Illinois House isn’t
considered as strong as the Senate, though prospects for passage
there “are very good,” said Representative  Gregory Harris , a
Chicago Democrat who is leading the effort in the chamber.  “There is a movement in all segments of our society to do
the right and just thing and treat all people equally in the
eyes of the law,” Harris said during a news briefing after the
Senate vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  