-- Time Warner Said to Talk to Meredith About Magazine Deal
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-02-14T22:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/time-warner-said-to-talk-to-meredith-about-magazine-deal.html
Time Warner Inc.  is considering a
deal that would send most of its magazines to  Meredith Corp. ,
according to a person familiar with the talks, putting titles
such as People and Entertainment Weekly in the hands of the
Iowa-based publisher of Better Homes and Gardens.  Under the terms being discussed, Meredith would get all but
a handful of  Time Warner ’s 21 U.S. magazine titles, according to
the person, who asked not to be named because the discussions
are private. Time, Sports Illustrated and Fortune would remain
with Time Warner, the person said. Meredith is more interested
in titles such as Real Simple and InStyle that fit with its own
magazines aimed at women, according to the person.  The move would let Time Warner offload at least part of its
worst-performing major division, helping insulate the company
from an industrywide slump in advertising sales. The Time Inc.
unit, currently the largest U.S. magazine publisher, has
struggled to shift from print to the Internet, where ads
commands lower rates than with traditional magazine campaigns.  Finding a new home for the publishing business “would
unlock value and improve the growth profile for Time Warner,”
 John Janedis , an analyst at UBS AG in New York, said in a report
yesterday. He estimates that Time Inc. would be worth $2.4
billion to $2.9 billion, excluding the publications that Time
Warner would keep within the company.  Joint Venture?  Meredith has a market value of $1.67 billion and about $25
million in cash, suggesting that it wouldn’t buy the magazines
outright. Time Warner and Meredith are instead discussing a
joint venture that would create a new magazine company focused
mainly on women’s publications, the New York Times  reported .
This new company would borrow as much as $1.75 billion to pay a
dividend to Time Warner, according to the Times.  A deal would follow years of slumping sales at Time Inc.,
which has seen revenue decline by almost 40 percent over the
past decade. The business, led by Chief Executive Officer  Laura Lang , said last month that it would eliminate 500 positions, or
6 percent of its workforce, as newsstand sales and advertising
continued to decline. The company’s publishing revenue fell 6.6
percent last year to $3.44 billion.  Meredith’s revenue fell about 2 percent to $1.38 billion in
its most recent fiscal year, while net income declined to $104.4
million. In addition to Better Homes, its titles include Ladies’
Home Journal, Family Circle and Parents.  Deal Advisor  BDT Capital Partners, a Chicago-based investment firm, is
advising Meredith on the deal, another person familiar with the
negotiations said.  Keith Cocozza , a spokesman for New York-based
Time Warner, declined to comment, as did  Art Slusark , a
spokesman for Meredith.  The two companies have had previous connections.  Jack Griffin , who served as Time Inc.’s CEO until his ouster in 2011,
was a former executive at Meredith. The Des Moines-based company
was  founded  in 1902 by Edwin Thomas Meredith, who began
publishing Successful Farmer magazine that year. It now employs
more than 3,300 people.  Time Inc.  traces its origins  to 1922, when  Henry Luce  and
Briton Hadden left the Baltimore News to start Time magazine in
New York.  Time Warner rose 1.5 percent to $53.63 at the close in New
York, while Meredith climbed 7.6 percent to $40.85.  TV Growth  The company’s television business, which includes HBO and
other cable networks, has been generating most of its growth.
Affiliate fees -- the money paid by cable companies to carry the
company’s programming -- helped earnings top analysts’ estimates
last quarter. The publishing business, meanwhile, declined 7
percent in the period.  In splitting off some of its print operations, Time Warner
would be following in the footsteps of News Corp., the media
company controlled by billionaire  Rupert Murdoch . News Corp.’s
publishing business, which lost $2.1 billion in fiscal 2012,
will be spun off as a separate company later this year.  Murdoch agreed to the move after coming under pressure from
shareholders, who didn’t want the print business to be a drag on
News Corp.’s television and film divisions, which will be
renamed Fox Group.  Fortune  previously reported on Time Inc.’s sale talks
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edmund Lee  in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  