-- Impala Plans Bond Sale to Fund Biggest Mine as Profit Drops
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-02-14T15:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/impala-platinum-profit-drops-78-as-output-falls-costs-climb.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd., the
second-largest producer of the metal, is selling as much as $500
million of convertible bonds to fund projects at its biggest
operation, where a strike cut output and profit.  The company is offering debt denominated in rand and
dollars to qualifying institutional investors, it said in a
statement today. Net income declined 78 percent for the six
months through December, missing analysts’ expectations, because
of the work stoppage at Rustenburg, where production fell 25
percent and costs per refined ounce surged 52 percent,
Johannesburg-based Impala said in a separate statement.  The company mines mostly in South Africa, which has the
largest reserves of platinum. Upheaval has plagued producers
since last August, when thousands of workers staged a series of
illegal strikes, winning pay increases of as much as 22 percent.
Labor disputes and above-inflation cost gains prompted companies
to shut nine platinum shafts in the country last year, the
mineral resources ministry said. The nation’s mines lost more
than 600,000 ounces of output, Impala said.  The bonds’ proceeds are for “general corporate purposes
with a primary focus on funding strategic projects in the
Rustenburg Lease Area,” the company said. The transactions form
part of Impala’s plan to secure funding “given the current
global economic and operating environment in the mining sector
in South Africa,” it said.  Convertible Bonds  Impala will offer 1.78 billion rand ($200 million) of bonds
maturing in 2018, with an expected rate of 5 percent to 5.5
percent annually, it said. The mining company will also sell
$200 million of debt due in the same year at 1 percent to 1.5
percent. The securities will be convertible into Impala shares.
The company has the option of increasing the sale by as much as
$100 million, it said.  UBS AG and  Standard Bank Group Ltd.  will arrange the sales.  Impala’s profit excluding one-time items decreased to 776
million rand, or 1.28 a share, in the six months ended Dec. 31,
from 3.47 billion rand, or 5.73 rand a share, a year earlier,
the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement today. The
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
adjusted earnings of 2.28 rand a share.  So-called mine-to-market output slipped 16 percent to
621,000 ounces largely because of the stoppage at the Rustenburg
mine, while unit costs across the company’s operations climbed
42 percent to 15,983 rand per platinum ounce.  Cost Pressure  “Cost pressures will remain high as a result of proposed
power increases and potential wage demands, which could be
mitigated to some extent by a recovery at Impala Rustenburg,”
the company said.  Profit was curbed by a 500 million-rand impairment for the
potential non-recovery of outstanding funds from a recycling
toll-refining customer and a one-time charge of 129.3 million
rand for a tax adjustment for Zimplats, the company’s unit in
Zimbabwe, it said.  Impala accounts for about a quarter of the world’s platinum
output, ranking it behind only  Anglo American Platinum Ltd . The
company signed terms last month to sell a controlling stake in
Zimplats under a law to hand ownership to black citizens. The
average price of platinum in the six months through December
fell 6.4 percent to $1,547 an ounce compared with a year
earlier.  Impala will pay a dividend of 35 cents a share compared
with 1.35 rand a year earlier. The stock declined 3.1 percent to
161 rand by the close in Johannesburg. More than 8 million
shares changed hands, more than triple the three-month average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  