-- In California, ’Moderate Democrat’ Is an Oxymoron
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2013-02-14T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/in-california-moderate-democrat-is-an-oxymoron.html
California taxpayers have nothing to
fear from the new Democratic  supermajorities  in the state
Assembly and Senate. That’s the assurance we keep hearing from
the political class and interest groups in the Golden State,
where Republican legislators are now reduced to irrelevancy and
Democrats control two-thirds majorities to pass anything they
want.  “Fortunately, there is a backstop to flagrant tax increases
and immediate spending and it’s not Republicans -- it is the
moderate Democrats,” according to an  analysis  by the Independent
Insurance Agents & Brokers of California.  According to this  wishful thinking , the Democratic caucus
is more divided than ever, and a growing band of moderates will
fill the swing-vote role that Republicans used to play,
especially when the left-leaning leadership needs a two-thirds
majority to pass direct tax increases and constitutional
changes.  The deadline for filing new bills for the next state
legislative session is a week away, so we will soon see how
restrained the Democrats will be. Yet a look at the background
of these moderate lawmakers shouldn’t ease high-earners’ concern
about  rising tax bills  in California.  For instance,  Henry Perea , a Fresno Democrat who leads the
Assembly Moderate Caucus, has  written  a bill to increase or
extend $2.3 billion in automotive-related fees. This is one of
the Democratic majority’s first big maneuvers for the year, with
committee hearings expedited.  Bad Signs  “It is a perfect example of a bill where the environmental
community and the business community came together and struck a
deal to improve air quality,” Perea said in an interview last
week.  If these moderates are supposed to serve as a backstop to
tax increases, this is a bad omen.  Perea  said the proposed new
fees represent a moderate approach because they were the result
of a compromise with all sides represented in the negotiations.  Thus, “moderate” goals are more about process than
ideology. Or more about politics. Democrats in conservative-
leaning districts will occasionally take a fiscally hawkish
position on a meaningless issue to burnish their moderate
credentials. When it really counts, they vote as the Democratic
leadership demands.  Legislators considered moderate in California would be
considered left-wingers in almost any other state. They have no
principled objection to increasing the size of government or the
tax burden, although they tend to represent more working-class
and rural areas and are less enthusiastic about some boutique
policies that emanate from San Francisco and Santa Monica, such
as  bans on plastic bags  and a proposed 1 percent tax increase on
lumber products.  When it comes to keeping an eye on taxes, every Democrat in
the Assembly received the lowest score from the conservative
Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association in its annual  ranking  of
votes on tax measures. Only a handful of Democrats scored
decently on the California Chamber of Commerce’s  guide  that
ranks members’ votes on bills that would hurt economic and job
growth.  Some newly elected Democratic moderates, such as Tom Daly
of Anaheim and Adam Gray of Merced, have yet to cast a vote. But
Gray’s endorsements and campaign positions reflected something
common for most moderates -- strong support for  public-sector
unions .  Perea, for example, said he had no interest in new efforts
to rein in public-employee benefits. Last year, the legislature
passed a watered-down bill based on already modest reform
measures proposed by Governor  Jerry Brown , who was more
concerned with ginning up public support for tax increases than
reducing unfunded liabilities.  Punishing Moderates  The Senate side has no official moderate caucus.  Lou Correa 
of Anaheim is one of the few Democrats with a genuinely moderate
voting record (40 out of 100 on the Jarvis scorecard). In 2007,
his party’s leaders removed him and two other Democrats from
their committee posts and locked them out of their offices after
they tried to create a moderate caucus. Correa said that
creating jobs is the top issue in his Orange County district,
and that you must have people with money to do that.  “The only industry doing well here is venture capital, and
that’s a case of the rich getting richer,” he said. “The
steppingstone for the middle class remains manufacturing jobs,
and we’re sending those out of state.”  Correa and other moderates are supporting Brown’s call for
 relaxing  the California Environmental Quality Act, a 1970 law
that allows activists to use lawsuits to slow down construction
projects. Yet this crowd isn’t in favor of making government
smaller. Many are advocates for the governor’s wasteful high-
speed-rail project. They tend to be supporters of green energy
and other subsidized projects -- anything that creates jobs.
They see the environmental law as an obstacle to big,
government-financed projects.  Some Democrats will occasionally buck the trend. State
Senator  Ted Lieu  of Torrance, south of Los Angeles, recently
slammed a state decision to retroactively seek taxes from 2,000
small-business owners. “California is not a banana republic,”
Lieu  declared . “California government should not punish
innocent, law-abiding taxpayers retroactively just because it
may have the power to do so.” Unfortunately, this was a rare
exception from his usual nanny-state proposals and efforts to
triple the much-hated car tax.  At a recent Democratic retreat in Sacramento, the
leadership urged a moderate, or at least measured, course,
warning legislators that they will be held responsible for
anything that goes wrong in California, according to Correa.
Reach for the stars, legislators were told, but do so slowly and
carefully.  Republicans would complain that Democratic legislators
rushed back to the Capitol and began assembling plans for
raising taxes and changing the state constitution. Many of those
who will join this session’s new taxing, spending and
government-building efforts will call themselves moderates.  Assembly Republican leader  Connie Conway  told me that, as
she called the new Democrats to welcome them to the Capitol,
they all told her they were fiscal moderates. Conservatives
won’t hold their breath.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of the Franklin Center
for Government and Public Integrity. He is based in Sacramento.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Steven Greenhut  in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 