-- India Remains Biggest Gold Buyer as Gap Between China Narrows
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-02-14T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/india-remains-biggest-gold-buyer-as-gap-between-china-narrows.html
India remained last year’s biggest
gold buyer, with the gap between second-largest consumer China
narrowing to the smallest ever, the  World Gold Council  said.  Indian usage jumped 41 percent in the fourth quarter,
leaving the full-year total down 12 percent at 864.2 metric
tons, the London-based industry group said today in a report.
China’s consumption fell 0.5 percent to 776.1 tons, lagging
India by 88.1 tons. The gap was 206.5 tons in 2011.  The council said in November that China would probably
overtake India as the biggest buyer on an annual basis. China’s
economic growth slowed to a three-year low of 7.4 percent in the
third quarter, before accelerating for the first time in two
years in the three months through December. The two nations
together account for about 52 percent of global consumer bullion
demand, according to the council.  “China did go into a quite a sharp economic slowdown in
the third quarter, and that was greater than we anticipated,”
 Marcus Grubb , managing director of investment research at the
council, said yesterday by phone from London. “You’ve basically
now got two markets that are very close together, both driving
the global demand for gold. For this year, it’s going to be very
close. We probably think that India will remain the larger
market.”  Indian consumption may climb about 11 percent to 965 tons
this year, as Chinese buying increases about 13 percent to 880
tons, Grubb said.  “China could become bigger than India if it comes in at
the top of its range,” Grubb said. “On a per capita basis,
Chinese demand for gold is still significantly lower than India.
In the long run, that leads you on that measure to potentially
favor China, because there’s a catch-up effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 