-- India’s Cooking Oil Imports Expand to Record Before Tax Increase
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-02-14T09:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/india-s-cooking-oil-imports-expand-to-record-before-tax-increase.html
India, the world’s largest cooking
oil consumer after China, bought a record quantity last month as
traders and refiners increased purchases before a tax rise,
boosting domestic stockpiles to an all-time high.  Imports  rose to 1.13 million metric tons in January, from
647,693 tons a year earlier, the  Solvent Extractors’ Association
of India  said in a statement today. The figure was in line with
a Bloomberg survey, published on Feb. 7, which estimated
shipments of 1.15 million tons. Stockpiles, including those at
ports and in the pipeline, climbed to 1.75 million tons on Feb.
1, from 1.28 million tons a year earlier, the association said.  India imposed the 2.5 percent tax on imports of unprocessed
cooking oils in January, and almost doubled the taxable value of
imports, to shield domestic oilseed growers. Palm oil has
tumbled 22 percent over the past year in Kuala Lumpur as
Indonesia and Malaysia accumulated the biggest ever reserves.
 B.V. Mehta , the association’s executive director, said India
needed to raise import tariffs further to safeguard refiners.  “Malaysia and Indonesia have huge palm oil stock,” Mehta
said by phone, urging the government to adopt a 10 percent duty
on imports of crude vegetable oils and a 20 percent duty on
refined oils. “In order to get rid of this excess stock, these
palm-oil-producing countries are pushing aggressively their
exports into India.”  Malaysia and Indonesia are the two largest producers of
palm oil, which accounted for about 79 percent of last month’s
imports by India. The most-consumed cooking oil is used in foods
and biofuels.  Zero Tariff  Futures on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the regional
benchmark, tumbled 23 percent last year as the reserves built up,
prompting Malaysia to introduce a zero tariff on exports for
January and this month. The contract for delivery in April
dropped for a second day, losing 0.5 percent to 2,493 ringgit
($807) a ton at 4:32 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur.  Stockpiles  in Malaysia, which reached a record 2.63 million
tons in December, stood at 2.58 million tons last month,
according to data yesterday. Indonesian holdings reached 3.5
million tons last month, according to an earlier Bloomberg
survey, the largest figure since the surveys began last May.  “Imports will increase further if the government doesn’t
increase the duties immediately,” Mehta said. “The domestic
refining industry will be hurt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  