-- Indian Stocks Drop Most in a Month; Maruti, State Bank Lead Fall
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-02-14T10:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/india-s-nifty-stock-futures-swing-before-january-inflation-data.html
Indian  equities declined the most in
a month even as the benchmark inflation rate slowed to a more
than three-year low in January.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index , or Sensex, fell 0.7 percent
to 19,468.14, according to preliminary closing prices, with
volumes 30 percent more than the 30-day average at this time of
the day.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.  retreated the most in seven
months after exiting the MSCI India Index.  State Bank of India
Ltd.  slid after third-quarter earnings missed estimates.  Tata
Motors Ltd.  dropped ahead of its earnings today.  The  wholesale-price index  rose 6.62 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 7.18 percent in December, government
data showed. The deceleration, if sustained, may increase room
for another interest-rate cut as growth falters. Consumer-price
inflation was 10.79 percent in January, the second highest in
the Group of 20 major nations.  “Inflation, which has moderated due to high base effect,
is still sticky,”  A.K. Prabhakar , senior vice president for
equity research at Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd., said by
phone from Mumbai today. “Stocks seem to have priced in all the
positives. We need aggressive policy reforms to move higher from
these levels.”  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh initiated policy changes in
September to stimulate investment, ending more than a two-year
logjam in economic decision-making. The steps included opening
retail and aviation to more foreign participation, paring fuel
subsidies, easing caps on capital flows and setting up a panel
to accelerate infrastructure projects.  Overseas funds bought $300,000 of Indian equities on Feb.
12, extending this year’s purchases to a net $7.6 billion, a
record for the period, the data show. They were net  buyers  of
$24.5 billion of stocks last year, the highest among 10 Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  