-- Indian Inflation Slows to 38-Month Low; Boosts Rate-Cut Case
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-02-14T07:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/india-inflation-slows-to-38-month-low-in-boost-for-rate-cut-case.html
Indian inflation slowed to a more
than three-year low in January, a deceleration that if sustained
may boost room for another interest-rate cut as growth falters.  The  wholesale-price index  rose 6.62 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 7.18 percent in December, the Commerce
Ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. The median of
34 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 6.98 percent.  India last month became the first major Asian nation to
lower borrowing costs in 2013 as the central bank moved to back
government policy changes aimed at reviving private investment.
At the same time, Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  signaled the space
to reduce rates again is limited, and the government has vowed
to curb spending in the Feb. 28 budget to damp price increases.  “The budget will focus on fiscal consolidation to damp
price pressures and boost long-term growth prospects,” said
 Anubhuti Sahay , an economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai.
While inflation has moderated, the scope for “aggressive”
monetary-policy easing remains constrained, she said.  The rupee, which has weakened about 8.4 percent versus the
dollar in the past year, slid 0.2 percent to 53.905 as of 1:19
p.m. in Mumbai. The  BSE India Sensitive Index  of stocks fell 0.1
percent. The yield on the 8.15 percent note maturing June 2022
declined to 7.81 percent from 7.85 percent yesterday.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh began policy changes in
September to aid investment after corruption allegations against
officials and parliamentary gridlock hurt his development agenda.  Policy Push  The steps included opening retail and aviation to more
foreign participation, easing caps on capital inflows and
setting up a panel to speed up infrastructure projects.  The government also partially freed diesel prices from
state control last month to limit fuel subsidies.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram has vowed to
contain the  fiscal deficit  at 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012-2013 and pare it to 4.8 percent the following
year, seeking to lower the odds of a credit-rating downgrade.  Data this week showed industrial output fell unexpectedly
for a second month in December and that the trade gap in Asia’s
No. 3 economy swelled to $20 billion in January, one of the
nation’s widest monthly shortfalls.  Indian  consumer-price inflation  reached 10.79 percent last
month, the second highest in the Group of 20 major nations.  Inflation remains “high,” investment has declined and the
“external sector is very vulnerable,” Subbarao said Feb. 11.  Subdued Recovery  That highlights threats to an economy facing a subdued
recovery from an expansion the statistics office projects at a
decade-low 5 percent in the fiscal year through March 2013.  The risks limited the central bank to a quarter-point
reduction in  interest rates  to 7.75 percent in January, the
first cut since April last year.  Non-food manufactured goods prices, a measure of core
inflation, rose 4.08 percent in January from a year earlier,
compared with 4.19 percent in December, calculations by
Bloomberg showed based on today’s report. Food articles climbed
11.88 percent. Fuel and power increased 7.06 percent.  Indian companies have been buffeted by climbing costs and
faltering growth. Sales at Tata Motors Ltd., India’s largest
automaker, plunged 30 percent in January. Hyundai Motor Co.’s
Indian unit raised prices this month.  The International Monetary Fund forecasts 6 percent Indian
GDP growth in the 12 months beginning April 2013, compared with
the nation’s average of about 8 percent in the past decade.  “The RBI will likely be cautious in easing,”  Jyoti Narasimhan , India economist at IHS Global Insight in Bangalore,
said before the release. “All eyes are on the budget to see
measures to ease price pressures and spur the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  