-- Miner Risks $558 Million in Maoist-Hit Areas: Corporate India
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-02-14T10:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/miner-risks-558-million-in-maoist-hit-areas-corporate-india.html
NMDC Ltd. , India’s largest iron ore
producer that’s twice been a target of Maoist rebels, is
building a 30 billion-rupee ($558 million) pipeline to bolster
 sales stunted  by guerilla attacks.  The  state-owned  company will start the project in six
months and on completion in three years, the pipe may carry 8
million metric tons of ore slurry annually from its mines in the
central state of Chhattisgarh to Vishakapatnam in neighboring
Andhra Pradesh, Finance Director  Swaminathan Thiagarajan  said in
an interview. The line will be laid along highways, where it is
less vulnerable than in dense forests, he said.  NMDC  is seeking to boost iron ore sales and stem a decline
in revenue after Maoists in October 2011 blew up a pipeline
carrying the raw material to its biggest buyer,  Essar Steel
Ltd. , two years after the first attack on the same target. The
rebels, active in about a dozen of the country’s 28 states, have
engaged in a campaign of violence against the government for
years, prompting Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to call the
insurgents the greatest threat to India’s internal security.  “We are trying our level best to touch last year’s” sales
level, Thiagarajan said in the interview from his office in
Hyderabad. “If it hadn’t been for the Essar issue, we may even
have surpassed it.”  Misses Estimates  The new project is crucial for the miner to ensure supplies
to customers and to raise capacity by 50 percent to 48 million
tons by 2015. Ore sales at NMDC may reach 27 million tons in the
financial year ending March 31, about the same as the previous
12 months and 17 percent below the company’s target, he said.
Output has remained below a peak of 29.8 million tons touched in
the year ended March 31, 2008.  NMDC  shares  rose 1.2 percent today in Mumbai, the most in a
week, to 148.55 rupees. The stock has declined 10 percent this
year, compared with a 0.4 percent gain in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company yesterday reported a  profit  of 12.9 billion
rupees in the quarter ended Dec. 31, missing the median estimate
of 14.3 billion rupees in a  Bloomberg survey  of 17 analysts.
Sales dropped 27 percent to 20.5 billion rupees as heavy
rainfall cut production.  Cash Reserves  “NMDC’s biggest problem today is logistics, which has
affected volumes and kept the stock under pressure,” said
 Abhisar Jain , an analyst with Centrum Broking Pvt. in Mumbai.
“They have a huge scope to increase sales and this pipeline can
help them do that.”  Jain is among the 26 analysts who  advise buying  the stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of the remaining eight,
six recommend holding it, while two have a sell rating. The
“strong balance sheet” with as much as $3.9 billion of cash
reserves as of March 31, 2012, and improving logistics are the
reasons for Jain’s rating, he said.  NMDC has countered the  drop in revenue , which slumped in
two of the last three financial years, by increasing prices of
the commodity by taking advantage of a court-ordered mining ban
that hurt rivals including  Sesa Goa Ltd ., the nation’s largest
exporter of iron ore.  Indian authorities cracked down on mining in the states of
Goa and Karnataka in 2011 to combat environmental degradation,
which forced Sesa to halt production.  Ore Shortage  Supplies marginally improved in October 2011 after the
Supreme Court allowed supervised auctions of iron ore lying in
stock at the various mines and permitted NMDC to restart mining
in September the same year. The company is now allowed to
produce as much as 12 million tons from its mines in the region,
doubling the output.  “In the past 10 years, hardly any new iron ore mines have
come up in India and the bans have affected operations at the
existing ones, leading to scarcity for steel mills,” said
Gunjan Aggarwal, senior consultant at commodities research firm
 CRU Group . “Today, miners should be making every effort to
produce and sell as much as possible, and this is what the new
pipeline will do” for NMDC.  The pipeline project, a joint venture between NMDC and
government-controlled  Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. , will help the
ore miner achieve its plan to raise its evacuation capacity to
42 million tons by March 2015, from the current 29 million tons,
Thiagarajan said.  While it may cost more to lay the pipeline along the
highways as the price of land may be more expensive, the risk of
a Maoist attack is minimized as the rebels usually operate in
dense jungles and in the interiors of the country, said  Giriraj Daga , an analyst with Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai, who
recommends holding the stock.  Maoist Attacks  “For NMDC, it’s worthwhile, as the company is flush with
cash and the pipeline will fetch gains for many years to come,”
he said.  The Maoists say they are fighting on behalf of poor
villagers and tribal communities whose resources are being
exploited to propel India’s economy with few benefits for local
people. They have killed more than 9,500 civilians and security
personnel since 1998.  The guerrillas in the hinterland, which is rich in minerals
such as iron ore, coal, bauxite and manganese, regularly clash
with police, target economic infrastructure including railway
lines, eliminate alleged informers and extort money from
contractors and company officials.  After the second attack on the Essar Steel pipeline, the
alloy maker is transporting 4 million tons of iron ore from the
state of Chhattisgarh by rail, which meets only half the
requirement for its pellet plant, Ganesh Pai, a spokesman, said
in an e-mailed response to a query.  “We learnt our lesson from this experience,” said NMDC’s
Thiagarajan. “Our pipeline along the highways will be easier to
protect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  