-- Insurance Exchanges are On Track, Health Official Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-02-14T16:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/insurance-exchanges-are-on-track-health-official-says.html
The Obama administration will meet
an Oct. 1 deadline for setting up new state insurance exchanges,
said a top U.S. health official who met skepticism from
lawmakers at a congressional hearing today.  The exchanges, created by the 2010 U.S. health-care
overhaul, are online marketplaces where people will be able to
compare and buy government-subsidized insurance. Their scheduled
implementation next year has been called into doubt because of
the complexity of the law and opposition in some states.  “We are making progress, we are on track and we will be
ready,”  Gary Cohen , director of the Department of Health and
Human Services consumer information division, told the Senate
Finance Committee at a hearing in Washington.  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah questioned how with only 16
states pledging to build exchanges, the federal government will
be able to manage marketplaces for the remainder of the nation’s
50 states.  “I have a hard time understanding how the administration
expects to have exchanges up and running by Oct. 1, especially
when we have no details on how the exchanges will work in more
than half the states,” Hatch, the ranking Republican on the
finance committee, told Cohen.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, also questioned whether “archaic” computer systems
at the Social Security Administration, Internal Revenue Service
and Homeland Security Department will be able to communicate
with one another by the time exchanges open for enrollment.  Cohen said his agency will complete testing of “the flow
of data back and forth” between those agencies in the spring.  27 Million  The $1.3 trillion Affordable Care Act relies on governors
to build a network of insurance marketplaces and expand
Medicaid, the joint federal-state program for the poor. The
number of Americans projected to gain insurance from the U.S.
health-care law has already eroded, by at least 5 million
people, to 27 million as the Obama administration grapples with
Republican opposition.  At least 22 Republican governors have said they’ll refuse
to participate in the health exchanges and a Supreme Court
decision lets them also opt out of the Medicaid expansion.  The Obama administration has said before that it will run
exchanges in states that aren’t building their own, and all
marketplaces will be ready for enrollment by Oct. 1. The law
requires most Americans to carry insurance beginning Jan. 1,
2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  