-- Iran, IAEA Fail to Agree on Deal; No New Date Set for Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-02-14T11:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/iran-iaea-fail-to-agree-on-deal-no-new-date-set-for-talks-1-.html
The United Nations atomic watchdog
failed to reach a deal with Iran that would give inspectors
access to alleged nuclear facilities and couldn’t agree on a
date for a future meeting, the agency’s top negotiator said.  “We will work hard now to try and resolve the remaining
differences, but time is needed to reflect on a way forward,”
International Atomic Energy Agency chief inspector  Herman Nackaerts  said today at Vienna International Airport after
returning from a one-day meeting in Tehran. The IAEA, which had
announced new dates for discussions after its last two rounds of
talks, has “unwavering” commitment to the process, he said.  A team of UN inspectors led by Nackaerts met yesterday with
Iranian officials to win access to people and places, including
a military base in Parchin, about 20 kilometers (12 miles)
southeast of Tehran. The IAEA says it was provided with
intelligence that Iran may have built a blast chamber for
testing nuclear-weapons components at the military site.  Nackaerts’s comments contrasted with more optimistic
remarks made late yesterday by Iran’s IAEA envoy,  Ali Asghar Soltanieh , suggesting that some disagreements had been bridged
and the two sides would meet again to discuss fresh proposals.  “Some differences were overcome and we agreed on certain
points,” Soltanieh said in Tehran after the talks. “It was
agreed that the two sides would review new proposals made and
give their opinions in the next meeting.”  Oil Advances  Oil prices, which initially fell on Iranian news reports of
progress, neared a three-day high in London. Brent crude for
April settlement climbed as much as 41 cents to $118.29 on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange and traded at $117.49
at 11:30 a.m. local time.  The IAEA’s investigation into alleged atomic-weapons work
by Iranian scientists is in its 10th year. The Persian Gulf
nation denies allegations that it seeks to build atomic bombs
and says it isn’t willing to give wider access to inspectors
until its right as a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty are officially recognized and it is allowed to see
documents on which claims about its atomic program are based.  Iran will also resume stalled multilateral negotiations on
its nuclear work with the U.S., the U.K., France, Germany,
Russia and China on Feb. 26 in Kazakhstan. The last round of
talks between Iran and the group, known as P5+1, were held in
Moscow in June and failed to yield results, with world powers
asking the Islamic Republic to suspend production of 20 percent
enriched uranium while Iran pressed for relief from financial
and trade sanctions imposed over its atomic program.  The U.S. warned in November that absent Iranian agreement
to boost IAEA cooperation, the nation faced another referral to
the Security Council. The IAEA’s 35-member board of governors
convenes in Vienna on March 4 to discuss Iran.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  