-- Iranian Filmmaker Defies Ban; Mystery Girl: Berlin Movies
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-02-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/iranian-filmmaker-defies-ban-mystery-girl-berlin-movies.html
The Iranian film director Jafar
Panahi has experienced arrest and imprisonment and is now
subject to a 20-year ban from traveling or making movies.  He shot “Closed Curtain” secretly and smuggled it to the
 Berlin Film Festival , where it is competing with 18 others for
the Bear awards. Filmed entirely in a villa on the coast, it
explores his current frustrating predicament and the politics of
repression from a number of different angles.  Given the circumstances under which it was made, I wish I
could call it a great movie. Sadly it’s mainly dull, with long,
drawn-out sequences of people making tea, wandering from one
room to the next, closing curtains or opening them again.
Without knowing the back story, “Closed Curtain” would make no
sense at all.  It opens with a view of the ocean through a wide, barred
window, a captive’s perspective on freedom. A scriptwriter,
played by Panahi’s co-director Kamboziya Partovi, arrives at the
villa with his gorgeous dog, Boy, in a bag.  Under this Iranian regime, dogs are persecuted as “impure,”
and the writer is afraid of losing his. In the most charming
scene of the movie, Boy watches TV with his ears cocked in
bewilderment as pictures of dogs being rounded up and killed
flash across the screen.  The writer is startled when a young couple enters the
house, on the run from the authorities after a party. The girl
stays, yet she appears to be a figment of the filmmakers’
imagination as the movie progresses.  Daybreak Arrival  Panahi himself arrives at daybreak: Cue cups of tea,
unremarkable comings and goings and a complete lack of plot or
tension.  Panahi is capable of making entertaining and important
movies: His film “Offside,” about Iranian women trying to get
into a soccer match, was a worthy winner of a Silver Bear for
best director at the Berlin Film Festival in 2006.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s spokesman  Steffen Seibert  this
week urged the Iranian government to allow Panahi to travel to
Berlin to present “Closed Curtain,” saying that freedom for
artists is a question of human rights.  More importantly, let’s hope he is permitted to get back to
making films as soon as possible. Rating: *.  ‘Best Offer’  In “The Best Offer,”  Geoffrey Rush  plays Virgil Oldman, a
famous auctioneer who cordons himself off from the rest of the
world, wearing gloves to avoid contact with people.  Immaculately groomed, he derives emotional fulfillment from
his secret collection of beautiful portraits of women, hidden in
a vast vault in his apartment.  Until, that is, a fascinating young woman starts calling
him, asking him to value her parents’ possessions. Claire
Ibbetson (Sylvia Hoeks) refuses to meet him, claiming acute
agoraphobia. Yet he is irresistibly drawn to her mystery.  With lush photography, priceless paintings and a constant
question mark hanging over what is genuine and what is fake,
this is an intriguing and sophisticated film from director
 Giuseppe Tornatore , best known for “Cinema Paradiso.”  He keeps the setting vague -- the cars have Vienna number
plates, but the villa looks Italian and all the characters speak
English. This actually works fine in a movie where art, illusion
and authenticity are recurring themes.  Oldman can spot a forged painting instantly and makes news
by discovering new masterpieces. Yet he is also dishonest: He
profits from his own expertise by conspiring with Billy ( Donald Sutherland ) to suppress the value of paintings he wishes to
acquire for his secret vault.  Rush manages to make his prickly, effete, inaccessible lead
character sympathetic. He even makes us want to believe his
passion for a woman 40 years younger is returned.  Rating: ***½.  The Berlin Film Festival runs through Feb. 17. For more
information, go to https://www.berlinale.de/en  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Scott Reyburn 
on the art market and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 