-- Israeli Banks Said to Be Implicated in U.S. Tax Evasion
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-17T09:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/israeli-bankers-helped-california-man-cheat-irs-u-s-says.html
A California man born in Israel
agreed to plead guilty to conspiring with people at  Bank Leumi
Le-Israel Ltd.  and  Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd.  to hide offshore
accounts and income from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service,
according to court filings and people familiar with the matter.  Zvi Sperling was accused Feb. 14 by federal prosecutors in
Los Angeles of conspiring with people at two Tel Aviv-based
banks, identified only as Bank A and Bank B. The charging
document and plea agreement didn’t identify the banks. Bank A is
Mizrahi, according to a person who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly about the case. Bank B is Leumi, according to a second
person, who similarly asked not to be identified.  Since 2008, U.S. prosecutors have cracked down on offshore
tax evasion, charging at least 83 U.S. taxpayers or foreign
bankers, lawyers or advisers with tax crimes. UBS AG, the
largest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution in 2009 by admitting it
aided tax evasion, paying $780 million and handing over account
data on 250 clients. It later disclosed information on about
4,450 more accounts. Wegelin & Co., a Swiss bank, pleaded guilty
last month. No Israeli bank has been charged.  “The bank has a long-standing policy of not discussing
customer relationships,” Orit Reuveni, a spokeswoman for Bank
Leumi in Tel Aviv, said in a Feb. 15 e-mail, declining further
comment on the case. “We have previously stated that we are
among the international banks within the scope of a U.S. inquiry
into tax matters involving U.S. customers.”  Benny Shoukron, a spokesman for Mizrahi, said by phone
today that the bank is looking into the matter.  China Account  The shares of Leumi advanced 0.2 percent at 11:50 a.m. in
Tel Aviv today, while Mizrahi gained 0.6 percent. “It is known
the banks are facing investigations and fines,”  Terence Klingman , head of trading at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in Tel
Aviv, said today by phone. “The market doesn’t know how to
price this, there is not enough information.”  Sperling, who co-owns a wholesale goods company with his
brother, had an account in China when he met Banker 1 from Bank
A in 2001, according to the plea agreement. At that meeting, in
Beverly Hills, California, Banker 1 persuaded Sperling to move
his money from China, according to the plea deal.  “Sperling wanted to keep the money secret from the U.S.
government and Banker 1 ensured that the money would be secret
at Bank A in Israel,” according to the agreement. “Banker 1
also explained that Sperling would use the money by borrowing
against the money at Bank A in the U.S.”  ‘Routed Deposits’  Steven Toscher , Sperling’s lawyer, said in a telephone
interview Feb. 14 that his client “recognizes the serious
mistakes that he has made and he accepts full responsibility for
his conduct.”  Sperling arranged so-called back-to-back loans, according
to the charging document, known as an information. Banker 1
“solicited and routed deposits into undeclared bank accounts at
Bank A in Israel from clients in the U.S., and offered loan
products on behalf of Bank A and the Los Angeles branch” to
U.S. clients.  Bank A had more than 100 branches worldwide, including one
in Los Angeles, according to the information.  The account was opened under the name of an offshore
company called Orot Investments Ltd., according to the plea
deal. It was based in the Caribbean island of Nevis. An Israeli
attorney opened the account and needed the approval of Sperling
to “do anything with the account,” the plea deal said.  “The account was opened this way in order to keep it
secret and make it harder to detect” by the U.S. government,
according to the plea deal.  Back-to-Back Loans  The bank sent statements to Sperling’s lawyer, who faxed
them to his client, according to the plea deal. Sperling, who
was born in Israel and moved to the U.S. in 1990, also visited
Bank A in Israel. He met there with Bankers 2, 3 and 4, the plea
deal said. He holds an Israeli passport.  In 2003, Sperling and his brother started borrowing from
Bank A through the back-to-back loans, using the Orot account as
collateral, according to the plea deal.  Sperling had to move the money at Bank A in Israel into a
certificate of deposit to use as collateral for the loans, which
helped him expand his company, according to the plea agreement.
Bankers 1 and 5 helped him arrange the loans in Los Angeles.  “There was about $4 million in the Orot account in Bank A
in Israel,” according to the plea deal. “Sperling never
reported the Israeli account on his federal income tax returns.
Sperling never reported the interest earned on the Orot
account.”  He also never filed required Reports of Foreign Bank and
Financial Accounts, known as FBARs, according to the plea deal.  ‘Premier Position’  In 2008, a Bank A loan officer told Sperling that the Los
Angeles branch might close, and he needed to repay all his back-
to-back loans, according to the plea deal. Sperling paid back
the loans and moved his Israeli account to Bank B, which has 300
branches in 18 countries, according to the information.  Bank B describes itself as maintaining a “premier position
in the world of international private banking,” with private
bankers who will be a client’s “loyal and discreet
consultant,” according to the information.  That language matches a description on Leumi’s  website .  During a meeting at a Beverly Hills hotel, a banker at Bank
B told Sperling that Bank B “was better able than Bank A to
keep the accounts secret,” according to the plea deal. That
banker then arranged for back-to-back loans.  “The trend among bank regulators is to give substantial
fines if they find wrongdoing,” Klingman said. “We don’t know
yet the extent, if any, of the wrongdoing.”  Didn’t Disclose  From 2003 through 2010, Sperling failed to disclose his
offshore accounts to his tax return preparer, the information
stated. He also filed tax returns from 2006 through 2010 that
failed to report the existence of, or income from, his accounts
at Bank A and Bank B, the charging document stated.  From 2005 through 2008, Sperling failed to report interest
income of $381,563, according to the plea deal.  Sperling agreed to pay back taxes and civil penalties,
including an FBAR penalty of half of the highest amount of his
undeclared accounts from 2006 to 2011.  The case is U.S. v. Sperling, 13-cr-108, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  