-- Italy Police Detain Monte Paschi’s Former Finance Chief
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-02-14T16:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/italy-police-detain-monte-paschi-ss-former-finance-chief.html
Milan police detained  Gianluca Baldassarri , former finance chief at  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA , as prosecutors investigated possible crimes related
to derivatives trading at Italy’s third-largest bank.  Police detained Baldassarri, 51, today accusing him of
obstructing the authorities by hiding a document linked to
derivatives transactions in 2009, prosecutor Tito Salerno said
in a statement. Baldassarri, the first suspect to be taken into
custody during the probe, allegedly sought to sell securities
for about 1 million euros ($1.3 million), prompting concern he
might flee the country, Salerno said.  Chief Executive Officer  Fabrizio Viola  is seeking to
reassure investors he will succeed with a turnaround plan
central to a 3.9 billion-euro taxpayer bailout, as the 
investigation engulfs former executives. Some lawmakers and 
consumer groups are opposing the rescue amid accusations of 
market manipulation, fraud, false accounting and obstruction of 
regulatory activity tied to derivatives trades during Monte 
Paschi’s purchase of Banca Antonveneta SpA.  Monte Paschi’s new management, which also includes Chairman
 Alessandro Profumo , found a document in October that proved the
link between an unprofitable derivative dubbed Alexandria and a
new one, which should have led the bank to book a loss on the
original transaction.  Derivatives Deals  Baldassarri was head of finance when Alexandria and two
other derivatives deals were made that contributed to a 730
million-euro hit on its assets. The lender said last week that
the impact of Santorini on its 2012 accounts will be 305.2
million euros, while Alexandria will bring losses of 272.5
million euros and Nota Italia 151.7 million euros.  Former Chairman  Giuseppe Mussari , who resigned as head of
Italy’s banking association in January, will be questioned by
prosecutors in Milan tomorrow, according to Il Sole 24 Ore.
Mussari is among those under investigation, a person with
knowledge of the matter has said.  Italy’s financial police moved to seize about 40 million
euros in cash and securities last week as part of the criminal
investigations. The assets were seized from trustees and banks
as a preemptive step amid allegations of fraud, the police said
in a statement, without identifying suspects and where the money
was seized.  Monte Paschi fell  as much as  1.6 percent in Milan trading
today and was down 0.8 percent at 4:10 p.m., giving the bank a
market value of 2.76 billion euros. The bank has declined 21
percent since Bloomberg News first published details of the
Santorini transaction on Jan. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  