-- Italcementi Bonds Spur Record Issuance From Peripheral Borrowers
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-02-14T13:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/italcementi-bonds-spur-record-issuance-from-peripheral-borrowers.html
Italcementi SpA  is selling bonds for
the first time since 2010 as companies from Europe’s periphery
issue debt at a record pace.  Italy’s biggest cement maker is offering 350 million euros
($467 million) of five-year bonds to yield 6.25 percent,
according to a person with knowledge of the sale. The deal is
the eighth from an Italian company this year, taking the total
to 3.3 billion euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Peripheral borrowers raised 9.2 billion euros since the
start of the year as yields hold near an all-time low of 2.6
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro
Periphery Non-Financial Index. Investors are buying the debt
even as the euro-area recession deepened more than economists
forecast today, with the worst performance in almost four years
as Germany, France and Italy suffered slumping output.  “Italcementi needs to refinance some bank lines,” said
 Nicolo Bocchin , a money manager at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in
Milan who helps oversee 2 billion euros of assets invested in
corporate bonds. “Low yields and relatively low spreads are
helping.”  Telecom Italia SpA , Italy’s biggest phone carrier, is
marketing a hybrid bond issue, a person with knowledge of the
transaction said.  The euro-region’s third-biggest economy shrank 0.9 percent
in the quarter through December, deepening the fourth recession
since 2001. Italians go to the polls this month as former
premier  Silvio Berlusconi  narrows the lead of front-runner  Pier Luigi Bersani .  Iberdrola Tests Market  Iberdrola SA, Spain’s biggest utility, hired banks for a
sale of undated and deeply subordinated notes in euros, a person
with knowledge of the transaction said. The deal will start
after the company meets investors in Europe from tomorrow, the
person said.  Vinci SA issued a 300 million-euro floating-rate note at 40
basis points more than the Euribor rate, a person with knowledge
of the deal said. Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank will sell at
least 200 million pounds of bonds due December 2017, a person
with knowledge of that sale said.  In credit derivatives markets, the Markit iTraxx Europe
Index of credit-default swaps linked to 125 investment grade
companies rose 0.7 basis point to 112. The Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index of contracts linked to 50 companies with mostly
speculative-grade ratings climbed 1.5 basis points to 436.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on 25 banks and
insurers rose 0.7 basis point to 142.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.
For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah Benjamin  in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  