-- Italian Economy Contracted in First Quarter, Extending Recession
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-05-15T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/italian-economy-shrinks-most-in-almost-four-years-before-vote.html
Italy’s economy contracted more than
forecast in the three months through March as weak domestic
demand extended a recession to its seventh quarter.  Gross domestic product  shrank 0.5 percent from the previous
three months after falling 0.9 percent in the fourth quarter,
the National Statistics Institute Istat in Rome said in a
preliminary report today. The decline was more than the 0.4
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 21
economists. From a year earlier, output declined 2.3 percent.  As exports fail to offset the effect of declining
consumption and investment, Italy’s longest slump in two decades
shows no sign of easing.  Industrial production  fell 0.8 percent
in March, Istat said last week. Output in the 17-country euro
region rose 1 percent in the same month, the European Union
statistic office Eurostat said yesterday.  Italy  is probably in
its eighth quarter of contraction and won’t likely exit the
recession until late this year, Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said May 9.  Italy’s GDP will fall 1.4 percent in 2013 before rising 0.7
percent, Istat forecast in its May 6 annual report. Its
estimates compare with projections by the European Commission
for a 1.3 percent contraction this year and growth of 0.7
percent in 2014. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said May 2 that Italy will shrink 1.5 percent this
year and expand 0.5 percent next.  Property Tax  The new government of Prime Minister Enrico Letta may pass
later this week several measures to spur an economic recovery
after the austerity policies by his predecessor  Mario Monti 
deepened the recession.  At a meeting on May 17 in Rome the cabinet is expected to
suspend the next payment of the property tax assessed on primary
residences and to renew a temporary layoff program known as CIG.
Those measures are aimed at countering the slump in  consumer
spending  could require 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion),
newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported last week without saying where
it got the information.  Still, the government has signalled that no budget cuts
will be needed to finance its plan despite the commitments to
keep the  budget deficit  within the EU’s limit of 3 percent of
GDP and to reduce a public debt that reached a record high in
March of 2.035 trillion euros.  Any budget leeway for this year and next will be used to
repay part of debt the central and local administration owe to
private companies, Saccomanni said last week. Under a plan
passed by Monti’s government, Italy is committed to make 40
billion euros in arrear payments. Banking lobby ABI said last
month that the debts may have topped 100 billion euros at the
end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  