-- J&J Addressed Marketer’s Concern Over Hips, Jury Told
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-14T23:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/j-j-addressed-marketer-s-concern-over-hips-jury-told.html
Five months before  Johnson &
Johnson ’s DePuy unit recalled 93,000 all-metal hips, the company
addressed the concerns of a marketing executive who had been
suggesting a recall, his boss told a California jury.  The boss, Randall Kilburn, testified today in state court
in Los Angeles that he spoke to  Paul Berman , a director of hip
marketing, after Berman sent an e-mail on March 14, 2010,
expressing his concern over the safety of DePuy’s ASR hip
device.  Berman said in the e-mail that he had “an obligation as an
employee of J&J and DePuy to make it known when I do not feel
comfortable.” He also referred to four earlier e-mails he sent
suggesting a possible recall.  Kilburn, testifying in the first of 10,000  lawsuits  to go
to trial over the ASR hips, said he talked to Berman after
getting the March 2010 e-mail and discussed his concerns.
Kilburn said he also made sure all of the complaints that Berman
knew of about the hips were investigated internally.  When they were done talking, Berman “was comfortable that
all of his input was heard and that the product was safe based
on all the evaluations that were done,” Kilburn told jurors.
Kilburn said he also printed out Berman’s e-mail and handed it
to David Floyd, who was then president of DePuy.  Prison Guard  The testimony came at the trial of a lawsuit by Loren
Kransky, 65, a retired prison guard who claims DePuy defectively
designed the ASR hip and failed to warn of its risks. J&J, the
world’s  largest seller  of health-care products, denies that the
design was defective or that it contributed to the health
problems of Kransky, a Montana resident.  J&J attorney  Michael Zellers  questioned Kilburn today to
try to show that DePuy took all ASR complaints seriously.  “I know the people, and I know I can look at every
decision we made and they were the right decision,” Kilburn
said. “I know that our processes are very robust. People are
free to raise concerns. We have that open dialogue and debate.
Our senior leaders have the best interests of patients in
mind.”  Zellers asked if patient safety was important to Kilburn,
if it had the highest priority at DePuy, and if the company was
conscientious in its decisions. Kilburn said yes to each.  Hip Failures  Kransky’s lawyers have sought to show that DePuy failed to
test the ASR properly and ignored complaints by surgeons that
the device was failing at increasing rates.  When J&J recalled the device in August 2010, it said 12
percent of the hips had failed, requiring replacement surgeries
known as revisions. Jurors have heard that DePuy calculated the
rate at 35.8 percent within 4.57 years, and that Australian data
showed a failure rate of more than 40 percent last year.  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, said today that it
told doctors outside the U.S. to stop using its Adept hip
implant after a higher-than-expected failure rate. A U.K.
database found that 12 percent of patients needed revisions to
fix the implant, which hasn’t been on the market since 2011, J&J
said.  About 7,500 of the hips were distributed in 21 countries
not including the U.S. Doctors were sent a safety notice about
the product on Jan. 14.  J&J acquired the hips in 2009 from closely held U.K. device
maker Finsbury Orthopaedics Ltd. J&J said patients who received
the Adept implant should be followed according to local
standards of care.  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  