-- Japan Stock Tax Break, SAC E-Mails, Hearings: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-14T13:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/japan-stock-tax-break-sac-e-mails-hearings-compliance.html
A Japanese program that will provide
tax breaks to spur people to buy stocks may achieve the
government’s targeted 25 trillion yen ($268 billion) in
investments by 2020, a Fidelity Japan researcher said.  The tax-free Individual Savings Account initiative, which
is set to start in 2014, can grow by more than 3 trillion yen a
year over the next seven years, Satoshi Nojiri, head of  Fidelity
Investor Education Institute  in Tokyo, said in an interview.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government last month approved
the plan, which was first proposed under the previous
administration. Japanese policy makers are seeking to encourage
households to move assets from cash to equities to fund growing
industries and spur the world’s third-largest economy.  Under the 10-year program, modeled on a financial product
created in the U.K., people will be allowed to invest as much as
1 million yen a year in  stocks  and investment trusts without
paying tax on returns. Abe extended the term of the plan from
the original three years sought by his predecessor’s government.  The 25 trillion yen amount is equivalent to 7.5 percent of
the  market value  of the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s first section.  Japanese have been reluctant to invest in equities since
the collapse of an asset bubble more than 20 years ago caused
stocks to plunge and ushered in an era of  deflation  that
increased the incentive to save. More than half of households’
1,510 trillion yen of  financial assets  were in cash as of Sept.
30 and about 6 percent in equities, central bank figures show.  Still, the stock rebound since November is luring
individual investors. Retail investors made up 33 percent of
equity turnover in the final week of January, up from a weekly
average of 21 percent last year before the rally.  Compliance Action  FSA Fines Nestor Healthcare $271,000 Over Director Share Deals  The U.K.’s financial watchdog fined Nestor Healthcare Group
175,000 pounds ($271,000) for failing to ensure board members
and senior executives complied with rules on buying and selling
the company’s shares.  The company didn’t “issue any reminders about its own
share-dealing rules” to directors while it was listed, between
2006 and 2010, the U.K.  Financial Services Authority  said in an
e-mailed statement. This led to board members buying shares in
breach of listing rules, the agency said.  Saga Group Ltd.  bought Nestor in December 2010 for about
124 million pounds. The company agreed to settle at an early
stage of the investigation and so qualified for a 30 percent
reduction in its fine, the FSA said.  Iceland Investigated 205 Cases Following Failure, FSA Says  Iceland’s Financial Regulator said it investigated 205
cases as part of a probe into the nation’s economic and
financial collapse in 2008, according to a summary of the probe.
comments in summary of probe into nation’s economic and  The  FSA  said 103 cases were sent to the prosecutors, four
cases resulted in fines, and 98 cases were dropped.  Turkey’s Higher Deposit Insurance to Increase Bank Costs  Turkey’s Savings Deposit Insurance Fund plan to double its
guarantee to 100,000 liras on personal savings deposits will
increase banks’ costs,  Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency 
Chairman Mukim Oztekin said at a news conference in Ankara
yesterday.  The increase will bring the Turkish guarantee on deposits
close to the 50,000 euros limit in Europe, Oztekin said.  The premiums banks pay to the fund will rise to 326m liras
($185 million) from 173m liras if the insurance limit is
doubled, Global Securities said Feb. 11.  Courts  Fund Manager Fortuna Gets Probation After Aiding U.S. in Probe  Steven Fortuna, a hedge-fund manager who pleaded guilty and
assisted in the insider-trading probe of Galleon Group LLC and
other federal investigations, was sentenced to two years’
probation and six months’ home confinement.  He is one of 22 people who pleaded guilty in the Galleon
probe.  U.S. District Judge Sidney Stein in Manhattan, who presided
over the case, also ordered Fortuna to speak to graduate
business students at Columbia University and undergraduates at
 Boston University , where he obtained his degrees.  Federal prosecutors filed papers last week seeking leniency
for Fortuna, the co-founder and former managing director at S2
Capital LLC in Boston, saying he “immediately” agreed to
cooperate with the U.S. when FBI agents first approached him on
April 1, 2009. Fortuna pleaded guilty to federal insider-trading
charges in October 2009.  Fortuna, 50, told Stein before being sentenced that he
“made a grievous mistake” by choosing to act on inside
information, and everything he once had has been destroyed.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps told Stein that
Fortuna made more than 400 recordings of conversations with six
friends and colleagues targeted in the crackdown on insider
trading at hedge funds.  Apps said Fortuna also wore a concealed
body wire and recorded conversations with targets of the
investigation at the behest of Federal Bureau of Investigation
agents.  The case is U.S. v. Fortuna, 09-cr-1003, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Solow Sues Citigroup, BofA Alleging Manipulation of Libor  A Sheldon H. Solow-led New York realty company sued
 Citigroup Inc. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of America Corp.  and
several other banks for allegedly conspiring to manipulate the
U.S. dollar Libor rate.  In a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan, 7 West 57th Street Realty Co. accused the banks of
falsely reporting to the British Bankers Association interest
rates at which the lenders themselves were able to borrow money
day to day, causing the BBA to set an “artificial” London
Interbank Offered Rate for trillions of dollars worth of
transactions including bank loans and municipal bonds.  Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan Chase, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone
message seeking comment on the allegations.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, and Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
allegations.  The case is 7 West 57th Street Realty Co. LLC v. Citigroup
Inc., 13-cv-0981, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  SAC Probe Said to Be Hampered by 2008 Auto-Delete E-Mail Policy  The federal investigation of insider trading by SAC Capital
Advisors LP and its founder, Steven A. Cohen, has been hampered
by a lack of extensive e-mail evidence.  A reason is a policy in place at SAC during July 2008, the
period of time at the heart of the probe, to automatically
delete e-mails. SAC changed its policy just months later,
requiring preservation of electronic communications. By then,
most messages relevant to the $700 million in alleged illegal
trades had been erased, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Until the fall of 2008, SAC e-mails were deleted from
employee electronic mailboxes every 30 or 60 days, according to
SAC General Counsel Peter Nussbaum. He was questioned in a
deposition two years ago by lawyers for  Fairfax Financial
Holdings Ltd ., which had sued SAC and other hedge funds over
damage caused by short sales. SAC, a $14 billion fund, was
ultimately dismissed from that case. Bloomberg News reviewed a
transcript of the deposition.  Federal regulators don’t regard SAC’s lack of a formal e-
mail retention policy before the fall of 2008 as evidence of any
intent to hide details about the trades under investigation,
according to two people familiar with the matter. The policy was
in place before the government investigated the trades.  On Nov. 20, the U.S. charged Mathew Martoma, a former
portfolio manager at CR Intrinsic, an SAC unit, with using
material, non-public information to persuade Cohen to sell
shares of two drug companies just days before negative news
caused both stocks to plummet.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Martoma,
38, and the unit over the same conduct. Cohen, 56, might be
added to the lawsuit, a person familiar with the matter said at
the time.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said in announcing
the Martoma charges that Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC had
netted $276 million in profit and avoided losses on the trades.  Martoma has pleaded not guilty.  SAC Capital and Cohen haven’t been charged with any
wrongdoing regarding the trades. Cohen has said he acted
appropriately in selling his $700 million stakes in  Wyeth LLC 
and Elan Corp.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, declined to
comment on why the policy change was voluntarily initiated.
Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to comment, as
did SEC spokesman John Nester.      The criminal case is U.S. v.
Martoma, 12-02985, and the civil case is SEC v. CR Intrinsic
Investors LLC, 12-08466, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here, and see Interviews, below.  Interviews/Speeches  Lew on Cayman Fund, Financial Regulation at Confirmation Hearing  Jack Lew, President Barack Obama’s nominee for Treasury
secretary, testified before the  Senate Finance Committee  at his
confirmation hearing in Washington.  Lew, who was Obama’s former chief of staff, responded to
questions about a variety of topics including the Glass-Steagall
Act, Dodd-Frank, tax policy, financial regulation, bank
regulation, and small business capital access.  He also addressed questions from senators about his work at
 Citigroup Inc.  and his personal investment involving a fund in
the Cayman Islands.  Lew said he wasn’t aware that a personal investment
involved a fund in the Cayman Islands and he lost money when he
sold the holding.  “It was jaw-dropping to hear the Treasury secretary
nominee say he’s still unfamiliar with Ugland House,” his
investment in Cayman Islands-based fund, Senator Chuck Grassley,
a Republican from Iowa, said in e-mailed statement.  For the video, click here.  SAC Probe Impeded by Deleted E-Mails, Berenzweig Says  Seth Berenzweig, managing partner at Berenzweig Leonard,
talked about the outlook for the U.S. investigation of insider
trading by SAC Capital Advisors LP.  The federal probe of the hedge fund and its founder Steven
A. Cohen has been hampered by a lack of extensive e-mail
evidence because of a policy of automatic e-mail deletion at the
company during the time that is of interest to the probe.  Berenzweig spoke with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg
Television’s “Money Moves.”  For the video, click here.  Neil Barofsky Says Financial Crisis Is Not Over  Neil Barofsky, former special inspector for the U.S.
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and a Bloomberg
Television contributing editor, said the Obama administration’s
message that the financial crisis is over and the so-called
“silence on regulation” is wrong. He said this is “not an
accurate mood” because “difficult regulatory battles” remain.  Barofsky talked with Bloomberg’s Tom Keene, Sara Eisen and
Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  OCC’s Curry Defends $9 Billion Foreclosure Deal With Servicers  As paychecks for consultants hired to review faulty
foreclosures threatened to exceed compensation to the homeowners
harmed by the flaws, the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency says
he decided to end the reviews.  About 19 months after his agency ordered 14 of the largest
mortgage servicers to hire consultants to search for foreclosure
missteps, those consultants had made almost $2 billion and
nobody who’d been cheated on a foreclosure in 2009 or 2010 had
been paid, the comptroller, Thomas Curry, said in remarks
prepared for a speech for a  Women in Housing and Finance  event
yesterday.  Curry’s agency and the Federal Reserve reached $9.3 billion
in settlements last month with 13 mortgage servicers for their
foreclosure faults after a U.S. housing-market collapse
contributed to the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  The deal, which has been criticized by some lawmakers and
consumer groups, specified a cash payout of $3.6 billion that
will be divided among 4.4 million borrowers and is “several
times the potential payout had the reviews run their course,”
Curry said.  The regulators’ 2011 orders for review also included steps
firms had to take to fix their methods, which Curry said started
a “sea change” in industry practices, including better
communications with borrowers and controls to halt foreclosures
when borrowers get loan modifications.  The bulk of the settlement with 13 of the largest mortgage
servicers -- $5.7 billion -- will go toward mortgage assistance
for current borrowers.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  