-- JPMorgan Said to Cut Two Dozen Equities Traders, Salespeople
-- B y   H e a t h e r   H a u s w i r t h   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-02-14T19:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/jpmorgan-said-to-cut-two-dozen-equities-traders-salespeople-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co . cut about two
dozen U.S. equities traders and sales staff after that unit’s
revenue declined last year, according to two people with
knowledge of the reductions.  Some senior employees voluntarily left after their bonuses
shrank more than those of their fixed-income counterparts amid a
push to more closely align pay with revenue, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the decisions
weren’t public.  The fixed-income unit generated $15.4 billion in revenue
last year, up 4 percent from 2011, while revenue from the
equities division, run by  Tim Throsby , slipped 1.8 percent to
$4.4 billion.  About three managing directors and 18 executive directors,
including  Andrew Crofton  and  Julian Plant , were cut, according
to one of the people.  Kevin Smart , a vice president in the unit,
also lost his job, two people said. Equities derivatives traders
and sales people also were affected, the people said.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the New York-based
company, said she couldn’t comment on the departures. Plant also
declined to comment, while Crofton and Smart didn’t immediately
respond to messages.  Throsby, who previously ran equity derivatives sales and
trading, was promoted in September to run the entire unit as
part of a broader management shakeup. Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon , 56, ousted top managers and shuffled others around
after traders in the chief investment office lost more than $6.2
billion on a bad derivatives bet in the first three quarters of
last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Hauswirth in New York at 
 hhauswirth@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  