-- KBC Profit Beats Estimates as Funding Costs Drop, Fees Increase
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-02-14T10:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/kbc-profit-beats-estimates-as-funding-costs-drop-fees-increase.html
KBC Groep NV , Belgium’s biggest bank
and insurer by market value, reported fourth-quarter profit that
beat analyst estimates as lower funding costs halted a slide of
its interest margin and sales of fee-generating products rose.  Underlying profit in the three months that ended Dec. 31
increased to 309 million euros ($414 million) from 161 million
euros a year earlier, the Brussels-based company said today in a
statement. That beat the 281.3 million-euro average of eight
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. KBC proposed a dividend
of 1 euro a share, the  most  since it first sought state aid five
years ago.  KBC’s net interest margin widened 3 basis points from the
preceding three-month period, the first increase after five
quarters of declines, as the bank increased margins on mortgage
and corporate lending and reduced the interest on 12-month
deposits in Belgium by 25 basis points in November, which
boosted sales of mutual funds and unit-linked products in the
insurance business. Additional issuance of covered bonds backed
by residential mortgages should reduce funding costs further and
KBC forecast Irish loan-loss provisions will decline by as much
as 45 percent this year.  “The results are solid, with net interest margin stable
and a solid increase in fee income,”  Albert Ploegh , an analyst
at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, wrote in an investor note.
“Reassuring asset quality trends, with better than expected
guidance in Ireland and a surprising dividend proposal.”  Best Performance  KBC gained as much as 5.9 percent to 30 euros in Brussels
 trading , the highest intraday value since March 2011, and traded
at 29.80 euros, up 1.47 euros, by 11:25 a.m. local time. The
shares have gained 75 percent in the past year, the  best
performance  in the Stoxx 600 Banks Index.  The bank is already taking additional steps to protect its
interest margin as it announced an additional cut in the Belgian
deposit rate this week and repaid three-year loans from the
European Central Bank, which were drawn in December 2011 to
replace group funding at its Irish banking unit.  The bank’s loan-to-deposit ratio fell to 78 percent from 82
percent at the end of September and KBC will receive about 1
billion euros of cash, including group funding, upon completion
of the sale of its Russian subsidiary Absolut Bank ZAO,
earmarked for the second quarter.  By saying it won’t pay a dividend next year, KBC will be
able to avoid paying 8.5 percent interest on the remaining
Flemish government rescue funds outstanding at the end of 2013.  Reimbursement Premium  The bank reiterated it plans to repay 1.17 billion euros of
the remaining 3.5 billion euros in the first half, plus a
mandatory 583 million-euro reimbursement premium. Profit this
year should help to offset the repayment, boosting KBC’s common-
equity ratio under fully loaded Basel III capital rules to about
11 percent by year-end from about 10.8 percent last year.  KBC is also seeking to transfer about 500 million euros of
shareholder loans to  KBC Ancora CVA  and CERA as these loans will
gradually need to be deducted from capital under Basel III,
Chief Executive Officer  Johan Thijs  said on a conference call.  As the 2012 dividend covers more than two years of  interest
expenses  to be paid by KBC Ancora, the payout should make it
easier to find a solution, according to Ploegh.  KBC forecast provisions for Irish loan losses will decline
to about 350 million euros, plus or minus 50 million euros, this
year. The Belgian bank has set aside more than 1.5 billion euros
in the past three years to cover losses at  KBC Bank Ireland Plc ,
and provisions now cover 46 percent of non-performing loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  