-- Kenya Deputy PM Kenyatta Won Debate: Ipsos-Synovate
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-02-14T10:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/kenya-s-deputy-premier-kenyatta-won-debate-ipsos-synovate-says.html
(Corrects Odinga’s debate rating to 23 percent in second
paragraph)  Kenyan Deputy Prime Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , who the International Criminal Court has charged with
atrocities, was rated the best performer in the nation’s first
presidential debate, according to a survey by Ipsos-Synovate.  Uhuru, who heads the Jubilee Coalition, was rated the best
performer by 37 percent of 1,074 people sampled who watched or
listened to the debate on Feb. 11 in Nairobi, the capital. His
main rival, Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  of the CORD alliance,
was viewed by 23 percent as the best out of eight candidates,
said Tom Wolf, a consultant with Ipsos-Synovate’s Kenyan unit.
Kenya will hold national elections on March 4.  “The debate makes a difference especially for a close
election like the one we expect to have,” he told reporters
yesterday in Nairobi. In a separate nationwide poll, Ipsos-
Synovate found Odinga had the support of 46 percent of likely
voters, while Kenyatta had 40 percent.  Kenya’s elections are seen as a test of stability in East
Africa’s largest economy, after a disputed 2007 vote set off two
months of ethnic and political reprisals that killed more than
1,100 people, drove 350,000 from their homes and cut economic
growth to 1.5 percent in 2008 from 7 percent.  The debate covered issues such as tribalism, security and
the International Criminal Court cases Kenyatta and his running
mate, legislator  William Ruto , are facing. The ICC indicted
Kenyatta last year for inciting ethnic and political violence
after the 2007 election, charges he denies.  Former Cabinet Secretary  Francis Muthaura  is facing the
same charges. Ruto and radio presenter  Joshua Arap Sang  are
suspects in a second ICC case related to the post-election
clashes. The trials are set to start on April 10 and April 11.
All four defendants say they are innocent of the charges.  In a separate poll, conducted by Nairobi-based Consumer
Insight Ltd., Kenyatta had a 27 percent approval compared to 22
percent for Odinga. The poll surveyed 328 people who watched the
debate on television, Consumer Insight Managing Director
Ndirangu wa Maina said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  