-- Kirin Forecasts Record Profit Amid Gain From F&N Sale
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-02-15T08:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/kirin-forecasts-record-profit-amid-gain-from-f-n-sale.html
Kirin Holdings Co. , Japan’s largest
beverage maker, dropped the most in 15 months in Tokyo trading
after forecasting operating profit growth this year at less than
a third of the five-year average.  The brewer fell 4.9 percent, the biggest decline since Nov.
10, 2011, to 1,171 yen as of the close in Tokyo trading.
Operating income will probably rise 1.3 percent to 155 billion
yen ($1.7 billion) this year, the company said yesterday in a
statement after market hours.  Kirin’s operating profit growth forecast is about one-third
the five-year average of 5 percent after spending at least $11.3
billion over the past four years on acquisitions to help offset
declining demand at home, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company has said it would rely on partnerships
and subsidiaries for growth in Southeast Asia after selling its
15 percent stake in food, beverage and real estate group  Fraser
& Neave Ltd.  S$2 billion ($1.6 billion).  “The brand value attached to the domestic alcoholic and
non-alcoholic beverage businesses has been diminishing,”
 Satoshi Fujiwara , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a
report dated today. “We think it will be difficult to enhance
brand value, and expect the company will have to change course
at times and take a strict approach to cost controls.” He
lowered his rating on the shares to neutral from buy.  Southeast Asia  Kirin also said it expects net income to rise 60 percent to
a record this year as it books a gain from the sale of its stake
in Fraser & Neave Ltd. Selling its holding and giving up on a
plan to take over the Singapore-based food, beverage and real
estate company jointly with Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd.
leaves Kirin to plot a new course for growth in Southeast Asia.  The company doesn’t see major investment candidates in
Southeast Asia, President  Senji Miyake  told reporters yesterday
in Tokyo at a briefing to discuss earnings.  Net income will probably increase to 90 billion yen in
2013, the Tokyo-based brewer said in a statement yesterday. That
compares with the 63.6 billion yen average of 16 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg before the earnings
announcement.  The Japanese brewer will book a 47 billion yen gain before
taxes for the year ending December 2013 from the sale, it said
in a statement yesterday.  “Kirin reported reasonably good results,”  Nigel Muston 
and  Jeanie Chen , analysts at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, wrote in
a report dated yesterday. “There was also some positive
commentary on the possibility of buybacks.” They rate the
shares “outperform.”  The beermaker expects free cash flow of 220 billion yen
this year, according to the statement yesterday. The company
will return some to shareholders and use part to pay back debt
and make investments, President Senji Miyake told reporters
yesterday in Tokyo.  Annual dividends will increase 24 percent to 36 yen a share
this year from 29 yen in 2012, the company said.  Sales of beer, low-malt beer, and beer-like drinks in Japan
last year fell 1 percent to 438 million cases as demand fell for
an eighth straight year. Kirin had a 35.6 percent share, the
largest after  Asahi Group Holdings Ltd.   Kirin has said it expects to sell 154 million cases of
beer, low-malt beer, and beer-like drinks this year, 1 percent
lower than last year.  Kirin’s forecast assumes an 11 percent drop in operating
profit at its beer business to 51.7 billion yen, Muston and Chen
at CLSA wrote. “We remain concerned that Kirin seems to have no
real solution to its falling market share in Japan both in beer
and non-alcoholic beer other than ‘investing in its brands’
further in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  