-- N.Y. Livery Car Groups Sue Over Smartphone Taxi-Hail Program
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-14T23:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/n-y-livery-drivers-sue-over-smartphone-program-to-hail-taxis.html
Livery car groups sued the  New York
City Taxi & Limousine Commission  to stop a program that allows
riders to hail taxis using smartphones from going into effect.  The Livery Roundtable, Black Car Assistance Corp. and
several car-service firms filed a complaint today in state court
in Manhattan alleging that the program violates city codes and
discriminates against the elderly, who are less likely to own
smartphones.  The new program, which a lawyer for the city said could
start next month, also “fundamentally overhauls the city’s
long-standing transportation policy that has drawn a clear,
bright-line” between medallion taxis authorized to pick up
street hails and black cars that must be hired by appointment,
according to the complaint.  “This is not what street-hailing typically entails,”
 Randy Mastro , a lawyer for the livery groups, said to Manhattan
Supreme Court Justice Arthur F. Engoron at a hearing today.
“The procedural violations here are myriad.”  Under the anticipated yearlong pilot program, riders could
use downloadable smartphone applications to summon nearby taxis
to their location. Application providers would have to
demonstrate compliance with commission guidelines and ensure
that services are only provided by properly licensed drivers,
according to the TLC.  ‘Wild West’  “TLC believes the applications are going to come out on
the market anyway,” Michelle Goldberg-Cahn, a lawyer for the
city, told the judge. Without regulations, “it’s going to be a
Wild West situation,” she said.  Engoron scheduled a hearing Feb. 28 on the livery groups’
request to halt the program. Approved e-hailing could begin as
soon as March 2, Goldberg-Cahn said.  The suit comes as services such as Uber, Hailo, GetTaxi and
Flywheel are already competing to sign up passengers and drivers
in other cities, such as San Francisco and Chicago. In December,
the TLC voted 7-0, with two abstentions, to allow for the pilot
e-hailing program in New York.  In an e-mailed statement today, TLC Commissioner David
Yassky said that the suit “seeks to keep the taxi industry and
New Yorkers in the dark ages.”  “Our rules allow for e-hail now, and the only question is,
do we embrace these new services and ensure that consumer
protections are in place, or listen to obstructionists and watch
e-hail apps proliferate without any regulatory input,” he said.  ‘Outer Boroughs’  Engoron, who worked as a cab driver in the city more than
40 years ago, blocked a plan last year by the state to allow
livery drivers to pick up passengers who hail them from the
street in areas outside much of Manhattan, the so-called “outer
boroughs” where taxi drivers are sometimes unwilling to go.  The plan, challenged by taxi groups, violated the “home
rule” clause of New York’s Constitution, which restricts the
state Legislature’s power to interfere in local affairs, Engoron
found.  Under city regulations, only yellow cabs are permitted to
pick up fares on the street, while car services are legally
limited to calls dispatched by radio.  The case is Black Car Assistance Corp. v. The City of New
York, 100327-2013, Supreme Court for the State of New York,
County of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  