-- Nestle Expects Challenging 2013 as Emerging Markets Slow
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2013-02-14T12:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/nestle-reports-slowest-annual-sales-growth-in-three-years.html
Nestle SA  said it expects 2013 to be
as challenging as last year, when sales missed analysts’
estimates on a slowdown in emerging markets, where the world’s
largest food company makes more than 40 percent of its revenue.  Sales advanced 5.9 percent in 2012 on a so-called organic
basis, missing the 6 percent average estimate of 11  analysts 
surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock fell as much as 2.7 percent,
the steepest intraday decline in almost four months, after the
Vevey, Switzerland-based maker of Nescafe soluble coffee said
revenue growth in emerging markets slowed to 11 percent last
year from 13 percent in 2011.  Nestle Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said this year
will be “challenging” even as the Nespresso capsule maker is
confident for organic sales growth of 5 percent to 6 percent.
Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker, said
last month it expects to outperform the competition in 2013 as
the Dutch company expands in emerging countries such as Brazil.  The results were “certainly not the strong outperformance
we have come to expect from Nestle over many years,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note to
investors.  Russian Coffee  Lower pricing dented sales growth in emerging markets just
as Nestle got within 2 percentage points of a 2020 target for
such countries to contribute 45 percent of total revenue. Price
increases amounted to 2.5 percent in Asia, Oceania and Africa in
2012, compared with 4 percent in 2011. One of the key changes
was a cut in the price for Gold Blend Nescafe coffee in Russia
last year, according to  Roddy Child-Villiers , head of investor
relations.  “Pricing is reflecting what’s happening in terms of raw-
material costs,” Child-Villiers said. Volume growth improved in
the fourth quarter in emerging markets, he also said.  The shares traded 2.6 percent lower at 62.80 Swiss francs
at 1:42 p.m. in Zurich. Nestle, Europe’s largest company by
market value, worth 203 billion Swiss francs ($220 billion), has
gained 16 percent in the past year and closed at a record
yesterday. Unilever shares have gained 14 percent and Danone SA
1.9 percent in the past 12 months.  “The party isn’t over for emerging markets,” said  Jean- Philippe Bertschy , an analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich. “The
market was too optimistic. Pricing was down but input costs went
down as well. Nestle will continue to grow in the high single-
digits in emerging markets.”  Pfizer Divestments  Nestle agreed last year to buy  Pfizer Inc. ’s infant-
nutrition business for $11.9 billion to expand in markets such
as China. Regulators in South Africa and Australia have imposed
conditions on the purchase, and Nestle said it expects to sell
off about 15 percent of the unit this year. The company is
awaiting decisions from authorities in Latin America.  “There’s a lot of interest” from companies interested in
acquiring the assets, Bulcke said in an interview. Nestle said
it estimated their fair value at 774 million francs at the end
of 2012. Nestle, whose policy is to consider “bolt-on”
acquisitions, doesn’t plans to sell any of its current brands,
he also said.  Nestle’s sales advanced 8.4 percent on a so-called organic
basis in the Asia, Oceania and Africa region in the full year,
slowing from the 9.4 percent pace in the first nine months.
Analysts had expected a rebound after Nestle said in October the
third quarter was weighed down by one-time factors such as
flooding in the Philippines.  Bounce-Back?  “The expected bounce-back” in that region “didn’t seem
to materialize,” said  Warren Ackerman , an analyst at Societe
Generale.  Emerging markets now account for 43 percent of Nestle’s
total sales, 2 percentage points away from the target the
company set for 2020.  “The fundamental long-term thrust for sustainable growth”
in the Asia, Oceania and Africa region is “unchanged,”  Nandu Nandkishore , head of that region for Nestle, said in an
interview.  Organic revenue growth in Europe was 1.8 percent. Sales of
Nespresso rose by a “double-digit” percentage, the company
said. That’s the first time Nestle didn’t give a numerical
growth rate for the business in at least three years. Chief
Financial Officer  Wan Ling Martello  said Nestle is limiting the
amount of detail it gives on Nespresso as competition increases
in the single-serve coffee market. Companies including  D.E
Master Blenders 1753 NV  make capsules compatible with the
machines.  Net income rose 12 percent to 10.6 billion francs, more
than the 10.4 billion-franc average estimate. The trading
operating  margin  widened 0.2 percentage point to 15.2 percent in
2012, less than the 15.3 percent analysts expected.  Nestle said it plans to raise its  dividend  5.1 percent to
2.05 francs a share this year. That’s less than a Bloomberg
forecast of 2.10 francs.  The company defines organic growth as sales growth
excluding acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  