-- New Zealand Retail Sales Advance Most in Six Years; Kiwi Gains
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-02-14T22:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/new-zealand-retail-sales-advance-most-in-six-years-kiwi-gains.html
Sales at New Zealand  retail stores 
rose the most in six years in the fourth quarter, led by fuel
and building supplies, adding to signs of a recovery and sending
the local currency higher.  Sales adjusted for inflation surged 2.1 percent in the
three months through December from the third quarter, when they
fell a revised 0.2 percent, Statistics New Zealand said in
Wellington today. The gain was the most since the fourth quarter
of 2006 and exceeded the 1.4 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists.  Stronger retail spending, rising house prices and an
expansion in manufacturing suggest domestic demand recovered in
the fourth quarter after almost stalling in the three months
through September. New Zealand’s dollar gained as investors bet
the central bank may raise interest rates by October as the
economic pick-up begins to put pressure on inflation.  “Retailers have been the most upbeat of businesses in
recent surveys,” Craig Ebert, senior economist at Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, said in a Feb. 11 research note. He
expects a rate increase in December.  New Zealand’s dollar has gained 2.4 percent this year
following a 6.6 percent advance in 2012. It bought 85.13 U.S.
cents at 10:57 a.m. in Wellington from 84.63 cents immediately
before the release.  Interest Rate  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand has kept the benchmark
interest rate at a record-low 2.5 percent since March 2011 to
help spark a recovery after earthquakes in the city of
Christchurch stalled activity in the nation’s third-biggest
urban area.  Traders are betting there’s a 61 percent chance of a rate
rise by October, according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  Central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said Jan. 31 that
economic growth was recovering from softness seen through the
middle of last year. Rebuilding in Christchurch will probably
help boost incomes and domestic demand, he said.  Finance Minister Bill English yesterday told a
parliamentary committee the economy was headed for moderate
growth, and is performing better than many of the nation’s
larger trading partners.  New Zealand’s manufacturing industry expanded in January at
the fastest pace since May, according to a report yesterday.
House prices rose 6.2 percent last month from a year earlier,
the fastest annual increase since March 2008, Quotable Value NZ
said Feb. 11.  Core Sales  Clothing retailer  Hallenstein Glasson Holdings Ltd.  today
said sales rose 6.6 percent in the six months ended Feb. 1 from
the year-earlier period. Purchases in the December-January
shopping period were “robust” and margins improved, the
company said in a statement sent to the stock exchange.  Today’s report showed sales rose at 12 of 15 store
categories surveyed. Core sales, which exclude vehicle dealers
and fuel outlets, gained 1.5 percent from the third quarter,
when they were unchanged.  Fuel purchases gained the most in four years, rising 7.7
percent from the third quarter, today’s report showed. Hardware,
building and gardening supplies sales growth exceeded 4 percent
for a second-straight quarter, led by demand in Canterbury amid
increased earthquake rebuilding, the statistics agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  