-- New Jersey Sports Betting Law Under Federal Judge’s Review
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-02-14T21:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/new-jersey-sports-betting-law-under-federal-judge-s-review-1-.html
A New Jersey law that would legalize
sports gambling in the state is under review by a federal judge
who said he would issue a ruling in two weeks.  Lawyers for the U.S. argued today during a hearing in
federal court in Trenton before U.S. District Judge  Michael Shipp  that a 1992 federal law requiring states to restrict
sports betting prevents New Jersey’s actions. Attorneys for New
Jersey said the federal law violates the state’s sovereignty.  The U.S. can’t “regulate the state’s ability to govern its
citizens or the judgment of the government of the state of New
Jersey,”  Theodore Olson , an attorney for the state, told Shipp.  The federal statute “does not require the state of New
Jersey to enact laws”  Paul Fishman , U.S. Attorney for New
Jersey, argued for the government. It “doesn’t require the
state to do more than what they were doing.”  Fishman also told the judge that gambling undermines the
integrity of professional and college sports.  The law, signed by Republican New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  in January 2012, would permit wagering on professional
and college sports at racetracks and Atlantic City casinos.  The lawsuit was filed by the National Collegiate Athletic
Association and several professional sports organizations to
stop the law from taking effect.  New Revenue  Legalized sports gambling could generate $1 billion in bets
and as much as $100 million in new annual revenue for the state
in its first year, William J. Pascrell III, a lead lobbyist for
the measure, said in an earlier interview.  Sports organizations including the National Football League
and Major League Baseball sued New Jersey’s government in August
to block betting in the state. The National Hockey League,
National Basketball Association and NCAA joined the complaint.  The 1992 federal law bans sports betting in all but four
states: Nevada, Delaware, Montana and Oregon. New Jersey said in
a court filing that the law is unconstitutional.  The case is National Collegiate Athletic Association v.
Christie, 12-4947, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sophia Pearson  in Trenton at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  