-- New York Plaza Hotel Owner’s Bank Accounts Frozen; Shares Fall
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-02-14T06:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/new-york-plaza-hotel-owner-s-bank-accounts-frozen-shares-fall.html
Sahara Housingfina Corp. , controlled
by the owner of New York’s Plaza Hotel, dropped the most in more
than two years after India’s market regulator froze the bank
accounts of group companies and directors including founder
Subroto Roy.  The  Securities and Exchange Board of India  yesterday
ordered banks to freeze the accounts of Sahara Housing
Investment Corp. and Sahara India Real Estate Corp., their
founders and directors for failing to refund money raised from
the public, which the regulator said flouted debt-sale rules.  Sahara Housingfina plunged 15 percent to 46.25 rupees at
11:17 a.m. in Mumbai, its biggest drop since Nov. 25, 2010.
India’s Supreme Court on Aug. 31 asked the Sahara group
companies to repay the 174 billion rupees ($3.2 billion) raised
through selling optionally fully convertible debentures as it
didn’t comply with rules. The court authorized SEBI in September
to seize the group’s assets should it fail to comply.  “There are no options for Sahara,” said Sandeep Parekh,
founder of Finsec Law Advisors and a former SEBI executive
director. “ They can only seek extension of time from Supreme
Court and then pray. This is the first time SEBI has attached a
company’s assets.”  Sahara said in a statement yesterday that the SEBI order is
“based on old facts” and that it has filed an application in
the Supreme Court saying it has already redeemed a
“significant” amount and any further payment to SEBI would be
“double payment.”  Group company  Sahara One Media & Entertainment Ltd.  fell as
much as 4.8 percent to 82.1 rupees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  