-- News Corp. Tabloid Bribery Leads to New Arrest of London Officer
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-14T12:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/news-corp-tabloid-bribery-leads-to-new-arrest-of-london-officer.html
The bribery scandal at  News Corp .’s
Sun tabloid in Britain led to the arrest of a second serving
police officer this week on suspicion of leaking confidential
information to journalists.  A 51-year-old male from the Metropolitan Police Service’s
territorial policing command unit in west London was detained at
his home over alleged misconduct in public office, police said
today in a statement that didn’t identify him.  The bribery probe, named Operation Elveden, has led to 61
arrests, including prison workers, members of the military, Sun
journalists and  Rebekah Brooks , the former chief executive
officer of News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International. The
investigation has embroiled London police since it started.  Last week, former U.K. police officer Alan Tierney was
charged with taking cash from the Sun in exchange for details
about two incidents involving “high-profile” people in 2009. A
50-year-old police officer was arrested on Feb. 12 on suspicion
of taking bribes, and a 33-year-old officer in the Met’s
specialist crime unit was arrested a week earlier.  The Sun is the main target of the bribery probe, while News
Corp.’s other U.K. tabloid, the now-defunct News of the World,
is at the center of a phone-hacking scandal that triggered six
more arrests yesterday. Both scandals have led to criminal
charges against former News Corp. employees, including Brooks.  While the bribery probe has centered on illegal payments
for confidential information, today’s arrest involves only the
leaking of information and not a cash bribe, police said. The
detainment was the result of evidence given to police by
investigators at News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit, News
International, police said.  April Casburn, a senior London police detective, was
sentenced on Feb. 1 to 15 months in prison for trying to sell
information about the phone hacking probe to the News of the
World. She was the first person to be sentenced in the cases.
Other criminal trials are scheduled for later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  