-- NFL’s Eagles Hire 49ers’ Gamble to Oversee Personnel Department
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-14T14:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/nfl-s-eagles-hire-49ers-gamble-to-oversee-personnel-department.html
Tom Gamble was hired as the
Philadelphia Eagles’ vice president of player personnel after
eight National Football League seasons with the San Francisco
49ers, where he helped build teams that reached the conference
title game the last two years and the Super Bowl this month.  Gamble, 49, was director of player personnel for the 49ers.
He had interviewed for the general manager jobs with the New
York Jets and the Jacksonville Jaguars this offseason.  Gamble’s father, Harry, was the Eagles’ president from 1986
to 1995, and he entered the NFL as an assistant in the team’s
personnel department in 1988. He’s also worked as an assistant
coach and scout for the Jets, Baltimore Ravens and Indianapolis
Colts. The Eagles said Gamble fills the personnel spot left
vacant when  Ryan Grigson  was hired as the Colts’ GM in January
2012.  “He had a great run in San Francisco and they have been
very successful over the last few years,” Eagles General
Manager  Howie Roseman  said in an e-mailed statement. “He will
jump right in with our group and get working on free agency and
the draft.”  The Eagles have been overhauling their organization since
finishing with a 4-12 record and missing the NFL playoffs for
the second straight season.  Andy Reid  was fired as coach on Dec.
31, ending a 14-year run in Philadelphia, and replaced by
University of Oregon coach  Chip Kelly .  The 49ers were beaten by the New York Giants in the
National Football Conference championship game after the 2011
season and reached the Super Bowl this year before losing to the
Ravens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  