-- Nippon Prologis Jumps in Debut After $1 Billion IPO: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-02-14T08:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/nippon-prologis-set-to-rise-in-tokyo-debut-after-1-billion-ipo.html
Nippon Prologis REIT Inc ., a real
estate investment trust set up by the world’s largest owner of
industrial buildings, surged 24 percent in its Tokyo trading
debut amid expectations for growing demand for warehouses.  The REIT, run by San Francisco-based Prologis, rose to
682,000 yen from the initial offer price of 550,000 yen at the
close of trading in Tokyo. The REIT raised 100.3 billion yen ($1
billion) through an initial public offering earlier this month,
the company said.  Nippon Prologis ’s IPO follows that of competitor  Global
Logistic Properties Ltd ., partly-owned by the  Government of
Singapore Investment Corp. , which raised about $1.3 billion in
December through going public in Tokyo. Japan’s distribution
centers are rebounding from record high vacancies in 2009 amid
increased demand for modern storage facilities, according to
broker CBRE Group Inc.  “The performance of Nippon Prologis shows market
expectation of the REIT market,” said  Yoji Otani , an analyst at
 Deutsche Bank AG  in Tokyo. “Prologis’s price gains will lead to
higher prices for all other J-REITs.”  Nippon Prologis will use the proceeds to buy 12 warehouses
worth 173 billion yen from Prologis, which is responsible for
supplying properties to the trust, the sponsor said in a
statement on Jan. 10. The trust also has the exclusive
negotiation rights to buy eight more properties owned by
Prologis. The warehouse owner will retain at least 15 percent of
Nippon Prologis and manage the REIT, it said in the statement.  ‘Very Positive’  The  Tokyo Stock Exchange  REIT Index has gained 11 percent
so far this year after it had the biggest annual increase of 34
percent in 2012.  GLP J-REIT , which began trading on Dec. 21, has
gained 21 percent in less than two months amid expectations for
increased demand for distribution centers.  The outlook for Japan’s REIT and property market is “very
positive” said Chairman Hamid Moghadam in an interview in
Tokyo.  “For the next couple of years, there’s going to be great
opportunities for the J-REIT market and for Japanese real estate
taking advantage of the liquid form of investment which are the
J-REITs,” he said.  The vacancy rate in warehouses in Tokyo has declined to 3.7
percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 from a peak of 20 percent
in September 2009, according to CBRE. The asking rents for
logistic properties rose to 6,140 yen per tsubo in the second
half of last year, the highest since at least 2005, CBRE said.
One tsubo, a standard measure of property area in Japan, is 3.3
square meters, or 35.5 square feet.  ‘Modern Stuff’  “The market is not going to grow very much, but the supply
of modern logistics space, which is what we focus on, is going
to grow a lot,” Moghadam said. “The modern stuff is going to
take share away from the older less competitive properties, so
that’s where we choose to focus.”  Industrial spaces returned 6 percent on average for the
year ended October, more than double that for office buildings,
according to London-based Investment Property Databank Ltd.  “The pace of growth, especially, for e-commerce has gained
significant momentum, becoming a tremendous driver of logistics
demand,” said  Junichi Taguchi , managing director of CBRE’s
Industrial Services division in Japan. “With growth in online
retailer delivery networks expected to grow significantly in the
future, we forecast a solid leasing market for logistics
properties through 2013.”  To meet rising demand,  Mitsui Fudosan Co. , the country’s
largest developer by sales, said Jan. 17 it plans to invest 200
billion yen in warehouses in Japan over five years.  Mitsubishi
Estate Co. , the second largest, last year announced plans on
developing two warehouse projects with partners in Tokyo Bay and
Kanagawa prefecture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  