-- Nortel Wins Approval of Deal With Disabled Former Workers
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-02-14T18:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/nortel-wins-approval-of-deal-with-disabled-former-workers.html
Nortel Networks Inc. , the defunct
telecommunications company, won preliminary court approval to
settle a dispute over medical benefits with disabled former
employees for about $28 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin Gross  in Wilmington, Delaware,
approved Nortel’s request to send details of the proposed accord
to about 200 former U.S. workers. The company will return to
court in a few months to ask for final approval of the
settlement.  “We are all not overly happy, but we are glad that we
moved to somewhere in the middle,” Lisa M. Schweitzer, a lawyer
for Nortel, said in court today.  The settlement, negotiated with a committee of disabled ex-
employees, is the third Nortel has reached with different groups
of former U.S. workers. The company last month agreed to resolve
a dispute with retirees by paying $66.9 million for medical and
other benefits.  To help the disabled ex-workers get paid as soon as
possible, the committee agreed to sell their $28 million claim
in the bankruptcy case to an investment fund, said attorney
Rafael X. Zahralddin-Aravena of the law firm Elliott Greenleaf.
The fund will try to collect as much as $28 million from Nortel
that would have gone to the former workers once the bankruptcy
case is over.  Cash Payment  Zahralddin-Aravena declined to identify the fund or say how
much the committee received for selling the claim. Should the
deal win final approval, the former workers will get a single
cash payment based on an actuarial formula, he said.  The money is meant to help cover medical benefits until the
former workers reach 65, when they will be eligible for the
federal Medicare program.  Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, filed for bankruptcy
in the U.K., France, Canada and the U.S. in 2009. Since then the
company has been selling assets and negotiating with
bondholders, former workers and other creditors about how to
split $9 billion in cash.  The money won’t cover all of Nortel’s debts. Creditors have
filed claims valued at about $36 billion in the company’s
Canadian bankruptcy case.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  