-- Norway Ready to Use Rate Cuts to Cool Krone, Olsen Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-02-15T11:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/norway-ready-to-use-rate-cuts-to-cool-krone-olsen-says.html
Norges Bank is ready to cut interest
rates further to counter krone gains that interfere with the
inflation target, Governor  Oeystein Olsen  said.  “If it gets too strong over time, leading to inflation
that’s too low, we will act,” Olsen said yesterday in an
interview at his office in Oslo. “I have followed the krone
development, and we always do, but it’s only one part of the
overall picture.”  Policy makers around the world are discussing how to
respond to a re-emergence of so-called currency wars as finance
ministers from the Group of 20 gather in Moscow. Norway’s
central bank governor has shown before he’s willing to deploy
rates to cap excessive krone gains, cutting the benchmark by
0.75 percentage point in two moves starting in December 2011.  Olsen and his colleagues are torn between protecting
exporters through lower rates that stem krone gains, and a
policy that addresses an overheated property market. Western
Europe’s largest oil exporter, which boasts the biggest budget
surplus of any AAA rated nation, has emerged as a haven from the
euro area’s debt crisis.  The krone sank as much as 0.6 percent against the euro
following Olsen’s comments. Versus the dollar, it dropped as
much as 1.4 percent. The krone was little changed at 7.3939 per
euro as 11:57 a.m. today.  Policy Counter  “A pronounced weakening of growth prospects, or a krone
that is too strong, may over time lead to inflation that’s too
low,” Olsen also said in the text of his annual speech held
yesterday in Oslo. “Such development would be counteracted by
monetary policy measures.”  European Central Bank council member Jens Weidmann said a
rising euro alone won’t trigger a cut in rates and the gains are
justified by the economic outlook. The strength of the euro “is
one factor among many in determining future inflation rates”
and “we will certainly not justify any monetary policy decision
with one single factor,” Weidmann, who heads Germany’s
Bundesbank, said in a Feb. 13 interview.  Finance Minister  Sigbjoern Johnsen  said the government will
do its part to ensure budget policies don’t put additional
pressure on the central bank.  Budget Work  While the krone is the responsibility of the central bank,
it’s important that the government budget doesn’t make Norges
Bank’s job harder, Johnsen said in an interview yesterday.  Companies such as  Norsk Hydro ASA , Europe’s third-largest
aluminum maker, have struggled to adjust to a stronger krone,
which is pushing up export prices even as demand from Europe
declines. The krone reached a record on a trade-weighted basis
yesterday. Demand has left the currency 41 percent overvalued
versus the dollar this year, topping 12 major currencies,
according to calculations from the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Olsen also said yesterday the bank has no plans to talk the
currency “up or down” and no “specific” level for what too
strong means.  The strength has pushed  inflation  well below the central
bank’s 2.5 percent target, with annual underlying inflation at
1.2 percent last month.  “It’s appropriate to use a few years to bring up
inflation,” Olsen said. “Prices for Norwegian goods have
increased considerably more than consumer prices, reflecting the
improvement in Norway’s terms of trade. Incomes, output and
employment are rising at a solid pace.”  Joining Forces  The bank left its  benchmark interest rate  at 1.5 percent
for a fifth meeting in December and signaled it may raise rates
as early as next month to cool record debt growth.  Norway’s politicians, central bankers and business leaders
have joined forces in a push to weaken the currency.  Kristin Skogen Lund , chief executive officer of the Confederation of
Norwegian Enterprise, said krone gains were the “main” reason
Norway’s exporters have a cost disadvantage.  The world’s fourth-richest nation per capita has withstood
the euro area’s debt crisis thanks to its oil wealth. Record
investment in its petroleum industry has fueled demand for
workers, keeping unemployment at about 3 percent.  Growth in the mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and
shipping, is estimated to slow to 3 percent in 2013 from 3.75
percent last year, according to central bank forecasts. This
compares with an economic contraction of 0.3 percent in the 17-
nation euro region, according to the European Central Bank’s
forecast.  Low interest rates and falling  unemployment  have boosted
private borrowing, with household debt estimated to swell to
more than 200 percent of disposable incomes this year, according
to the central bank. House prices, which rose an annual 8.5
percent last month, have surged almost 30 percent since 2008,
almost doubling in the past decade.  ‘Key Reasons’  “Household debt and house prices are still moving up,”
Olsen said. “These are the key reasons why the key policy rate
hasn’t been lowered further.”  The dilemma has spurred debate on the extent to which
monetary policy should target asset bubbles, or whether rates
are too blunt a tool. The central bank will start advising the
Finance Ministry on how much extra capital banks need to hold in
their counter-cyclical buffers next month. That follows a
proposal to triple minimum risk weights on banks’ mortgage
assets to 35 percent and a separate recommendation to limit the
use of covered bonds to finance mortgages.  “Although growth in our part of the world is weak and real
interest rates are low, many banks are still operating with high
return targets, which could lead to excessive short-term risk
taking,” Olsen said. “Banks and their owners should accept
that return on equity will be lower, but also safer in the years
ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  