-- NRA-Backed Group for Law Enforcement Pushes Gun Agenda
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-02-14T18:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/nra-backed-group-for-law-enforcement-pushes-gun-agenda.html
After losing court cases challenging
state gun-control laws, the National Rifle Association in the
mid-1990s set out to replace those making such rulings.  By helping finance the Law Enforcement Alliance of America,
which on its  website  says it works on behalf of law-enforcement
officials and crime victims, the NRA sought to elect judges --
as well as prosecutors -- friendly to its pro-gun agenda.  The LEAA is gaining fresh scrutiny as Washington focuses on
the renewed gun-control debate following the mass shootings at
an elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut. Advocates for
tighter restrictions are concerned that the LEAA will become
active in the debate, creating the impression the law-
enforcement community is split over the issue.  The group’s activities at the state level promoting
judicial candidates are legal and not unusual in U.S. politics.
What has been less known is the extent of its financial backing
from the NRA, the nation’s leading gun-rights lobby.  The LEAA received at least $2 million from the NRA from
2004 to 2010, according to a report based on tax records
released today by the Washington-based Center for American
Progress. During many of those years, NRA donations accounted
for about one quarter of LEAA’s funds, and in 2009 NRA money
represented at least one third of the group’s revenue, according
to the report.  The study by the center, which tends to support Democratic
policies, was obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News.  Funding Sources  The LEAA, organized as a nonprofit group, hasn’t detailed
its funding sources and isn’t required by law to disclose them.  “People pay less attention to state politics than they do
to national politics or local politics,” said  Robert Spitzer ,
an author of four books on the history of gun control. “That’s
been fertile ground for the NRA.”  Most national law-enforcement groups are lining up behind
President  Barack Obama ’s push for stricter gun laws spurred by
the Dec. 14 shootings in Newtown.  The LEAA -- though it’s been quiet so far -- opposes much
of Obama’s gun-control agenda, based on lawsuits in which it
opposes federal background checks of gun purchasers, which the
president wants to expand. The group also has sought to overturn
as unconstitutional assault-weapons bans passed by cities and
states. Obama wants to reinstate a similar federal ban that
expired in 2004.  ‘Front Group’  The LEAA is a “front group” for the NRA, said Joshua
Horwitz, executive director of the Washington-based Coalition to
Stop Gun Violence, which backs new firearm restrictions. “The
story is about the NRA and the lengths these guys are going to
make up allies.”  The NRA didn’t respond to a request for comment. Telephone
calls to the LEAA also elicited no response.  Obama and his allies in Congress are relying on groups
representing law enforcement to help champion the president’s
gun-control measures. The president’s first trip earlier this
month promoting his firearms agenda was to the Minneapolis
police department’s special operations center.  The National Law Enforcement Partnership to Prevent Gun
Violence, whose members include chiefs of police, is among major
groups supporting increased gun regulation.  Jim Johnson , the Baltimore County police chief who heads
the group, testified at a Jan. 30 Senate Judiciary Committee
hearing in favor of background checks for almost all gun buyers
and bans on assault weapons and high-capacity ammunition clips.  The Fraternal Order of Police, which represents 335,000
rank-and-file law enforcement officers, supports expanded
background checks and new gun-trafficking laws.  Gettysburg Address  The LEAA website contains little information about the
group other than links to sections of President  Abraham Lincoln ’s Gettysburg Address.  Dave Workman, a senior editor at the Second Amendment
Foundation, a pro-gun rights nonprofit group, said it is no
secret that the NRA helped start the LEAA.  “I thought they were more stand-alone as of several years
ago” in fundraising, he said.  While the LEAA hasn’t been part of the debate on guns since
20 children and six adults were killed at Newtown’s Sandy Hook
Elementary School by a lone shooter who then killed himself,
that might change as new proposals are offered in Congress, said
Billy Corriher, author of the Center for American Progress
report.  ‘Super Spenders’  The LEAA was one of the Top 10 outside “super spenders”
in 2009-2010 statewide judicial elections, according to an
October 2011 report by the Brennan Center for Justice at New
York University School of Law. For instance, the group bought
$803,770 worth of air time for spots supporting two Republican
candidates for the  Michigan  Supreme Court, the report showed.  The LEAA spent $1 million on advertisements to help elect
three judges to the Mississippi Supreme Court in 2012, according
to the CAP study.  On the state level, “especially in these judicial races, a
little bit of money can go a long way,” Corriher said.  Former Virginia Attorney General  Jerry Kilgore , a
Republican elected with contributions from LEAA, upon taking
office in 2002 moved to limit the Uniform Machine Gun Law, which
prohibits “aggressive” use of a machine gun, according to
CAP’s report.  Brady Act  The LEAA was started with funding from the NRA while
Congress was debating the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act,
which took effect in 1994 and mandated background checks on
firearm purchasers in the U.S.  Groups including the International Association of Chiefs of
Police favored the measure.  Its foes, mainly the NRA, “wanted a police organization
they could say opposed gun control,” Corriher said.  In addition to funding the LEAA, the NRA has donated
millions of dollars directly to candidates in state races,
including dozens of attorneys general.  In 2009, 23 attorneys general wrote to Obama to oppose
renewal of the federal assault-weapons ban. Of the 21 elected
attorneys general who signed the letter, 14 had received money
from the NRA, according to the CAP report.  The NRA, which claims more than 4 million members, had 2011
revenue of $219 million, according to the group’s tax returns.
More than $100 million came from member dues, while $59 million
came from the gun industry and other donors.  ‘Driving Force’  Spitzer said the NRA has been “the driving force” behind
enactment of pro-gun laws by state legislatures, including
“concealed carry” measures allowing individuals to carry
hidden weapons, especially handguns. In 1981, two states had
such laws, while 39 states have them today, he said.  The NRA has been pivotal in passing so-called “stand your
ground” laws in 25 states in the past seven years, Spitzer
said. These laws stipulate that a person can use lethal force
without an obligation to retreat if they perceive an unlawful
threat.  “There really is no effective counterbalance in the
political world” to the NRA, Spitzer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  