-- Oaktree Reports Fourth-Quarter Profit on Gains From Investments
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-02-14T13:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/oaktree-reports-fourth-quarter-profit-on-gains-from-investments.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, reported a fourth-
quarter profit after a loss a year earlier as it realized more
gains on investments.  Net income was $39.3 million, or $1.30 a share, compared
with a loss of $28.9 million, or $1.28 a share, a year ago, Los
Angeles-based Oaktree said in a statement today. Assets under
management declined to $77.1 billion from $81 billion at the end
of the third quarter as the firm distributed capital to
investors.  Oaktree, which went public last year, has told clients it’s
targeting the lowest returns it has sought as it aims for gross
returns of 15 percent in its distressed strategies, Chairman
 Howard Marks  said in December. The firm is hunting for returns
in the emerging markets, starting its first fund to buy
dislocated debt in those countries, according to an investor
letter obtained by Bloomberg News. The firm also plans to raise
$3 billion for its latest distressed-debt fund that seeks to
take control of companies, according to people familiar with the
matter.  “Asset values are fairly reasonable,” Marks said
yesterday at Credit Suisse Group AG’s financial services
conference in Miami. “Equity price-to-earnings ratios are below
average, high-yield bond spreads are generous and real estate
prices are down. So that’s not a scary outlook.”  Oaktree reported results before U.S. markets opened for
trading. The shares have advanced 16 percent to $49.90 since the
firm’s April 11 initial public offering. Oaktree raised $380
million in the IPO, selling 8.84 million shares for $43 each,
the bottom of the proposed range.  Adjusted net income, a measure of profit excluding some
costs, rose to $220.4 million, or $1.36 a share, from $76.7
million, or 33 cents, a year ago, Oaktree said. Adjusted net
income excludes some expenses, including noncash equity
compensation and income taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  