-- Obama Clean-Energy Fund Would Gain If Oil Drilling Expanded
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-02-14T18:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/obama-s-clean-energy-fund-seen-gaining-if-oil-drilling-expanded.html
President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to
fund clean-energy research with fees paid by oil and gas
producers is renewing a debate over whether the promise of
innovation tomorrow is worth expanding drilling today.  Obama’s “Energy Security Trust” -- which he announced
this week in the State of the Union address -- would redirect
about $200 million in royalties for drilling on federal lands to
pay for the development of biofuels, electric batteries and cars
and trucks powered by natural gas, the White House said
yesterday. The trust would operate for 10 years and spend a
total of $2 billion.  While Obama’s plan doesn’t open new areas to producers,
clean-energy advocates say the idea of an oil-backed fund could
ensure further support for fossil fuel alternatives even in an
era of austerity and federal budget cuts.  “There is a lot of logic to it,” said  Mark Muro , a clean-
energy expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington. “It
resonates to a broad segment of the population that we should
make the best of fossil fuels while accelerating the effort to
transform our energy system.”  Drillers have lobbied to open areas off the Atlantic Coast
and put more acreage in the Gulf of Mexico up for leasing, as
well as in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge on land.  Coastal Governors  Today, the Republican governors of Virginia, North Carolina
and South Carolina wrote to Sally Jewell, Obama’s nominee to be
Interior Department secretary, urging her support for allowing
drilling off their states’ coastlines.  Companies including  Anadarko Petroleum Corp . in The
Woodlands, Texas, and  Continental Resources Inc ., which is based
in Oklahoma City, are already active on U.S. lands and could
benefit from efforts to expand drilling. Companies like  Exxon
Mobil Corp . and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  may benefit if more
offshore territory is made available to drillers.  Similar proposals have floated in Congress for years. In
2009, Republicans led by now House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio
introduced an energy bill that would have directed money from
oil and gas lease sales to pay for clean-energy programs as a
counter to a climate-change legislation Democrats were pushing.  A White House spokesman who asked not to be identified said
Obama’s proposal, which requires approval from Congress,
wouldn’t add to the debt because money would be shifted from
other programs. Oil and gas production, and therefore revenue,
is expected to increase in the next decade, the spokesman said.  Murkowski Plan  The proposal is similar to an idea offered by Alaska
Senator  Lisa Murkowski , the top Republican on the Energy
Committee, with one key difference: hers requires the revenue
come from projects on lands where drilling is now off-limits,
such as the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska.
Nevertheless she said the president’s proposal is a potential
area for compromise in Congress, which hasn’t passed a major
energy bill since 2007.  The “contours” of Obama’s proposal sound similar to her
own, Murkowski said in an interview. “I think we’re all talking
about the same thing.”  Energy development and mineral mining on U.S. lands and
offshore raised about $12 billion for state and federal
governments in fiscal year 2012, according to the Office of
Natural Resources Revenue, a division of the Interior
Department. That was about $1 billion more than the previous
year as advances such as hydraulic fracturing are giving oil and
gas producers more access to reserves trapped in shale-rock
formations.  ‘Unique Opportunity’  The idea of an energy security trust funded by royalties is
backed by Securing America’s Future Energy, a Washington-based
group that included the proposal in a report released late last
year on U.S. energy security.  “The oil boom has created a unique opportunity to have our
cake and eat it too,”  Robbie Diamond , the chief executive
officer of the group, said in a statement. The group, known as
SAFE, includes business executives led by  FedEx Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Frederick Smith  and retired military officials
who want to reduce U.S. dependence on oil.  “If a non-partisan coalition of CEOs and retired generals
and admirals can get behind this idea, then so can we,” Obama
said in his address. “Let’s take their advice and free our
families and businesses from the painful spikes in gas prices
we’ve put up with for far too long.”  Speedier Permits  Obama said his administration would work to accelerate
permits to oil and gas producers to increase production, which
would raise more revenue for the government in the royalties,
lease sales and bonus bids.  One obstacle will be whether taking money from oil and gas
revenue to pay for clean energy projects will leave budget holes
elsewhere, said  Robert Dillon , a spokesman for Murkowski. “We
don’t go for deficit spending,” he said.  In his first term, Obama promoted clean energy as a source
of millions of new jobs. The 2009 economic stimulus provided
about $90 billion for clean energy loans, grants and tax breaks
to improve the electric grid, develop wind and solar power, and
promote energy efficiency.  About $16 billion of the money went to an Energy Department
loan-guarantee program under which Solyndra LLC won a $535
million award in 2009. The Fremont, California-based solar panel
maker went bankrupt two years later, prompting complaints from
Republicans that Obama was trying to pick winners and losers
among energy companies.  Energy Security  The approach Obama endorsed this week is a more modest plan
that focuses on research and emphasizes energy security more
than green jobs.  Clean-energy advocates who fear tight budgets could dry up
support for wind, solar and other programs said oil and gas
revenue may offer a solution.  “Conceptually, there should be broad support for it,”
said Joshua Freed, vice president for the Clean Energy Program
at The Third Way, a Washington-based group that says it promotes
public policies that can attract bipartisan support. “The
desire for America to be less dependent on oil and less
susceptible to wild swings of global oil prices is a non-
partisan issue.”  The plan would face resistance from environmental groups if
they perceive it to be a promotion of oil and gas development.  “We don’t want to see any incentive to open up new areas
for drilling at all,” Athan Manuel, director of land protection
for the San Francisco-based Sierra Club, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  