-- Obama’s Sensible Steps on Cybersecurity
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-14T23:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/obama-s-sensible-steps-on-cybersecurity.html
In his State of the Union address,
President  Barack Obama  explained why he was issuing an executive
order to protect critical U.S. networks from cyberthreats: “We
cannot look back years from now and wonder why we did nothing in
the face of real threats to our security and our economy.”  What he meant, but was perhaps too polite to say, was that
in light of the ineptitude and cowardice Congress has shown on
this matter, year after year, an executive order is probably the
best we can hope for right now. As recent cyberattacks on the
Federal Reserve, the  Department of Energy , half a dozen  major
banks  and a slew of media companies make clear, however, it
won’t be adequate for very long.  Good news first. Although imperfect, Obama’s  executive
order  takes some small steps toward better security. It
instructs federal agencies to share more unclassified
cybersecurity information with private companies, expands a
program for sharing classified threat data, and includes some
privacy measures -- such as applying Fair Information Practice
Principles -- that have put civil-liberties groups  at ease . It
also orders the Department of Homeland Security to expedite
security clearances for employees at companies that are part of
critical infrastructure, such as the power grid, transportation
networks and the financial system.  Finally, the order instructs the National Institute of
Standards and Technology to create a cybersecurity framework for
addressing risks, which companies could voluntarily comply with.  Model Program  That last measure sounds weak, but it could turn out to be
very important, for two reasons.  First, voluntary standards may do  some good  on their own:
Companies that don’t comply could open themselves to civil
lawsuits if their defenses are breached, and those that do
comply might have some liability protection under tort law.  Second, the framework that the institute develops could
become a model for the flexible mandatory standards that we
really need, and that Congress must put in place.  Without the force of law, companies in critical areas will
simply never spend enough money protecting themselves --
lawsuits or no. A Bloomberg Government study of 172
organizations found that they would collectively need to spend
$46.6 billion, a 774 percent increase from current spending, to
repel 95 percent of potential attacks. In the absence of federal
standards, companies that increase their security spending
sufficiently are at a competitive disadvantage. And every
company that slacks off can put a lot of people at risk.  A smarter federal approach would be to mandate
cybersecurity standards while allowing companies to decide how
best to meet them. This would harness the power of the market by
letting businesses compete to secure themselves at the lowest
cost. Congress has had the chance to pass legislation along
these lines before, and, unfortunately, repeatedly buckled to
pressure from business groups.  With this in mind, the institute’s framework should remain
“technology neutral,” meaning that companies could buy or build
whatever security technology they want, so long as they can show
that it repels attacks adequately. And it should focus on making
the standards flexible. For instance, it could require that
critical companies install security patches and updates on their
equipment, and that they “ whitelist ” approved applications, but
not mandate step-by-step procedures or specific hardware and
software.  Working Together  Such a framework could go a long way toward assuaging
companies’ fears that a heavy-handed government agency that
knows nothing about their business will one day force them to
take measures that don’t make sense. Instead, they would be
working with industry regulators to meet the security standards
however they want, with the knowledge that their competitors
must do the same.  The rest is up to Congress. In addition to imposing
mandatory security standards, new legislation should clarify
liability issues for companies that suffer security breaches,
and provide more legal certainty to businesses that share threat
information with the government. It should also build on the
privacy safeguards the president outlined.  In the meantime, we’re left to hope the executive order can
provide adequate defense for a while. From the White House to
the Defense Department to private-sector experts around the
world, the people who know the most about cybersecurity have in
recent years issued ever more  lurid warnings  about the threats
we face. New evidence of alarming intrusions into our digital
grid surfaces every day. And the intruders are only growing more
sophisticated. Someday soon, when a truly destructive attack
occurs, none of us will be able to say we weren’t warned.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 