-- Obama Preschool Expansion Plan Sees States Sharing Cost
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-02-14T21:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/obama-preschool-expansion-plan-sees-states-sharing-cost.html
President  Barack Obama  said
expanding preschool nationwide and setting quality standards for
early-learning programs eventually will cut costs by raising
graduation rates and income potential for children from lower-
and middle-income families.  Obama is calling on states to share the cost with the
federal government of creating universal access to pre-
kindergarten programs, an initiative he outlined in his State of
the Union speech.  “This works,” Obama said today at a community center in
Decatur, Georgia, after stopping at a pre-kindergarten class at
the nearby College Heights Early Childhood Learning Center. “If
you are looking for good bang for your education buck, this is
it, right here.”  The facility that the president visited, which has 340
children enrolled, is part of the city’s public charter school
system. Georgia is one of five states that have a goal of
offering preschool to all four-year-olds.  Administration officials have said the cost of the program
will be outlined in the fiscal 2014 budget proposal that Obama
plans to submit next month. Obama said in his Feb. 12 speech
that the preschool expansion and other domestic programs won’t
add to the federal deficit, which has exceeded $1 trillion in
each of the past four years.  Expanding Access  The federal government would work with states “to provide
low- and moderate-income four-year-old children with high-
quality preschool,” according to a White House outline of the
plan. The initiative also seeks to expand the availability of
full-day kindergarten and give states incentives to boost
preschool programs for middle-income families.  The preschool and kindergarten proposals are designed to
strengthen long-term academic performance and employment
prospects for millions of children, particularly from low-income
families, according to the administration.  “Study after study shows the achievement gap starts very
young,” Obama said. “We all pay a price for that. This is not
speculation.”  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, said the programs
save $7 for every dollar spent by helping raise academic
achievement and future earning potential.  Republican Reaction  The proposal faces skepticism in the Republican-controlled
House. U.S. Representative  John Kline , chairman of the House
Education and the Workforce Committee, said he had concerns
about the cost and effectiveness of the program.  The government has “a poor track record of managing early
childhood education initiatives,” the Minnesota Republican said
today in a statement. “I am willing to have a serious dialogue
with the administration if they are willing to offer less
rhetoric and more facts.”  Only 10 states and the District of Columbia require
districts to provide free, full-day kindergarten. Creating a
challenge to the plan, Republicans have long been critical of
the effectiveness of Head Start, the federal preschool program
for low-income families dating to the 1960s.  Universal preschool is no small matter because there are
more than 4 million U.S. 4-year-olds. Quality programs can
average $8,000 a child, according to Lisa Guernsey, director of
the early education initiative at New America Foundation, a
Washington-based policy group.  Program Costs  By Guernsey’s reckoning, states and the federal government
would have to spend $10 billion to $15 billion a year more than
the roughly $9 billion already budgeted annually.  “Before we spend more taxpayer dollars on new programs, we
must first review what is and is not working in existing
initiatives, such as Head Start,” Kline said.  Under the president’s plan, the early learning funds would
be distributed to participating states by the Education
Department based on their share of 4-year-olds from low- and
moderate-income families, according to the White House
statement. The expansion would aim to reach all children of that
age in households with incomes of as much as 200 percent of the
federal poverty level, according to the statement.  To qualify for funding, states would be obliged to meet
benchmarks such as state educational standards, having small
class sizes and putting qualified and well-paid teachers in all
preschool classrooms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Decatur, Georgia, at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  