-- Obama Says Economy ‘Stifled’ by Outdated Immigration Law
-- B y   J o e   S o b c z y k
-- 2013-02-14T23:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/obama-says-economy-stifled-by-outdated-immigration-law.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
economy is “stifled” by an inefficient immigration system and
that a consensus is forming in Congress that may lead to a
rewritten law in the next few months.  Current immigration laws result in some families being split
as well as companies being denied skilled workers who get
educated here and then return to their countries of origin,
Obama said.  The president has said he wants Congress to approve
immigration changes that increase border security and create a
road to citizenship for some of the 11 million undocumented
immigrants already in the country. Bipartisan groups of
lawmakers in the Senate and House of Representatives have been
working on legislation.  “My hope is that we can get this done in the next few
months,” Obama said in an online question-and-answer session on
 Google Inc .’s Google Plus website.  Senate Democratic leaders have said passing an immigration
measure before Congress’s August recess is a top priority.
Democrats control the Senate 55-45. Immigration law changes may
face a tougher path in the Republican-controlled House.  Republicans have sought to couple the citizenship provision
to tighter border security. House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, told reporters today that “there are a number of
issues” to resolve on immigration before passage.  Obama is also confronting Republican resistance to his
proposal to tighten U.S. gun laws by making background checks
universal for firearms purchases and banning military-style
assault rifles and high-capacity ammunition magazines.  The Second Amendment to the Constitution doesn’t say that
any weapon made should be easily available for purchase, Obama
said in response to a question. There “may be a small category
of weapons” that won’t be allowed to be sold if the changes are
adopted, he said.  “People are going to be able to buy all kinds of guns and
use them legally,” Obama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  