-- Obama’s Carbon ‘Cavalry’ May Help Revive EU Market, CEPS Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-02-14T16:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/obama-s-carbon-cavalry-may-help-revive-eu-market-ceps-says.html
President Barack Obama’s drive to
protect the climate in his second term may help boost Europe’s
flagging carbon market, according to the Centre for European
Policy Studies.  “Those that sell the emissions trading market short should
think twice,” said  Andrei Marcu , a Brussels-based adviser at
CEPS. “The cavalry may be on its way.”  European Union carbon permits, which trade in the world’s
biggest greenhouse-gas market, surged 17 percent in the past two
days as the bloc’s policy makers vote Feb. 19 on a plan to ease
a supply glut that pushed prices to record lows last month. In
the U.S., the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative proposed last
week a 45 percent cut in its available permits.  “Obama’s comments may provide encouragement to those that
want to make the emissions trading system better and create a
different momentum ahead of the vote next week,” Marcu said
yesterday in an e-mail.  Congress should pursue a “bipartisan, market-based
solution to climate change,” Obama said in his Feb. 12 State of
the Union address. “If Congress won’t act soon to protect
future generations, I will.”  The European Parliament environment committee is voting on
a proposal designed to allow the bloc to postpone the sale of
900 million tons of allowances until the end of the decade in a
process known as backloading. The entire parliament votes later
this year on the measure, which must also clear the Climate
Change Committee of national governments.  Carbon Surge  EU carbon permits for December advanced 2.8 percent to 5.38
euros ($7.17) a metric ton today on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London at 4:38 p.m.  Obama’s comments and the plan to tighten the so-called RGGI
market in the U.S. northeast may embolden policy makers,  Dirk Forrister , president of the International Emissions Trading
Association in Geneva, said today by phone.  There was a “glimmer of hope” that U.S. coal-fired power
stations may in future years be able to buy international
emission credits to offset some of their carbon dioxide output,
he said.  Obama said he will order his cabinet to identify new
executive actions to combat climate change, including reducing
emissions, helping the nation prepare for the worsening effects
of global warming and speeding the transition to lower-polluting
energy sources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  