-- OCBC Boosts Quarterly Profit on Non-Interest Income Gains
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-02-15T02:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ocbc-fourth-quarter-profit-gains-12-on-non-interest-income.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. ,
Southeast Asia’s second-largest lender, posted a 12 percent gain
in fourth-quarter profit as higher income from wealth management
and insurance offset narrowed lending margin.  Net income rose to S$663 million ($537 million) from S$594
million a year earlier, the Singapore-based bank said in a
statement to the stock exchange today. That exceeded the S$624
million  average  of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  OCBC, like its bigger domestic competitor DBS Group
Holdings Ltd., is relying on income from  businesses  such as
private banking as lending profitability remains under pressure.
Singapore’s loan growth cooled in 2012 as the slowest economic
expansion in three years curtailed credit demand.  “Non-interest income was slightly stronger than expected
and this was driven by” its Great Eastern Holdings Ltd.
insurance unit, said  Julian Chua , a Kuala Lumpur-based analyst
at Nomura Advisory Services Sdn. “The wealth management income
growth numbers were also very strong.”  Net interest margin, a measure of loan profitability,
narrowed to 1.7 percent last quarter from 1.85 percent a year
earlier, the bank said, after repricing mortgage rates in
response to competition. Non-interest income jumped 32 percent
in the period to S$757 million as wealth management income
surged 61 percent to S$89 million.  OCBC  shares  fell 1 percent to S$9.93 in Singapore as of 10
a.m. The benchmark  Straits Times Index  dropped 0.3 percent.  Industry Margin  DBS last week reported its interest margin narrowed to 1.62
percent from 1.73 percent a year earlier. Singapore’s  banks  earn
the least on loans in Southeast Asia, based on their average net
interest margin of 1.98 percent, according to the most recent
data compiled by Bloomberg.  OCBC’s net interest income, the difference between what it
makes from lending and pays on deposits, was little changed from
a year earlier at S$921 million. Its loan book grew 7 percent
from a year earlier to S$142 billion.  Loan growth in Singapore slowed to 10.4 percent in 2012
from 24 percent a year earlier, Daiwa Capital Markets Singapore
Ltd. analysts led by  Srikanth Vadlamani  wrote in a Jan. 31 note.
The city’s economy grew 1.2 percent in 2012, the slowest pace in
three years, and the government predicts an expansion of 1
percent to 3 percent for 2013.  New Opportunities  “Although the market outlook remains uncertain, we expect
the global economy to post low-to-moderate growth in the year
ahead,” Chief Executive Officer Samuel Tsien said in the
statement, adding that he’s set to drive the bank’s businesses
and seek out new opportunities.  Net fees and commissions climbed 18 percent in the quarter
to S$304 million, OCBC said. Other non-interest income advanced
44 percent to S$453 million, led by gains from insurance.  Great Eastern said last week that fourth-quarter profit
tripled from a year earlier to S$225.6 million.  Provisions for credit and other losses declined 14 percent
from a year earlier to S$68 million, the bank said in the
statement.  Tsien has been  selling assets  to focus on the bank’s
financial business. One-time gains from the sale of stakes in
drinks manufacturer Fraser & Neave Ltd. and its Asia Pacific
Breweries Ltd. unit helped OCBC post a record quarterly profit
in the three months ended September.  For the full year, excluding one-time gains from the sale
of assets, profit grew 24 percent to a record S$2.83 billion,
the bank said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  