-- OGX at 4-Year Low Remains a Sell for Top Analyst
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-02-14T20:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ogx-at-4-year-low-remains-a-sell-for-top-analyst.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA ’s 78 percent plunge in the past year has 13 analysts saying
it’s time to buy. The stock’s best forecaster, Deutsche Bank
AG’s  Marcus Sequeira , disagrees.  Sequeira, 42, the most accurate OGX analyst in a  Bloomberg
Absolute Return Ranking , sees  “a lot of risks” for investors
in the oil company controlled by billionaire Eike Batista.
Sequeira correctly predicted in July the stock would drop to 4
reais from 5.82 reais the day before he cut his rating to sell
from hold. The shares, which reached the lowest since December
2008 last week, closed at 3.77 reais yesterday.  Five years after the oil startup raised 6.7 billion reais
($3.4 billion) in an initial public offering by vowing to
produce 730,000 barrels a day in 2015, OGX is still struggling
to boost output at its offshore fields after drilling setbacks
and a dry well. OGX in June cut targets at two wells by as much
as 75 percent, triggering a stock selloff that wiped out 7.3
billion reais in market value in a week.  “We are very far from calling a bottom on the stock,”
Sequeira said in a telephone interview from New York. “The
market sees that now maybe everything that is bad has been known
or discounted, but we don’t think it is the case yet.”  OGX’s press office declined to comment on the stock’s
decline or  analysts’ recommendations . “OGX relies on an
experienced management team and holds a solid cash position,”
with tout about $2.5 billion in cash as of September, the
company said in a Jan. 4  statement .  Net Loss  OGX, the worst-performing stock on the benchmark Bovespa
index last year, has lost an additional 14 percent in 2013
through yesterday, the third-most among 126 stocks in the FTSE
All-World Oil & Gas Producers  Index . The stock  fell  1.9 percent
to 3.70 reais in Sao Paulo today, the lowest close since Feb. 6.
OGX is expected to report in its March 26 earnings release that
its 2012 adjusted net loss almost doubled to 894.9 million
reais, the average of 15 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The decline at OGX has helped reduce Batista’s net worth by
$1.6 billion this year, causing him to fall out of the rankings
last week for the world’s richest people.  Output at the company has fallen short of Batista’s
promises after the geology at blocks in the offshore Campos
Basin proved more challenging than anticipated, said Sequeira,
who spoke to consultants and geologists before cutting his
rating in July.  “Production per well is still going to decline further,
and that obviously will have a big impact on the company’s cash
flow and on the company’s balance sheet,” he said. “They
clearly have a problem in that field, in Tubarao Azul.”  Tubarao Azul  OGX, which replaced Chief Executive Officer  Paulo Mendonca 
on June 28, withdrew long-term production targets last year
after two wells at Tubarao Azul -- its first developed field --
pumped less than initial forecasts. The company said Feb. 4 that
average daily production of oil and natural gas per well at
Tubarao Azul fell to 4,900 barrels a day in January, from 5,100
in December.  OGX also said Jan. 30 it completed work at a well known as
Cozumel, near Tubarao Azul in Campos, without finding any signs
of oil or natural gas.  Of the 23 analysts who cover OGX, 13 recommend buying the
stock, seven say hold and three suggest selling. The stock’s
recent tumble means it’s cheap when reserves and current oil
prices are taken into account, said  Laurence Balter , who helps
manage $100 million including OGX shares at Oracle Investment
Research in Fox Island, Washington.  ‘Total Disaster’  “Shares are pricing in a total disaster,” Balter, who’s
considering buying more stock, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “What people forget is that there are billions of
oil barrels in reserves. Eventually, the vast majority of it
will be extracted given the cutting edge technology we have
today.”  Sequeira still sees a risk that recoverable reserves may be
lower than expected, after management was too optimistic in
information about its assets that it released to the market
after its IPO. The company hasn’t released reserve figures since
2011.  “The oil industry is a very risky industry, and usually
companies are much more cautious,” he said. “The company has
learned that that style of being very optimistic has probably a
short-term gain but a long-term pain because the management’s
credibility gets seriously affected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  