-- Crude Trades Near 3-Day High Amid Iran Nuclear Talks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-14T13:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/oil-trades-near-three-day-low-on-u-s-output-gain-iranian-talks.html
Brent crude futures traded near a
three-day high after United Nations nuclear officials failed to
reach a deal on inspections with Iran.  The European benchmark advanced as much as 0.4 percent. UN
inspectors didn’t secure an agreement that would allow
investigators access to alleged atomic facilities and couldn’t
settle on a date for another meeting, chief inspector Herman
Nackaerts said today in Vienna. U.S. crude inventories rose less
than forecast last week, the Energy Department said yesterday.  “Prices will be buoyed by the back and forth in nuclear
talks,” said  Michael Poulsen , an analyst at Global Risk
Management Ltd. in Middelfart, Denmark.  Brent for April settlement climbed as much as 41 cents to
$118.29 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange and
traded at $117.48 at 12:57 p.m. local time. The volume of all
futures traded was 2 percent above the 100-day average. The
March contract settled at $118.72 when it expired yesterday, the
highest closing level for the front-month since Feb. 8.  The front-month European benchmark grade was at a premium
of $19.74 to West Texas Intermediate. The gap expanded to $23.18
on Feb. 8, the widest since Nov. 26.  WTI for March delivery rose 12 cents to $97.13 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The
volume of all futures traded was in line with the 100-day
average. The contract fell 50 cents to $97.01 yesterday, the
most since Feb. 7 and the lowest since Feb. 8.  IAEA Inspections  “Time is needed to reflect on a way forward,” Nackaerts
said today at Vienna International Airport after returning from
a one-day meeting in Tehran. The International Atomic Energy
Agency has “unwavering” commitment to negotiations, he said.  Iran is under Western sanctions on its oil sales because of
its nuclear program, which the U.S. and European Union say is
designed to make an atomic weapon, a charge the Islamic republic
denies. The country’s crude shipments slid at least 36 percent
to less than 1 million barrels a day in January and output
slumped to 2.65 million a day, the lowest in more than three
decades, the International Energy Agency said in its monthly
report yesterday.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has stuck to its call that Brent’s
premium to WTI will shrink dramatically as supplies decline at
Cushing, Oklahoma, the main U.S. storage hub. The bank said in a
Feb. 10 report that the gap will narrow to $7.50 in the second
quarter and $5 in six months, echoing its year-old view.
Forecasts from a dozen other banks, including Morgan Stanley and
UBS AG, ranged from $12 to $20 for this year’s spread.  Cushing Inventories  The Brent-WTI gap has grown as rising U.S. shale output
increased crude inventories at  Cushing , which climbed to a
record in January. Stockpiles decreased 1.1 million barrels to
50.2 million last week, the Energy Information Administration,
the Energy Department’s statistical arm, said in a report
yesterday. That marked a second weekly drop and the biggest
since July.  Inventories nationwide rose 560,000 barrels, the report
showed. They were forecast to increase by  2.2 million , according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. U.S. crude
production climbed to 7.06 million barrels a day, the highest
since December 1992, the EIA said.  WTI may rebound after a bullish technical formation known
as a “golden cross,” according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The 100-day moving average, at $90.63 a barrel today, has risen
above the 200-day indicator for the first time since July.
Investors typically buy contracts when a moving average climbs
over a longer-term one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  