-- Hollande in India to Push $20 Billion Deals as Economy Shrinks
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-02-14T10:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/hollande-in-india-to-push-20-billion-deals-as-economy-shrinks.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
began two days of talks in India on his first trip to an Asian
country since taking office, bidding to boost trade as the
European nation’s economy hovers on the edge of recession.  Hollande, who is traveling with a delegation of business
leaders and ministers, pledged greater cooperation in defense,
nuclear energy and aerospace after meeting Indian Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  today. There were no breakthroughs on two pending
deals, the Indian purchase of French fighter jets worth at least
$11 billion and $9.4 billion of nuclear reactors.  The talks coincided with the announcement that the French
economy shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter after
manufacturers cut thousands of jobs and Hollande squeezed the
budget deficit. Commerce with the world’s second-most populous
nation stands at only half the target announced five years ago,
a failure that has contributed to a French trade gap that was
the second-largest on record last year.  Hollande “wants to send a strong signal to India that
France wants to maintain continuity in it relationship and
considers India as a privileged, strategic partner,” said
 Kanwal Sibal , former foreign secretary and Indian ambassador to
France from 1998 to 2002.  France, like others among the 17 nations using the euro, is
suffering in the wake of the region’s sovereign debt crisis. Yet
while neighboring Germany is showing signs of recovery in
confidence, exports and manufacturing, Hollande is grappling
with shrinking private investment, job cuts by companies such
Renault SA and pressure from European partners to speed budget
cuts and an economic revamp.  Graft Scandals  The French president pressed Indian officials to complete
contracts delayed by protracted negotiations or legislation on
domestic safeguards. While the Indian government last year
selected Paris-based Dassault Aviation SA to provide 126 Rafale
fighter jets in what will be the world’s biggest purchase of
warplanes in 15 years, the agreement is yet to be signed.  India’s arms-buying has been slowed by officials’
sensitivities over corruption scandals in previous purchases,
including one that helped drive the ruling Congress party to
defeat in 1989 elections. India ordered a federal investigation
into allegations of graft in the purchase of 12 helicopters from
Italy’s Finmeccanica SpA, claims that led to the Feb. 12 arrest
of the Italian company’s chief executive officer and which could
further slow future deals.  A preliminary pact for nuclear reactors and services worth
about 7 billion euros signed in 2010 between  Areva SA  and state-
owned Nuclear Power Corp. of India Ltd. has also not been
finalized amid differences over pricing and liability in the
event of an atomic accident.  Missed Target  At a joint press conference, Singh said the negotiations on
the sale of fighter jets are “progressing well.” He also said
the leaders reviewed plans for Areva providing reactors for a
nuclear power plant at the Jaitapur site south of Mumbai.  France was India’s 26th-largest trading partner last year,
down from 13th in 2006, according to Indian government data.
Commerce between the two nations amounted to $9 billion last
year, well below a target set in 2008 during a visit by then
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  of 12 billion euros ($16
billion).  France’s imports and exports represented about 1.1 percent
of India’s total trade, according to government data.  Business executives from companies including Dassault,
Thales SA, Areva,  Veolia Environnement SA ,  LVMH Moet  Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA and Sanofi are scheduled to travel with
Hollande. He will speak to business leaders in India’s financial
capital, Mumbai, tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  