-- Hollande Tiptoes Toward Raid on Pensions With EU Pressure
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-02-15T09:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/hollande-tiptoes-toward-raid-on-pensions-under-pressure-from-eu.html
President  Francois Hollande  is
preparing to take on a French sacred cow: pensions.  Facing European Union pressure to reach budget targets, the
Socialist president is risking the wrath of his core supporters
to shrink the pension system, which had a deficit of 14 billion
euros ($19 billion) in 2011.  While leaving the issue of fixing the retirement age to
talks between representatives of employees and employers,
Hollande may propose separating pension increases from
inflation, government officials said. He’s venturing upon a
pension overhaul -- which few of his predecessors have managed
without drawing millions into the streets -- as his government
says it’s unlikely to meet this year’s budget-deficit target.  Hollande is preparing “public opinion, rating agencies and
markets for a drift in the deficit while at the same time
conveying a sense that the country is taking steps to address
its structural shortcomings,”  Gilles Moec , co-chief European
economist at Deutsche Bank in London. “France is walking a
tightrope.”  Nine months into his presidency, Hollande is grappling with
an  economy  on the brink of its third recession in four years and
the highest joblessness since 1998. Prime Minister  Jean-Marc Ayrault  said Feb. 13 that France wouldn’t make its budget-
deficit target of 3 percent of gross domestic product this year
as the economy fails to generate growth and tax receipts.  Budget Rules  The European Commission is preparing to release its latest
round of growth and deficit forecasts on Feb. 22 and is
indicating it will take a tough line with countries that are
behind schedule.  In a letter to European finance ministers this week,
Economic Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  rejected suggestions
that the EU’s budget rules represent excessive austerity, saying
deficit-cutting is reassuring bond markets that governments
count on for financing.  France has been able to borrow at record-low yields, with
the 10-year rate falling to its lowest of 1.916 percent on Dec.
10. The yield stood at 2.24 percent at 10:21 a.m. in Paris  An Hollande effort to shake up the pension system may help
reassure officials in Brussels that France is making progress on
cutting the deficit, said  Pierre-Olivier Beffy , chief economist
at Exane BNP Paribas in London.  Sarkozy Measure  “If the French government wants a loosening of its fiscal
target, it will have to stick with its plan of structural
savings and lay out its program of spending cuts,” he said. “A
general pension reform, which could be launched in July, would
be seen as a positive step.”  In particular, a plan to delink state pensions from
inflation would offer up-front savings, unlike an increase in
the retirement age, which takes longer to feed through to the
budget. On the table for discussions are also issues including
pensions of civil servants, exemptions and the level of pension
payouts, said one of the government officials.  For Hollande, the possibility of an overhaul was eclipsed
by his campaign pledge to lower the retirement age to 60 for
workers who had started working early. He made good on the
promise last year, partially reversing a policy implemented by
predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy  to increase the retirement age.  Sarkozy raised the minimum retirement age to 62 and the age
at which French residents can receive a full state pension to
67, bringing it closer to Germany’s.  Paralyzing Protests  The measures will still boost France’s pension-system
deficit to 21.3 billion euros by 2017 and 24.9 billion by 2020,
according to COR, the country’s  council for retirement policy .
Hollande will aim to close these gaps and to cover pensions for
up to 2040, the government official said.  Sarkozy’s retirement-reform efforts brought millions of
people into the streets across France during intermittent
protests over a two-month period in 2010. Before the measures
were pushed through, oil-refineries stoppages, fuel shortages
and train- and public-transport disruptions had cost the French
economy 400 million euros.  Protests in 1995 against then-Prime Minister  Alain Juppe ’s
effort to reform pensions and social security brought France to
a standstill for a month, forcing Juppe to abandon the plan.  Hollande, whose election in May came with support from labor
unions, may have a battle on his hands with changes to pensions.
Still, his record so far has been good, said  Karine Berger , a
Socialist lawmaker and former chief economist of Euler Hermes.  Reform Record  Hollande won an unprecedented union accord on labor
flexibility last month, allowing companies to reduce hours and
wages during economic slumps and also making it easier to fire
people. He also cut 20 billion euros in payroll taxes for
businesses to bolster competitiveness.  He has pledged to cut government spending by 60 billion
euros over his five-year mandate.  “The credibility of this government in terms of structural
reform is widely recognized,” Berger said. “A retirement-
system reform will be done. We knew from the start that the last
reform wouldn’t be sufficient.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  