-- Hong Kong Retail Sales Seen Gaining as China Visitors Rise
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-02-14T10:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/hong-kong-retail-sales-seen-gaining-as-china-visitors-rise-33-.html
Mainland tourists to Hong Kong rose
about 33 percent at the start of this week’s Lunar New Year,
providing a boost for the city’s  retail sales  and luxury
companies such as  Prada Spa .  More than 381,000 tourists visited Hong Kong from mainland
China during the first three days of the holiday, compared with
about 287,000 in the same period last year, according to
Bloomberg calculations from  immigration department  data.  A rise in Chinese visitors helps companies including Prada
and jeweler  Chow Sang Sang Holdings International Ltd ., which
have added stores in the city to tap mainland shoppers. Outlays
by tourists slowed last year amid a weaker economy in China.  “Mainland tourist consumption in Hong Kong has been
picking up in the past couple of months,”  Raymond Yeung , a Hong
Kong-based senior economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., said by telephone today. “If Hong Kong retail sales
in January and February also show encouraging growth bolstered
by mainland tourist spending, we can say we are on the right
track of recovery.”  Consumer spending tends to spike during the week-long
festival, which began Feb. 10 this year.  Luxury Boost  The nine shopping malls operated by  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd.  drew 2.75 million shoppings in the four-days ended
yesterday, Fiona Chung, general manager at the company’s leasing
department, said by e-mail. Total sales at those malls rose 24
percent to HK$180 million ($23.2 million) during the period from
a year earlier, Chung said.  “This is a great start of the year, we saw both strong
traffic and strong sales growth,” Dennis Lau, director of sales
operations at  Chow Sang Sang , said by telephone today. Lunar New
Year sales at the company rose 10 percent from a year earlier
over the first four days, he said.  Prada, the Italian fashion house, gained as much as 5.1
percent to HK$74.80 in Hong Kong before closing 0.9 percent
higher at HK$71.85. Chow Sang Sang Holdings climbed 3.6 percent.  “The number of mainland tourists in Hong Kong rose more
than 30 percent over the Lunar New Year - that gives an
encouraging momentum for consumer stocks to do well,”  Steve Chow , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Kingsway SW Securities Ltd.,
said by telephone today. “The spending per visitor, however,
may not be rising as much, especially among the luxury
categories such as jewelery and high-end watches.”  Hong Kong’s  retail sales  rose 9.8 percent in 2012, slower
than the 24.8 percent increase a  year earlier , the city’s census
and statistics department said in its website. Luxury sales
recorded a 3.4 percent contraction in August, the first negative
growth in about three years, before rebounding with 11 percent
growth in December. January retail sales data will be  released 
on March 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  