-- Hong Kong Bourse to Start After-Hours Trading in April
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-02-15T01:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/hong-kong-bourse-to-start-after-hours-futures-trading-in-april.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. ,
the world’s largest exchange company by market value, said it
received regulatory approval to start after-hours futures
trading and will begin the service on April 8.  Hang Seng Index  and H-shares Index futures will be
available for trading from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. from the date, in
addition to regular hours, the bourse said in a  statement 
yesterday. Gold futures will also be considered for inclusion at
a later stage, it said.  “I’m all in favor of it,”  Andrew Economos , head of
sovereign and institutional strategy for Asia excluding Japan at
JPMorgan Asset Management in Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “We want to have more access to markets
over a broader swathe of time and across a bigger opportunity
set. So we like the opportunity to be able to trade more
hours.”  The extended hours will help attract more European and U.S.
investors to the city’s derivatives market, and it will also
allow market participants to hedge and adjust positions when
news breaks in European and U.S. hours, according to the
statement. After-hours futures trading will let the bourse cater
for international interest in yuan products in the future, it
also said.  Broker Opposition  Representatives from the Hong Kong Securities & Futures
Professionals Association, the Hong Kong Securities
Professionals Association and the Hong Kong Securities & Futures
Employees Union spoke in opposition to after-hours futures
trading last month. The plan will place too much of a cost
burden on the small brokers to stay open and manage risk during
that time, Francis Lun, Hong-Kong based managing director at
Lyncean Securities Ltd., said last week.  Hong Kong Exchanges completed its $2.2 billion takeover of
the London Metal Exchange in December as it seeks to broaden its
business with its first overseas acquisition. The bourse said
last month it will start commodities trading and clearing of LME
products during Asian hours over the next three years, introduce
clearing for over-the-counter commodity derivatives and expand
mainland China’s participation in the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  