-- Long Lines, Flight Delays Seen From U.S. Spending Cuts
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-02-14T20:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/long-lines-flight-delays-seen-from-u-s-spending-cuts.html
Hours-long lines and flight delays
at U.S. airports may be among the results if Congress and
President  Barack Obama  don’t agree to stop automatic spending
cuts at government agencies, according to a U.S. House analysis.  The Transportation Security Administration would reduce its
front-line workforce, including seven-day furloughs for airport
screeners during the fiscal year, adding as much as an hour to
lines at security checkpoints, Democrats on the House
Appropriations Committee said in a  report  today.  Customs and Border Protection workers would have to take 12
days to 14 days off without pay during the fiscal year,
increasing peak wait times for international travelers by three
hours or more at busy airports, the lawmakers said. Air-traffic
controllers and other Federal Aviation Administration workers
would take about 11 days of mandatory time off, they said.  “Travel could become the face of the sequester,” said
Geoff Freeman, chief operating officer and executive vice
president of the U.S. Travel Association. “There are few areas
that Americans are going to be touched more directly.”  Next month’s deadline for the cuts to take effect marks
another fiscal showdown between Obama, his Democratic allies and
congressional Republicans. Without a deal, $1.2 trillion in
across-the-board spending cuts, known as sequestration, will
take effect on March 1.  Aviation Security  Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano , in a letter
to the Senate Appropriations Committee released yesterday, said
the budget cuts would affect aviation security, roll back border
security and hamper disaster response times.  The department “simply cannot absorb the addition
reduction” without harming “frontline operations and our
nation’s previous investments in the homeland security
enterprise,” Napolitano said today in testimony to a Senate
appropriations panel hearing.  About half the automatic cuts would affect defense
spending, meaning less training for Army personnel and fewer
purchases of Navy vessels and Air Force fighter jets.  The effects on the defense industry would be
“devastating,” Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said at
the hearing.  “All this is the collateral damage of political
gridlock,” Carter said.  Offshore Drilling  Expedited reviews of 550 offshore oil and gas drilling
sites for production permits “would be thwarted” if the cuts
take place, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said in a letter to
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman  Barbara Mikulski , a
Maryland Democrat.  In Western states such as Wyoming, Utah, Colorado and New
Mexico, leases would also face delays, which would defer royalty
payments to the Treasury, he said.  Hours and services at national parks would be reduced, and
Interior wouldn’t be able to have a full complement of
firefighters and law-enforcement personnel, he said.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation would have to furlough
employees and eliminate or reduce task forces that would
“materially reduce the FBI’s investigative capacity” on
mortgage fraud, computer crime, terrorism and financial fraud,
Attorney General  Eric Holder  wrote in a letter to Mikulski.  ‘Serious Consequences’  The Environmental Protection Agency said it would have
1,000 fewer inspections to enforce environmental laws, which
would “limit EPA’s capacity to identify toxic air emissions,
water discharges, and other sources of pollution, ” acting
Administrator  Robert Perciasepe  said in his letter, dated Feb.
6.  It would also delay research on climate change and
adaptation and force the shutdown of some air-monitoring sites,
he said.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture would need to cut $2
billion from its budget immediately, Secretary  Tom Vilsack  wrote
to Mikulski.  The reductions include $333 million from the Women, Infants
and Children nutrition-assistance program, $51 million in food-
safety spending that would require staff furloughs and closing
uninspected meat plants, and $134 million less in wildfire
management, he wrote.  Nuclear Waste  Energy Secretary  Steven Chu  said the automatic cuts could
reduce the number of homes eligible for energy-efficiency
upgrades and delay nuclear waste clean-up at sites in
Washington, Tennessee, South Carolina and Idaho.  The Commerce Department said weather forecasts and timely
storm warnings will be compromised by the furloughs of 2,600
employees in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, which includes the National Weather Service.
NOAA will leave 2,700 positions vacant and cut 1,400
contractors, Deputy Commerce Secretary  Rebecca Blank  wrote.  The FAA would face budget reductions of about $627 million
for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, according to a Feb. 11
letter to agency employees from Administrator  Michael Huerta .
The agency has an annual budget of about $16 billion.  As many as 10 percent of the FAA’s 40,000 workers involved
in operations would be on furlough on any specific day, the
House report concluded.  “The furlough of a large number of air traffic controllers
and technicians will require a reduction in air traffic to a
level that can be safely managed by the remaining staff,”
Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said in a letter to
Mikulski. “The result will be felt across the country, as the
volume of traffic must be decreased.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  