-- OPEC to Trim Supply Amid Saudi Output Cuts, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-14T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/opec-to-trim-supply-amid-saudi-output-cuts-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will cut crude shipments by 0.9 percent this
month amid lower production by Saudi Arabia, according to tanker
tracker Oil Movements.  The group that supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil
will export 23.51 million barrels a day in the four weeks to
March 2, down 220,000 a day from 23.73 million in the previous
period, the researcher said today in an e-mailed report. Those
figures exclude Angola and Ecuador.  “It’s restraint on the supply side” rather than solely a
seasonal drop in demand,  Roy Mason , the company’s founder, said
by phone from Halifax, England. It’s too early for refineries to
be curbing purchases ahead of seasonal maintenance, he said.  Saudi Arabia  kept its output near a 20-month low of about 9
million barrels a day for a second month in January, a Gulf
official with knowledge of the country’s oil policy said on Feb.
7. The official declined to be identified because supply policy
is not made public.  Middle East shipments will decline by 1.2 percent to 17.17
million barrels a day in the period, compared with 17.38 million
in the four weeks to Feb. 2, according to Oil Movements. That
figure includes non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen.  Crude on board tankers will average 459.15 million barrels,
down 2.3 percent on the previous period, the data show. Oil
Movements calculates the volumes by tallying tanker bookings.
Its figures exclude crude held on vessels for storage.  OPEC comprises Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization is next scheduled to
meet in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  