-- More Noise, More Hearing Loss, More Isolation
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B o u t o n
-- 2013-02-14T23:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/more-noise-more-hearing-loss-more-isolation.html
I lost my  hearing  one early spring
day shortly after my 30th birthday. I heard the phone ring, but
when I put it to my ear no one was there. “Hello?” I said.
“Hello???” I tried the other ear, the right. It worked just
fine.  I tried other calls, first the right ear, then the left.
The left seemed inexplicably dead. I was more puzzled than
distressed. I went over the possible explanations that come to
anyone with sudden hearing loss. Maybe I had wax in my ear, or
an infection. Had I forgotten some loud noise that might have
temporarily deafened me? Once before, I had lost my hearing (in
both ears) after being at a  rock concert  in Madison Square
Garden. The Who, March 1976. That time it came back on its own.
So would this, I thought. Or a doctor would fix it.  As the day went on I became less sanguine. I was
increasingly dizzy, and my ear was crackling. Some of my hearing
had come back, but now my left ear was supersensitive. I went
outside to clear my head. A city bus whooshed its air brakes,
and the impact was almost physical. Rustling paper, setting a
dish on the counter, watching TV, scraping a chair on the floor:
Nothing sounded like what it was, and everything was painfully
loud. My left ear seemed to have grown to enormous proportions
and taken precedence over all my other senses.  Idiopathic Loss  Over the next few weeks, the crackling receded and the
sensitivity stabilized. I had various tests to rule out physical
causes. No tumor, no underlying disease, no autoimmune disorder,
no physiological obstruction. The cause was unknown, idiopathic.
Over the next decades my hearing would continue to deteriorate
in fits and starts, each time taking me by surprise. By age 55,
I had two hearing aids. By 60, I was profoundly deaf in my left
ear and headed in that direction in my right.  Even then, I acknowledged the loss only to a few people.
I’m good at faking it. I read lips, and pay attention to body
language. Like many hearing-impaired people, I smile or respond
in a noncommittal way to casual chat. How many times have I
said, “I’m so sorry,” when I had no idea what I was sorry
about? How many times have I nodded in agreement to a point I
hadn’t heard and might not have agreed with. Being hearing
impaired is like being in Paris and knowing just enough French
to ask an articulate question, and then being completely unable
to comprehend the answer.  Pitfalls, glitches and potholes mark the conversational
path of a hearing-impaired person. The trouble is that sometimes
you don’t even know when you’ve stepped into one. I’ve long
since stopped participating in group conversations except with
my closest friends. I lose the thread of the discussion or ask a
question that was just answered.  I think we’re talking about one thing when we’re talking
about something different. Sometimes I ask plaintively, “What
are we talking about?” I get bits and pieces, and if the
subject is familiar, I can patch them together. I dodge anything
controversial, or anyone intimidating. So where does faking it
get me? Nowhere, I suspect. If people don’t guess I’m hearing
impaired, they probably think I’m arrogant or remote, absent-
minded or distracted, drunk or just plain stupid.  My hearing loss is especially severe, but hearing loss
itself is  very common . Twice as many people suffer from hearing
problems as from vision problems. Seventeen percent of the
American population, of all ages, has some degree of hearing
loss.  IPod Effect  Most of it is what is called sensorineural -- the hair
cells and nerve fibers that deliver sound signals to the brain
become nonfunctional -- and much of it affects the speech
frequencies. Even a moderately deaf person may hear speech but
not be able to understand it.  Most often the cause is exposure to noise, sustained
exposure over a long period of time -- in the workplace, or
pursuing recreational activities such as playing video games,
hunting or listening to iPods. Exposure to  ototoxic  drugs such
as Vicodin and the  cancer drug  Cisplatin can cause hearing loss,
as can many autoimmune diseases.  But hearing loss is selective. Not everyone with his ear
glued to an iPod 12 hours a day loses his hearing. That’s
because hearing has a strong genetic component. As  Charles
Liberman , a professor at Harvard Medical School, puts it, there
are strong ears and weak ears.  If you have weak ears, you are genetically susceptible to
hearing loss. Seventy percent of that genetic susceptibility is
hereditary. An aunt or a grandfather lost his hearing at a young
age. But a genetic defect can be elusive. It can skip a
generation, or the carrier may die too young for it to manifest
itself, so you will be unaware of a family connection.  Hearing loss is assumed to be a natural consequence of
aging, and in fact the elderly account for the greatest
percentage of those with hearing loss. But it can occur  at any
time . Almost two-thirds of men with hearing loss began to lose
their hearing before age 44. For women the peak is from 40 to
59.  Those who lose their hearing in old age, after 70, account
for a relatively small number of the total. The association with
aging is a statistical artifact: not untrue, but misleading. And
damaging. It creates enough of a stigma to make hearing loss a
condition that most people will go out of their way to hide.  Even when I understand what is being said, the effort of
trying to hear eclipses my ability to think. My brain is so
preoccupied with translating the sounds into words that it seems
to have no cognitive resources left to dig into the storerooms
of memory for a response. Nor does it have the cognitive
reserves to tuck away new information, such as someone’s name.  Dementia Connection  This is annoying, but there is a more alarming element as
well.  Frank Lin , an otolaryngologist and epidemiologist at Johns
Hopkins Medical Center, has found an increasingly strong
correlation between hearing loss and dementia -- the greater the
hearing loss, the earlier and more severe the dementia.  Some of the association stems from the nature of hearing
loss, which often leads to social isolation, which is in turn a
risk factor for dementia. The idea of cognitive load is also a
logical explanation. Properly used hearing aids might mitigate
these first two factors; a study focusing on hearing aid use and
the incidence of dementia has not yet been done.  Lin adds a third possible explanation for the correlation.
In an interview, he told me that he and others think there may
be some common cause, “some pathological process,” that causes
both hearing loss and dementia. That’s a chilling hypothesis.  ( Katherine Bouton  is a former senior editor at the New York
Times. This is the first of three excerpts from “ Shouting Won’t
Help : Why I -- and 50 Million Other Americans -- Can’t Hear
You,” to be published Feb. 19 by Sarah Crichton Books, an
imprint of Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The opinions expressed are
her own. Read  Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Katherine Bouton at  katherinebouton@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 