-- Oscar Aids Kids With Cancer; Lawmaker Blues: D.C.Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-02-14T16:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/oscar-aids-kids-with-cancer-lawmaker-blues-d-c-scene.html
From the red carpet at the entrance
to the screening of nominated films, the fundraiser had an Oscar
theme.  Matthew Gerson, a cancer survivor and the executive vice
president for public policy and government relations at
Universal Music Group Inc., used his contacts to corral the
movies.  The party was for  Tracy’s Kids , an organization started by
Gerson to introduce children with cancer and blood diseases to
the healing effects of art therapy.  Among the screenings, Gerson was planning to check out
“Beasts of the Southern Wild,” as was Congressman  Mike Pompeo ,
a Kansas Republican.  Congressman  Bob Latta , an Ohio Republican, was vacillating
between “Argo” and “Les Miserables,” if he could convince
his wife to see it again.  Gerson met Tracy Councill, the charity’s namesake, in early
1998 at Georgetown University’s  Lombardi Cancer Center . He had
been diagnosed at age 10 with a malignant tumor and recalled
that the psychological agony of his illness and being separated
from his friends were more painful than the disease.  He became intrigued with a program Councill developed to
ease the suffering of young patients via drawing, painting,
writing and acting exercises. Gerson decided to expand the
model.  Today, besides Georgetown, Tracy’s Kids operates centers at
three Washington-area facilities -- Children’s National Medical
Center, Children’s Fairfax Clinic, Inova Fairfax Hospital -- and
Methodist Children’s Hospital in San Antonio.  Gerson and Councill were on hand last night to honor  David Camp , a Republican congressman from Michigan, who was diagnosed
with non-Hodgkin large B-cell lymphoma last year and as of
December is cancer-free.  Courage Award  Camp received the charity’s eighth annual Courage Award for
going public with his battle. Previous recipients include cancer
survivor Senator  John McCain , the Arizona Republican and
presidential candidate.  The event raised $450,000. Comcast Corp. was the major
sponsor and was represented by  David Cohen , executive vice
president, and  Melissa Maxfield , senior vice president of
congressional and federal government affairs.  Richard Nash, head of government relations in the U.S.,
Canada and Latin America for  EBay Inc. , and  Stacy Fuller , vice
president of regulatory affairs for  DirecTV , also gave their
support.  Nash and his EBay co-worker Usman Ahmed, the company’s
policy counsel, were gearing up for “Zero Dark Thirty,” a
major contender for Best Picture at the Academy Awards this
month.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , the Vermont Democrat, was there
with his wife, Marcelle, a melanoma survivor, a nurse and a
Tracy’s Kids board member.  Fun Side  Across town at Charlie Palmer Steak, new members of
congress and their staff members were getting a welcome party
organized by  Event Farm .  The online service, which processes RSVPs and payments for
events, has been hosting the welcome party every two years for a
decade.  Susan Brooks , newly installed as a representative from
Indiana’s fifth district, learned about the fun side of her new
job as the party boasted a dance floor, live blues band and
plenty of sweets and savory treats, like a mashed potato bar.  She talked with the event’s host, Ryan Costello, Event
Farm’s co-founder and chief executive officer, and David Pryor,
the director of federal government affairs for  Microsoft Corp .  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Elin McCoy  on
wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 