-- Moscow Exchange Said to Narrow IPO Price Band as China Fund Bids
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-02-14T15:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/moscow-exchange-said-to-narrow-ipo-price-band-as-china-fund-bids.html
The Moscow Exchange narrowed the
price band for its initial public offering to 55 rubles to 57
rubles as investors bid at the low end of the initial range,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Domestic and international investors have bid for all
shares offered by Russia’s main equity and fixed income bourse,
the people said, asking not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. The Kremlin-backed Russian Direct
Investment Fund and its partner, Chengdong Investment Corp., a
unit of CIC International Co. helped generate sufficient demand,
said two other people with knowledge of the deal, asking not to
be named for the same reason.  Chengdong may get as much as 25 percent of the shares being
offered in the IPO, which is set to be completed today, three
people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  The exchange, which runs Russia’s 50-stock  Micex  and
dollar-based RTS indexes, said Feb. 4 it plans to raise at least
15 billion rubles ($500 million) selling shares at 55 rubles to
63 rubles. The stock will trade on its own platform, after
marketing in the U.S., Europe and Russia. A sale at the bottom
of the range would value the company at $4 billion.  Quinn Martin, a spokesman for the exchange, declined to
comment on the pricing.  China Investment Corp. and the RDIF, which owns an
undisclosed number of shares in the Moscow Exchange,  set up  a $2
billion fund in June, seeking returns of at least 20 percent on
investments in companies benefiting from growing trade between
the two countries, according to the RDIF’s  website . Of that, 70
percent will be invested in Russia, the rest in China.  Boost Capital  The exchange plans to use its share of the IPO proceeds to
upgrade its trading system and to boost the capital of its
clearing subsidiary, the National Clearing Center. The exchange,
which handles most stock and bond trading in Russia, will start
working with Euroclear Bank SA, operator of the world’s largest
bond-settlement system, on trading ruble-denominated government
debt next month, according to Euroclear.  Russia’s central bank is the largest shareholder in the
exchange, with 22 percent, followed by state-run OAO Sberbank
with 9.6 percent, state development bank VEB with 8 percent,
according to the exchange’s website as of Jan. 16.  BlackRock, EBRD  BlackRock Inc. , the world’s biggest asset manager, bought
shares in the Moscow Exchange from RDIF in September, the fund
said Sept. 28, without providing details. RDIF had 2.7 percent
in July. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
has a 5.8 percent stake in the exchange, while VTB Group holds
5.6 percent.  About 60 percent of the stock offered in the IPO will be
sold by existing shareholders through Micex Cyprus Ltd., while
the rest will be sold as new shares via Micex-Finance LLC,
according to the exchange. Following the IPO, shareholders will
be subject to a 180-day lock-up period.  Credit Suisse Group AG , JPMorgan Chase & Co., Sberbank CIB
and VTB Capital are organizing the IPO.  Deutsche Bank AG ,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Morgan Stanley , Renaissance Capital
and UBS AG’s investment bank are joint bookrunners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  