-- LOT Polish Airline Mothballs Dreamliners for Months After Faults
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-14T15:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/lot-polish-airline-mothballs-dreamliners-for-months-after-faults.html
LOT Polish Airlines SA, the first
European carrier to receive  Boeing Co . 787 Dreamliners, said it
has excluded the grounded jet from its summer flight plan and is
seeking alternative long-haul aircraft to fill the gap.  Both 787s already in LOT’s fleet may remain sidelined from
day-to-day operations until at least October, spokesman  Marek Klucinsk  said today by telephone. The airline will extend the
lease on three Boeing 767s and will seek two additional long-
haul aircraft to replace the 787s, he said.  Mothballing the brand-new aircraft for as long as eight
months marks the most pessimistic outlook yet by a Dreamliner
customer and shows how airlines are struggling to work around
the grounding. The fleet gap at LOT comes as new management is
closing unprofitable routes as part of a turnaround effort, of
which the Dreamliner was supposed to form a centerpiece.  “The nearest future will be a particularly difficult stage
in the history of LOT,” Chief Executive Officer  Sebastian Mikosz  said in a statement today. “It is a time of necessary
changes,” he said, in announcing the closure of Warsaw routes
including to Cairo and Yerevan in Armenia and the Krakow-Paris
link.  Mikosz, who was the airline’s CEO from 2009 to 2010,
returned to the post last week to help the state-owned airline
cut losses. Profitable trans-Atlantic flights will be sustained
and the airline will focus on business destinations in Europe.
LOT will fly from Warsaw to Chicago, New York and Toronto,
routes the airline has operated for more than 40 years.  Seeking Fixes  Should Boeing efforts to fix 787s succeed early, LOT would
re-introduce the jet ahead of current plans, Klucinsk said. One
of the airline’s 787s remains stranded in Chicago after
completing its first passenger-carrying long-haul flight there.  Other carriers, such as  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS  and
Thomson Airways, have said they are looking for leased aircraft
after Boeing told them last week their Dreamliner deliveries may
be delayed further. Boeing suspended deliveries of jets after
U.S. regulators grounded the fleet Jan. 16.  Boeing has been cleared by U.S. authorities to carry out
test flights of the 787 in a bid to determine what caused
battery fires in the lithium-ion power cells that triggered the
operational suspension. The root cause of the fire remains
unclear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  