-- How Valentine’s Day Created a Retailing Revolution
-- B y   L e i g h   E .   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-02-14T14:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/how-valentine-s-day-created-a-retailing-revolution.html
At the beginning of the 19th
century, St. Valentine’s Day was of little note in American
culture. It could easily have faded from the calendar out of
Protestant indifference and civic irrelevance, forgotten right
along with days dedicated to St. Agnes, St. Anne and any number
of others.  Instead, St. Valentine’s Day suddenly surged in popularity
in the 1840s. As Graham’s American Monthly announced in 1849,
Feb. 14 “is becoming, nay, it has become, a national holyday.”  The day’s revival hardly stemmed from an unexpected burst
of romantic love or a studied retrieval of folk customs. Rather,
what made it all the rage was a new and fashionable commodity:
commercially produced valentines, inventive seasonal prints that
relied on lace-paper delicacy and ornamental frills for their
appeal.  Holiday promotions and advertising, even for Christmas,
were relatively undeveloped in the 1830s. The prevailing wisdom
among employers was that holidays were impediments to
enterprise: They were costly interruptions of labor and trade;
they encouraged license, drunkenness and revelry; they
diminished the virtues of industry and frugality. Time is money,
after all.  St. Valentine’s Day provided an occasion to take another
look at the economics of civic observance. Perhaps holidays
offered a way to attract shoppers and create a ritual cycle for
consumption; perhaps those shopkeepers of steady habits had made
the wrong calculation.  Cupid’s Headquarters  In the weeks leading up to St. Valentine’s Day, merchants
began promoting their stores as places of fantasy and
celebration. Peterson’s of Philadelphia, for example, advertised
itself as Cupid’s Headquarters; another shop proclaimed itself
St. Valentine’s Theatre; still another St. Valentine’s Castle.
Often the stores used brilliantly decorated windows to back up
these conceits. Who wouldn’t want to go and see a window
boasting a bejeweled valentine with a $100 price tag, or one in
which “Cupid, as large as life,” presided? One Philadelphia
company even claimed to have St. Valentine himself on hand to
“distribute his favors of every description.” Could Santa Claus
in a department-store Toyland be far behind?  Businesses such as T.W. Strong’s, a New York City printer
and retailer, were careful to offer annual reminders of the
holiday’s approach well ahead of its actual observance.
“Tomorrow is St. Valentine’s Day,” the Boston Daily Evening
Transcript commented in 1845, “as the advertisements in the
papers from the ‘Court of Love’ have duly informed us fourteen
days in advance of the interesting anniversary!”  Through their marketing, these merchants effectively
expanded the holiday’s time frame. References to “Valentine
Week” or even “Valentine Month” soon appeared, as the process of
reciprocating one’s valentines rippled well beyond the day
itself. As one retailer explained, “Valentines may properly be
sent from the 14th of February to the first of March, and even
later when answers are returned.”  Seeing the holiday in such protracted terms was a
commercial contrivance, much as the extension of the Christmas
season backward to Thanksgiving would be a few decades later. In
promoting the exchanges as a seasonal rite, the merchants of the
1840s helped change the way retailers viewed the whole of the
American calendar.  Relationship Brokers  Holiday marketing also cleverly expanded the range of
relationships the cards could address. Promoting valentines as
an appropriate token for sweethearts was an easy gambit; that
usage built on prior poetic associations of the holiday with
courtship. The proposition that valentines were meant for anyone
and everyone was something new. Siblings could exchange them,
aunts and uncles could give them to their nieces and nephews,
grandparents to their grandchildren, friends to each other,
schoolchildren to classmates, and so on. “Remember valentines
are appropriate,” one merchant advised, “for brothers, sisters,
relatives and friends.”  Printers and publishers were hardly mere sentimentalists,
however. Poisoned relationships presented their own
possibilities as companies spun off valentines for insulting
unattractive suitors, mean teachers, domineering women or
henpecked men. The cards were positioned as brokers of an array
of social relationships -- good and bad -- and that made them a
versatile commodity with a more extensive market.  Not everyone was delighted with the new fashion and the
role that printers and booksellers were playing in the holiday’s
ascendance. “It is a cold, lifeless business when you go to the
shops to buy me something, which does not represent your life
and talent,”  Ralph Waldo Emerson  wrote in an 1844 essay on
gifts.  The next year, the Boston Daily Evening Transcript
lamented, “We are afraid there are many such, so poor in
intellect that they must buy their verses readymade. For on that
day every bookstore is turned into a Valentine slop-shop.” In
1848, Philadelphia’s Public Ledger sounded even more
exasperated, pronouncing “the entire tribe of engraved, painted,
printed Valentines an abomination, invented by cunning
stationers and booksellers for pecuniary profit.” It amounted to
“a desecration of love’s high festival.”  The critics were fighting a losing battle. The
entrepreneurs of the 1840s and ’50s gave St. Valentine’s Day new
life in American culture. And the booming market for their wares
suggested to retailers everywhere that holidays held vast
potential as widely shared rituals of consumption. All across
the country, on Feb. 14 and on other holidays as well, we remain
the heirs of that antebellum enterprise.  ( Leigh E. Schmidt  is the Edward Mallinckrodt University
Professor at Washington University in St. Louis and the author
of “Consumer Rites: The Buying and Selling of American
Holidays.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Leigh E. Schmidt at  leigh.e.schmidt@wustl.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  