-- Mozambique Targets Gas Companies for Stock Listings
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-02-16T19:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/mozambique-targeting-gas-companies-for-stock-exchange-listings.html
(Corrects to show listing criteria in sixth paragraph for
story published on Feb. 15.)  Mozambique’s stock exchange may add
five new listings by 2018, the first as early as June, as
companies exploring for gas raise funding for projects, said
 Anabela Chambuca Pinho , chief executive officer of the bourse.  “Foreign companies operating or those wishing to extract
gas and oil in our country that are listed on other exchanges
have to be listed on our exchange in Mozambique,” she said in
an interview in Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe yesterday. “These
companies will need to raise capital in our markets.”  The southern African nation, site of the world’s largest
discovery of natural gas in the past decade, has attracted
companies including Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and  Eni SpA  as it
pushes for investments of as much as $30 billion into the
industry by 2018. The economy of more than 23 million people
expanded 6.8 percent in the third quarter. Vale SA, the world’s
biggest iron-ore producer, is building a railway line to
transport coal from a mine in Mozambique to the coast.  The Maputo, Mozambique-based bourse, known as the  Bolsa de
Valores de Mocambique , has a market capitalization of more than
30 billion meticais ($977 million) with three listed companies
as well as government and corporate debt, according to its
website. Stocks include  SABMiller Plc ’s Cervejas de Mocambique
SA, a brewer, and Cia. Mocambicana de Hidrocarbonetos SA, a
state-owned oil and gas company.  “By end of June, we expect one more company to be
listed,” Chambuca Pinho said, declining to identify the
business because of confidentiality agreements. “We are small
in terms of numbers currently listed but we are growing.”  A company must have a market capitalization of more than 28
million meticais to trade on the market, she said. The bourse
recorded 250 trades in 2012, 191 of which were in the equity
market and 21 on the bond market, Chambuca Pinho said. It trades
from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays,
according to its website.  The metical weakened 0.5 percent to 30.7000 per dollar as
of 5:45 p.m. in the capital, Maputo. The currency has dropped
3.3 percent against the dollar this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  