-- Peltz Helped Spur Heinz Turnaround Setting Stage for Bid
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-02-14T23:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/peltz-helped-spur-heinz-turnaround-setting-stage-for-bid.html
Nelson Peltz  may warrant thanks from
H.J. Heinz Co. stakeholders after Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 3G
Capital’s offer to buy the ketchup maker for about $23 billion,
even though the billionaire hedge-fund manager won’t share much
in the  reward .  Trian Fund Management LP, the New York-based money manager
run by Peltz and his partners  Peter May  and  Ed Garden , disclosed
taking a 5.4 percent stake in Heinz in April 2006 and then waged
a six-month proxy fight to win five seats on the food company’s
board. Heinz management sought to keep Trian’s nominees off the
board and resisted Peltz’s turnaround  plan  that called on the
company to cut costs and sell assets.  William Johnson , Heinz’s chief executive officer,
eventually executed many of Peltz’s suggestions, according to
 John Sini , a portfolio manager at Douglas C. Lane & Associates
Inc. in New York. While Trian will miss out on the 20 percent
premium that Berkshire and 3G are paying for Heinz shares after
selling off most of its stake, it was Peltz and his partners who
got the company to focus on shareholder returns as well as its
top brands, Sini said in a telephone interview.  “Management did a great job executing the turnaround, but
Peltz was the catalyst for a lot of the change,” said Sini,
whose firm oversees about $2.5 billion, primarily for wealthy
individuals, and held  Heinz  shares at the time Trian took its
stake. “We are looking at this price now and saying, ‘Thank
you, thank you, thank you.’”  20% Premium  Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway and Jorge Paulo
Lemann’s 3G Capital agreed to buy the Pittsburgh-based company
for $72.50 a share, Heinz said today. The transaction is valued
at about $28 billion, including the assumption of debt. Heinz
shares  jumped  almost 20 percent from their closing price
yesterday of $60.48 each.  Anne Tarbell , Trian’s spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call requesting comment.  Trian acquired 18.2 million Heinz shares for $673 million,
the equivalent of $36.89 a share, according to a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in April 2006. That
included 12.86 million shares held by the Trian funds and 5.38
million shares purchased on behalf of funds run by Sandell Asset
Management Corp., also based in New York.  ‘Sharper’ Focus  Peltz and his partners said in the 2006 filing they “see
opportunities to create value” at Heinz through “sharper
strategic focus, better operational execution and more efficient
uses of capital.” Trian said it was notified on April 6 that
Heinz had rejected a request for board representation.  The next month, Trian issued a 21-page report called
“Results Speak Louder than Words: A Plan to Enhance Value at
Heinz” that said the company’s stock returns have “almost
uniformly underperformed” the broader market and other consumer
packaged-food companies since its management team took over in
April 1998. Heinz shares had fallen almost 11 percent in the
previous eight years, Trian said, while an index of large-
capitalization food companies such as Campbell Soup Co. and
Hershey Co. had increased more than 26 percent.  Trian, citing “ill-fated” divestitures and acquisitions,
“failed” corporate restructurings and “poor capital-
allocation decisions,” called on Heinz to take immediate
measures to reduce annual costs by at least $575 million. It
also urged Heinz to increase share repurchases, target higher
dividend payments and redirect payments and allowances provided
to retailers into consumer advertising and new product
innovation.  Company’s Plan  Heinz in June 2006 said it would reduce spending by $355
million, raise its dividend, and buy back $1 billion of shares
over the next two years. The company simultaneously sought to
thwart Peltz’s proxy fight to gain board seats, telling
investors that the billionaire had previously been named in
shareholder lawsuits alleging self-dealing.  Peltz and fellow dissident investor  Michael Weinstein , the
former chief of Snapple Beverage Corp., gained board seats that
September, though the remainder of Trian’s slate of candidates
were denied directorships. Heinz shares have since provided an
average annual return of about 9.9 percent through January,
compared with 4 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “The kudos go to Bill Johnson, go to the management team,
go to the board in general,” Peltz said in an interview today
on CNBC. Johnson and other Heinz managers “executed
terrifically” on the strategic plan he put forward in 2006, and
“the result is a $72.50 all-cash offer.”  Stable Investment  Peltz got the Heinz board to start thinking more about
shareholder value “and for that we have to thank him,” said
 Michael Crofton , the president and CEO of Philadelphia Trust
Co., which has been holding Heinz shares since at least 2008. At
the same time, much of the company’s subsequent success stemmed
from the popularity of relatively stable food companies with
large dividend yields during a period of high market volatility
and low interest rates.  “In the risk-off trade that was on until a year-and-a-half
ago,” food companies “were great places to hide,” Crofton
said. Heinz’s management, he said, also did a good job of
focusing “on their core brands and building brand identity.”  The Trian funds have sold or distributed most of their
Heinz stake, leaving the firm with  106,500 shares  as of Sept.
30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Client Distributions  Peltz said today on CNBC that Trian had “probably” sold
its Heinz shares “in the high 50s,” while regulatory filings
show the prices were lower. Trian distributed about 3 million
Heinz shares on Feb. 29, 2008, to clients who had recently
gained the right to withdraw their capital, according to a
regulatory filing. Heinz shares traded at about $44 each at the
time of the distribution, which left Trian holding about 10
million shares.  The firm made several subsequent distributions to other
clients, according to filings, and, between January 2009 and
last July, sold some 7.87 million shares for a total of about
$356.7 million. That works out to an average of $45.33 a share.  “Peltz was out at $50,” said  James Cullen , the CEO of
Schafer Cullen Capital Management, a $14-billion investment
adviser based in New York that holds Heinz shares. “A lot of
the activists tend to be more short-term oriented.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  