-- Pennsylvania Lottery Deal Rejected by State Attorney General
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-02-14T21:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/pennsylvania-lottery-deal-rejected-by-state-attorney-general.html
Pennsylvania  Attorney General
 Kathleen Kane  said the contract approved last month by Governor
 Tom Corbett  handing over management of the state’s $3.48 billion
lottery to a U.K. company is illegal.  It’s the latest challenge to the Republican governor, whose
handling of a sex-abuse case is under review by Kane’s office.
Kane, a Democrat who began her elected term last month, said the
agreement Corbett struck with Camelot Global Services PA LLC,
part of U.K.-based Camelot Group Plc, violates the state
constitution because it requires legislative approval.  The governor’s office “exceeded its authority” in
granting the contract, Kane, 46, said in a statement today.  “I’m deeply disappointed,” Corbett, 63, said in an e-
mailed statement. “I don’t agree with the attorney general’s
analysis and decision.”  Corbett said “we will review our legal options.” He
didn’t say what they might be.  Last week, Kane named H. Geoffrey Moulton Jr., a former
federal prosecutor, to review her office’s handling of the case
against  Jerry Sandusky , the former Pennsylvania State University
assistant football coach convicted last year of child sex abuse.  The state’s Sandusky investigation started under Corbett,
who was attorney general in 2009 and was elected governor in
2010. Sandusky was charged in November 2011. During her run for
attorney general, Kane promised to review why it took almost
three years for charges to be filed against Sandusky.  Democratic Opponents  Corbett’s move Jan. 17 to turn over lottery operations to
Camelot drew criticism from Democratic lawmakers and a union
representing lottery workers, which filed a lawsuit Dec. 17 in
state court. Corbett said Camelot would provide secure funding
for services for elderly residents. Lottery profits go to senior
citizens.  Camelot, operator of the National Lottery in the U.K., a
consultant to California’s game and the sole bidder in
Pennsylvania in November, said it will  guarantee  $34 billion in
profits over 20 years.  The company is “disappointed,” according to a statement
released by Harrisburg-based public relations firm La Torre
Communications.  “We guarantee our proposal will produce unprecedented
profits for senior programs and we have backed our investment in
Pennsylvania with $200 million -- transferring all risk from
state taxpayers,” according to the e-mailed statement.  Legislature’s Turf  Kane said the contract was illegal because it infringed on
the legislature’s authority; permitted electronic games that
require the legislature’s approval; and allowed Camelot
indemnification of “indirect expenses,” which violates the
constitution.  State Senator  Jay Costa , the Democratic leader, said in an
e-mailed statement that “Pennsylvania residents can rest easy
now,” and that lottery employees could find ways to generate
more money.  Kane’s decision “highlights the need” of legislation to
clarify the laws governing the lottery and gambling, said Senate
Majority Leader  Dominic Pileggi  in a statement. He said he was
“surprised” by the rejection.  Pennsylvania  would have been the third state, after
Illinois and Indiana, to hand its lottery to private operators.
Corbett is also trying to sell the state’s wholesale and retail
liquor business.  The lawsuit is American Federation of State County and
Municipal Employees Council 13 v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
706 MD 2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  