-- Pernod Indicates Cuervo Interest Amid Intent to Reduce Debt
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-02-14T15:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/pernod-indicates-cuervo-interest-amid-intent-to-reduce-debt.html
Pernod Ricard SA,  the maker of
Absolut vodka, indicated an interest in acquiring Jose Cuervo
after its biggest competitor failed to buy the tequila brand,
though downplayed the prospect of any imminent deal.  The Paris-based distiller “would be prepared to sit down
and talk about an acquisition” of Cuervo, Chief Executive
Officer  Pierre Pringuet  said at a press conference today. Still,
Pernod’s priority is paying down debt and major acquisitions
will “have to wait another two-to-three years,” he said.  Diageo Plc, the world’s largest distiller, abandoned
negotiations to acquire Cuervo in December and said it wouldn’t
renew an agreement to distribute the spirit globally. The brand,
owned by Mexico’s Beckmann family, may have cost as much as $3
billion, analysts estimated at the time.  Pernod Ricard, which also makes Martell cognac and Chivas
Regal whisky, bought a cognac producer earlier this month to
boost supplies and production of the popular spirit as demand
booms in Asia. The company is open to similar “bolt-on”
acquisitions, so long as they don’t affect Pernod’s investment-
grade debt rating,  Gilles Bogaert , the company’s chief financial
officer, said today in an interview with Bloomberg News.  Pernod has the lowest  investment-grade rating  at both
Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s.  The ratio of net debt to earnings before interest,
taxation, depreciation and amortization was stable at 3.8 times
at the end of December, the company said today as it reported
first-half sales and earnings growth that beat estimates. Total
debt was 9.15 billion euros, with a reduction of 215 million
euros helped by favorable foreign-exchange movements.  Euro Strength  Pernod  rose  as much as 3.6 percent in Paris trading and was
up 2.8 percent at 96.65 euros at 4:04 p.m.  The distiller expects a “slightly positive” effect on
results this year from currency effects, particularly the
strength of the euro, Bogaert said. After gaining 8.3 percent
against the dollar in the past six months, the European currency
may be “a bit overvalued,” the executive said, even as the
movement implies renewed confidence in the region.  Pernod now has more than 80 percent of its debt in bonds,
and could increase that proportion further compared with loans,
even though the company benefits from the flexibility of loans,
Bogaert said. It could return to the bond market, though has no
need to refinance any of its debt until 2015, it said.  “Financial conditions are excellent, and markets are open
to us,” the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  