-- Pernod’s Profit Beats Estimates on Emerging Markets, U.S.
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-02-14T09:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/pernod-ricard-profit-beats-estimates-on-emerging-markets-u-s-.html
Pernod Ricard SA , France’s largest
distiller, reported first-half earnings that beat estimates as
sales in markets including China, Russia and the U.S. offset
declines in southern Europe and France.  Operating profit excluding some items rose 5.8 percent to
1.46 billion euros ($1.96 billion) in the six months through
December from 1.38 billion euros a year earlier, the maker of
Absolut vodka said today in a statement. The median estimate of
11  analysts  was 1.43 billion euros. Profit advanced 1 percent on
a so-called organic basis, compared with a 0.5 percent median
estimate.  Sales and profitability increased at Pernod’s Asia/Rest of
World unit as the company sold more cognac and were only
“marginally impacted” by the Chinese New Year delaying
shipments. Sales in the Americas rose 6 percent, driven by
“solid growth” in the U.S. for its major brands, including
Jameson whiskey.  “Overall this looks to be a reasonably solid
performance,”  Phil Carroll , an analyst at Shore Capital, wrote
today. “Normally Pernod guidance is particularly cautious and
it easily overdelivers, but in the current year we expect 6
percent profit growth to be just that” as tough conditions in
France restrict improvements.  European Pressure  Paris-based Pernod said in October it expects full-year
organic earnings growth to decelerate to about 6 percent on
waning sales growth in emerging markets and as the company
experiences continued pressure in Europe.  Pernod’s shares rose as much as 2.7 percent, the biggest
intraday increase in five months, and were up 2.3 percent to
96.20 euros at 9:11 a.m. in Paris trading. The stock has added
10 percent this year, giving the distiller a market value of
25.5 billion euros.  Sales rose 3 percent excluding acquisitions, disposals and
currency fluctuations, compared with an estimated 2.2 percent
increase. Sales edged up 1 percent in the second quarter, the
company said.  Competitor Remy Cointreau SA has said that Asian sales have
been “very strong” even as the Chinese New Year fell on a
later date this year than in 2012, leading to revenue being
booked in a later quarter for them. Whisky sales in Asia slowed,
as demand waned in South Korea, Pernod said.  China Recovering  “We highlighted that the overall environment is not as
buoyant as last year, so we keep a certain degree of caution,”
 Pierre Pringuet , Pernod’s chief executive officer, said today by
telephone. “The good point, to me, is that technically for
China there’s no longer speculation about a slowdown. It’s
recovering.”  Sales in Europe showed an ongoing “bipolarization,”
Pernod said, as demand improved in Russia while western and
southern Europe, including Spain, stayed challenging. Organic
sales slid 1 percent. Sales in France, its home market, declined
comparatively as a tax increase at the start of 2012 inflated
first-half sales a year ago. Eurozone sales represented 20
percent of its revenue this half, the company said.  Pringuet said today that he didn’t expect further economic
deterioration in Spain, barring another widespread fiscal shock.  Diageo Plc, the world’s biggest distiller, has reported
profit growth of 9 percent for the six months through December
as it shifted away from the depressed economies of Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  