-- Peugeot Bank Unit Cut to Junk by S&P on Europe Car Market
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-02-15T12:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/peugeot-s-banking-unit-cut-to-junk-by-s-p-on-sluggish-car-sales.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen ’s bank division
was cut to junk by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services in a blow
to French state-backed efforts by Europe’s second-biggest
carmaker to limit the effects of falling sales on the loan unit.  The Banque PSA Finance unit was cut one step to BB+, or one
level below investment grade, the  credit-rating  company said in
a statement yesterday. Peugeot’s debt was also lowered one step
to BB-, or three levels below investment grade, S&P said in a
separate statement. The outlook for both the carmaker and the
bank is negative, meaning S&P may downgrade their debt again.  France’s government provided guarantees last year for as
much as 7 billion euros ($9.3 billion) in Banque PSA Finance’s
new bond sales as Paris-based Peugeot sought to maintain the
unit’s investment grade at Moody’s Investors Service amid a
contraction in Europe’s car market. Peugeot reported its first
operating loss in three years on Feb. 13, when it said industry
sales in Europe will fall 3 percent to 5 percent this year.  “In light of continually stiff competition in its core
markets, Peugeot is unlikely to generate break-even free
operating cash flow before the end of 2014,” a goal the
carmaker outlined when reporting earnings, S&P said. The bank
unit was downgraded in line with Peugeot’s debt-rating cut
because it depends on the parent company for business, it said.  A non-investment grade for the bank has the potential to
raise its borrowing costs, hurting the division’s ability to
offer low-cost car loans.  Moody’s View  Moody’s may lower the debt rating at Peugeot and
subsidiaries because the loss in 2012 was wider than the credit-
rating company had estimated, while Europe’s car market remains
“challenging” because of falling sales and price competition,
 Rainer Neidnig , an analyst, said today in a statement.  Peugeot was “prepared” for a downgrade, and “this
doesn’t impact the financing conditions of the bank, because its
financing is secured over the next three years,”  Pierre-Olivier Salmon , a spokesman at the carmaker, said by phone. “Today,
Banque PSA Finance is protected against any downgrade from the
ratings firms.”  Peugeot  rose  as much as 1 percent and was trading up 0.4
percent at 6.40 euros at 1:30 p.m. in Paris, the highest since
Jan. 17, based on closing prices. The stock, which declined
earlier today, has gained 17 percent this year, valuing the
manufacturer at 2.27 billion euros.  EU’s Demand  European Union regulators granted temporary approval for
1.2 billion euros of the French state guarantees on Feb. 11,
saying Peugeot must propose a reorganization plan within six
months to outline how it can survive without government help.  In addition to the state guarantees, Banque PSA Finance
reached an 11.5 billion-euro refinancing agreement in December
with a pool of about 20 banks.  Industrywide European auto sales fell 7.8 percent in 2012,
with Peugeot’s deliveries dropping 13 percent, according to the
Brussels-based ACEA trade group.  Peugeot reported a  loss  before interest, taxes and one-time
gains or costs of 576 million euros in 2012 compared with
recurring operating profit of 1.09 billion euros a year earlier.
It pledged on Feb. 13 to cut its cash-consumption rate 50
percent in 2013 and reach the break-even level by 2014 after
burning through 3 billion euros last year.  The carmaker plans to reduce its French automotive
workforce by 17 percent in the next two years, and it’s shutting
a car plant in Aulnay, on the outskirts of Paris.  Aulnay Transfers  Peugeot  and 18 of its labor-union representatives signed an
agreement today on the terms of transferring employees affected
by the shutdown to a plant in Rennes, and the company is
sticking to plans to continue production at Aulnay until 2014,
 Denis Martin , head of Peugeot’s industrial operations, said
today at a press conference.  The carmaker cut spending by 1.18 billion euros in 2012,
beating a reduction target of 1 billion euros, and asset sales
totaled 2 billion euros, one-third more than budgeted, Peugeot
said yesterday.  Moody’s may downgrade Peugeot’s debt in the event the
credit-rating company determines that revival efforts “are
likely to fall short of yielding its targeted results, including
a clear path toward break-even operational free cash flow by the
end of 2014,” Neidnig said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  