-- Pickens Adds Newfield, Marathon Oil, Sells EOG in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-02-14T23:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/pickens-adds-newfield-marathon-oil-sells-eog-in-fourth-quarter.html
Billionaire investor  T. Boone Pickens  added oil and gas producers  Newfield Exploration Co .,
 Marathon Oil Corp . and  Occidental Petroleum Corp . to his energy
fund’s holdings during the fourth quarter.  Pickens’s Dallas-based BP Capital Management LP bought
211,703 shares of Newfield valued at $5.7 million, 184,900
shares of Marathon valued at $5.7 million and 63,000 shares of
Occidental valued at $4.8 million in the three months ended Dec.
31, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The fund also bought new stakes in  Weatherford
International Ltd . and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc ., the
filing said.  Newfield Exploration’s stock has dropped about 25 percent
since the end of 2011, including an 18 percent plunge on Oct. 24
after it said international production would decline in 2013.
The company yesterday said its total production may not grow
this year and that it’s exploring strategic alternatives for its
offshore assets in Malaysia and China while it focuses on U.S.
formations.  The value of Pickens’s equity holdings rose 2 percent to
$100.8 million as of Dec. 31, from $98.8 million at the end of
the third quarter, according to the filing.  Pickens’s fund sold its stake in  EOG Resources Inc . valued
at $8.2 million. EOG’s stock has climbed 35 percent since the
end of 2011, making it the third-largest U.S. oil and natural
gas producer by market value among companies without refining or
chemical operations. The Houston-based producer has shifted
attention in recent years to oil from gas, and it’s active in
areas such as Texas’ Eagle Ford Shale.  Pickens also sold out of  Quicksilver Resources Inc .,
Whiting Petroleum Corp. and McMoRan Exploration Co.  Range Resources  BP Capital decreased its position in 12 companies including
oil and gas producer  Pioneer Natural Resources Co . The fund
increased its position in  National Oilwell Varco Inc . and Range
Resources Corp.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the SEC within 45 days of
each quarter’s end to show their U.S.-listed stocks, options and
convertible bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or
how much cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  