-- Pimco Says Debt Losing Allure in Emerging World: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-02-14T16:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/pimco-says-debt-losing-allure-in-emerging-world-poland-credit.html
The lure of Polish zloty debt is
receding for Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
biggest bond-fund manager, which sees better opportunities in
emerging markets such as Brazil and Mexico.  Domestic bonds , fresh off their best annual return since
2004, have lost 1.1 percent in dollars this year, the worst
performance after  South Africa  and Colombia among emerging-
market peers tracked by JPMorgan & Chase Co. The 3.73 percent
 yield  on Polish government notes compares with the 5.36 percent
average for  global developing nations , the smallest difference
in three months, JPMorgan data shows.  “Within the European context it still makes sense to buy
Poland,”  Francesc Balcells , a fund manager at Pimco’s emerging-
markets team, which manages $75 billion in assets, said by phone
from Munich two days ago. “But in a broader emerging-market
context, there are better opportunities elsewhere.”  Polish bonds are losing their appeal as the economy is
mired in its deepest slowdown in four years, with consumers
curbing their spending in the face of rising unemployment.
Meanwhile, Governor  Marek Belka  signaled this month that the
central bank is close to an end of monetary easing after four
quarter-point reductions since November left the  benchmark
interest rate  at 3.75 percent.  Changing Sentiment  Balcells’s comments mark a turnaround from March, when he
said that “even globally” Polish bonds looked “attractive”
as domestic demand helped the economy weather the global debt
crisis and become the only one in the European Union to avoid
recession since 2008.  Pimco, BlackRock Inc. and  Kokusai Global Sovereign Open  are
among foreign investors who’ve bought record amounts of Polish
domestic bonds in the last three years as the government slashed
the  budget deficit . That helped send borrowing costs to their
lowest level since the fall of communism in 1989 and allowed the
government to obtain 27 percent of its 2013 debt financing needs
before the year began.  Pimco “was looking for countries where central banks still
have room for maneuver” and where economic growth “still looks
solid,”  Andrew Bosomworth , managing director at the company in
Munich, said in a Bloomberg TV interview on Feb. 8. He listed
Brazil and Mexico among preferred markets.  Mexico, Brazil  Polish 10-year domestic notes yield 4.09 percent compared
with 5.04 percent for the equivalent Mexican government debt in
peso and 9.7 percent for Brazilian bonds maturing in 2023,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The EU’s largest eastern economy grew 2 percent, the
slowest pace in three years in 2012, as the euro-area slump
weakened Polish consumer spending. The severity of the slowdown
surprised the Warsaw-based central bank, which in May raised
interest rates due to persistent inflation.  Poland’s slowdown will deepen to 1.6 percent this year,
while Mexico and Brazil are set to expand by 3.5 percent,
according to economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The situation in Poland’s neighborhood has been changing
very fast and that’s probably why the central bank’s message
hasn’t been consistent throughout,” Balcells said. “That has
created some disarray in the market.”  Forward Agreements  Derivatives traders have pared their expectations for
further interest-rate cuts following the central bank’s Feb. 6
meeting. Twelve-month forward rate agreements are trading 44
basis points below the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, the
smallest gap in eight months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Foreign selling has been “quite limited” during the
recent bond sell-off,  Esther Law , a senior emerging-market
strategist at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in an e-mail
to Bloomberg yesterday. The government has obtained about half
of this year’s funding needs after yesterday’s auction, where
the government raised 4.6 billion zloty, she said.  “Polish bonds are more attractive now after the recent
correction,” Law said. “It feels that there’s going to be a
bit of a pause in the yield increase.”  The cost of insuring Polish debt using  credit-default swaps 
rose one basis point to 90. The swaps, which drop as perceptions
of creditworthiness improve, pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower renege on its debt agreements.  Smaller ‘Buffer’  The zloty weakened 0.4 percent against the euro to 4.1737
at 5:17 p.m. in Warsaw, paring this month’s gain to 0.5 percent.
The extra yield investors demand to hold Polish  dollar bonds 
rather than U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 120 basis points,
after reaching a four-year low of 97 basis points Jan. 4,
according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan.  The additional yield on Polish 10-year zloty bonds over
German bunds rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 246, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The macroeconomic outlook isn’t that encouraging,”
 Ronald Schneider , who helps manage the equivalent of $1.1
billion in emerging-market debt for Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage
GmbH, said by phone from Vienna yesterday. “The spread to
German bunds has narrowed quite a lot, which could make bonds
more exposed to global risks. The buffer is smaller.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  