-- Pitt, Jolie Will Release Wine Formerly Called Pink Floyd
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2013-02-14T12:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/pitt-jolie-release-rose-wine-once-called-pink-floyd.html
Angelina Jolie  and  Brad Pitt  will
release the first wine with their names on the label next month.  It’s a new rose from their 1,000-acre estate, Chateau
Miraval, in Correns, France. The A-list Hollywood couple began
leasing the Provence property in 2008 and now own it.  The wine is part of their joint venture with the Famille
Perrin, which owns  Chateau Beaucastel , in the Chateauneuf-du-
Pape region of the southern Rhone Valley.  “We are intimately involved and quite enthused over the
wine project with our friends the Perrin family,” Pitt said
yesterday through his publicist and manager, Cynthia Pett.  The rose, formerly named “ Pink Floyd ,” will now be known
simply as Miraval. A white is planned for the end of the summer
and reds next year.  The Perrin family began producing Miraval’s wines with the
2012 harvest and will handle distribution. The agreement with
Pitt and Jolie provides equal sharing of the profits, according
to winemaker Marc Perrin.  “If you knew Brad and Angelina, you would see they are in
search of perfection in everything,” Perrin said in a telephone
interview.  Joint Names  Pitt and Jolie attended the rose blending sessions and
helped to create a distinctive new bottle shape and black label.
The label will carry the names “Jolie-Pitt and Perrin.”  Perrin, Jolie and Pitt were in full agreement on style, he
said.  Mutual friends brought the two families together. In June,
2012, Jolie and Pitt invited the Perrins to the estate to
discuss working together. According to Perrin, they bonded over
bottles that showed off his family’s wine-making style.  “We also tasted a range of Provence roses to understand
what the neighbors were doing and to decide what we wanted,”
Perrin said.  Another bonding factor was the fact that the estate is
organic. “For us,” says Perrin, “organic is the only way to
grow grapes.”  His family pioneered organic viticulture in 1950. Their
joint venture with California’s Tablas Creek Vineyard in Paso
Robles has been organic since vines were planted in 1989.  The Perrins are also revamping the style of the wines.
Stainless steel tanks for the new rose give it intensely floral,
wild lily aromas and brighter flavor notes of strawberry and
raspberry.  “Brad and Angelina are very friendly, nice people and down
to earth,” says Perrin. “They’re thinking long term.”  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Scott Reyburn 
on the art market and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer of this story:
 Elin McCoy  at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 