-- PNC Names Demchak to Succeed Rohr as Bank’s CEO
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-02-15T14:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/pnc-financial-names-demchak-to-succeed-rohr-as-chief-executive.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. ,
the second-largest U.S. regional bank, named  William S. Demchak 
to succeed  Jim Rohr  as chief executive officer of the
Pittsburgh-based lender.  Demchak, 50, also joins the board of directors, with Rohr
taking the new title of executive chairman, PNC said yesterday
in a statement. The management change takes effect at the annual
shareholders meeting on April 23. Rohr, 64, who currently serves
as chairman, will retire from the company next year, PNC said.  The promotion caps a decade-long tenure at PNC for Demchak,
who joined in 2002 from  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  to become Rohr’s
chief financial officer. Demchak will inherit a bank whose
performance has consistently beaten its peers, said  Terry McEvoy , an Oppenheimer & Co. analyst.  “If it’s not broken, don’t fix it,” McEvoy said. “It’s
not like this is a broken model. The company delivered during
the financial crisis like few banks were able to deliver.”  In 2005, Demchak became head of corporate and institutional
banking at PNC and was said to be among candidates considered
for the top job at  Bank of America Corp.  in 2009 as fallout from
the credit crisis pushed CEO  Kenneth D. Lewis  from office.
Instead, Demchak was named head of all PNC businesses in 2010
and president last April.  Joint Architects  “You could consider him one of the architects of the
company’s current strategy along with Jim,” said  R. Scott Siefers , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. Demchak’s
background as head of structured finance at New York-based
JPMorgan made him “quantitative and very objective,” Siefers
said.  Revenue at PNC increased 8.3 percent in 2012 to $15.5
billion, while  profit  slipped 2.3 percent to $3 billion, or
$5.30 a share. PNC’s stock, which closed at $63.87 yesterday,
has beaten both the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the KBW Bank
Index this year by posting a 10 percent total return including
dividends. The shares gained 29 cents to $64.16 at 9:30 a.m. in
New York.  With $305 billion in assets, PNC ranks seventh among U.S.
commercial banks and employs about 50,000 people. Acquisitions
in the past two calendar years included Royal Bank of Canada’s
U.S. operations and outlets of BankAtlantic Bancorp and Flagstar
Bancorp in Florida and Georgia.  Demchak has said PNC must reassess the role of its
approximately 2,900 branches. While branches build the brand and
attract customers, “they’re really expensive,” accounting for
62 percent of retail banking costs, Demchak said at a November
investor conference in New York.  Branch Count  PNC is closing more branches than it’s opening, and the new
ones have less space and fewer  employees , Demchak said.
Meanwhile, more of its 5 million customers are embracing
electronic banking, he said.  “It’s obvious that our approach needs to change in order
for us to better serve our customers and for the retail bank to
remain profitable for the future,” Demchak said. “Our goal is
to drive more transactions from the teller window to the
computer screen or the ATM.”  Demchak will also have to quell doubts from investors about
the value of the firm’s mergers and acquisitions, McEvoy said.  “Can he convince the marketplace that their  M&A strategy 
is value-creating and that it isn’t truly building a bigger bank
just for the sake of size?” McEvoy said.  Fred Solomon , a PNC spokesman, said Demchak and Rohr
weren’t available to comment.  Rohr said in the statement that Demchak’s “candor and work
ethic have earned him the trust of employees and investors, and
the confidence of PNC’s  board . He deserves the opportunity to
steer PNC into the future.”  JPMorgan, BlackRock  While at JPMorgan, Demchak helped build the bank’s
derivative business with William Winters and later jointly ran
the investment bank with Steven Black. He sits on the board of
BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money manager, where PNC is
listed as the largest shareholder.  He grew up in PNC’s hometown of Pittsburgh, according to
“Fool’s Gold,” the 2009 book by Financial Times journalist
Gillian Tett. Demchak received an undergraduate degree from
Allegheny College in Meadville, Pennsylvania, and an MBA from
the University of Michigan, according to the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  