-- Pope’s Culture Club Masks Conclave Packed With Benedict’s Clones
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-02-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/pope-s-culture-club-masks-conclave-packed-with-benedict-s-clones.html
When he appointed a group of five
cardinals from the developing world in November, Pope  Benedict XVI  called his church one of “all peoples.”  “She speaks in the various cultures of the different
continents,” he told an ecclesiastical council in Rome.  Yet while the Catholic Church has been gaining followers in
faster-growing markets for years, it’s been less quick to
practice what it preaches when it comes to senior management.
The leader of 1.2 billion Catholics, who will step down after
eight years on Feb. 28, helped create an electorate for his
successor dominated by Europeans and North Americans.  The secret conclave that will meet to vote for the next
pope will be made up of 117 voting cardinals, with 61 from
Europe and 14 from the U.S. and Canada, according to  figures
from the Vatican . Of the 67 members appointed by Benedict, 21
come from outside those regions.  “The balance is terribly skewed, half are Europeans and
that is much the least significant part of the church and one of
the weakest,” said Monsignor Robert Wister, a priest and
professor of church history at  Seton Hall University . “Naming
that last group of five cardinals who were from developing
countries was making up for what was a blunder.”  Italy has 49 million Catholics, according to data from the
 Pew Research Center . It has 28 electors in the conclave, based
on listings on the Vatican website. The 76 million Catholics in
the Philippines will be represented by just one cardinal
elector, the Vatican website shows.  ‘All Peoples’  In an  address  to pastors and clergy from the diocese of
Rome yesterday, Benedict made clear his faith in their ability
to speak to the world beyond Europe.  The clergy of Rome “is a truly catholic clergy, that is to
say, a universal clergy,” he said. “This is the same essence
of the Church in Rome: to bring universality, catholicity, to
all peoples, all races, and all cultures.”  The number of Catholics grew in Africa and southeast Asia
between 2009 and 2010. Africans made up 15.6 percent of the
church from 15.2 percent, while in southeast Asia the flock rose
to 10.9 percent from 10.5 percent, according to  data  published
by the Vatican in March last year. Numbers fell in Europe and
South America over the same period. Of 5,104 bishops around the
world, 1,606, or 31 percent, were in Europe.  The cardinals appointed in November came from India,
Nigeria, Colombia, Philippines and Lebanon.  Old School  The new Pope is unlikely to be a radical reformer because
Benedict followed the example of his predecessor  John Paul II  by
enforcing strict adherence to Catholic doctrine by all priests.  As a result, the candidates, known as papabile, and the
voting cardinals are all professed followers of the
traditionalist wing of the church. They have to toe the line on
such things as the ordination of women, abortion and
contraception, said Tina Beattie, professor of Catholic studies
at London’s  Roehampton University .  “The requirements of priests, let alone bishops, to be in
good standing with the church are now so rigorous that by the
time someone is filtered up to the level of the papabile I don’t
know what’s left to give liberals much hope,” said Beattie.
“Having said that, people play political games in those
positions and it’s very hard to anticipate what a person might
do when he becomes pope.”  John XXIII  In 1958,  John XXIII  was chosen as a caretaker and no one
expected him to shake up the church in the way he did in his
five years as pope, Beattie said. He called the second Vatican
council, which gathered 2,600 bishops and attracted more than
3,000 participants from around the world with the aim of opening
up the church to make it more accessible to the faithful.  One of the key reforms was to have Mass celebrated in the
local vernacular. He died before it was completed.  The rules for voting in the next pope, carried out in a
series of secret ballots in the Vatican’s Sistine chapel, may
make the election of a compromise candidate more likely. They
were changed by Benedict to require a two-thirds majority after
John Paul II switched them to allow a straight majority if a
two-thirds vote could not be achieved.  Already changes to the odds offered at bookmakers in Europe
suggest movement toward a pope closer to home.  Angelo Scola , 71, the Italian Archbishop of Milan, is 11/4
favorite to be the next Pope at  Paddy Power Plc . The Dublin-
based company, along with William Hill Plc in the U.K., had
Ghanaian  Peter Turkson , 64, as its frontrunner the day Benedict
unexpectedly announced his resignation on Feb. 11.  Other Candidates  Turkson , who is based in Rome as president of the
 Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace , is now second-favorite
at Paddy Power at 7/2, though remains top of the betting at
William Hill. Canadian  Marc Ouellet , 68, and  Tarcisio Bertone ,
78, also from Italy, are in third and fourth place.  Some candidates from the developing world are at a
disadvantage because they are based in their dioceses and are
not regulars in the Rome salons where cardinals living in the
Italian capital meet, Wister said.  In the conclave, while the ideal is that the assembled
cardinals listen for the guidance of God, the lobbying
beforehand will make a difference to the result, he said.  “They’ll be having little dinner parties of eight or 10
cardinals feeling each other out,” Wister said. “The Holy
Spirit is present and speaking, but some may not listen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  