-- Publicis Has Record Profit on Digital, Fast-Growth Markets
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-02-14T09:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/publicis-posts-record-profit-on-digital-fast-growth-markets.html
Publicis Groupe SA ’s profit rose
more than Chief Executive Officer  Maurice Levy  expected last
year as the third-largest advertising company capitalized on
U.S. business, digital activities and high-growth markets.  Net income rose 23 percent to a record 737 million euros
($991 million), compared with the  average analyst estimate  of
677 million euros in a Bloomberg survey. Revenue increased 14
percent to 6.6 billion euros, the Paris-based company said today
in a statement. Organic growth, which strips out effects from
acquisitions and currency shifts, gained 2.9 percent.  “I’m pleased even with the organic growth after looking at
a slowdown in the third quarter; and the fourth-quarter is known
as dangerous and we were quite nervous,” Levy said in a
telephone interview, adding that earnings had surpassed his
expectations. “But all our regions are growing and it’s been
extremely good.”  Levy said a contraction last year in Europe, which he
called the “sick child of the world,” was countered by sales
from emerging markets and digital activities, which now make up
about 60 percent of  total revenue  at Publicis. Though Levy
warned that 2013 will be tougher than last year, he expects the
company to outperform the market as well as its  2012 figures .  The shares rose as much as 2.5 percent in Paris trading,
and were trading 1.6 percent higher at 49.49 euros as of 9:27
a.m. The company has a market capitalization of 10.4 billion
euros.  Acquisitions  Publicis, which owns the Leo Burnett and Saatchi & Saatchi
advertising agencies, will spend between 500 million euros and
600 million euros on acquisitions this year, Levy said.  “We can’t grow if we stay still in the current advertising
space,” Levy said. “The world is changing too fast and we need
to change faster than the world.”  The company made  21 acquisitions in 2012 , most notably of
digital advertising agency LBi International, which it bought in
September for 416 million euros, and of the U.K.’s Bartle Bogle
Hegarty, the agency behind the Johnnie Walker “Keep Walking”
campaign and Levi Strauss & Co.’s “Flat Eric.”  Levy said global advertising was expected to grow 4.7
percent in 2012, yet fell below the 3 percent mark. He also said
events such as the Euro 2012 football championship and the
London Olympics failed to give the industry an expected boost.  L’Oreal, Samsung  Publicis added $3.5 billion in new business during 2012
from clients including  L’Oreal SA ,  Samsung Electronics Co.  and
Coca-Cola Co. Digital activities made up 33 percent of revenue,
while high-growth countries contributed 26 percent to sales.  Organic sales in Europe last year fell 0.3 percent, while
in the U.S. growth was 3 percent. Sales gained 10 percent in
countries including Brazil, India, Russia, Mexico and Turkey on
that basis.  The global advertising industry is predicted to grow by 4.1
percent to $518 billion this year, led by developing markets,
Publicis-owned researcher ZenithOptimedia said last month.
Internet advertising will increase 15 percent in 2013, while
traditional media will grow 1.7 percent, according to
ZenithOptimedia.  U.K.-based  WPP Plc  is the world’s largest advertising
company, with agencies including Grey and Ogilvy & Mather.
 Omnicom Group Inc . in the U.S., which owns BBDO Worldwide, is
the second-largest.  Levy, who has discussed stepping down from his role at
Publicis in recent years, hasn’t given a precise date.  A succession committee has been formed, Levy said in the
interview. “The process will take time because on that front we
are a slow company because in 87 years of existence we had only
two CEOs and the move is something the board wants to take
cautiously,” he said.  The company proposed a dividend of 90 euro cents, up 29
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  