-- Transocean Guilty Plea Over Gulf Spill Accepted by Judge
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-02-14T23:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/transocean-guilty-plea-over-gulf-spill-accepted-by-judge.html
Transocean Ltd.  and federal
prosecutors won approval of the oil driller’s agreement to plead
guilty to violating the U.S. Clean Water Act for its role in the
April 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  Transocean, the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner of the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig that burned and sank in the Gulf,
agreed last month to pay a $400 million criminal fine and
$1 billion in civil penalties to the U.S. Transocean pleaded
guilty to one misdemeanor count.  U.S. District Judge  Jane Triche Milazzo  gave final approval
of the plea at a hearing today in New Orleans.  “Based on the evidence before me, I believe the plea
agreement is reasonable and is accepted,” the judge said. She
said she received no letters opposing the plea agreement and no
witnesses showed up at the hearing to object to it.  Transocean rose 3.9 percent to $59.30 in New York.  Transocean was the owner and operator of the Deepwater
Horizon oil rig, which sank in the Gulf of Mexico after  BP Plc ’s
Macondo well exploded, setting off the largest offshore oil
spill in U.S. history.  The explosion aboard Transocean’s rig killed 11 workers and
sent millions of barrels of crude oil spewing into the gulf. The
accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against Transocean,
London-based  BP  and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. , which
provided cementing services.  Criminal Fine  Transocean’s criminal fine is the second-highest assessed
over an environmental disaster, prosecutors and lawyers for the
company said in court papers last week. The highest was BP’s
$1.26 billion fine in connection with the same spill.  Under the plea agreement, Transocean must establish a
technology innovation group to focus on drilling safety and
devote at least $10 million in funding to the program.  “The Deepwater Horizon explosion was a senseless tragedy
that could have been avoided,” Assistant U.S. Attorney General
 Lanny A. Breuer  said today in a statement.  “Eleven men died, and the Gulf’s waters, shorelines,
communities and economies suffered enormous damage,” Breuer
said. “With today’s guilty plea, BP and Transocean have now
both been held criminally accountable for their roles in this
disaster.”  BP Plea  BP agreed in November to pay a total of $4 billion to
resolve a federal criminal probe of its role in the spill and
$525 million to settle the U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission ’s claim that the company misled investors about the
rate of oil flowing into the gulf. The oil company pleaded
guilty to 14 counts, including 11 for felony seaman’s
manslaughter.  “The court notes that Transocean has paid approximately
$22 million in claims brought in the multidistrict litigation
and settled 90 of the 99 personal injury claims” pending,
Milazzo said.  She said among the factors in her decision approving the
agreement was the size of the fine and the criminal history of
the defendant.  “Transocean has a much less-serious criminal history than
BP,” the judge said.  OPA Damages  Transocean’s misdemeanor plea to one count of violating the
Clean Water Act doesn’t cover the company’s exposure for
natural-resources damages under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990,
according to court filings.  OPA requires responsible parties to reimburse both federal
and state governments for costs of restoring natural resources,
such as wetlands, to pre-incident conditions.  Transocean said last month that the company’s liability was
limited by a 2012 court ruling that it wouldn’t be liable under
OPA for subsurface discharge from the well.  Federal prosecutors said in a Feb. 8 joint filing with the
company that Transocean officials “provided substantial
cooperation” with the government’s probe of potential criminal
acts tied to the spill.  Company officials contacted a federal task force
investigating the incident “within days of its formation and
provided continuous and meaningful” information, Justice
Department lawyers said in the filing.  Transocean “accepts responsibility for the criminal
conduct” targeted by the plea, the company’s lawyers said in
the same filing. The company has initiated “significant” rig
safety and environmental protection programs since the Deepwater
Horizon incident, the attorneys said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Transocean Deepwater Inc., 13-
cr-001, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans federal court;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  