-- RBC Begins Disclosing Structured-Note Value Before SEC Guidance
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-02-14T18:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/rbc-begins-disclosing-structured-note-value-before-sec-guidance.html
Royal Bank of Canada  started
disclosing the estimated initial value of its structured notes
in the U.S., becoming at least the third bank to do so before
expected regulatory guidelines.  The bank included the figure for $18.5 million of one-year
securities tied to MetLife Inc. that were sold on Feb. 6. The
Toronto-based issuer estimated the value at 97.4 cents on the
dollar, according to a  prospectus  filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The notes yield 6.5 percent as long as
the price doesn’t fall below 5.35 percent of the stock’s
starting value, with 94.65 percent of capital at risk.  Bank of America Corp. distributed the securities for a 1.75
percent fee.  The estimated value is reduced by distribution fees,
hedging costs and the bank’s use of a more favorable borrowing
rate than available for plain-vanilla bonds, according to the
prospectus. Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money.  The SEC plans to require banks to disclose an estimated
initial value of the securities in offering documents, according
to a report from law firm Morrison & Foerster LLP last month
that didn’t specify when issuers must adopt the new rules.  The regulator  asked  issuers in April how they value their
notes and how they create secondary markets for the illiquid
securities. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. started including estimated
initial values in offering documents the next month, while Bank
of America followed in October.  Kait Conetta, a spokeswoman for the Royal Bank of Canada,
declined to comment.  Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies, or events such as
changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  