-- Regulators Urged to Focus on Dodd-Frank Before Too-Big-to-Fail
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-02-14T21:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/regulators-urged-to-focus-on-dodd-frank-before-too-big-to-fail.html
U.S. regulators should focus on
finishing work on the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act before considering
whether the law does enough to end too-big-to-fail, Senate
Banking Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson  said at a hearing today.  Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat, made the comments as top
officials from seven agencies updated lawmakers on progress in
implementing the overhaul amid competing complaints that their
rules will foster a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis or stunt
recovery from the worst financial collapse since the 1930s.  “While concerns have been raised about whether a few firms
remain too big to fail, Wall Street Reform provides regulators
with new tools to address the issue head on,” Johnson said.
“This is one of the many reasons why full implementation of the
law remains important, not just for our constituents, but for
future generations.”  Regulators and lawmakers from both parties raised concerns
about whether the government will have to step in to rescue
firms whose collapse would threaten the broader economy. Senator
 Elizabeth Warren , the Massachusetts Democrat elected after
gaining prominence as a consumer advocate, questioned the lack
of prosecutions stemming from the 2008 crisis, asking whether
regulators consider Wall Street “too big for trial.”  Daniel Tarullo , the Federal Reserve governor responsible
for financial regulation, said lawmakers rightly called on the
agencies to address issues such as shadow banking, increased
capital and the size of complex financial companies.  ‘Draw Attention’  “From my point of view the importance of what you’ve done
is to draw attention to that issue of short-term, non-deposit
runnable funding and that’s the one we should be debating in the
context of too big to fail and in the context of our financial
system more generally,” he said at the hearing.  Tarullo testified alongside officials from the Treasury
Department, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp and Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency as regulators promised progress on
key Dodd-Frank provisions including mortgage securitization and
the Volcker rule ban on banks’ proprietary trading.  Warren, who led a congressional oversight panel for the
U.S. bank-industry bailout and shaped the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau before seeking office, said she was concerned
that “too big for fail has become too big to trial,” citing
regulators’ tendency to settle cases rather than prosecute
allegations of wrongdoing by banks.  “If they can break the law and drag in billions in profits
and then turn around and settle paying out with those profits
they don’t have much incentive to follow the law,” Warren said
during a question-and-answer session at the hearing.  ‘Vigorous Enforcement’  “When we look at these issues -- and we truly believe that
we have a very vigorous enforcement program -- we look at the
distinction between what we could get if we go to trial, and
what we could get if we don’t,” said Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Elisse Walter  said.  Comptroller of the  Currency Thomas Curry  told Warren that
his agency hasn’t felt compelled to bring people to trial.  “We have not had to do it as a practical matter to achieve
our supervisory goals,” he said. “We primarily view the tools
we have as mechanisms for correcting deficiencies.”  Tarullo, Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and Senator
 Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat who serves on the Banking
Committee, have expressed the view that Dodd-Frank failed to
curb banks’ growth after promising to “end too big to fail.”  Strategies under consideration include bills to cap the
size of banks or make them raise more capital and regulatory
actions to discourage mergers or require specified levels of
long-term debt the could be converted to equity in a failure.  Brown’s Legislation  Brown plans to reintroduce a bill that was left out of
Dodd-Frank and then bypassed in the last Congress that would cap
bank size and limit non-deposit liabilities.  Colleagues have “come around to looking at this pretty
favorably, so we’ve seen a lot of momentum,” Brown said today.  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, sent a letter
to regulators after the hearing, asking if the U.S. economy
would be threatened by failure of any single financial firm.  The committee also focused on the so-called qualified
residential mortgage rule, which six banking regulators
including the Fed and FDIC are aiming to complete this year. The
regulators drew protests in 2011 when they released a
preliminary draft calling for lenders to keep a stake in
mortgages with down payments of less than 20 percent and those
issued to borrowers spending more than 36 percent of their
income on debt.  Industry participants and some lawmakers are pressing for
the regulators to align the QRM rule with a measure with a
similar name that is also aimed at preventing risky home
lending: the qualified mortgage, or QM, rule. That guidance,
issued by the consumer bureau in January, offers legal
protections to banks that issue loans to borrowers spending no
more than 43 percent of their income on debt.  Making the two rules “congruent” should be “on the
table,” Tarullo told the Banking Committee today.  “We want to be careful here about the incremental
rulemaking not beginning to constrict credit to middle- and
lower-middle-income people who might be priced out of the
housing market,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cheyenne Hopkins  at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  