-- Renaissance Among Gun Stock Sellers as Obama Seeks Limits
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-02-14T19:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/renaissance-among-gun-stock-sellers-as-obama-seeks-limits.html
Renaissance Technologies LLC and
Cadence Capital Management LLC are among investors to report
reduced holdings of weapons makers after the December massacre
of school children spurred proposals for stricter gun control.  Cadence, among the 10  largest holders  of Smith & Wesson
Holding Corp. on Sept. 30, liquidated its stake of 1.22 million
shares before year-end, filings show. Renaissance, the
investment firm that uses computer models to determine trades,
disposed of 370,000 Sturm Ruger & Co. shares in the fourth
quarter, paring its holding to 2.5 percent from 4.4 percent.  The Dec. 14 slayings of 20 students and six educators at
Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, rekindled
a debate over gun laws, spurring investors to review holdings in
firearms manufacturers even as demand surged to a record. Smith
& Wesson and Sturm Ruger, the largest publicly traded U.S.
gunmakers, sell military-style  weapons  that would be banned
under proposals by President  Barack Obama .  “The headline risk can go either direction” and is
greater for investors who own the stocks than for those betting
against them, said Craig Kessler, chief investment officer of
Kessler Investment Group LLC. “We really could see a material
change in the availability of weapons or what is necessary to
procure weapons, and that would have a material negative
impact.”  ‘Knee-Jerk’  Kessler, who oversees about $100 million, said his
Columbus, Indiana-based firm sold all of its 9,593 Sturm Ruger
shares in the fourth quarter.  Kevin Reid , Southport, Connecticut-based Sturm Ruger’s
general counsel, and Cadence Chief Investment Officer  William Bannick  didn’t respond to requests for comment on the
divestitures.  Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for East
Setauket, New York-based Renaissance, declined to comment, and
Springfield, Massachusetts-based Smith & Wesson’s  Liz Sharp 
didn’t comment.  Trading in Sturm Ruger  climbed  to 40.2 million shares in
the fourth quarter, up from 32.6 million in the preceding three
months and 12.4 million a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. About 239 million Smith & Wesson shares
 changed hands  in the last three months of the year, the most
since Saf-T-Hammer Corp., a maker of trigger locks and other
gun-safety devices, bought the firm and took its name in 2001.  “The liquidity and the size of the companies is not
proportionate to the amount of attention that they’re getting
right now,” said Randy Cloud, president of Cloud Capital LLC,
which added to its stakes of both gunmakers in the fourth
quarter. “There’s been some institutional knee-jerk to dump
that stock that probably shouldn’t have happened.”  ‘Political Noise’  Sturm Ruger  plunged  15 percent over three trading sessions
starting on the day of the Newtown shootings, before rebounding
35 percent through yesterday. Smith & Wesson slid 18 percent
during the three days and gained more than 20 percent since.  “These companies have a very strong investment thesis,”
said Cloud, whose Tulsa, Oklahoma-based firm oversees about $300
million. “All the political noise will cause enough
consternation for investment managers that they won’t make an
allocation to it or they won’t make as big of an allocation to
it as they might otherwise.”  Public funds across the U.S. are reviewing investments tied
to firearms manufacturers. On Dec. 17, California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  urged the state’s public pension funds, the two largest
in the U.S., to divest holdings of companies that make weapons
banned under state law.  Begin Divesting  Cerberus Capital Management LP, which oversaw $751 million
for the California State Teachers’ Retirement System as of March
31, said hours later that it would sell Freedom Group Inc., the
maker of the Bushmaster AR-15 semiautomatic rifle used by the
gunman and the largest U.S. producer of civilian arms. Calstrs,
as the teachers fund is known, said last month it will direct
fund managers to begin divesting gunmaker stakes.  “This latest incident, which occurred at a school and
involved fellow educators and the children we cherish, is a
tipping point for Calstrs and speaks to the correctness of our
actions,” Investment Committee Chairman  Harry Keiley  said in a
Jan. 9  statement . “This is not only the right thing to do but
positions us to deal with the financial pressures we anticipate
this sector of the industry will face.”  Divestiture Process  Smith & Wesson and Sturm Ruger didn’t meet with fund
executives as part of the divestiture process after being
invited to do so, Chief Investment Officer  Christopher Ailman 
said last week.  Calstrs still held 135,845 Smith & Wesson shares as of Jan.
11, according to a letter Ailman sent to Chief Executive Officer
 James Debney . The pension fund held a 0.2 percent  stake  in Sturm
Ruger as of Dec. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The larger California Public Employees’ Retirement System
will review whether to sell investments in gunmakers totaling
about $5 million at a Feb. 19 board meeting, according to the
fund’s website. Calpers, with about $255 billion in assets,
increased its holdings in Sturm Ruger and Smith & Wesson in the
fourth quarter, and the stakes were worth a total of $6.95
million at year-end, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The New York State Common Retirement Fund sold all of its
holdings in Smith & Wesson through an outside manager on Dec. 18
and will freeze its investment of 45,325 Sturm Ruger shares,
which it owns through an index fund, “for an indefinite
period,” according to a Jan. 15  statement . The stock climbed 14
percent since then through yesterday.  ‘Terrible Events’  “After the terrible events in Newtown, it is clear that
the national movement toward greater regulation of firearms
manufacturers will impose significant reputational, regulatory
and statutory hurdles that may affect shareholder value,” State
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said in the statement.  Not all investors who divested shares of gunmakers in the
fourth quarter were spurred by the Newtown slayings.  Gary Stroik , chief investment officer at WBI Investments Inc., said
his firm liquidated its Sturm Ruger shares by Dec. 11 amid a
slump in the stock price, after acquiring the stake in June.  “We bought it because it really looked like a good value
at the time,” said Stroik, who oversees about $1.6 billion at
his Little Silver, New Jersey-based firm. “We always put a stop
under it in case things start to deteriorate. Clearly, they
did.”  Sturm Ruger slipped 17 percent from Nov. 30 to Dec. 11,
when Stroik sold the shares. Stroik said he may look at buying
stock in the company again.  Buying Spree  Gunmakers may benefit from an earnings surge fueled by a
firearms buying spree ahead of potential restrictions. Pre-
purchase background checks hit a record high in December,
climbing almost 59 percent from a year earlier to 2.2 million,
according to federal data adjusted by the National Shooting
Sports Foundation to eliminate checks not related to sales. The
organization is based in Newtown.  Smith & Wesson’s profit for the fiscal third quarter ended
Jan. 31 may more than triple to $14.1 million from a year
earlier, while Sturm Ruger’s  net income  for the period ended
Dec. 31 may climb 50 percent, according to the average of
 estimates  by analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Investors who sell the shares “are nuts,” Cloud said.
“It’s kind of money in the bank.”  For others, like Kessler, the risk is too great. His firm
bought Sturm Ruger shares in January 2012 to take advantage of
escalating sales around Obama’s re-election and expectations for
stricter gun laws, he said. Kessler said he exited the position
on Nov. 8 when it appeared that “the euphoria surrounding gun
ownership really could not get any more publicized.”  While Kessler weighed buying the shares again, the Newtown
shootings dissuaded him.  “That changed the dynamics of the investment,” he said.
“This was an opportunity for us to simply cash in on a
profitable investment and avoid the potential for a broader
government involvement that we really couldn’t put a value on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  