-- Renault Eliminates Car Debt for First Time in Nissan Link
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-02-14T11:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/renault-reports-better-than-expected-profit-as-debt-drops.html
Renault SA , France’s second-largest
carmaker, eliminated debt at the auto-manufacturing unit for the
first time in its 14-year tie-up with  Nissan Motor Co.  as it
held back on spending and refrained from cutting vehicle prices.  Renault  jumped  to a two-year high in Paris trading after
saying the automotive unit’s net cash position was 1.49 billion
euros ($2 billion) at the end of 2012 compared with net debt of
299 million euros a year earlier, the first time the figure was
positive since the Boulogne-Billancourt-based carmaker set up
the alliance with its Japanese partner in 1999.  The French  manufacturer , which reported earnings for 2012
that beat analyst estimates, said it’s planning on sustaining
earnings and cash by adding to its model lineup to take a larger
share of a shrinking European car market. Profit was also helped
as Renault and Nissan tightened ties last year with Russian
carmaker OAO AvtoVAZ.  “It’s clearly positive to have a net cash position as it
should have a positive impact on refinancing rates which is
crucial in the automotive industry,”  Sascha Gommel , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG, said today in an e-
mail. “In addition, it increases the likelihood of dividends
from the core business at some point.”  Dividend Raised  The French carmaker plans to raise the  dividend  48 percent
to 1.72 euros a share, Renault said today in a  statement . The
combined contribution to earnings from Nissan and AvtoVAZ, as
well as from  Volvo AB  before Renault sold its stake in the
Swedish truckmaker, totaled 1.5 billion euros, it said. The
profit from AvtoVAZ almost quadrupled to 186 million euros.  Renault  rose  as much as 7.1 percent to 46.28 euros, the
highest intraday price since Feb. 21, 2011, and was trading up
5.9 percent at 12:25 p.m. The stock has gained 12 percent in
2013, valuing the carmaker at 13.5 billion euros.  Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time items, defined
as Renault’s operating margin, fell 33 percent to 729 million
euros in 2012, the carmaker said. Profit beat the 698 million-
euro average of 15 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income declined 15 percent to 1.77 billion euros. Sales fell 3.2
percent to 41.3 billion euros.  New Models  Backed by the revamped Clio subcompact and budget Dacia
Logan, the French  automaker  forecast that its global deliveries
will rise this year. It’s also targeting positive automotive-
division earnings and operational cash flow in 2013. Even with a
contraction in Europe of at least 3 percent, the worldwide car
and light-truck market will expand 3 percent this year, with
growth of as much as 11 percent in India, it said.  The Nissan-Renault alliance is proceeding with creating a
small-car platform in India targeting first-time auto buyers,
 Rachel Konrad , a spokeswoman for the partnership, said today in
an e-mail.  Gerard Detourbet , who helped lead the Logan’s
development, will lead the project, she said. The Economic Times
reported that investment in the platform will total 20 billion
rupees ($371 million) and annual capacity will amount to 300,000
vehicles. Konrad declined to comment on figures.  Renault’s worldwide deliveries last year fell 6.3 percent
to 2.55 million cars and light vehicles. Sales in Europe tumbled
19 percent, the steepest decline by a large manufacturer in a
market that contracted 7.8 percent.  European Pricing  The drop in Europe was “much worse” than Renault
expected, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  told analysts on
a conference call. Even so, “we didn’t want to go into a price
war” in the region, he said at a press conference in Boulogne-
Billancourt. The Spanish and Italian auto markets will probably
be at 30-year lows in 2013, he said.  The French carmaker is forecasting a weaker first half of
2013 than in the final six months of this year, the CEO said.
Russian operations are the most profitable for the company, the
CEO said, and he’s “bullish” on the market and the partnership
with AvtoVAZ.  Nissan, Renault and Milan-based  UniCredit SpA  are setting
up a bank in Russia specializing in auto loans, the three
companies said today in a separate  statement . The two car
manufacturers will have a 60 percent stake in the financing
venture, which is set to be operational by the end of this year,
and the Italian bank will own the rest.  Renault’s automotive operations posted a loss of 25 million
euros in 2012 compared with profit of 330 million euros a year
earlier. The positive net cash position at the unit was helped
by a 924 million-euro gain from the sale of Renault’s remaining
6.5 percent holding in  Volvo  in December, it said. Operational
free cash flow at the division was 597 million euros.  Credit Ratings  The carmaker hopes that eliminating debt at the
manufacturing unit will improve credit ratings for the parent
company and its RCI Banque financing unit, Chief Financial
Officer Dominique Thormann said in an interview. Renault’s  debt 
is one step below investment grade at Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  The carmaker’s earnings-recovery strategy includes plans to
eliminate 7,500 jobs through 2016 in France, and the company is
in talks with labor unions on raising worker productivity.
Renault is also trying to broaden its product range by reviving
the Alpine sports-car label and developing the Initiale Paris
insignia into a full-fledged luxury brand.  Renault is sticking to a “medium-term” target of earnings
at 5 percent of sales, though it won’t reach that figure this
year, Ghosn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Boulogne-Billancourt at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  