-- Richter, Basquiat Top $127 Million Auction at Christie’s
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-02-14T00:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/richter-basquiat-top-127-million-auction-at-christie-s.html
Paintings by  Jean-Michel Basquiat ,
 Peter Doig  and  Gerhard Richter  starred in a $127 million sale as
the auction market for contemporary art continued to grow.  Basquiat’s “Museum Security (Broadway Meltdown)” was the
top lot of 72 at  Christie’s International  in London last night,
selling for 9.3 million pounds ($14.5 million).  “People are looking to buy art any cost,” the Los Angeles-
based dealer  Michael Kohn  said. “Thanks to the Internet,
internationalization and the growing divide between the rich and
the poor, the market just keeps expanding.”  Collectors are buying art as an alternative investment to
real estate, stocks and other markets, Kohn said. Christie’s
sale raised 81.7 million pounds with fees, a record for an
auction of contemporary works held by the company in February.  The Basquiat, a text-packed acrylic, oilstick and paper
collage work from 1983, sold to the Paris-based collector John
Sayegh-Belchatowski, seated in the room, against opposition from
at least two telephone bidders.  “This was the kind of Basquiat people want,” said the
Cologne-based dealer Alex Lachmann. “It was an iconic work --
big, attractive and had loads of words.”  Bidders hailed from 23 different countries and 19 works
sold for more than 1 million pounds, said the London-based
auction house. Owner Francois Pinault  was in the salesroom
before the start, watching almost 100 staff members gather to
take bids on telephones.  The Basquiat had been the subject of a recently resolved
legal dispute between an owner, the English aristocrat, Edward
Spencer-Churchill and dealers. Previously withdrawn from a
Christie’s auction in New York in May 2012, it had been re-
offered here, without a third-party guarantee, with an estimate
of 7 million pounds to 9 million pounds.  Painting’s Beauty  “The dispute doesn’t detract from the beauty of the
painting,” Sayegh-Belchatowski said after the auction.  Doig’s densely-textured 1991 landscape “The Architect’s
Home in the Ravine,” showing a house glimpsed through a screen
of winter trees, was making its third appearance at auction,
having been bought for 314,650 pounds in 2002 by the U.K.
collector  Charles Saatchi . He sold it in 2007, when it fetched
$3.6 million with fees.  Doig is one of the 30 or so most bankable names that
dominate the top end of the auction market for contemporary art,
and his Canadian landscapes from the 1990s are among his most
sought-after works. Bolstered by a third-party guarantee, it
here sold for a record 7.7 million pounds to a telephone bidder,
against three other determined phone underbidders. It had been
estimated at 4 million pounds to 6 million pounds.  “It was a very good picture from his best period,” said
Lachmann. “There are no other Doigs of this quality available on
the market.”  Abstract Star  Richter’s red, pink and green 2004 “Abstraktes Bild,”
numbered “889-14,” had been estimated to sell for more than 7
million pounds. Never offered at auction before, and guaranteed
to sell through third-party finance, it attracted two telephone
bidders before selling for 8.4 million pounds.  The German painter was the biggest-selling living artist at
auction in 2012, according to the  Artnet  database in New York,
accumulating $298.9 million of sales, a 48.8 percent increase on
2011.  Demand for Richter has become more selective in 2013 as
sellers’ expectations have risen. The night before at  Sotheby’s ,
two out of four offered Richters failed. The two that did sell
were knocked for hammer prices that were below the low estimate.  Bacon Boom  Bacon’s 1954 painting “Man in Blue VI” was re-offered at 4
million pounds to 6 million pounds, having failed to sell at
Christie’s in February 2009, when the previous contemporary art-
market boom ended, with a low estimate of 4 million pounds.  While this dark painting of an anonymous businessman was
not deemed the most commercial Bacon, it found a buyer, again on
the telephone, at 5 million pounds.  Damien Hirst  was a mainstay of auctions before the market
crashed in 2009. He has become a more problematic investment in
2013.  His 1995 sheep-in-formaldehyde piece “Away From the Flock
(Divided)” -- the only bifurcated example from an edition of
four -- sold for $3.4 million in May 2006. Here it re-sold for
1.9 million pounds with fees against an estimate of 1.8 million
pounds to 2.5 million pounds, based on hammer prices.  Allen Jones  This Christie’s sale included several distinctive works of
British Pop Art, none more so than a complete set of three
pieces of 1969 Allen Jones mannequin furniture. From an edition
of six, these comprised a hat stand, table and chair, each
incorporating a fetishistically-clad female model.  The European owner of these works had been encouraged to
sell by the 2.6 million pounds paid by one bidder for a similar
set in Sotheby’s Gunter Sachs Collection sale last May.  Christie’s put an estimate of 1.5 million pounds to 2
million pounds on the new trio and they were sold in the room to
the London dealer  Richard Nagy , bidding with a mobile phone
clamped to his ear, for 2.2 million pounds.  David Hockney ’s much-exhibited early Pop painting “Great
Pyramid at Giza with Broken Head From Thebes,” dating from 1963,
had remained in the same English aristocratic family since the
early 1980s and had never been seen at auction before. It
contributed a further 3.5 million pounds, the second highest
price achieved for the artist at auction.  Austere Fontana  Other prominent results included a record 1.3 million for
the 1962-1965  Michelangelo Pistoletto  painted tissue paper-on-
mirror, “Self-Portrait of 62,” and 4 million pounds for the
austere red single-slash  Lucio Fontana , “Concetto spaziale,
Attesa,” dating from 1964. Both works attracted multiple bidders
and more than doubled their low estimates, underlining
continuing international demand for prime examples of Italian
postwar art.  A 1997  Christopher Wool  abstract, titled “Mad Cow,” fetched
2.3 million pounds, tripling its low estimate. This was the most
expensive of eight works being sold by the German collector
Ingvild Goetz to benefit various charities. They raised 4.2
million pounds against a low estimate of 1.5 million pounds.  “Better works, bigger prices,” Lachmann said, giving a
simple explanation for the success of Christie’s sale, conducted
by Christie’s European chairman,  Jussi Pylkkanen .  Contemporary art has become the biggest-selling auction
category at Sotheby’s and Christie’s, raising a record $2.7
billion in 2012, an increase of 32.5 percent on 2011, according
to a report published this week the London-based analysts
ArtTactic.  The auction’s total beat a presale upper estimate of 77.2
million pounds, based on hammer prices, with 90 percent of the
lots successful. The previous evening, Sotheby’s raised 74.4
million pounds with fees from a smaller and less stellar sale of
54 lots.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Catherine Hickley  on  film  and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 