-- Rio Says Mongolian Project’s Start Depends on End to Dispute
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i ,   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-02-14T16:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/rio-says-mongolia-copper-mine-start-depends-on-resolving-dispute.html
Rio Tinto Group , the world’s second-
largest mining company, said its $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper
mine in Mongolia won’t start until disagreements with the
government are resolved.  “A number of substantive issues have recently been raised
by the government of Mongolia, including the implementation of
the investment and shareholder agreements and project finance,”
London-based Rio said today in a statement. “Subject to the
resolution of these issues, first commercial production from Oyu
Tolgoi is scheduled to commence by the end of June 2013.”  Rio, which today named  Jean-Sebastien Jacques  as the new
head of its copper unit, twice rejected Mongolia’s demands in
the past 18 months for a greater share of profits from the mine.
President  Tsakhia Elbegdorj  said this month Mongolia should have
more control of the copper-gold operation that will be the
biggest contributor to its economy once it’s in full production.  “I’m concerned by recent political signals within Mongolia
calling into question some aspects of the investment
agreement,” Rio Chief Executive Officer  Sam Walsh  said during a
webcast presentation today. “This undermines the partnership
we’ve built and the stability on which a project of this size
and scale depends.”  Rio and Mongolia, which held talks on Feb. 7 in the capital
Ulan Bator, plan to resume discussions this month to resolve
concerns that spending at Oyu Tolgoi is overshooting and the
country isn’t benefiting enough from the development.  Mongolian Talks  The government is seeking to boost Mongolian participation
in management and increase the number of local companies that
can benefit from the project, including the use of a Mongolian
bank.  “Jean-Sebastien has already been involved in the
discussions in Mongolia and in fact he was there last week as
part of the shareholder meeting and part of the discussions with
the Mongolian government,” Walsh said today on a conference
call after reporting the company’s first annual loss.  Rio slipped 0.3 percent to 3,745.5 pence by the close in
London, with 8.09 million shares changing hands, double the
daily average volume for the past three months.  Rio is considering a temporary halt to work to protest
government demands for a greater share of profit, two people
familiar with the plans said last month. The mine, the biggest
copper project currently under construction, is 66 percent-owned
by Rio unit  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd . and 34 percent by
Mongolia’s government.  Beat Expectations  Rio would continue to engage with the government to
implement its 2009 investment and shareholder agreements “in
their current form,” the company said in its statement.  Rio reported a better-than-expected second-half loss as
earnings at its iron ore unit beat analyst estimates and it
raised its dividend.  The loss was $8.9 billion in the six months ended Dec. 31,
from a $1.76 billion loss a year ago, Rio said today in an e-
mail. That’s better than the $10 billion median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The loss, the biggest in at
least 15 years, was driven by $14 billion in writedowns on the
value of its aluminum and coal businesses and offset by an
almost $1 billion benefit from its minerals sands operations.  The writedowns saw Walsh last month named as CEO, replacing
 Tom Albanese  who signed off on the $38 billion takeover in 2007
of Alcan Inc. Rio, which reported full-year underlying earnings
of $9.3 billion that beat analyst expectations, said today it
boosted its full-year dividend by 15 percent and accelerated
expansion at its iron ore mines in Australia.  Pilbara Acceleration  Rio said it has accelerated “phase one” of its Pilbara
iron-ore expansion to be completed in the third quarter. The
expansion will boost production to 290 million metric tons a
year, while a second increase in output to 360 million tons will
be operational in the first 6 months of 2015.  The company will pursue an “unrelenting focus” in
creating better value for shareholders, Walsh said in the
presentation. The company said it is cutting capital expenditure
to $13 billion in 2013 from $17 billion last year, while
targeting cash cost savings of more than $5 billion by the end
of next year.  Rio said its disciplined capital management will help
maintain its single A credit rating. Walsh ruled out
acquisitions for the moment, saying deals are “not on my
radar.” Chief Financial Officer  Guy Elliott  also said the
return of cash to shareholders in the form of a buyback
shouldn’t be expected this year.  Costs History  “The group appears to have taken its major writedowns this
year and looks well set to pass on the benefits of its cost
reduction program through 2013,”  John Meyer , a mining analyst
at SP Angel in London, said in a note. “Rio has a good long-
term history of managing its costs and should realize
significant benefit going forward.”  Rio said iron-ore production would be 265 million tons this
year, while it would produce 8.5 million tons of hard coking
coal, 20.5 million tons of thermal coal and 665,000 tons of
copper. The production outlook is “weaker” than Liberum
Capital Ltd. had estimated, the brokerage said in a note to
investors.  Rio’s second-half earnings from its iron ore unit fell as
prices for the steel making ingredient declined. Iron ore prices
averaged 27 percent lower during the six months to Dec. 31 than
a year earlier, at about $116 a ton, data from The Steel Index
shows.  Prices have since recovered from a three-year low in
September to a 15-month high of $158.50 a ton last month on
signs of economic recovery in China, the biggest consumer of
industrial metals.  “We see positive momentum in the fourth quarter last year
being sustained into 2013 with Chinese GDP growth returning to
above 8 percent in 2013,” Walsh said in a statement. “We
expect market uncertainty and price volatility to persist as
long as the structural issues in Europe and the United States
remain unresolved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  