-- Rio Has Less-Than-Expected Second-Half Loss, Boosts Dividend
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-14T07:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/rio-tinto-s-second-half-loss-widens-on-aluminum-coal-writedowns.html
Rio Tinto Group , the world’s second-
largest mining company, had a better-than-expected second-half
loss on a $14 billion one-time charge, as earnings at its iron
ore unit beat analyst expectations and it lifted its dividend.  The  loss  was $8.9 billion in the six months ended Dec. 31,
from a $1.76 billion loss a year ago, London-based Rio said
today in an e-mail. That’s better than the $10 billion median
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The loss, the
biggest in at least 15 years, was driven by writedowns on the
value of its aluminum and coal businesses and offset by an
almost $1 billion gain at its minerals sands operations.  The writedowns saw  Sam Walsh  last month named as chief
executive officer, replacing  Tom Albanese  who signed off on the
$38 billion takeover in 2007 of Alcan Inc. Rio, which reported
full-year underlying earnings that beat analyst expectations,
said today it boosted its full-year dividend by 15 percent and
accelerated expansion at its iron ore mines in Australia.  The increase in the dividend is “a nice surprise,”  Glyn Lawcock , head of resources research for UBS AG in Sydney, said
in an e-mail. The iron ore expansion running ahead of schedule
is “a big positive for Rio, but may make the market more
nervous about” iron ore supply in the near-term, he said.  Rio  rose 2.3 percent to A$72.07 at the close of trading in
Sydney. The key S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.7 percent. Rio’s
shares rose 9.5 percent last year,  compared  with a 7.8 percent
gain for BHP, the biggest mining company.  ‘Positive Momentum’  “We see positive momentum in the fourth quarter last year
being sustained into 2013 with Chinese GDP growth returning to
above 8 percent in 2013,” Walsh said in a statement. “We
expect market uncertainty and price volatility to persist as
long as the structural issues in Europe and the United States
remain unresolved.”  Full-year underlying earnings of $9.2 billion beat
consensus estimates by 2.5 percent, UBS’s Lawcock said. Full-
year underlying earnings from iron ore, Rio’s biggest profit
contributor, fell 30 percent to $9.2 billion on lower prices,
beating consensus estimates of $8.99 billion, according to
Bloomberg data.  Iron ore prices  averaged 27 percent lower during the six
months to Dec. 31 at about $116 a metric ton compared to last
year, data from The Steel Index shows. Prices have since
recovered from a three-year low in September to a 15-month high
of $158.50 a ton last month on signs of economic recovery in
China, the biggest consumer of industrial metals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  