-- Rolls-Royce Aims to Sustain Profit Gain on Airliner Demand
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-14T14:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/rolls-royce-profit-jumps-to-record-on-demand-for-civil-aircraft.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc , the
world’s second-largest maker of commercial aircraft engines,
predicted rising profit for this year, extending its streak of
annual gains into a second decade as airliner demand booms.  The company projects “modest growth in underlying revenue
and good growth in underlying profit with cash flow around break
even” for this year, Rolls-Royce said today as it reported
earnings. Commercial aircraft engine profit should grow
strongly, with defense profit falling on “modest” revenue
growth, it said.  Chief Executive Officer John Rishton said he’ll continue
honing the portfolio after disposing of assets including tidal-
power generation and a stake in a fuel-cell business. Rolls-
Royce has benefited from sustained demand for new, more fuel-
efficient aircraft that has helped boost turbine sales and
offset sluggish demand in areas such as marine sales.  “The strength of our order book demonstrates the
confidence our customers have in our products and services,”
said Chief Executive Officer  John Rishton , who joined in 2011.
“Our priorities remain: delivering on the promises we have
made; deciding where to grow and where not to; and improving
financial performance.”  Rishton said there has been no effect on deal flow from a
review by the U.K. Serious Fraud Office into potential
wrongdoing in business dealings in Asia. The company’s order
book increased 4 percent last year to 60.1 billion pounds. The
SFO is reviewing data to determine whether to start a formal
probe of Rolls-Royce.  “We haven’t heard anything explicitly from them about
their plans,” Rishton said.  SFO Review  Rolls-Royce named  David Gold  last month to review anti-
corruption procedures. Rishton said that Gold has taken up his
duties and declined to say when he may issue a first report.  The company named  Simon Robertson  as chairman today, who
succeeds  Ian Davis , 61, and will be charged with defending
Rolls-Royce in case of a widening probe. Davis is a senior
adviser at private equity firm Apax Partners LLP. BAE Systems
Plc, in its own battle with the SFO two years ago, leaned
heavily on chairman Dick Olver to defend the company.  Rolls-Royce rose as much as 20.5 pence, or 2.1 percent, to
1,005 pence in London. The stock has advanced 15 percent in six
months, valuing the company at about 18.54 billion pounds.
General Electric Co. is the world’s largest maker of aircraft
engines.  Possible Headwinds  Challenges for this year include a fall in defense profit
and achieving first flight of its newest aircraft engine, the
TrentXWB, on the Airbus SAS A350 long-range jet. The growing
marine business should see profit increase while energy
activities also should see improvement, Rolls-Royce said.  Pretax profit excluding currency hedging and some one-time
items advanced 24 percent to 1.43 billion pounds ($2.2 billion)
from 1.15 billion pounds last year, the London-based company
said. Analysts predicted 1.48 billion pounds, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Rishton declined to say what disposals may be considered on
a call with journalists. The grounding of the Boeing Co. 787
Dreamliner, for which Rolls-Royce provides engines, isn’t
affecting the business, Rishton said, adding he’s confident the
U.S. manufacturer will overcome the technical issues on the jet.
Rolls powers 22 of the 787s delivered before flights were halted
by regulators.  Commercial Growth  Talks continue with  Air France-KLM  over support
arrangements for TrentXWB engines, he said. Air France wants to
service the engine to bolster its maintenance arm and has held
off on placing a firm order for the A350 until negotiations are
completed. Rishton would not say when talks may conclude.  Commercial aircraft engine sales last year increased 31
percent and revenue from support of existing powerplants, which
lagged in the first six months, grew 5 percent over the full
year. Total underlying revenue reached a record 12.2 billion
pounds.  Results include gains from Rolls-Royce’s stake in Tognum
AG, a joint venture with  Daimler AG . They exclude a $1.5 billion
one-time payment the company received for its share in the
International Aero Engines joint venture while including sales
it continues to generate as a supplier to the consortium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  