-- Romania Raises $1.5 Billion in 1st Dollar Bond Sale in Year
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-14T17:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/romania-selling-dollar-debt-first-time-this-year-at-4-625-yield.html
Romania is said to have raised $1.5
billion in its first sale of dollar bonds in a year, offering
yields below Hungary’s notes as it seeks to fund its budget
deficit and refinance maturing debt at lower costs.  The country is issuing 10-year dollar debt at a yield of
4.5 percent, according to a person with knowledge of the
offering, who asked not to be identified because the information
isn’t public. That compares with 5.4 percent on 10-year notes
issued this week by Hungary, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Hungary is rated one level lower by Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Today’s sale covers more than half of the 2.5 billion euros
($3.3 billion) targeted by Romania for this year’s foreign
currency issuance. Yields have tumbled in the past year as
tension eased between President  Traian Basescu  and Prime
Minister  Victor Ponta  and the ballot on Dec. 9 granted Ponta’s
government a super-majority in Parliament.  “Coming hot on the heels of Hungary’s dollar bond sale,
this shows the extent of the current appetite for higher-
yielding European debt,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director
of Spiro Sovereign Strategy Ltd. in London. “Romania is well
positioned to take advantage of the ‘hunt for yield’ because of
a combination of the anchor of European Union membership, the
attractive carry and good cooperation with the International
Monetary Fund.”  Romania said yesterday it seeks to sell $500 million to
$1.5 billion of dollar bonds with a maturity of at least 10
years, according to a Finance Ministry statement published on
the government’s  Official Journal  website.  The country last sold dollar bonds in February 2012,
raising $750 million in debt maturing 2022 at a yield of 6.45
percent. That rate was 4.20 percent today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Given Romania’s full “year Eurobond issuance plan, they
have to think about coming back to the market at least one more
time this year,” said  Viktor Szabo , who helps manage $11
billion at Aberdeen Asset Management in London.  The dollar bonds being sold today is part of the
administration’s 7 billion-euro medium-term note program
spanning three years. Romania raised a record 2.25 billion euros
in Eurobonds and $2.25 billion in dollar bonds last year as part
of this plan.  Romania is rated Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by Fitch, the
lowest investment grade rankings, and BB+ by S&P, one step short
of investment grade. Hungary has a ranking of Ba1 from Moody’s,
BB+ from Fitch and BB from S&P.  The Finance Ministry mandated Barclays Plc,  BNP Paribas SA ,
 Citigroup Inc . and HSBC Holdings Plc to handle the bond sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  