-- Ronaldo’s NBA-Style Leap Gains European Draw for Real Madrid
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-02-14T11:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ronaldo-leaps-nba-style-to-rally-real-madrid-in-champions-league.html
Cristiano Ronaldo , whose jump is
better than the average for National Basketball Association
players, leaped to Real Madrid’s rescue to keep his team on even
terms with Manchester United in soccer’s Champions League.  Ronaldo, for whom Real paid United a world record 80
million pounds ($124 million) in 2009, sailed above defender
 Patrice Evra  last night to score with a header in the 30th
minute and secure a 1-1 draw in the round of 16 match at
Madrid’s Santiago Bernabeu stadium.  “His kneecap was at the height of Evra’s head,” United
manager  Alex Ferguson  told reporters. “Certainly Messi can’t do
that,” Ferguson said, referring to four-time world player of
the year  Lionel Messi .  Danny Welbeck  had given United the lead 10 minutes earlier
when he headed in  Wayne Rooney ’s corner kick.  The teams, competing in their fifth two-game European Cup
duel since 1957, will meet again March 5 at Old Trafford in
Manchester for a place in the quarterfinals of the continent’s
elite club competition.  Ronaldo, the 2008 world player of the year, scored a
similar goal for United in the 2008 Champions League final
against Chelsea.  NBA Standard  Biomechanic tests on the 6-foot-1 forward at England’s
University of Chichester in 2011 found that he can jump 78
centimeters (31 inches) in the air from a standing start. That’s
seven centimeters higher than the average NBA player and
surpasses former Los Angeles Lakers forward Earvin “Magic”
Johnson and nearly equals  Lamar Odom  of the Los Angeles Clippers
and former Laker center  Shaquille O’Neal , according to sports
science website  topendsports.com .  Ronaldo didn’t celebrate his goal, and after the match went
to the opposition locker room to chat to his former teammates.
He played for United from 2003 to 2009.  “It was my home for years and I have a very special
affection for them,” Ronaldo told reporters.  In the second half,  David De Gea , who joined United from
hometown club Atletico Madrid in 2011, saved Fabio Coentrao’s
shot with his leg in the 60th minute. It was one of “three or
four good saves” made by the Spanish goalkeeper, Ferguson said.  “I’m pleased for the boy,” added Ferguson. “He’ll be
pleased coming back to Madrid, especially as he played for
Atletico.”  Close Chances  United forward  Robin van Persie  hit a post, then had a shot
cleared off the line by  Xabi Alonso  in the 72nd minute.  Ronaldo had two late chances to score again when he hit a
free kick just over the crossbar in the 86th minute. Then, in
stoppage time, defender Phil Jones scrambled the ball away from
the 28-year-old Portuguese in the goal mouth.  Real, the record nine-time champion, and three-time winner
United played previously in two semifinals and two quarterfinals
since 1957 with  Alfredo di Stefano ,  George Best  and  Bobby Charlton  among the goal scorers. Real advanced in three of the
four meetings, including 13 years ago following a 0-0 draw in
the first match at home.  Real coach  Jose Mourinho  said the two-game series remains
“absolutely 50/50.”  “My confidence hasn’t diminished even 1 percent,”
Mourinho said. “Lots of teams have scored goals at Old Trafford
this season and none of them have the attacking power of Real
Madrid.”  In three weeks, Ronaldo will be applauded by United fans in
the same way that Real Madrid supporters gave an ovation to
winger  Ryan Giggs  last night, Ferguson said. Giggs, 39, entered
as a substitute for United after 64 minutes.  “I can assure you when Ronaldo steps on the field at Old
Trafford he’ll get exactly the same reception,” Ferguson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium, Madrid, at
  at  aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  