-- Russia’s Two-Year Bond Yields Drop to Record as Investors Switch
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-02-14T16:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/ruble-falls-second-day-to-dollar-as-oil-trades-near-3-day-low.html
Russia’s two-year ruble debt
rallied, pushing yields to a record low, as investors switched
to shorter notes after inflation accelerated in January and the
central bank kept interest rates on hold.  The yield on so-called OFZs due June 2015 fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.98 percent, before
climbing to 6 percent by 7 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble added 0.2
percent to 34.6512 against the central bank’s dollar-euro
currency basket.  Euroclear Bank SA, which operates the world’s biggest bond
settlement system, plans to begin exchange-based operations with
ruble-denominated government debt next month after starting
over-the-counter settlements on Feb. 7. Crude oil, Russia’s main
export, gained as much as 0.1 percent to $118.02 per barrel in
London. Russia’s inflation rate rose in January to  7.1 percent .  “Liberalization has come, but new money is not coming
against the current background, so hedge funds take profits and
switch into short maturity,”  Dmitry Dorofeev , fixed income
strategist at BCS Financial Group, said by e-mail.  “Non-residents now prefer short bonds with maturity up to
five years.”  A faster pace of price growth stokes appetite for shorter-
duration OFZs,  Denis Poryvay , analyst at Raiffeisenbank
International AG, said by e-mail.  “At the moment the nominal yield on 10-year OFZs is below
inflation,” Poryvay said.  The monthly tax period, when exporters sell foreign-
currency export revenue to pay local-currency duties, starts
tomorrow, potentially driving the ruble beyond 30 to the dollar,
 ING Groep NV  analyst  Dmitry Polevoy  said by e-mail.  The ruble weakened 0.2 percent against the dollar to
30.1195. The euro fell almost 1 percent against the dollar to
1.3339 after the euro-area economy contracted 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter. That exceeded the 0.4 percent median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  