-- Russia Stocks Drop Most in 3 Months as Norilsk, Gazprom Decline
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-02-14T16:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/russia-stocks-steady-as-qatar-report-lifts-vtb-bashneft-falls.html
Russian  equities dropped the most in
three months and  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel  led declines after iron-
ore producer Metalloinvest was said to be seeking to swap its
Udokan copper deposit for shares in the country’s biggest miner.  The  Micex Index  lost 1.2 percent to 1,519.22 by the close
in Moscow, after rising 0.8 percent earlier. Of 50 stocks, 41
declined and 9 rose. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index  dropped
1.5 percent to 1,588.31.  Metalloinvest, which already holds 4 percent of the world’s
largest nickel producer, is in preliminary discussions with
other Norilsk shareholders about the proposal, three people
said, asking not to be identified because the information is
private.  OAO Gazprom , Russia’s largest company, lost as much as
2.6 percent as the euro-area recession deepened more than
economists forecast.  “This news is very negative, it means Europe is not
growing,”  Andrey Vashevnik , who manages $25 million as chief
investment officer at R&B Investment Fund Ltd. in Moscow, said
by phone from Moscow. “Europe is Russia’s main trading partner,
so the trouble there would affect the Russian economy. Gazprom
is one of Russia’s most liquid stocks and it’s reacting to the
growth concerns.”  Gazprom has the second-biggest weighting on the index at
13.5 percent. The  Russian Depositary Index  sank 1 percent, led
by Norilsk’s depositary receipts.  Metalloinvest’s acquisition of Norilsk shares would
contradict “the current Norilsk story of minimum capital
expenditure and maximum dividends” and is seen as “negative,”
Alfa Bank analysts said in a note today.  VTB Surges  VTB Group , the country’s second-largest lender, rose as
much as 5.1 percent before closing up 1.5 percent at 5.64 kopeks
after the Telegraph reported Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund is in
advanced talks to invest between $3 billion to $3.5 billion into
the bank. VTB’s press service declined to comment when contacted
by e-mail. The stock gained 6.1 percent in London yesterday and
5.3 percent in Moscow.  “If such a deal is successful, the bank might be able to
avoid coming to the market with a new share issue,”  Jason Hurwitz , an analyst at Alfa Bank, said in an e-mailed report.
Yesterday’s “surge in VTB’s GDRs may have been a result of
advanced knowledge of this potential transaction by market
participants.”  Ten-day price swings  on the Micex rose to 13.381, the
highest since Jan. 18. The number of shares traded on the gauge
was 3 times above the gauge’s 10-day average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  MSCI Inc.  announced its quarterly index rebalancing after
the market closed yesterday, with no additions or deletions or
weight changes made to the Russia indices. The changes come into
effect on Feb. 28.  Lowest Valuations  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg. The Micex trades at about 5.7 times  estimated
earnings  and has added 3 percent this year. That compares with a
multiple of 8.7 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which
has gained 1 percent over the same period.  The Moscow Exchange, which was created out of a merger
between competing bourses in 2011 and operates the Micex and RTS
indexes, is seeking to raise at least 15 billion rubles ($499
million) in an initial public offering, which closes today. Its
shares are due to debut in the capital tomorrow under the  MOEX
RX  ticker, according to a Feb. 4 statement.  The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index  of commodities was steady
at 678.60. Tin and nickel dropped in London, while lead and
copper climbed.  Scrapping Regulations  As it modernizes the Moscow Exchange in a bid to lure more
investment, Russia will scrap regulations that limit depositary
receipts’ conversions to a portion of a company’s stock by July
2014, Elena Kuritsyna, the deputy head of the market regulator,
said in Moscow yesterday. Rules requiring that trading accounts
be set up through local custodians and immediate settlement
procedures are among quirks of the Russian market that spur
foreigners to buy company receipts traded in developed nations.  Current regulations limit receipt conversions to 25 percent
of a Russian company’s shares and 50 percent of their listed
stock. American depositary receipts of  OAO Mobile TeleSystems ,
the country’s biggest mobile phone company, traded at a 14
percent premium to the company’s locally listed shares
yesterday, the smallest gap since Jan. 30. Global receipts of
food retailer  OAO Magnit  traded at a 15.7 percent premium Feb.
12, the narrowest spread since April 5.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, rallied 1.4 percent to $30.67
yesterday. The  RTS Volatility Index , which measures expected
swings in futures, dropped 0.2 percent to 21.75 points. The
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index  of the most-traded Russian
stocks in the U.S. rose 0.4 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  