-- Russia’s Grain Crop Seen Facing the Risk of Frosts, Drought
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-02-14T12:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/russia-s-grain-crop-seen-facing-the-risk-of-frosts-in-the-south.html
Russia, the world’s third-biggest
wheat exporter last year, is forecast to get frosts and drought,
which pose a risk for new season crops, the Federal
Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring Service said.  There is a “very high” probability of frosts returning in
the Southern and North-Caucasus federal district in February or
March,  Alexander Frolov , head of the service, known as
Roshydromet, said at a news conference in Moscow today.  The two districts, Russia’s main grain growing and
exporting areas, harvested 24.6 million metric tons of grain, or
about 35 percent of the national crop this season, according to
state statistics data.  The weather is “abnormally warm” in these districts,
Frolov said.  Oleg Deripaska ’s Kuban Agricultural Holding, which
has grain crops that have started to germinate in the south,
said on Feb. 12 that if frosts return, that may jeopardize the
harvest.  It’s been dry in parts of the Volga federal district and
the south-eastern European territory in Russia making drought
possible there this year, Frolov said.  About 9.5 percent of winter crops across the country could
be destroyed by frost and dampness this year, compared with the
multi-year average of 8 percent to 8.5 percent, Frolov said,
adding a new estimate will be released around Feb. 25.  Drought Impact  Russia harvested about 70.7 million tons of grains this
season, 25 percent less than the year-earlier period, because of
drought in Volga, Southern and Siberian regions in 2012,
according to state statistics data. The government set a target
to harvest 95 million tons in 2013-14, Agriculture Minister
Nikolai Fedorov said Jan. 31.  “The main question is what will be the actual winter
crops’ loss. Risks are high,”  Andrey Sizov Jr. , managing
director of the Moscow-based SovEcon consultancy, said by e-mail
today. “The ministry’s target of 95 million tons looks more and
more unrealistic.”  Wheat for May delivery rose 0.2 percent to $7.3725 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade by 12:25 p.m. London time.  Russia may ship 10.5 million tons of wheat and be the
fifth-biggest exporter of the grain after the U.S., the European
Union, Canada and Australia this season, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. That compares with a record shipment
of 21.6 million tons in 2011-12, according to the USDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  