-- Russia Markets Watchdog Chief Says Over-Regulation Dangerous
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-02-14T16:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/russia-markets-watchdog-chief-says-over-regulation-dangerous.html
Russia needs to stimulate financial
growth instead of increasing government oversight of markets,
the head of the country’s financial watchdog service said.  “It’s very dangerous to pass such a huge new wave of
regulation, really we don’t need more regulation, we need
effective regulation,”  Dmitry Pankin , head of Russia’s Federal
Financial Markets Service, said in a speech in Moscow today.
“In our past life, we had a very relevant example of the Soviet
Union, when we tried to regulate everything, to introduce
regulation in every process, but the result was that the whole
system collapsed.”  President  Vladimir Putin  has backed plans to create a so-
called market mega-regulator, as the government seeks to fold
the federal service into the central bank. Russia may start
combining Bank Rossii’s functions and the watchdog’s this year,
First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said at a meeting with
Putin last month.  While countries such as the U.S. and the U.K. need to
diminish the size of their financial industries, emerging
markets are still developing the institutions that need more
oversight elsewhere, Pankin said.  “One of the tasks for Russia, for India, for Brazil, is to
stimulate financial growth,” he said. “It’s not possible to
make unified regulatory requirements for emerging and OECD
countries.”  Russia is against reducing its reliance on ratings
agencies, which have just started to become an important part of
the country’s regulation, said Pankin, a former deputy finance
minister. Pankin also said he thought it would be “totally
wrong” to try to break up commercial banking and investment
banking in emerging markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  