-- Hrvatski Telekom 2012 Net Income Declines for Third Year
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-02-14T11:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/hrvatski-telekom-2012-net-income-declines-for-third-year.html
T-Hrvatski Telekom d.d. , Croatia’s
biggest phone company and a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG , said
profit fell for a third year in 2012 as Europe’s debt crisis
hurt the domestic economy.  Net income dropped 6.4 percent to 1.7 billion kuna ($300
million), it said in a regulatory statement today. Revenue
declined 7.6 percent to 7.4 billion kuna, while earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization fell 8 percent to
3.3 billion kuna.  “We witnessed a very challenging year in 2012, with the
economic environment deteriorating more than previously
anticipated,” Chief Executive Officer  Ivica Mudrinic  said in
the statement. “The residential and corporate sectors tightened
spending still further and the public sector delayed investment
in IT.”  The company, in which Deutsche Telekom holds a 51 percent
stake, is expanding its Internet, pay TV, and mobile-phone
services to prop up its business as Croatia struggles to emerge
out of its second recession in two years. The government said in
November the economy will grow 1.8 percent this year, while the
International Monetary Fund this month predicted stagnation.  Management proposed a dividend payout of 20.51 kuna per
share, Mudrinic said.  Additional Pressure  “Looking ahead to 2013, we remain highly cautious and
expect the difficult economic environment to continue,”
Mudrinic said, adding this year’s results are “set to reflect
this sentiment and will focus on further cost discipline.”  The company will come under additional regulatory and
competition pressure after Croatia joins the European Union in
July, Mudrinic told reporters in Zagreb today. T-Hrvatski
Telekom expects increased capital investment this year and it is
monitoring investment opportunities in the region, he said.  The company has signed a new collective agreement with
unions which will remain in force through July 2014, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  