-- McGraw-Hill Credit Rating Cut by Moody’s After U.S. Sues S&P
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-02-15T21:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/s-p-parent-mcgraw-hill-s-rating-cut-two-steps-to-baa2-by-moody-s.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. , the owner of the
world’s largest ratings company, was downgraded by its biggest
rival after the U.S. government filed a lawsuit that seeks as
much as $5 billion in damages.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the debt rating on the New
York-based parent of Standard & Poor’s by two levels to Baa2
from A3, and said it may reduce the grade again. The new
ranking, two steps above speculative grade, takes into account
the sale of McGraw-Hill’s education unit and the lawsuit filed
Feb. 4 by the Justice Department, Moody’s said yesterday in a
statement after the close of trading in New York.  The government accused S&P of deliberately misstating the
risks of mortgage bonds, whose collapse helped trigger the
credit crisis. McGraw-Hill climbed for a third day, rising 0.2
percent to $44.95 in New York trading. The stock had lost as
much as 27 percent this month, wiping out $4.4 billion of market
value. Yields on its $800 million of outstanding bonds rose as
much as 0.9 percentage point since the lawsuit.  “Rating agencies damaged their brands in 2008 and now it
is having consequences,” said  Mat McCrum , investment director
at Melbourne-based Omega Global Investors Pty, which manages A$3
billion ($3.1 billion). “They tried to get as much cash flow
from their brand at the long-term expense of the value of the
brand.”  ‘Touch of Irony’  Jason Feuchtwanger , a spokesman for the McGraw-Hill, said
in an e-mail: “We are focused on standing up McGraw-Hill
Financial, a high-growth, high-margin company that produces
solid free cash flow. Overall, we have a strong balance sheet
and we intend to maintain it going forward.”  The company said in a Feb. 5 statement that the U.S.
lawsuit is without merit.  Moody’s downgrade of McGraw-Hill is “a touch of irony,”
 Jim Reid , a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said in a
client note.  The rating cut follows the U.S. seeking fines from McGraw-
Hill of the equivalent of more than five years of profit.  McGraw-Hill agreed to sell the education unit to Apollo
Global Management LLC for $2.5 billion in November. After the
divestiture,  adjusted earnings  at the remaining division, to be
named McGraw Hill Financial, will be $3.10 to $3.20 a share this
year, the firm forecast Feb. 12, an increase of at least 13
percent from 2012. McGraw-Hill plans to retire about $457
million of short-term debt with the $1.9 billion it gets from
the sale.  Improving Liquidity  McGraw-Hill is focusing on higher-margin businesses
including its S&P bond-rating unit while repurchasing stock to
raise earnings per share, according to a company statement on
Feb. 12. It will swing to a net cash position from about $495
million of debt, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The company’s liquidity position will improve
meaningfully” on completion of the education unit’s sale as
McGraw-Hill repays commercial paper borrowings with the net
proceeds and maintains a “sizable” cash balance, Moody’s
analysts  John E. Puchalla  and  John Diaz  said in the statement.  Lawmakers targeted the credit-grading business in the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act after the collapse of top-ranked mortgage-backed
securities contributed to $2.1 trillion in losses at the world’s
largest banks. Reports from the U.S. Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations and the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission cited failures by S&P, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings as a
cause of the financial crisis, which began in August 2007.  Fitch Downgrade  S&P rated more than $2.8 trillion of residential mortgage-
backed securities and about $1.2 trillion of collateralized-debt
obligations from September 2004 through October 2007, according
to the complaint filed in federal court in Los Angeles.  The collapse in value of securities that packaged home
loans from the riskiest borrowers led to a credit seizure
starting in 2007 that sent the world’s largest economy into its
longest recession since 1933 as defaults soared and home values
plummeted.  Bond and credit-default swap prices for McGraw-Hill imply a
Baa3 rating for the company, one step lower than the new grade,
according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets research group. The
New York-based company is the parent of the second-largest
ratings business.  Fitch downgraded McGraw-Hill’s debt rating one level to
BBB+ from A- on Feb. 7, citing the lawsuit filed by the Justice
Department and the potential for more suits against the company
as well as the potential impact they may have on S&P’s
operations. S&P ranks Moody’s at BBB+, three levels above
speculative grade.  “It’s like the ratings companies are eating each other,”
said  Ayako Sera , a market strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust
Bank Ltd., which manages about $163 billion in assets. “What’s
being questioned now is the very reason for the existence of
these agencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  