-- SAC Clients Said to Get More Time to Decide on Redemption
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n ,   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-02-14T21:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/sac-clients-said-to-get-more-time-to-decide-on-redemption.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, seeking to
keep investors from fleeing as it’s investigated for alleged
insider trading, gave them more time to decide whether to pull
their money from the hedge fund, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Clients faced a deadline of today to tell  Steven A. Cohen ’s
$14 billion hedge fund that they wanted to start the process of
getting all their money back by the end of the year. Under
existing rules, they could withdraw 25 percent of their assets
from the Stamford, Connecticut-based firm each quarter.  Now, SAC is telling investors they can wait until mid-May
to make the decision. At that time, they can redeem a third of
their money each in the second, third and fourth quarters, said
the people, asking not to be identified because the fund is
private.  The hedge fund is seeking to limit redemptions after being
told by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in November
that the agency is considering pursuing civil fraud claims
against it, related to alleged insider trading in two drugmakers
by former SAC portfolio manager  Mathew Martoma . Blackstone Group
LP’s hedge-fund unit, citing more flexible liquidity rules, said
today it would keep most of its about $550 million in SAC for
another quarter while it awaits more information on the case.  The allegations against Martoma marked the first time
prosecutors linked Cohen, the fund’s billionaire founder, to
trades at the center of an insider case.  Redemptions Estimate  Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for SAC, declined to
comment on the additional liquidity option. Gasthalter has
previously said that Cohen is confident he has acted
appropriately and that SAC continues to cooperate with the
government’s inquiry.  SAC has told some employees and outside advisers that it
expects investors to withdraw at least $1 billion, or 17 percent
of the money it manages for outside clients, a person familiar
with the matter said last month. Clients account for about 40
percent of SAC’s assets under management and the rest is from
Cohen and his employees.  Citigroup Inc. ’s private bank said last month it’s pulling
client assets out of SAC. The New York-based bank had about $187
million with the hedge fund, a person with knowledge of the
investment said at the time.  HSBC Holdings Plc ’s private bank advised clients in
December not to add money to SAC, another person said last
month. Societe Generale SA’s Lyxor Asset Management unit has
asked to withdraw its clients’ funds from SAC, according to a
third person. All three people asked not to be named because the
information is private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  