-- Saudi Minister Puts Young Royals in Succession Spotlight
-- B y   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n
-- 2013-02-14T14:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/saudi-minister-puts-young-royals-in-succession-spotlight.html
Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah named
Prince Khaled bin Bandar bin Abdulaziz as the next governor of
Riyadh, handing one of the kingdom’s most important regional
postings to the second generation of royals.  It’s at least the fourth time since July that King
Abdullah, who turns 90 this year, handed a key posting to
younger royals. The generational shift comes as the king seeks
to keep Saudi Arabia free from the unrest that swept the Arab
world over the past two years, leading to civil war in Syria and
protests in Saudi neighbor Bahrain. He’s also fighting high
unemployment in the world’s biggest oil exporter, and a threat
from al-Qaeda.  “This is all part of the king’s push to bring up princes
from the younger generation, and do so in a balanced way,” said
Sam Wilkin, a Dubai-based analyst at Control Risks Group.  Saudi Arabia has had six monarchs since it was established
in 1932. The kingdom’s ruler must be a son or grandson of its
founder King Abdulaziz Al Saud, who  died in 1953 , according to
the 1992 Basic Law of Government.  The Riyadh province, in the center of Saudi Arabia and home
to its capital, is one of the most powerful in the kingdom and
was traditionally a staging ground for other promotions.  Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz , a former governor of Riyadh, was named
crown prince in June, putting him next in line to become king.
Prince Khaled was the Commander of the Saudi Royal Land Forces
and is a graduate of the U.K.’s Royal Military Academy
Sandhurst.  Key Position  “It’s a pretty important position, arguably the most
important governorship in Saudi Arabia, along with the Eastern
Province,” Wilkin said. “He’ll be running a capital city
that’s economically very important.”  King Abdullah’s appointment of Prince Mohammed bin Nayef in
November as interior minister brought into focus the younger
generation of Saudi royalty as he lines up his likely
successors.  Prince Mohammed, born in 1959, replaced Prince  Ahmed bin Abdulaziz , 17 years his senior, who held the post for less than
five months. Prince Mohammed’s late father, Prince  Nayef bin Abdulaziz , served as interior minister for three decades before
his appointment as heir apparent until his death in June. That
was the first time the job has passed to one of the younger
generation of royals.  In July, Prince  Bandar bin Sultan , a former ambassador to
the U.S., replaced his uncle  Prince Muqrin bin Abdulaziz  as
intelligence chief.  King Abdullah  this month set a path for
political succession in the largest Arab economy by appointing
Muqrin as second deputy prime minister.  The benchmark  Saudi stock index  was closed for the weekend
in Saudi Arabia. It climbed 0.1 percent to 7,062.98 at
yesterday’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  