-- SEC Investigators Review Surge in Heinz Trades Before Merger
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-02-14T23:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/sec-investigators-review-surge-in-heinz-option-day-before-merger.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigators are reviewing whether a surge in
bullish bets on  H.J. Heinz Co . was fueled by inside information
about  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . and 3G Capital’s plan to buy the
ketchup maker, a person familiar with the matter said.  Trading in Heinz call options, which give the right to buy
the underlying shares and profit when the stock rises, increased
yesterday to the highest level since Jan. 31, data compiled by
Bloomberg  show . Heinz shares jumped 20 percent to $72.51 today
following the announcement that  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway  and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital agreed to buy the
Pittsburgh-based company for about $23 billion.  The agency’s review is in its early stages and a formal
investigation may not result, according to the person, who asked
not to be named because the matter isn’t public.  The SEC in recent years has sharpened its methods for
linking people who make well-timed trades to those who might
have access to confidential information about an impending
merger or deal. Investigators have increasingly examined the
buying and selling patterns of traders, looking for similar
activity by other investors.  One recent SEC case involved another deal connected to 3G
Capital. In November, a Brazilian ex-banker and his firm agreed
to pay $5.1 million to settle SEC claims that he made illegal
trades ahead of 3G’s 2010 acquisition of Burger King Holdings
Inc. According to the SEC, Igor Cornelsen learned about the
impending merger from a  Wells Fargo & Co.  broker, whose client
had invested with 3G and knew about the acquisition.  Matter Settled  In settling the matter, Cornelsen didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing.  Berkshire Hathaway and 3G will pay $72.50 a share, compared
with yesterday’s closing price of $60.48, according to a
statement today. Options that changed hands yesterday during the
surge in volume earned buyers a total profit of about $1.8
million today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Almost
2,600 June $65 calls traded yesterday at a price of about
$91,900, the data show. The contracts rose to $7.20 from 40
cents yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  