-- Senator Frank Lautenberg Won’t Seek Re-Election in 2014
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-02-14T23:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/senator-frank-lautenberg-says-he-won-t-seek-re-election-in-2014.html
U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a
five-term Democrat from New Jersey who, at 89, is the chamber’s
oldest member, said he won’t seek re-election in 2014.  His announcement comes almost two months after Newark Mayor
 Cory Booker , a 43-year-old rising Democratic star, said he would
explore a run for the seat. Others, including New Jersey Senate
President  Stephen Sweeney , a West Deptford Democrat, also have
expressed interest in seeking the post.  “I cannot believe that after watching Booker for the last
few weeks he gets a free ride” from fellow Democrats to his
party’s nomination, said  Jennifer Duffy , senior editor of the
Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan Washington-based political
news service. “The national stage is a little bigger,” than
where Booker has performed as a mayor, she said.  Booker led Lautenberg 51 percent to 30 percent, according
to a Jan. 23 poll released by Quinnipiac University. While New
Jersey voters approved of Lautenberg’s job performance, 71
percent said his age made it too difficult for him to do the
work of a U.S. senator, according to the poll.  “While I may not be seeking re-election, there is plenty
of work to do before the end of this term,” Lautenberg said in
a statement announcing the move. “This is not the end of
anything, but rather the beginning of a two-year mission to pass
new gun safety laws, protect children from toxic chemicals and
create more opportunities for working families in New Jersey.”  Potential Entrants  “Senator Lautenberg has been a strong model of leadership
and service to me since before I even considered entering
elected office,” Booker said today in a statement. “Since I
have been mayor, he has been an invaluable partner in so many of
Newark’s recent accomplishments and successes.”  Sweeney didn’t respond to a telephone call seeking comment.
Other prominent Democrats potentially eying the seat include
U.S. Representatives  Frank Pallone  and  Robert Andrews .  The question is whether the Senate Democratic campaign
effort has “attached their star to Booker yet or are they going
to see what develops,” Duffy said in an interview.  The Rothenberg Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter
and website based in Washington, rates the seat “safe” for
Democrats, even after Lautenberg’s decision to retire.  “Republicans have not shown an ability to win a United
States Senate seat” from  New Jersey, said  Nathan Gonzales , a
deputy editor who follows the upper chamber of Congress.
Clifford Case was the last Republican elected to the post from
the state, in 1972.  Republican Prospects  “Do Republicans have a prayer here?” Duffy said.
Republicans need “a candidate who can raise the money and be
pretty acceptable beyond” the party’s base. Duffy said she
rates the seat “likely Democratic.”  Lautenberg said he will travel tomorrow to Paterson, New
Jersey, where he was born, for the formal announcement that he
won’t run again.  Lautenberg enlisted in the U.S. Army at 18, where he served
in the signal corps in World War II. After the war, he graduated
from Columbia University, where he studied economics, receiving
his degree from then-Columbia President  Dwight D. Eisenhower .  Lautenberg was a co-founder and former chief executive
officer of  Automatic Data Processing Inc. , a payroll-services
company based in Roseland, New Jersey.  First Election  He first won election to the Senate in 1982 and served
three terms. He decided not to seek re-election in 2000.  Two years later, Lautenberg came out of retirement to step
in as a candidate for the seat held by Democrat  Robert Torricelli  after the senator withdrew from a re-election
campaign amid an ethics inquiry. Lautenberg won a fifth full
term in 2008.  In the Senate, Lautenberg focused on transportation issues
and sponsored a 2008 law overhauling Amtrak, the nation’s inter-
city passenger rail service. He authored bills that increased
transit spending in New Jersey by half and highway money by 30
percent. He also secured $500 million for New Jersey Transit’s
Secaucus Junction Station, which bears his name.  Lautenberg pushed for the federal legislation that
standardized the legal drinking age at 21 and lowered the legal
threshold for drunk driving to 0.08 percent blood-alcohol
content, from 0.1 percent. Lautenberg sponsored the law that
banned smoking on airplanes.  Jersey Advocate  “Throughout his time in the Senate, Frank has fought
tirelessly for workers, veterans, members of our military and
their families, and immigrants, and he continues to make
extraordinary contributions to our nation’s safety, and the
health and welfare of our citizens,” President  Barack Obama 
said today in a statement.  “He has been a champion for New Jersey,” said Senator
 Robert Menendez , the state’s junior senator and also a Democrat.
“I am sure he will spend the next two years doing exactly
that.”  Lautenberg was known best in Washington as an advocate for
New Jersey, said  Brigid Harrison , who teaches law and government
at Montclair State University.  “We’re going to see a lot of political wrangling here for
this seat,” Harrison said by telephone. “There’s a lot of
people waiting in the wings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  