-- Sept. 11 Defendants Say Legal Papers Improperly Seized
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-02-14T23:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/sept-11-defendants-say-legal-papers-improperly-seized.html
Confidential legal correspondence
was improperly taken from the cells of accused plotters of the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, lawyers for the defendants said, in
the second dispute this week over how the U.S. government is
monitoring the defendants.  “The guard force was, in fact, seizing privileged
communications” while the defendants were in a military
courtroom two days ago, Cheryl Bormann, an attorney for  Walid bin Attash , a one-legged Yemeni accused of helping recruit and
train the attackers, said today in a hearing at the U.S. naval
base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  Bin Attash stood up in court today and tried to complain to
the judge in Arabic before he was ordered to sit down.  The military judge, Army Colonel  James Pohl , put off a
decision on how to resolve the handling of legal material,
allowing two weeks for defense lawyers and prosecutors to make
proposals.  With prosecutors seeking the death penalty in the case,
hearings so far have been consumed by debate over the
defendants’ rights, such as whether the government is
eavesdropping on conversations between the defendants and their
lawyers.  Lieutenant Commander George Massucco, the assistant staff
judge advocate who oversees legal issues with detainees, said
guards seized material from the cells of three of the accused
this week as part of routine safety inspections. He said the
guards suspected the material, which included letters from
attorneys and photos, was suspicious because the stamp marks
used by the military to approve them were inconsistent and
incomplete.  Mosque Photo  Most of the material will be returned to the defendants,
said Massucco, who attributed the problem to a frequent turnover
of guard staff who he said applied the rules for stamping
inconsistently over several years.  He said one of the seized items was a photograph of the
grand mosque in Mecca, which had been stamped on the back.  “Clearly a stamped picture of Mecca is in no way
contraband and should never have been seized,” Massucco said.  The chief prosecutor, Army Brigadier General  Mark Martins ,
said the government will conduct an investigation to determine
the circumstances of the seizures.  “Disputes happen frequently in a detention facility,”
Martins said. “Sometimes there are just misunderstandings.”  Lawyers Complaints  David Nevin , an attorney for  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed , the
accused mastermind of the attacks, said the seized papers had
already been cleared and stamped by guards as approved for use
by the defendants.  “It goes to our ability to represent these men,” Nevin
said.  James Harrington, an attorney for  Ramzi bin al Shibh , a
Yemeni accused of helping finance the hijackers, said the
seizure of legal documents “makes it impossible to have a
working relationship with our clients in this atmosphere and
this circumstance.”  Mohammed and the four other defendants are accused of
plotting the attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes to
kill almost 3,000 people at the World Trade Center in Manhattan,
the Pentagon in Virginia, and in Pennsylvania.  They are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the four planes, terrorism,
hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws
of war and attacking civilians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, at   dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  