-- Serbia Selling Dollar Bond at Lowest Yield Before New IMF Talks
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-02-14T15:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/serbia-selling-dollar-bond-at-lowest-yield-before-new-imf-talks.html
Serbia is selling its second dollar
bond since November as the government takes advantage of low
borrowing costs to raise cash for budget financing before it
returns to aid talks with the International Monetary Fund.  The Balkan nation plans to sell 7-year dollar bonds today
at a yield of about 5.20 percent, according to a person with
knowledge of the offering, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. Serbia, which sold five-year
dollar notes in November priced to yield a record low 5.25
percent, plans to raise $2 billion in foreign debt in 2013 in 7-
year and 10-year bonds, according to the budget.  Serbia will turn to foreign debt markets with or without an
IMF deal, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic said in an interview
on Jan. 15. Bond buying by central banks in the U.S. and the
euro region has stoked appetite for riskier assets over past
months and allowed junk-rated issuers such as Hungary to gain
funds on the market and bypass the IMF.  “This latest deal seems to offer a bit of new issuance
premium, but not the extreme mispricing that we have seen with
some of the recent Serbia deals,”  Timothy Ash , chief emerging-
markets economist with Standard Bank Plc in London, wrote to
clients today.  The yields on the nation’s outstanding 2017 dollar bonds
were unchanged at 4.393 percent at 3:20 p.m. in Belgrade, while
the 10-year dollar notes were at 5.299 percent, up one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, from yesterday.  Serbia, which raised $1.75 billion in two Eurobond sales
last year, expects the IMF to arrive in May for talks on a new
precautionary loan, Dinkic said Feb. 7.  The government hired  Deutsche Bank AG ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
and Barclays Plc to arrange bond sales this year as Premier
 Ivica Dacic ’s cabinet needs funds to shore up the budget and
keep the former Yugoslav republic’s economy growing after the
euro region’s financial crisis hurt demand for its products and
cut foreign investment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  