-- Shire Falls Most Since June on Adderall XR Competition
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-02-14T17:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/shire-profit-beats-estimates-amid-adderall-xr-sales-drop.html
Shire Plc , the world’s largest maker
of drugs for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, fell the
most in almost eight months after its once-best-selling Adderall
XR treatment got a new generic competitor.  Shire dropped 5.5 percent to 2,027 pence, the biggest
single-day decline since June 25, giving the company a market
value of 11.3 billion pounds ($17.5 billion).  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., the world’s biggest
maker of generic medicines, won approval from the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration Feb. 12 for a version of Adderall XR,
according to the FDA website. A copy sold by  Actavis Inc .
created a “double negative effect” last year in which Shire
lost sales and missed out on royalties from a version of the
drug sold by Impax Laboratories Inc., UBS AG analysts including
 Guillaume van Renterghem  wrote in a note today.  “Since Actavis launched its generic XR, Shire Adderall XR
lost 3.8 percent in Adderall XR market shares and Impax lost
23.2 percent, creating a double negative effect,” said van
Renterghem, who recommends buying Shire shares. “The reason why
Adderall XR lost so little market shares is because of the heavy
discount provided” to the U.S. Medicaid program, which Teva is
unlikely to beat, he said.  Sales of Adderall XR declined 35 percent to $82 million in
the fourth quarter, Dublin-based Shire said in a statement
today. Shire expects earnings per share excluding some items to
increase about 10 percent this year, meeting analysts’
estimates, the company said.  ‘Compete Successfully’  “We believe that branded Adderall XR can continue to
compete successfully in a generic market as it has done over the
last four years,” the company said in the statement.  The stock has lost 10 percent, including reinvested
dividends, in 12 months,  compared  with a 20 percent return for
the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Earnings excluding some items rose to $1.58 per American
depositary receipt from $1.51 a year earlier, Shire said.
Analysts  predicted  profit of $1.57 per ADS, the average of 11
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in the quarter gained 5 percent to $1.2 billion,
meeting the average analyst estimate.  Revenue from Vyvanse, approved since 2007 as a treatment
for children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder,
climbed 18 percent to $256.5 million.  Replagal Sales  Sales of Replagal, a treatment for a rare genetic illness
called Fabry disease, slipped 2 percent to $118.2 million partly
because of the timing of certain orders, Shire said. Among 1,000
patients outside the U.S. who switched to Replagal because of a
viral contamination at a Genzyme plant in 2009 that had led to a
shortage, about 90 percent are sticking with Shire’s drug, the
company has said.  Angus Russell , the chief executive officer since 2008, is
retiring in May, to be replaced by  Flemming Ornskov , a marketing
executive from  Bayer AG .  Sylvie Gregoire , the head of Shire’s
rare genetic diseases unit, is leaving the company at the end of
March, Shire said today.  “Dr. Ornskov is taking over a company with good prospects,
although I am sure he will be disappointed that Sylvie Gregoire
has decided to leave Shire,”  Mick Cooper , an analyst at Edison
Investment Research, said in a statement.  Shire plans to start advanced tests of an experimental
device designed to pump drugs into the brain of patients
suffering from certain rare genetic diseases, the company said.  Intuniv Dispute  The company also said it’s still in talks over a lawsuit it
brought against Actavis for infringing its patents on Intuniv,
another drug for ADHD. Actavis said in July it won tentative
U.S. approval for a generic version of the pill. Discussions
with Actavis on Intuniv are “on-going,” and they are
“constructive,” Russell said during a conference call with
reporters today. He declined to comment further.  The restructuring of the Advanced BioHealing business,
acquired in 2011 for $750 million, is “pretty much finished,
the new commercial model has been rolled out in the past few
weeks, and we’re seeing clear signs of a turnaround,” Russell
said. “We have expectations to grow this business into the
future. We still think it’s a good platform in terms of the
product itself, Dermagraft,” a treatment for diabetic foot
ulcers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  