-- Sistema Loses India Appeal on Restoring Wireless Licenses
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2013-02-14T16:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/sistema-loses-india-appeal-on-restoring-wireless-licenses.html
India’s top court rejected an appeal
by  AFK Sistema  to restore its wireless licenses in the country,
potentially forcing the Russian company to take part in a new
auction of frequencies for mobile-phone services.  A three-judge Supreme Court panel headed by Chief Justice
 Altamas Kabir  turned down so-called curative petitions sought by
the Russian company’s Indian phone-operator unit,  Sistema Shyam
Teleservices Ltd. , as well as by local competitors Videocon
Industries Ltd., Tata Teleservices Maharashtra Ltd. and Idea
Cellular Ltd., the court said on its  website  today.  Any decision on how Sistema Shyam Teleservices will proceed
will be “up to the shareholders,” the unit said in an e-mailed
statement. Julia Belous, a spokeswoman for Moscow-based Sistema,
declined to comment on whether the investment company owned by
Russian billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov will take part in the
new tender of bandwidth.  The Supreme Court canceled 122 wireless licenses a year ago
and ordered a redistribution of the frequencies via auctions,
citing corruption during spectrum distribution previously.
Sistema Shyam appealed the ruling, saying it uses code division
multiple access, or CDMA, frequencies, for which there were no
other bidders in the initial tender 2008.  Sistema paid about $300 million for use of CDMA spectrum in
21 regions of India, according to the company. Those frequencies
are being offered at a minimum $1.22 billion in the auction
being held in March, Moscow-based  Vedomosti  newspaper reported
Feb. 1, citing terms of the tender.  Vikash Singh, a lawyer for Sistema Shyam, told the Supreme
Court in a related case on Feb. 11 that his company is
maintaining its operations in India and taking part in a
separate set of frequency auctions this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  