-- Slim’s America Movil Snaps Up Shares During Selloff
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-02-15T00:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/slim-s-america-movil-snaps-up-shares-during-selloff.html
While investors were selling off
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB , causing it to lose
a 10th of its value, the company was buying up its own stock.  Slim’s mobile-phone carrier spent 374 million pesos ($29
million) to repurchase 26 million shares yesterday, about 3.5
times its daily average this year, according to a  filing  to
Mexico’s stock exchange. While it wasn’t enough to keep the
stock from dropping after fourth-quarter profit  missed 
estimates, the company treated the rout as a buying opportunity.  America Movil is an active repurchaser, reducing its
outstanding shares by 1.15 billion, or 1.5 percent, last year.
Like most of its transactions, yesterday’s buybacks were made
through  Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB , the financial-services
company also controlled by Slim.  Inbursa executed purchase transactions involving 64.4
million shares, the highest volume of any bank yesterday in
Mexico trading and a fifth of all purchases, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The data doesn’t show if the purchases
were made for the bank or for its customers.  Inbursa Chairman  Marco Antonio Slim Domit , the
billionaire’s second-oldest son, said yesterday in an interview
that Inbursa was buying shares on behalf of clients and not for
itself.  America Movil, which has more mobile-phone subscribers than
any other carrier in the Western Hemisphere, fell 1.3 percent to
13.99 pesos at the close in Mexico City, the lowest price since
August 2011.  America Movil acquired an additional 10 million shares
today, paying 140 million pesos, according to a filing.  Slim, the world’s richest person, lost $3.8 billion
yesterday because of the drop in America Movil, his biggest
holding. His fortune fell an additional $949 million today to
$73.3 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  