-- Slym Plans to ‘Break Out’ With Diesel Nano Car: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-02-15T11:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/slym-plans-to-break-out-with-diesel-nano-car-corporate-india.html
Karl Slym , managing director of  Tata
Motors Ltd. , said he’s planning to build a diesel version of the
world’s cheapest car this year to revive vehicle sales, which
have dropped for three straight quarters in India.  Tata Motors also plans a variant of the Nano, conceived by
former Chairman  Ratan Tata , that will be fueled by compressed
natural gas, Slym said. The company yesterday reported profit,
including that of unit Jaguar Land Rover Ltd., which missed
analysts’ estimates by 44 percent. Slym is betting a 30 percent
difference between diesel and gasoline prices at the pump will
make the Nano a popular choice.  Slym is introducing new models of the $2,500 Nano, which
according to Ratan Tata has failed to reach its “full
potential,” and the Indica hatchback to help the company
recover from the biggest loss in at least a decade at home. The
poor performance in India will negate gains at the company’s
luxury unit unless Chairman  Cyrus Mistry  revamps the local unit,
said  Mitul Shah , an analyst at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd.  “We had a quiet time and so now it’s time to break out,”
Slym said in an interview in Mumbai. “You will see new products
and an on-going portfolio. The Nano has a lot going on with it
right now.”  Tata Motors  shares  gained 2.4 percent to 304.45 rupees in
Mumbai after dropping as much as 3.1 percent. The company’s
American depositary receipts  tumbled  4.9 percent to $27.25 in
New York yesterday, the most since Jan. 23.  Change Focus  Third-quarter group  net income  fell 52 percent to 16.3
billion rupees ($302 million), the lowest in three years,
India’s biggest automobile company said. That lagged behind the
29.3 billion-rupee median of 40 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Profit at the luxury unit, which contributed 75 percent of
Tata Motors operating income in the year ended March 31,
declined 25 percent to 296 million pounds ($459 million). Tata
Motors reported a loss of 4.6 billion rupees for its Indian
business as sales at home dropped 21 percent to 105.3 billion
rupees.  “The India business is loss making right now, which is
unsustainable for the company,” said  Kapil Singh , an analyst
with Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “The Nano has not met
expectations so models such as the diesel Nano will help, but
we’ll have to watch where they price it at.”  Slym plans to “dramatically” change customer focus to
revive demand for the Nano, whose sales plunged and never fully
recovered after at least three caught fire in 2010.  Family on Scooter  Instead of seeking to sell to motorcycle owners looking to
upgrade, the company will market the car to customers
“aspiring” to buy the Nano, said Slym, who joined from GM’s
China unit, where he was executive vice-president at SAIC-GM-
Wuling Automobile Co.  Ratan Tata decided to develop the Nano after seeing a
family riding on a scooter. After the fires, the company in
December 2010 extended warranties to four years or 60,000
kilometers (37,290 miles) and started offering as much as 90
percent financing through unit Tata Motors Finance Ltd.  Sales of the Nano plunged 81 percent to 1,504 units in
January from a year earlier after peaking at 10,475 units in
March 2012. The company chose the first 100,000 customers for
the Nano through a lottery following a deluge of orders in 2009.  The current strategy of targeting a buyer of Hero MotoCorp
Ltd.’s Splendor “hasn’t really worked,” said  Deepesh Rathore ,
the New Delhi-based managing director for IHS Automotive in
India. If Tata is fighting in the same space as Maruti Suzuki
India Ltd.’s Alto or Hyundai Motor Co.’s Eon, “you definitely
have a better chance at higher sales.”  India Demand  Tata Motors last month started selling a new version of its
Indica Vista hatchback. The variant, that’s priced almost
100,000 rupees cheaper than Maruti’s best-selling Swift model,
includes a higher-powered engine and satellite navigation.  Reviving demand in India may also boost profitability at
the company, which started as Tata Engineering & Locomotive Co.
in 1945, as increased sales for its lower-priced Range Rover
Evoque model cut  earnings  at the Jaguar Land Rover unit, said
Umesh Karne, an analyst with Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  The average selling price of vehicles such as the Jaguar
XF, Land Rover Freelander and the best-selling Evoque is about
30,000 pounds compared with the 42,000-pound average for its
other models, Vijay Somaiya, head of treasury at Tata Motors,
said in a briefing on Jan. 24.  Earnings  margin  before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization at the unit was 14 percent in the quarter, lower
than 17 percent a year earlier, reflecting the product mix and
higher marketing costs, Tata Motors said. The cost of
introducing new models also eroded profitability.  “The losses at the domestic business is a major concern,”
said Karne. “If they don’t improve from these levels, the
impact on the company’s profitability will get bigger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  