-- Solvay Sees Accelerated Savings, Investments as Net Debt Drops
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-02-14T15:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/solvay-sees-accelerated-savings-investments-as-net-debt-drops.html
Solvay SA , the chemicals maker
created 150 years ago to produce soda ash using ammonia, brought
forward a cost savings goal and forecast accelerated growth
investments after net debt fell by more than analysts estimated.  Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Pierre Clamadieu  said capital
spending will increase by as much as 21 percent this year to
help meet his 2016 profit target by expanding production of guar
derivatives for oil and gas drilling, silica for tires and
specialty polymers. He declined to give a 2013 profit forecast,
saying that cost savings are ahead of plans and that conditions
in  Europe , which accounted for 42 percent of revenue last year,
remained “challenging” at the start of the year.  Solvay  said  today it will meet its target for cost savings
of 400 million euros ($533 million) in 2014, one year ahead of
initial forecasts. Reductions in purchasing, transportation and
administrative expenses, mostly linked to the purchase of Rhodia
SA in September 2011, surpassed the Brussels-based company’s own
projections by 40 million euros at the end of last year. Fourth-
quarter  earnings  met most analysts’ estimates.  “While it is positive to see cost savings kicking in
faster than anticipated, it also implies that the underlying
performance was weaker,”  Filip De Pauw , an analyst at ING Groep
NV in Brussels, wrote in an investor note today. The 2016 target
“requires a compound annual growth rate of 10 percent versus
the reported 2 percent growth in 2012.”  Eight Times  Solvay’s stock swung between gains and losses at least
eight times in  trading  on Euronext Brussels today. The shares
lost as much as 2.6 percent, leading declines among the 24
companies in the  Stoxx 600 Chemicals Index  in early trading, and
traded 50 cents lower at 117.75 euros by 4:15 p.m. local time.  Since taking the helm in May, Clamadieu has made a priority
of cash generation through the reduction of inventories,
collection of receivables and by trimming capital spending. As a
result, Solvay reduced  net financial debt  by 635 million euros
last year to 1.13 billion euros, or about 0.54 times Ebitda.
Analysts projected net indebtedness of 1.75 billion euros,
according to the median of 17 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Net debt excludes pension liabilities.  Solvay forecast 2013 incremental cost savings of 110
million euro and “a few tens of million euros” from other
optimization projects. Still, Clamadieu told analysts on a
conference call that Solvay will face a 90 million-euro decline
in profit from the sale of carbon emission allowances this year
and won’t see a repeat of inflated guar gum prices, which
boosted profit by about 100 million euros last year.  Vinyls Businesses  Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will increase to 2.13 billion euros this year from
2.07 billion euros in 2012, according to the average of 22
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Solvay also made a start with the disposal of its
underperforming vinyls businesses by reclassifying its Buenos
Aires-based subsidiary Solvay Indupa SAIC as an asset held for
sale. Indupa, which has been  unprofitable  since the second half
of 2011, has plants in Bahia Blanca, Argentina, and Santo Andre,
Brazil, producing PVC plastic and caustic soda.  “In Europe, we will have to find a scenario, which would
allow us to contribute to an improvement in the overall
structure of the PVC market,” Clamadieu said on the conference
call. “It’s a complex problem and there’s no obvious solution,
but we’re not just simply waiting for other people to do the
job.”  PVC Plastic  Solvay, through its 75 percent-owned SolVin joint venture
with BASF SE, is Europe’s second-biggest producer of PVC
plastic, after closely held Ineos Group, with a production
capacity of about 1.3 million metric tons.  An overhaul of its polyamide business including fixed cost
reductions and an improvement of plant operating rates by
developing more specialty products, should restore earnings in
the business unit to 2011 levels. Ebitda from polyamide
materials slumped by 50 percent to 99 million euros last year
and vinyls decreased by 13 percent to 151 million euros.
Together, both units accounted for 12 percent of Solvay’s
earnings last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  