-- Sony Revamps Aging PlayStation in Bid to Recapture Cool
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-02-14T23:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/sony-revamps-aging-playstation-in-bid-to-recapture-cool.html
For almost two decades,  Sony Corp. ’s
PlayStation gaming console has been the pride of the company’s
legions of engineers. Now President  Kazuo Hirai  hopes a makeover
can keep it from tracking other Sony hardware hits into
obscurity.  By featuring innovations such as DVD and Blu-ray movie
players, Sony has sold more PlayStations than Trinitron TVs and
about as many as the Walkman music player. Yet the latest
iteration, the PlayStation 3, launched in 2006 -- a year before
 Apple Inc. ’s first iPhone -- has seen sales slow as it ages.  On Feb. 20,  Sony  will announce a new version of the console
with more realistic game play and more entertainment options,
said  Michael Pachter , an  analyst  with Wedbush Securities in Los
Angeles. Pachter cited game developers and retailers for saying
Sony “is 100 percent certain to announce the PlayStation 4”
during an event next week in New York.  The question facing Sony and rival Nintendo Co., which
released its Wii U console last year, is whether the new devices
are in sync with consumer preferences for mobile computing on
devices from Apple and Samsung Electronics Co.  “Sony and Nintendo refuse to acknowledge they don’t have a
market like they had 20 years ago,” Pachter said. “They’re
desperately clinging to the notion they can get it back.”  Apple, Samsung  Hirai, 52, named chief executive officer last year partly
because of his success running the PlayStation business, has
said he considers the console to be the centerpiece of a
universe of exclusive content running on Sony phones, tablets
and TVs.  Speaking to reporters in Tokyo last month, Hirai said Sony
is working to improve its position in mobile gaming.  “We’re trying to leverage past expertise in the
traditional video-game business and bring that experience onto
the smartphone,” he said. “So we’re actually playing in both
fields, which I think is very strategic.”  Sony  needs to get its PlayStation strategy right because it
hasn’t made money in the TV business since the 12 months ended
March 2004. This month, it reported an eighth straight  quarterly
loss  as Apple’s iPad and iPhone and Samsung’s Galaxy smartphones
tilt the games business away from consoles by Sony, Nintendo and
Microsoft Corp., which makes the Xbox 360.  Profit Forecast  Sony shares are down 10 percent in Tokyo trading over the
past 12 months, compared with a 25 percent increase in the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Sony’s games unit made money, though operating profit fell
86 percent to 4.6 billion yen ($49 million) as sales of consoles
and software slumped.  The value of games downloaded to computers and mobile
devices rose 16 percent last year, according to researcher NPD
Group Inc., while titles for dedicated consoles fell 21 percent.  The PlayStation 4 faces a challenge similar to the
struggling TV business, where  margins  are squeezed by Samsung’s
efficient manufacturing and lower-cost Chinese products. Many
mobile phones also are subsidized by U.S. wireless carriers.  Sony  projects  a 20 billion-yen profit this year after
selling its New York headquarters for $1.1 billion. As Hirai
culls ancillary businesses such as chemicals and display-making,
he aims to generate 70 percent of  revenue  and 85 percent of
operating profit in Sony’s electronics operations by March 2015
from three businesses: digital imaging, mobile devices and
games.  Nintendo Outlook  The PlayStation 4 “will show whether Sony still has the
power like Apple to surprise consumers with its products,” said
 Hiroshi Yamashina , an analyst at BNP Paribas Securities in
Tokyo.  Hirai said he expects the new PlayStation to boost demand
for Sony’s online music and video service and Xperia phones and
tablets. To succeed, Sony must also bring in casual gamers who
are as likely to buy a console to watch movies from  Netflix Inc. 
as to play games.  Two months after Nintendo tried to tap the same group with
the new Wii U, it  cut  its sales outlook to 4 million units
through March from an earlier forecast of 5.5 million.  Game developers still consider home consoles the best
platform for cutting-edge games and entertainment, said  Nick Earl , a senior vice president at Electronic Arts Inc. Now,
though, EA is focused on following the mobile money.  Luring Gamers  “The core gamers that have traditionally been buying a
packaged-goods game every week, they’re really starting to shift
their buying and playing to games on iPads and other mobile
devices,” Earl said. “We believe the future of gaming is so
much tied to these devices.”  Osaka, Japan-based  Capcom Co. , creator of the “Resident
Evil” and “Street Fighter” video games, is stepping up
development of games for mobile devices even though improvements
in smartphone technology are making development more expensive.  Creating a multiplayer game for mobile devices now costs at
least 100 million yen ($1.1 million), Chief Operating Officer
 Haruhiro Tsujimoto  said in an interview. That compares with “a
few tens of million” yen for games on basic mobile phones, he
said.  Keeping game developers on board may be one reason Sony
will reveal the new PlayStation more than six months before it
will probably go on sale. That approach, which Sony used in 2011
when it announced the PlayStation Vita portable player, is
designed to get developers interested in creating unique games
that best show why it’s worth buying the console.  The Vita, featuring wireless technology, has yet to
deliver. Earlier this month, Sony lowered its forecast for
combined sales of the PSP and PlayStation Vita consoles to 7
million from the 10 million it forecast in November -- and the
16 million it expected last May.  Hirai has said Sony is best-positioned to capitalize on its
engineering roots and use cloud-based services to give customers
a more personal experience.  “At the end of the day, we need to turn out great
products,” Hirai said in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in Los Angeles at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe in Hong Kong at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  