-- Zuma Seeks Review of Mining Taxes to Boost Revenue
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-02-15T11:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/south-africa-to-review-mining-royalties-president-zuma.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
said mining royalties will be reviewed as he comes under
pressure to reduce poverty and inequality in the world’s biggest
producer of platinum, chrome and manganese.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  will commission a study of
current tax policies later this year, Zuma, 70, told lawmakers
in his State-of-the-Nation speech in Cape Town yesterday.  The review is “to make sure that we have an appropriate
revenue base to support public spending,” he said. “Part of
this study will evaluate the current mining royalties regime,
with regard to its ability to suitably serve our people.”  With elections due to take place next year, Zuma is under
pressure to do more to cut a 25 percent  unemployment rate  and
reduce income inequalities that are among the highest in the
world. At the same time, investor confidence has dropped after a
series of mining strikes and the shooting of about 34 protesters
by police at  Lonmin Plc’s  Marikana platinum mine last year.  The ruling African National Congress agreed at a conference
in December to reject a call from some of its members to
nationalize mines in favor of reviewing taxes on companies.
Mines Minister  Susan Shabangu  and Gordhan have played down the
likelihood of higher levies.  ‘Grand Ideas’  A review of mining royalties should “read mines will pay
more taxes,”  Dawie Roodt , an economist and chairman of
Pretoria-based Efficient Financial Holdings Ltd., said in e-
mailed comments today. “The tax system is complicated and in
need of an overhaul, but the president doesn’t mean it like
that. He needs more money for his grand ideas.”  The cost of insuring against a debt default for five years
climbed to an eight-month high of 177 this month, indicating a
deterioration in risk perception. Credit default swaps on the
debt have increased 26 basis points to 169 since Dec. 18, when
Zuma won a second term as leader of the ruling African National
Congress.  Mining output contracted for a fourth month, dropping 7.5
percent, in December from a year ago, the statistics office said
yesterday. Nine loss-making platinum-mine shafts were shut in
the second half of 2012, according to the Department of Mineral
Resources, while  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. , the largest
producer of the metal, last month said it plans to idle four
shafts, which may result in as many as 14,000 job losses.  Mining Jobs  Zuma said he met Sir  John Parker , the chairman of  Anglo
American Plc , which controls  Anglo American Platinum , two weeks
ago to discuss the planned job cuts.  “The suggestion or the talk of further assessment of
taxation, that’s not new,” Anglo American Chief Executive
Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said on Bloomberg TV’s “On The Move”
show with  Manus Cranny  today. “We have to work together to
ensure that we’re doing the right things to ensure that we are
competitive and that we are able to sustain low-cost operations,
profitable operations, for the future and that’s the bottom
line.”  Mining directly employs about 500,000 people, makes up
about 9 percent of  gross domestic product  and accounts for two-
thirds of exports. Since March 2010, mining companies have paid
royalties tax based on sales in addition to income tax, with the
rate varying depending on the type of mineral.  Slowing Growth  “The mining industry is already making significant
contributions in taxes,”  Bheki Sibiya , the chief executive
officer of the Johannesburg-based Chamber of Mines, said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  “We are hopeful that the
research will make recommendations that will ensure an equitable
tax system.”  A slowdown in Europe is weighing on Africa’s largest
economy, which is likely to expand 2.5 percent this year, less
than half the pace of more than 5 percent that’s needed to meet
the government’s job-creation goals, Zuma said.  The government is committed to implementing the National
Development Plan, drawn up by a panel led by ex-Finance Minister
 Trevor Manuel , which the ANC endorsed at its December
conference, Zuma said. The plan sets out the investment needed
in roads and rail, health, education and other services to boost
growth and calls for a review of labor laws to encourage hiring
and create 11 million new jobs by 2030.  Zuma pledged to review state workers’ salaries and ensure
they were delivering value for money, clamp down on crime and
corruption and speed up distribution of land to the country’s
black majority. He also announced that a national health
insurance fund would be established in 2014, and that the
government had reached an agreement with business and labor
organizations on youth employment incentives, without providing
further details.  A former intelligence operative, Zuma won control of the
ANC from  Thabo Mbeki  in December 2007, and was appointed
president of the country in May 2009. As the leader of the
ruling party, who took power in the country’s first post-
apartheid elections in 1994 and holds almost two-thirds of the
seats in parliament, he is also its presidential candidate for
the 2014 elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  