-- Spain’s Socialists Invoke Aznar to Profit From Graft Allegations
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-02-14T10:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/spain-s-socialists-invoke-aznar-to-profit-from-graft-allegations.html
Spanish opposition leaders are
invoking their one-time nemesis,  Jose Maria Aznar , in a bid to
exploit graft allegations against  Mariano Rajoy ’s government.  For 11 days, Socialist party chief  Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba 
has called for Rajoy to quit in language that echoes Aznar’s
drumbeat in 1994 that then-Socialist premier  Felipe Gonzalez 
throw in the towel amid his own corruption scandals.  At the time, Aznar hammered Gonzalez with the phrase
“vayase Senor Gonzalez” -- “leave” -- that became the
hallmark of his opposition. Rubalcaba, who was defeated in 2011
elections by Rajoy, capped his party’s daily attacks in speeches
and interviews yesterday saying “give up, leave it.”  “It’s what he has to do,”  Alejandro Quiroga , a senior
lecturer in Spanish history at Newcastle University, said in a
telephone interview. “If we were in a normal place, Rajoy would
have resigned by now.”  Rajoy, in office 14 months, has sought a European bailout
of Spanish banks and fought to avoid a sovereign rescue as the
economy enters its sixth year of a slump. At the same time, he
is battling to control the fallout from reports by the newspaper
El Pais that former ruling PP party treasurer  Luis Barcenas  made
illegal cash payments to Rajoy as well as to former Finance
Minister  Rodrigo Rato  and party chief  Dolores de Cospedal  during
more than a decade.  Rajoy has denied the El Pais report that he accepted more
than 250,000 euros ($334,000) in cash payments over an 11-year
period. Cospedal also denied the reports. Rato’s lawyer Ignacio
Ayala declined to comment through his assistant.  ‘Leave’  Amid reports of embezzlement and fraud by public officials,
Aznar attacked Gonzalez over corruption and demanded he resign.
“Leave, Senor Gonzalez, you have no other honorable options
left,” Aznar told  Gonzalez in parliament  in April 1994.  Two years later, Aznar defeated Gonzalez in the 1996
election, ending his 14 years in office.  While the corruption allegations cut support for Rajoy’s PP
by 6 percentage points in a month, according to a Metroscopia
poll published by El Pais on Feb. 3, Rubalcaba hasn’t benefited.
The two parties were tied at 24 percent in the Jan. 31 to Feb. 1
poll of 1,000 people where Rubalcaba has languished for the past
year.  Rubalcaba  yesterday attacked Rajoy for cutting benefits for
workers, undermining health care and education and protecting
Barcenas instead of addressing the allegations against his
party.  “You are not fit to tackle this political crisis,” he
said. “I call on you to give up, leave it. You can’t resolve
the political crisis that Spain is facing and you yourself have
created.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  