-- Ex-Stanford Chief Accountant Lopez Sentenced to 20 Years
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-02-14T19:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/stanford-s-accountants-face-20-years-in-prison-at-sentencing.html
R. Allen Stanford ’s former chief
accounting officer,  Gilbert Lopez , 70, and his former
controller,  Mark Kuhrt , 40, were sentenced to 20 years in prison
for helping to conceal Stanford’s $7 billion Ponzi scheme.  U.S. District Judge  David Hittner  imposed the sentences
today in Houston. The men were convicted in November of
conspiring to hide the fraud.  The fraud was built on bogus certificates of deposit at
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd., prosecutors
said. Lopez and Kuhrt were the last two Stanford executives to
be criminally tried for their roles in the scheme.  “Mr. Lopez’s lawyer said he was down the chain of command,
but he was the number-one accounting executive for a decade,”
prosecutor Jeffrey Goldberg told the judge, asking for a 25-year
term for the former accounting chief. “He knew the crucial
thing -- massive misuse of victims’ money.”  The men were each found guilty of nine of 10 wire fraud
counts and one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. They
have been jailed in downtown Houston pending sentencing.  Neither man spoke at the hearing.  Lopez’s lawyer, Jack Zimmermann, asked for a sentence of
three years in prison and two years’ home confinement, followed
by three years’ supervised release. That would avoid a disparity
between his client’s punishment and other defendants’, the
attorney said.  Appeal Planned  The government’s recommendation of 25 years “overstates
the gravity of conduct of  Gil Lopez ,” Zimmermann said. He said
later that the verdict and sentence will be appealed.  Kuhrt’s defense lawyer Richard Kuniansky disputed
prosecutors’ claim that Lopez and his client knew about the
biggest piece of the fraud, Stanford’s $2 billion in secret
diversions from the bank.  “He had a belief that was a loan by Mr. Stanford that was
going to be repaid,” the attorney said, asking for a sentence
of five years for Kuhrt. Other executives, he said, were
“exponentially more involved” in the conspiracy than Kuhrt.  “Had he known what he knows now, he would’ve done a lot of
things differently, and he’s lost a lot of sleep over it,”
Kuniansky said.  Goldberg, the prosecutor, urged Hittner to reject what he
called Lopez’s and Kuhrt’s “offensive claims that they were
conned and just like the victims.”  No Excuse  “No corporate officer should be allowed to commit fraud
with their boss and when they get caught be allowed to claim
they are innocent because they were just following orders,” he
said.  In sentencing Lopez and Kuhrt, the judge said he deviated
downward from the advisory federal guidelines sentence of, in
effect, life behind bars to avoid unwarranted disparities with
other executives and their “lesser culpability and gain from
this fraud” compared with others’.  He calculated the sentences for both men after determining
they lied during his trial testimony, as the government claimed,
the judge said.  Besides the prison term, Lopez’s punishment includes a
$25,000 fine.  The judge said he rejected a defense claim that Kuhrt
“didn’t receive a dime other than his salary and bonuses” from
the fraud.  Hittner added three years of supervised release to Kuhrt’s
20-year sentence. Waiving the fine, the judge said Kuhrt is
indigent and he’ll appoint a public defender to handle his
appeal.  Their lawyers asked that they be assigned to prisons near
their homes in Houston.  Stanford’s Crimes  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of masterminding the
fraud and stealing more than $2 billion of investor funds to
finance a lavish lifestyle of private jets, yachts and
waterfront mansions along with his money-losing side
enterprises. He is serving a 110-year sentence in a Florida
federal prison and has appealed his conviction and sentence.  Lawyers for Lopez and Kuhrt urged jurors to acquit the men,
claiming they were duped by Stanford and his top deputy, finance
chief  James M. Davis , into creating the false financial
statements investors relied on.  Davis, 64, cooperated with prosecutors and reached a plea
deal in 2009 in which he said Stanford’s operation was a fraud
from the start. Davis was sentenced last month to five years in
prison based on his cooperation and ability to lead government
agents to secret bank accounts and evidence used to convict
Stanford.  Another senior Stanford executive, former Chief Investment
Officer  Laura Pendergest Holt , pleaded guilty in June to
obstructing an investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. She was sentenced to three years in prison.  The case is U.S. v Lopez, 4:09-cr-0342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston federal court
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 