-- States Act on Minimum Wage as Republicans Toss Obama Plan
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-02-14T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/states-act-on-minimum-wage-as-republicans-toss-obama-plan.html
President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to
increase the U.S.  minimum wage  by 24 percent faces long odds in
Congress, where Republicans took aim at it minutes after
the State of the Union address. That might not matter: beyond
Capitol Hill, some states took action long ago.  Nineteen states and the District of Columbia already
require employers to pay more than the $7.25 an hour required by
federal law, according to the  U.S. Labor Department . At least
eight more, including New York and New Jersey, are considering
legislation to join them. On Jan. 1, Washington state, home to
the highest minimum wage in the nation, raised its floor to
$9.19, more than the $9 an hour proposed by Obama.  The patchwork of laws has offered new insight into the
effect of higher wages on jobs. Some economists are challenging
the traditional precept that as the price of something goes up,
demand goes down, at least when it comes to labor.  “We’ve had this natural experiment where states that have
raised their minimum wage border states that haven’t,” said
Jack Temple, a policy analyst at the National Employment Law
Project, a non-profit worker advocacy group. “Businesses have
adjusted without losing employment.”  Temple and others point to two studies that challenge the
conventional wisdom that higher wages lead to fewer jobs. The
first, a  1994 study  by  Alan Krueger , now Obama’s chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisors, and  David Card , director of the
Labor Studies Program at the National Bureau of Economic
Research, compared fast food eateries in New Jersey and
Pennsylvania after New Jersey raised its hourly minimum wage
from $4.25 to $5.05 in 1992.  Low Wages  “The increase in the minimum wage increased employment,”
the two found. For low-wage workers, job prospects actually
improved in New Jersey, they concluded.  That finding was buttressed in 2010, when a group of
economists used a  similar approach  to compare restaurant workers
in neighboring states with different wage limits. The study,
authored by a group that included Michael Reich, director for
the Institute for Research on Labor and Employment at the
University of California, Berkeley, concluded that minimum wage
increases did not reduce employment.  The findings are at odds with other work, most notably from
 David Neumark , director of the University of California’s Center
for Economics and Public Policy in Irvine, who has  studied  the
question with Federal Reserve economist  William Wascher .  Their 2007 review of academic studies found that “almost
all point to negative employment effects.”  Higher Price  “It’s the law of demand,” said  William Dunkelberg , chief
economist at the National Federation of Independent Business, a
lobbying group for small employers. “The higher the price of
anything, the less will be taken. That applies to labor.”  In his speech Feb. 12 to a joint session of Congress, Obama
proposed raising the hourly federal minimum wage to $9 from
$7.25 by the end of 2015. That would return the wage to its
highest inflation-adjusted  value  since 1981, under Republican
President Ronald Reagan, according to the White House.  Echoing Dunkelberg, House Speaker  John Boehner  dismissed
the idea yesterday.  “When you raise the price of employment, guess what
happens? You get less of it,” the Ohio Republican told
reporters. “Why do we want to make it harder for small
employers to hire people?”  ‘Laundry List’  In the Senate,  John Thune  of South Dakota, a member of the
chamber’s Republican leadership, called Obama’s speech a “go-
through-the-motions laundry list.”  Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin  of Iowa, who leads the
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, and
Representative  George Miller  of California, the top Democrat on
the House Education and Labor Committee, said they’re moving
ahead and will seek an even greater increase, to $10.10 an hour.  Twenty-one percent of job losses during the recession were
in lower-wage occupations, according to the National Employment
Law Project. During the recovery, those hires outpaced gains in
higher-paying occupations, accounting for 58 percent of new
positions since February 2010.  Washington’s minimum wage, which is indexed to rise and
fall with inflation, has been above $9 an hour since January
2012. Last year the state had a 1.8 percent increase in non-farm
payrolls, more than the 1.6 percent growth in total U.S. jobs.
Unemployment is lower, too, at  7.6 percent , compared to 7.9
percent  nationally .  Less Competitive  The Washington Restaurant Association says the law makes
the state less competitive and points to Census Bureau data that
shows that Washington food outlets employ three fewer workers
per establishment than the national average.  “The business community has learned to adapt,” said
Heather Donahoe, public relations manager for the Olympia-based
trade group. “So many of our operators have learned to do more
with less.”  That includes Dwayne Northrop, chief executive officer of
Garlic Jim’s Famous Gourmet Pizza based in Mill Creek, which has
22 franchise outlets in the state. He said the higher wage
carries hidden costs.  “The customers are seeing it in slower service. The job
market is seeing it because there are fewer jobs available,”
Northrop said in a telephone interview. At the same time, his
franchisees have had little room to raise prices since 2007.  The hardest hit, though, are the state’s young workers,
Northrop said.  “All the kids answering the phones and tossing pizzas are
high school kids and most of the kids delivering the pizzas are
college kids,” he said. “We’re actually providing less
opportunity for entry-level people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Kevin Costelloe in Washington at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  