-- Sugar Price War Revived as U.S. Senators Seek Cheap Candy
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-02-14T19:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/sugar-price-war-revived-as-u-s-senators-seek-cheap-candy.html
A group of lawmakers is using a day
set aside for the exchange of Valentines to propose cuts in U.S.
price supports for sugar, a commodity that has triggered policy
disputes since the British ruled the Colonies.  Senator  Jeanne Shaheen  of New Hampshire, a Democrat whose
effort to lower sugar aid failed in last year’s  farm-bill 
debate, joined Illinois Republican Senator  Mark Kirk  and other
lawmakers to back a bill that would mostly return to the
sweetener policy in place before current agricultural law passed
in 2008. The growers’ American Sugar Alliance says the proposal
may cause some producers to fail.  “Sugar is the most tightly controlled commodity in our
country,” Shaheen said today at a Washington news conference.
The proposal “will make U.S. manufacturers more competitive and
make prices lower for consumers,” she said.  Sugar, grown in about 120 nations, is used in everything
from  H.J. Heinz Co . ketchup to Sweethearts, the candy with
romantic messages made by  New England Confectionery Co . of
Revere, Massachusetts. Debate on sugar predates the American
Revolution, when the British Sugar Act of 1764 -- imposing a tax
on sugar -- fanned the flames of the colonial rebellion.  Imports, Prices  The U.S. limits sugar imports and sets prices for about
5,000 growers, raising consumer costs by $3.5 billion a year,
according to an Iowa State University study. Because it helps
farmers by setting artificially higher prices rather than with
direct payments, government spending is minimal.  Because import restrictions limit competition, U.S. prices
tend to be higher than the world market. Trade groups for food
and beverage companies including PepsiCo Inc.,  Mars Inc.  and
 J.M. Smucker Co.  say quotas hurt profits and cost jobs --leaving
them with little enthusiasm for sugar programs.  Trading in the commodity has been volatile. From a peak of
36.08 cents a pound in February 2011, prices fell to 17.76 cents
today on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, a 30-month low, as
rainfall helps production in Brazil, the world’s biggest grower.
Record U.S. sugar output is creating the biggest domestic glut
in a decade, making it more likely the government will need to
stockpile supply to support farmers this year.  ‘Won’t Survive’  A companion bill also was introduced by Representative Joe
Pitts, a Pennsylvania Republican, in the House.  Low prices and excess supply make it less likely subsidies
will be rolled back in Congress, said Phillip Hayes, spokesman
for the Washington-based sugar alliance, which represents
growers and processors including American Sugar Refining Inc.,
maker of Domino Sugar.  “If sugar policy is gutted, you’ll have producers who
simply won’t survive,” he said.  About  three-quarters  of U.S. sugar consumption is from
domestic crops, and the nation isn’t a major exporter. Cane-
growing Brazil accounts for about two-fifths of global
shipments, and the beet-growing European Union along with
Australia and Thailand are major growers. U.S. imports are
controlled by a quota system in which purchases exceeding
trading patterns from 1975 to 1981 are heavily taxed.  Government control of sugar markets encourages volatility,
with guaranteed pricing contributing to gluts where supply and
demand are never fairly aligned, said Jennifer Cummings,
spokeswoman for the Sweetener Users Association, an industry
group based in Washington.  “We’re not calling for the elimination of the program, we
need more flexibility in it,” she said. “The current policy is
unsustainable. This is the year to change it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  