-- Swiss Stocks Little Changed as ABB Rallies, Nestle Falls
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-02-14T17:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-abb-jumps-nestle-falls.html
Swiss stocks  closed little changed,
paring losses in the final hour of trading, as ABB Ltd. and
Actelion Ltd. climbed after reporting earnings while Nestle SA
reported the slowest sales growth in three years.  ABB rallied to a 17-month high as the world’s biggest maker
of power transformers posted profit that topped analysts’
projections. Actelion, the maker of the Tracleer lung drug, rose
2 percent after proposing a larger-than-expected dividend.
Clariant AG advanced to the highest price since July 2011 as the
chemical maker’s earnings also exceeded estimates. Nestle, the
largest food company, slid the most since April.  The Swiss Market Index slipped less than 0.1 percent to
7,482.2 at the close in Zurich. The gauge has still  soared 9.7
percent  this year as Transocean Ltd., the world’s largest
offshore driller, and Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s
second-biggest bank, surged more than 20 percent. The broader
Swiss Performance Index rose less than 0.1 percent today.  “We’ve seen a big rally since the beginning of the year
and we are now at levels that are very sensitive, even to
slightly negative news,” said  Alessandro Fezzi , senior market
analyst at LGT Bank Schweiz AG in Zurich. “Underlying sentiment
is still positive, and today’s company earnings, aside from
Nestle, have been very good.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 33 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  European Economy  The SMI earlier slid as much as 0.6 percent as a report
showed the  euro-area recession  deepened more than economists
forecast. Gross domestic product fell 0.6 percent in the fourth
quarter from the previous three months, the European Union’s
statistics office said. That’s the most since the first quarter
of 2009 and compares with the median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg survey for a 0.4 percent contraction.  Japan unexpectedly shrank last quarter as falling exports
and investment outweighed improved consumption.  GDP dropped  an
annualized 0.4 percent, compared with the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg for 0.4 percent growth.  Swiss stocks pared losses as Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. and Jorge Paulo Lemann’s 3G Capital agreed to buy
HJ Heinz Co. for about $23 billion and a report showed fewer
Americans than projected filed  applications  for unemployment
benefits last week.  ABB  rallied 5.6 percent to 20.81 francs, the highest price
since July 2011. Fourth-quarter net income declined 27 percent
from a year earlier to $604 million, the Zurich-based company
said. The average estimate by analysts in a survey by Bloomberg
was for $570 million. Sales increased 4 percent to $11 billion,
in line with estimates.  Actelion Dividend  Actelion climbed 93 centimes to 46.41 francs after saying
it will increase the  dividend  by 25 percent to 1 franc a share.
Core earnings rose 12 percent last year to 537 million
francs ($582 million), or 3.69 francs a share. Analysts had
predicted 3.70 francs, according to the average of seven
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Clariant added 4.9 percent to 14.06 francs. Full-year
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
from continuing operations amounted to 802 million francs.
Analysts estimated earnings of 744 million francs, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Underlying profitability is even stronger than
expected,”  Patrick Rafaisz , an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG,
wrote in a note to clients today. “Hence, despite the short
term uncertainty regarding economic prospects, we believe that
the transformational changes of the group will continue and help
dive well above industry-average EPS growth.”  Panalpina Upgrade  Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG climbed 5.7 percent to
98 francs, the biggest gain since May, as Berenberg Bank AG
raised the freight forwarder’s shares to buy from sell, citing
the “prospects for the container-shipping industry.”  Nestle, which makes up 22 percent of the SMI by weight,
declined 2.3 percent to 63 francs for the  biggest drag  on the
index. Annual revenue advanced 5.9 percent excluding
acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts. That was less than
the 6 percent average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  