-- U.K. Must Seek International Effort on Terror, Hague Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-02-14T13:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/u-k-must-seek-international-effort-on-terror-hague-says.html
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said
the longer the conflict in Syria goes on the more Britons will
be radicalized into becoming jihadists who threaten the U.K.  “Syria is now the No. 1 destination for jihadists anywhere
in the world today,” Hague said in a speech at the Royal United
Services Institute in London today. “This includes a number of
individuals connected with the U.K. and other European
countries. They may not pose a threat to us when they first go
to Syria, but if they survive some may return ideologically
hardened with experience of weapons and explosives.”  Hague renewed his plea for Russia to use its influence on
Syria, with which it has ties dating back to the Cold War, to
help negotiate a new government. He sees that being formed of
the opposition and elements of the current Syrian regime.  The longer the conflict continues, the greater the risk of
repatriating jihadists into Britain, Hague said. “More innocent
lives will be lost, extremists will be emboldened, sectarianism
will increase and the risk of the use of chemical or biological
weapons will grow.”  The U.K. will also work with other governments to develop
“a long-term, coordinated international approach” to defeat
terrorism amid a growing threat in the West and North Africa.  “We must be resolute, decisive, and principled,”
responding with methods “ranging from the overt to the
covert,” Hague said. “The bulk of our effort to counter
terrorism is now overseas where terrorists train and plan for
attacks in the West. We cannot do it without working with other
countries.”  Hostage Crisis  Prime Minister  David Cameron  went to Algeria and Libya last
month, seeking to step up security cooperation in the wake of
the hostage crisis at a gas plant in eastern Algeria that left
six Britons dead. He announced that U.K. special forces may
train the Algerian army in counter-terrorism techniques.  The U.K. is providing military personnel to help train
a regional intervention force to combat Islamist militants in
northern Mali. It has also provided transport and surveillance
aircraft to assist French forces fighting in the country.  The nature of the terror threat has changed, being
geographically more diverse, more fragmented and “based even
more closely on the exploitation of local and regional issues,”
Hague said. “We must address the conditions in which terrorism
thrives. We must also strengthen the ability of states to
counter terrorism, while protecting human rights.”  The opposition Labour Party’s defense spokesman,  Jim Murphy , used a separate speech in London today to attack the
U.K.’s past approach to tackling the threat from al Qaeda.  ‘Loose Franchise’  “A principal flaw of past operations was to misunderstand
the complexity of the threat,” he said. “Al Qaeda was
presented as a grouping with traditional command and control
structures. While truer in the past, it was and is a loose
franchise; as much a worldview as a coherent entity. A search
for simplicity and commonality led to solutions which paid
insufficient regard to local circumstance and hailed ‘mission
accomplished’ moments which may never be attainable in the
traditional sense against extremism.”  Murphy argued that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
should intervene in conflicts earlier and focus more on training
of forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  