-- U.K. Risks Blackouts Without Incentives for Natural Gas
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-02-14T14:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/u-k-risks-blackouts-without-incentives-for-natural-gas.html
The U.K. risks blackouts this decade
unless it gives industry details soon about the capacity
auctions intended to spur the development of new gas-fired power
plants, the executives at Spain’s biggest utility said.  The U.K. is “unlikely to see any significant investment”
in combined-cycle gas turbines, or CCGTs, until it provides more
details on how the capacity market will work,  Keith Anderson ,
who heads  Iberdrola SA ’s activities in Britain, told reporters
in London today.  The comments add to pressure on Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government to advance work on a new energy law being
debated in Parliament. The rules would pay power generators for
back-up supplies usable when clean-energy generation falls short
of demand.  “If the decision is not taken in a hurry, the decisions of
investment will be delayed, and if the decisions of investments
are delayed, the country can suffer blackouts during the
decade,” Iberdrola Chairman  Ignacio Galan  said at the briefing.
“That is particularly shocking. We require numbers.”  Galan follows the former U.K. government’s chief scientific
adviser, Sir David King, in warning the country faces power
outages unless the government hastens change to the energy
industry.  Risks Rising  The energy regulator Ofgem estimated in October that
because of power plant closures, the statistical probability of
 households  losing power will rise to once in every 12 years by
2016 from once every 3,300 years now.  King said last March that a better strategy on new nuclear
plants was required, or “the risk of the lights going off is
very serious.”  Galan said Iberdrola’s  Scottish Power  unit has three
planned CCGT plants that are “ready to start if the country
requires and the terms are reasonable.”  Anderson said the government is keeping to its timeline for
arrangements surrounding so-called contracts-for-difference.
Those are a new payment system guaranteeing a long-term price
for generating power. The current draft of the energy bill has
those provisions.  “For the CFDs, the government have hit the timeline and
the deadline, and we’re working on the assumption they will
continue to do that,” Anderson said. “For CCGTs and the
capacity auctions, that’s where we feel the government needs to
accelerate that process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  