-- U.K. Investors Should Shun Long-Term Bonus Plans, PIRC Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-02-14T16:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/u-k-investors-should-shun-long-term-bonus-plans-pirc-says.html
Long-term incentive plans for
managers don’t punish executives for poor planning and should be
opposed by shareholders in British companies, according to an
adviser on more than $2 trillion in pensions.  “Our conclusion regarding LTIPs is simple: they are not
long term and they do not incentivize,”  Alan MacDougall ,
managing director of  Pensions & Investment Research Consultants
Ltd. , a U.K. corporate-governance adviser, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “They are also ineffective due to amendments
and manipulation by remuneration committees.”  Investors should also consider how companies use
compensation consultants, PIRC said the statement. Consultants
are largely responsible for pay plans companies use to
compensate their executives, it said, adding that auditors of a
company’s accounts shouldn’t also help set pay.  Investors should vote against accepting the report and
accounts of companies that adopt new long-term incentive plans
this year, said PIRC, which advises institutional investors.  Investors have voted against executive compensation at
record rates over the past two years, with half of FTSE 350
companies receiving more than 20 percent of votes against their
pay plans in 2011 and 2012, said Manifest Information Services
Ltd., a proxy voting firm. Fund managers including Fidelity
Worldwide Investment have said executive pay is too complicated
and share awards should be spread over longer periods.  Companies offer executives long-term incentive plans that
can dwarf their salary. In 2011,  Barclays Plc ’s chief executive
officer at the time,  Robert Diamond , was awarded as much as 2.25
million pounds ($3.49 million) in long-term incentives compared
with a 1.35 million-pound salary, according to the London-based
bank’s annual report. Twenty-seven percent of investors voted
against the pay plan at the bank’s annual meeting in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  