-- U.K. Stocks Decline as German, French Economies Contract
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-02-14T16:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/u-k-stocks-little-changed-rio-tinto-gains-on-dividend.html
U.K. stocks  fell from their highest
level in more than four years as reports showed the economies of
Germany and France contracted more than forecast.  Amec Plc tumbled the most in six months as the company
failed to renew a share-buyback program when it announced
results. Carnival Corp. dropped the most in eight weeks after
saying a fire on one of its cruise ships will reduce profit in
the first half of the year. Man Group Plc climbed an eighth day
for its longest streak of gains in 12 years.  The  FTSE 100  fell 31.75 points, or 0.5 percent, to 6,327.36
at the close in London. The equity benchmark rose yesterday to
its highest level since May 2008 as companies rallied after
reporting earnings. The gauge has still gained 7.3 percent so
far this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise federal
budget. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also declined 0.5
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 0.1 percent.  “Markets have reacted quite badly to the GDP numbers out
of Germany and France,”  Richard Scrope , who helps manage about
$160 million at Oriel Asset Management LLP in London, said in a
phone interview. “Companies have been saying it’s still pretty
difficult in Europe and the worse-than-consensus numbers cast a
poor light on the economy.”  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy,  gross domestic
product  slid 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said in a report. That compared
with the 0.5 percent contraction forecast by economists in a
Bloomberg survey and a 0.2 percent expansion in the third
quarter of last year.  France’s Economy  France’s GDP  declined 0.3 percent in the same period, the
national statistics office said in Paris. The median projection
in a Bloomberg survey had called for a 0.2 percent contraction.
The combined economy of the 17 nations that use the euro shrank
0.6 percent over the three months through December.  Japan’s economy unexpectedly shrank last quarter, another
release showed.  GDP  fell an annualized 0.4 percent, following a
revised 3.8 percent drop in the previous quarter, the Cabinet
Office said in Tokyo. The median forecast of economists had
called for growth of 0.4 percent.  In the U.S.,  initial jobless claims  decreased by 27,000 to
341,000 in the week ended Feb. 9, Labor Department figures
showed. That was lower than the 360,000 average forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Amec Tumbles  Amec sank 7.3 percent to 1,042 pence as the company said in
a statement that it has completed a 400 million-pound ($620
million) share-buyback program. The oil and gas engineer also
said its order book at the end of 2012 stood at 3.6 billion
pounds, compared with 3.7 billion pounds a year earlier.  Carnival slipped 2.9 percent to 2,500 pence, its biggest
drop since Dec. 20, after saying a fire on the Triumph cruise
ship will lower its earnings by 8 cents to 10 cents a share in
the first half of 2013.  Britvic Plc  slid 7.1 percent to 390 pence after the U.K.
distributor of Pepsi was downgraded to sell and underweight,
respectively, at Societe Generale SA and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and to equal weight, the equivalent of neutral, at Barclays Plc.  The brokerages lowered their recommendations as A.G. Barr
Plc called off its planned acquisition of Britvic yesterday
after the Office of Fair Trading referred the deal to the
Competition Commission. The OFT said the proposed takeover might
reduce competition in the soft-drinks market. A.G. Barr, which
makes Irn-Bru and Orangina, slipped 2.5 percent to 502.5 pence.  Man Group  Man Group climbed 2.3 percent to 111.1 pence, its highest
price in 10 months, amid reports the company may be bought.
Britain’s biggest publicly traded hedge fund was the subject of
a “vague bid rumor,” according to the Independent. The Daily
Mail also said the company may become a target. Neither
newspaper identified the source of the information.  Next Plc  added 1.2 percent to 4,182 pence as HSBC Holdings
Plc upgraded the shares to overweight from neutral, meaning that
investors should own more of the shares than are represented in
benchmark indexes. The brokerage cited the clothing retailer’s
superior cost management compared with its peers.  The volume of shares changing hands on FTSE 100-listed
companies was 9.1 percent greater than the average of the last
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  