-- U.S. Fourth Quarter Foreign Exchange Operations (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-02-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/u-s-fourth-quarter-foreign-exchange-operations-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
foreign exchange operations report.  TREASURY AND FEDERAL RESERVE  FOREIGN EXCHANGE OPERATIONS  October-December 2012  During the fourth quarter, the U.S. dollar’s nominal trade-
weighted exchange value increased 1.0 percent as measured by the
Federal Reserve Board’s major currencies index. The dollar
appreciated 11.3 percent against the Japanese yen and
depreciated 2.5 percent against the euro, though it remained
relatively little changed against most other major currencies
over the period. The dollar’s notable appreciation against the
yen occurred amid expectations of greater fiscal and monetary
accommodation resulting from a change in political leadership in
Japan. The U.S. monetary authorities did not intervene in the
foreign exchange markets during the quarter.  U.S. DOLLAR TRACKS DEVELOPMENTS IN “FISCAL-CLIFF” NEGOTIATIONS  During the fourth quarter, the trade-weighted U.S. dollar
appreciated 1.0 percent on net. The dollar experienced some
modest intraquarter volatility, as evolving U.S. political
developments were a predominant focus of financial markets.
Developments surrounding the year-end scheduled sequestered
fiscal spending cuts of the Budget Control Act of 2011 and
expiration of the Tax Relief Act of 2010--collectively referred
to as the “fiscal cliff”--dictated market sentiment for much of
November and December. The trade-weighted U.S. dollar reached
its three-month peak in mid-November, as the increased risk of
significant fiscal-cliff-related economic drag in 2013 weighed
on broader market sentiment and led investors to seek safe-haven
assets in the United States, supporting the dollar against
several other global growth-sensitive currencies. This was
illustrated by the U.S. dollar’s appreciation of between 1.8
percent and 2.9 percent against the Canadian and New Zealand
dollars, Brazilian real, and Mexican peso from the beginning of
the quarter through November 15. The trade-weighted dollar’s
intraquarter peak also approximately coincided with the trough
in the S&P 500 index, as these two measures tended to inversely
track each other throughout the quarter.  Fiscal-cliff-related sentiment appeared to improve from mid-
November into December, prompting the dollar to reverse course
as investors expressed increased confidence that the full slate
of austerity measures would not be realized. The improved
sentiment also resulted in a modest paring back of long-dollar
exposures. However, uncertainty did increase somewhat in the
final days of 2012, just prior to passage of the American
Taxpayer Relief Act on January 1, 2013.  While fiscal-cliff negotiations were the predominant market
focus for most of the quarter, investors were also attuned to
U.S. monetary policy developments. The Federal Open Market
Committee (FOMC) announced at its December meeting that
unsterilized purchases of U.S. Treasuries would replace the
expiring Maturity Extension Program; the FOMC also introduced
quantitative employment- and inflation-related thresholds as
guidelines for its easing timeline, replacing the prior
calendar-based guidance. Market participants mostly
characterized the introduction of thresholds as having little
direct impact on the dollar, as it was generally viewed as a
continuation of the existing stance of policy and it fit mostly
in line with the previously used date guidelines. Improving U.S.
economic data, particularly on employment and housing,
contributed to a slightly more positive economic outlook over
the quarter, though most viewed the improvements as not enough
to materially alter the current state of U.S. monetary policy.  U.S. DOLLAR APPRECIATES SHARPLY AGAINST THE YEN AMID
EXPECTATIONS OF GREATER POLICY ACCOMMODATION IN JAPAN  The U.S. dollar appreciated 11.3 percent against the yen during
the quarter amid expectations of greater fiscal and monetary
policy accommodation resulting from a change in Japan’s
political leadership. The yen depreciated sharply against most
major currencies in mid-November after Prime Minister Yoshihiko
Noda announced new elections that raised expectations of a
leadership transition to Japan’s Liberal Democrat Party (LDP),
an outcome that was ultimately realized at the December 16
election. Throughout the quarter, LDP leader Shinzo Abe
campaigned on a platform that focused on instituting
reflationary policy actions. In particular, his campaign called
for greater fiscal expansion and increased policy easing by the
Bank of Japan (BoJ) in order to achieve an inflation target of
around 2 percent. These calls occurred amid BoJ decisions in
October and December to increase asset purchases by ¥11 trillion
and ¥10 trillion, respectively, reaching a total purchasing
capacity of ¥76 trillion. Ahead of greater policy accommodation
by the BoJ, the dollar-yen pair increased to ¥86.75 per dollar,
the highest level since June 2010.  Market participants also pointed to other factors as helping
drive the yen’s depreciation over the period. Japanese trade
data continued to deteriorate, particularly reflecting declining
exports to China, which analysts attributed to ongoing political
tensions between the two countries. The total Japanese trade
deficit declined by an additional ¥373 billion, based on data
released during the fourth quarter. The spread between interest
rates on U.S. Treasuries and Japanese government bonds also
widened modestly over the period, though the yen’s rate of
depreciation significantly outpaced this move, suggesting a
greater currency-specific risk premium.  Amid the notable depreciation of the yen in the spot foreign
exchange market during the quarter, measures of implied
volatility for the dollar-yen currency pair increased
moderately, reaching levels last observed during the summer of
2012. During the fourth quarter, one-month and one-year measures
of implied volatility increased 2.2 and 1.1 percentage points,
respectively, suggesting increased uncertainty over the future
path of the dollar-yen exchange rate. The increase in yen-
related implied volatility occurred against the trend of
generally declining implied foreign exchange volatility in most
other major currency pairs. Additionally, 25-delta risk
reversals for the dollar-yen currency pair, which measure the
relative price premium of call and put options, remained at
historically high levels, suggesting increased demand for
protection against further yen depreciation.  U.S. DOLLAR DEPRECIATES AGAINST EURO AMID PERCEIVED REDUCTION IN
NEAR-TERM TAIL RISKS IN EURO AREA  The U.S. dollar depreciated 2.5 percent against the euro during
the fourth quarter as sentiment toward the euro area continued
to improve following the European Central Bank’s (ECB)
explicitly stated support last summer for the euro and its
ensuing announcement of the Outright Monetary Transactions
program in September. This sentiment was further supported in
November, as European officials approved an additional funding
package for Greece. In particular, interest rates were reduced
and maturities were extended on existing Greek loans in an
effort to reduce the country’s long-term debt burden. Consistent
with the requirements of the aid package, Greece successfully
completed a buyback of its private bond debt in December. This
improved tone was further evidenced by the decline in euro-area
peripheral sovereign yield spreads in the region. For example,
Spanish and Italian ten-year spreads to the German equivalent
declined 55 and 47 basis points, respectively, during the fourth
quarter.  Euro-area economic data also improved somewhat throughout the
quarter, lending incremental support to the euro in November and
December. Specifically, German business survey prints were
generally soft early in the fourth quarter, though they
rebounded moderately later in the quarter. Manufacturing data
across the euro area also improved somewhat toward the end of
the period, though they still pointed to contraction in several
euro-area countries. Nevertheless, market participants cited an
improving trend in the data as providing support for the euro
during the end of the quarter. By late December, the euro
reached $1.3244 per euro, the currency pair’s highest level
since April 2012.  The continued theme of reduced near-term tail risks across the
euro area contributed to the decline in implied volatility in
the euro-dollar currency pair during the quarter. One-month and
one-year measures of implied volatility declined by as many as
1.9 and 1.3 percentage points, respectively, reaching levels
last observed prior to the escalation of the 2008 financial
crisis, though they partially retraced during the final weeks of
the quarter. Additionally, risk reversals continued to reflect
reduced demand for protection against euro depreciation during
the quarter.  U.S. DOLLAR DEPRECIATES AGAINST THE RENMINBI TO REACH STRONGEST
LEVELS SINCE 2005 DE-PEG  The U.S. dollar depreciated 0.9 percent against the Chinese
renminbi during the fourth quarter, with the renminbi reaching
its strongest level since the Chinese authorities de-pegged the
exchange rate in June 2005. The renminbi appreciated 2.5 percent
against the dollar from the currency pair’s recent peak in late
July through the end of the year. Market participants pointed to
China’s improved economic data, a moderation of its trade
balance, and reduced euro-area uncertainty as contributing to
the currency’s appreciation. For the year, the renminbi rose 1.0
percent against the dollar, a more modest appreciation than the
5.0 percent figure observed in 2011.  The magnitudes of the daily maximum intraday deviations between
the dollar-renminbi spot rate and the official fixing rate were
also notable during the fourth quarter, continuing the trend of
increased deviation observed since September. The dollar-
renminbi spot rate consistently traded at the stronger end of
the People’s Bank of China’s +/- 1.0 percent intraday band over
the most recent quarter. This price action represented a
reversal from the trend seen earlier in the year, in which the
renminbi regularly traded above the official fixed rate,
reflecting depreciation pressures arising from Chinese
macroeconomic concerns at the time.  TREASURY AND FEDERAL RESERVE FOREIGN EXCHANGE HOLDINGS  The U.S. monetary authorities did not undertake any intervention
operations during the quarter. As of December 31, the value of
the U.S. Treasury’s Exchange Stabilization Fund foreign-
currency-denominated assets totaled $24.95 billion, comprised of
euro and yen holdings. The Federal Reserve System Open Market
Account holdings of foreign-currency-denominated assets totaled
$24.97 billion, also comprised of euro and yen holdings.  Dollar Liquidity Swap Arrangements with Foreign Central Banks  On December 13, 2012, the Federal Reserve, in coordination with
the Bank of Canada (BoC), the Bank of England (BoE), the BoJ,
the ECB, and the Swiss National Bank, agreed to extend
authorization of both the U.S. dollar and foreign currency
liquidity swap arrangements through February 1, 2014. The rate
on the dollar liquidity swap arrangements was unchanged at the
U.S. dollar overnight indexed swap rate plus 50 basis points. As
of December 31, the ECB had $8.89 billion outstanding under the
U.S. dollar liquidity swaps, of which $8.29 billion was in
three-month tenors with the remainder in a fourteen-day
transaction over year-end. The BoJ had only $1 million
outstanding, all of which was part of a twenty-one-day
transaction over year-end.  Foreign Exchange Reserve Holdings  The U.S. monetary authorities invest their foreign currency
reserves in a variety of instruments that yield market rates of
return and have a high degree of liquidity and credit quality.
To the greatest extent practicable, the investments are split
evenly between the System Open Market Account and the Exchange
Stabilization Fund. A significant portion of the U.S. monetary
authorities’ foreign exchange reserves is invested on an
outright basis in German, French, and Japanese government
securities. The amount of euro-denominated reserves held on
deposit at official institutions continued to rise in the fourth
quarter, given extremely low rates in euro-denominated money
markets, whereas the amount of yen-denominated deposits has
remained fairly steady over recent quarters. A smaller portion
of the reserves is currently invested in euro-denominated
repurchase agreements, under which the U.S. monetary authorities
accept sovereign debt backed by the full faith and credit of the
following governments: Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands, and Spain. Foreign currency reserves are also
invested at the Bank for International Settlements and in
facilities at other official institutions. As of December 31,
2012, direct holdings of foreign government securities totaled
$23.67 billion and foreign government securities held under
repurchase agreements totaled $1.32 billion.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of New York  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristy Scheuble  in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  