-- U.S. Pledges Another Unsafe-Bus Crackdown After Crashes
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-02-14T21:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/u-s-pledges-another-unsafe-bus-crackdown-after-crashes.html
The U.S. Transportation Department,
reacting to two fatal intercity bus crashes on the West Coast,
said it would send specially trained investigators to find and
shut down unsafe companies over the next two months.  Scapadas Magicas LLC was shut down Feb. 8 after the
regulators said the firm wasn’t maintaining or inspecting its
vehicles properly. One of the National City, California-based
company’s three buses crashed into a car and a pickup truck Feb.
3, killing seven bus passengers and the truck driver.  The bus industry supports the crackdown and will alert
regulators to companies that don’t appear to be taking safety
seriously, said  Peter Pantuso , president and chief executive
officer of the Washington-based  American Bus Association .  “These companies that continue to kill people, that
continue to operate beyond the margins of safety, need to be
rooted out,” Pantuso said.  This isn’t the first time regulators have pledged tougher
action to get unsafe bus companies off the road. The
Transportation Department shut down 26 companies in May in its
largest motorcoach safety sweep. Three so-called Chinatown bus
operations in New York and Philadelphia were the primary
targets.  “Our fundamental goal is to ensure the safety of
passengers on our roadways and save lives,” Transportation
Secretary  Ray LaHood  said in a statement today. “We’ve seen the
tragic consequences when motorcoach companies cut corners.”  Defective Brakes  The bus involved in the Feb. 3 crash near Yucaipa,
California, was ordered off the road twice last year because of
defective brakes, before the company was cleared by U.S.
regulators on Jan. 9 to operate without restrictions. The bus
was en route to Tijuana, Mexico, after a day trip to the San
Bernardino National Forest.  Nine passengers were killed and 39 others injured in a Dec.
30 bus crash in eastern Oregon involving a Canadian company, Mi
Joo Tour & Travel. The driver in that crash had driven 92 hours
over a seven-day period, according to the Transportation
Department. Federal regulations cap driving time at 70 hours per
week.  Companies with multiple, known safety violations haven’t
been shut down until after a fatal crash, a pattern that has
been present for years, National Transportation Safety Board
Chairman  Deborah Hersman  told reporters in Washington Feb. 6.
She cited repeated incidents the board has investigated
involving poor maintenance and fatigued drivers.  Business Cost  Many companies treat safety citations and the threat of
being temporarily ordered off the road as a cost of doing
business, Hersman said.  State and local police are being asked to increase their
efforts to enforce violations of traffic laws by buses,
including speeding, improper lane-changes, texting and using
handheld mobile phones, the Transportation Department said
today. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration is
conducting a top-to-bottom analysis of its oversight of the bus
industry, the department said.  The Transportation Department announcement followed a
morning meeting among LaHood, FMCSA administrator  Anne Ferro ,
the bus association’s Pantuso, and representatives of the United
Motorcoach Association, the Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance,
the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators and
safety groups, Pantuso said.  LaHood and Ferro seem to be working to build on lessons
from last year’s Chinatown bus sweep and to replicate it across
the country, Pantuso said.  “They have the same frustrations we have,”  he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  