-- U.S. Grant to Korean Battery Firm Paid Workers to Play
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2013-02-14T07:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/u-s-grant-to-korean-battery-firm-paid-workers-to-play.html
Part of $142 million in U.S. Energy
Department grant money given to a South Korean battery maker
paid Michigan factory workers as they spent hours playing board
games and watching movies, according to an agency report.  The work at LG Chem Michigan, a U.S. unit of Seoul-based LG
Chem Ltd., has “not been managed effectively,” Energy
Department Inspector General  Gregory Friedman  said in a report
released yesterday.  The Energy Department cash was to cover about half of the
costs to build a manufacturing plant in Holland, Michigan, for
lithium batteries to supply  General Motors Co. ’s plug-in hybrid
Chevy Volt. The goal was to create more than 440 jobs and to
produce enough batteries for 60,000 electric cars and trucks by
the end of 2013, according to the report.  LG Chem’s troubles at the Holland factory mark another
stumble in President  Barack Obama ’s effort to promote clean
energy manufacturing with government funds. Solyndra LLC, a
solar-panel maker, collapsed just two years after it received a
$535 million U.S. loan guarantee. Battery maker  A123 Systems
Inc.  declared bankruptcy in October and has since been sold to a
Chinese company after also receiving federal funds.  While the LG Chem facility has produced test batteries, it
has yet to make any for commercial use, and employment there was
less than half of projections at the time the inspector
general’s review was conducted, according to the report.  ‘Video Games’  Lacking work, “employees spent time volunteering at local
non-profit organizations, playing video games and watching
movies during regular hours,” the inspector general said in the
report. The department may have paid about $842,000 to employees
who weren’t working, the inspector general said. The company has
reimbursed the government.  LG Chem attributed the delay of commercial operations at
the battery factory to smaller-than-expected demand from the
second half of last year, the company said in an e-mailed
statement today. It denied the inspector general’s claim that
U.S. taxpayer money helped pay employees to play games.  Some employees volunteered at outside organizations to help
the community, while others performed “necessary maintenance”
to keep the plant ready for production, LG Chem, South Korea’s
largest chemical manufacturer, said in the statement.  LG Chem, which continues to make batteries for the U.S. at
a facility in South Korea, is “developing” plans for the start
of production at the Holland facility but hasn’t set a date, the
company said. At the moment, 150 employees are working at the
Michigan plant, LG Chem said.  Republican Criticism  Energy Department officials told the inspector general that
“language requiring the shift in production had not been
incorporated into the grant.”  Friedman’s report prompted new criticism from Republicans
about the department’s clean-energy efforts under the 2009
economic stimulus program, which also funded Fremont,
California-based Solyndra.  “It is an outrage that American taxpayer dollars were
given to a company that failed to reach basic project goals and
paid employees to watch movies and play board games during work
hours,” said Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican and
chairman of the House Science committee.  Despite the Solyndra and A123 setbacks, Obama reiterated
his commitment to clean energy in his Feb. 12 State of the Union
speech by calling for the creation of a fund paid for with oil
and gas revenue to research alternatives to gasoline, including
the development of electric-car batteries.  Not Sufficient  LG Chem said the U.S. government funded half of the $300
million investment in the battery plant with the company funding
the rest on condition that it will recoup as much as $130
million through tax breaks from the government.  “There has not been sufficient market demand to make
production at LG Chem Michigan financially feasible,” LG Chem
said in the statement. “The cost of filling limited demand from
two separate facilities would not make economic sense.”  The company’s rechargeable battery business, which produces
batteries for electric cars and notebook computers, shifted to
an operating loss of 14.8 billion won ($13.7 million) in the
fourth quarter from an operating profit of 45.7 billion won
($42.2 million) a year earlier.  “Employment and production at LG Chem Michigan will be
determined by market demand, and we have great confidence in the
future of the market,” LG Chem said in the statement.  LG Chem shares rose 0.2 percent to close at 302,500 won
today in Seoul, marking the highest close since Feb. 4. Korea’s
benchmark Kospi index gained 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  