-- Munich Re Studies Wind-Farm Deal in $3.4 Billion Renewables Plan
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-02-14T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/munich-re-studies-wind-farm-deal-in-3-4-billion-renewables-plan.html
Munich Re, the world’s biggest re-
insurer, may buy a stake in an offshore wind farm operated by
utilities such as  EON SE  and  RWE AG  as it earmarks 2.5 billion
euros ($3.4 billion) to invest in renewable-energy assets.  MEAG Munich Ergo AssetManagement, Munich Re’s investment
arm, is in talks with utilities about investing in a project
stake once the farm is connected to the power grid, said  Robert Pottmann , who heads MEAG’s renewable-energy unit.  “It would be a grid-connected wind farm developed,
financed and operated by a big utility,” Pottmann said by phone
from Munich.  Germany, boosting renewables to counter the phase-out of
atomic energy, is seeking to add 25,000 megawatts of sea-based
wind turbines by 2030 with a capacity similar to 25 nuclear
plants. Utilities EON, RWE and Dong Energy A/S are developing
projects to add to the 280 megawatts already running.  Munich RE and MEAG intend to invest in onshore wind and
solar photovoltaic projects in Europe and North America,
Pottmann said. The re-insurer may subsequently buy stakes in
completed geothermal projects in Germany, he said.  In December, Munich Re teamed up with  General Electric Co .
and  Electricite de France SA  to buy about 350 million euros’
worth of land-based wind farms in France from  Iberdrola SA .  Separately, Munich Re and MEAG aim to invest about 1.5
billion euros in infrastructure projects such as gas and
transportation networks, he said. Der Spiegel reported Feb. 8
that  Allianz SE  wants to invest billions of euros in power grid
operator TenneT TSO GmbH to help connect the country’s offshore
wind farms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  