-- Unicom Slide Cuts Rally as Leaders Loom: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-14T22:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/unicom-slide-cuts-rally-as-leaders-loom-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  fell for the first
time in three days in New York, on speculation investors are
waiting for policy indications from the new government after
shares jumped to the most expensive level since October.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese equities in the U.S. fell 0.2 percent to 96.55
yesterday.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU) , the nation’s second-
largest mobile-phone company, fell a sixth day, while  China
Telecom Corp. (CHA)  slid to a three-month low.  China Life Insurance
Co. (LFC)  sank the most in a week. American depositary receipts of
 Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  erased their premium over Hong
Kong shares as trading in the city resumed after the New Year
holiday.  The China-U.S. gauge has lost 3.6 percent this month after
an 8 percent surge in December and January. Companies on the
measure traded at an average 13 times estimated profit, down
from a two-month high of 14 reached Jan. 10, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The new government leadership, to be
installed at the National People’s Congress starting March 5,
may announce fresh measures to damp the property market before
the meeting, the Shanghai Securities Journal reported Feb. 6.  “People are still waiting for possible new economic
measures from the new leadership before the March Congress,”
Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc.,
which manages about $700 million of investments including
Chinese equities, said by phone from Lisle,  Illinois . “Chinese
stocks are also taking a breather after big rallies in benchmark
indexes in previous months.”  Chinese ETF  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed for a third day,
adding 0.4 percent to $40.22 in New York. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  was little changed at 1,521.38 as declining U.S.
jobless claims and billionaire investor  Warren Buffett ’s deal to
acquire H.J. Heinz Co. tempered concern over shrinking economies
in Europe and  Japan .  The ETF had gained for five consecutive months before
retreating in February. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index
has rallied 31 percent since its September low.  “The correction in Chinese equities is very natural,”
Colin Bell, vice president of  emerging markets  for Auerbach
Grayson Co. in New York, said by phone yesterday. “Large
institutions put in new money to work and that tends to happen
in a big way in January. It’s often hard for investors to put
more money to work in February.”  China Unicom’s ADRs dropped 1.5 percent to $14.86, the
lowest level since Nov. 16. Its ADRs traded 0.8 percent below
Hong Kong shares, the widest  discount  since Feb. 7. China
Telecom, the smallest of China’s three biggest wireless
carriers, slumped 1.4 percent to a three-month low of $52.28.
 China Mobile Ltd. (CHL) , the world’s largest mobile-phone company by
users, retreated 0.5 percent to $55.34 after rising in the
previous two days.  Slowdown Concern  Investors are concerned about China Unicom’s slowing growth
in third-generation service users as bigger competitor China
Mobile is set to start its fourth-generation service this year,
according to Jun Zhang, a San Jose, California-based analyst at
Wedge Partners Corp. China Telecom may spend more than the other
two carriers in building its 4G network, Zhang said in an e-mail
yesterday.  ADRs of China Life, the nation’s biggest insurer, fell 1.1
percent to $47.33 in New York, the steepest slide in a week.  Melco Slips  Melco, which runs casinos in  Macau , retreated 0.3 percent
to $20.92 in New York, after jumping 2.1 percent on Feb. 13. Its
ADRs traded 0.3 percent  below  its Hong Kong shares, erasing the
previous day’s 5.7 percent premium, the highest since August.  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , owner of China’s most-popular websites,
jumped 6.7 percent to $22.52, the steepest rally since Jan. 10.
The company had the biggest gain on the China-US stock
benchmark.  China Natural Gas Inc. (CHNG) , operator of a natural-gas pipeline
in the nation, tumbled 29 percent to 55 cents in New York, the
biggest slide since June. The company was hit on Feb. 8 with an
involuntary Chapter 11 petition filed by three creditors
collectively owed $42.2 million on senior notes, according to a
filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.  Thirty-day  volatility  on the China-US gauge fell to 15.6
yesterday, the lowest level this year and compared with an
average of 18 over the past six months.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 1.5 percent
to 11,821.44 in the first trading day after a three-day holiday
in Hong Kong. Mainland markets remain closed until Feb. 18.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) , the world’s largest
exchange company by market value, said yesterday it received
regulatory approval to start after-hours futures trading and
will begin the service on April 8.  Hang Seng Index and H-shares Index futures will be
available for trading from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. from the date, in
addition to regular hours, the bourse said in a statement. Gold
futures will also be considered for inclusion at a later stage,
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  