-- Hunter’s Patek Philippe Gift Started NBA Union Countdown
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-02-14T01:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/hunter-s-patek-philippe-gift-started-nba-union-countdown.html
The $22,000 Patek Philippe timepiece
showed  Jerome Williams  that something was wrong in the National
Basketball Association players union.  It was a 2010 gift to  Derek Fisher  in his first year as
union president, paid for with organization funds by  Billy Hunter , executive director since 1996. Hunter helped negotiate
collective bargaining agreements that pushed the average NBA
salary past $5 million, the highest in U.S. team sports, in a
league with $5 billion in annual revenue.  By April 2012, Fisher was expressing concerns about union
practices, leading to an investigation that concluded Hunter
placed himself above the association with actions and spending
that were ill-advised though not illegal. Still the subject of a
probe by the Manhattan U.S. attorney’s office, Hunter was
suspended with pay on Feb. 1, and this weekend the 30 team
representatives in the National Basketball Players Association
will decide during the All-Star break in Houston whether to fire
him from the $3 million-a-year job.  “When you’re in this type of position these things can’t
be done,” said Williams, a former New York Knicks forward and
union executive committee member from 1999 to 2004, adding the
most valuable item he received from Hunter was a leather jacket
worth $200. “We’re not talking about the local Big Daddy’s
pizza shop. This is the NBA players. This is billions of dollars
on the line.”  It hasn’t been determined whether the union’s five-member
acting executive committee will permit the 70-year-old former
federal prosecutor to address the players before their vote.  Paul, Weiss  Deciding whether to fire Hunter was among the
recommendations from a nine-month investigation by the New York
law firm Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP, which was
retained by a special committee of players formed to examine
union practices. The 229-page review criticized Hunter, saying
he failed to manage conflicts of interest, including the hiring
of family members; didn’t disclose that his contract wasn’t
properly ratified; and made questionable choices on billing for
personal travel and vacation time.  Hunter, who while playing football at Syracuse University
helped to organize a boycott of Southern schools with segregated
stadiums, brought that same assertive personality to the union’s
top job.  “Billy, in my experience, was a very strong advocate for
the players,” said former NBA Deputy Commissioner  Russ Granik ,
who twice served as management’s lead negotiator in contract
talks. “The deals that were reached were in both cases
appropriate deals under the current economic circumstances.”  Business Style  While Hunter’s fighting instinct served the players well
during collective bargaining talks with Commissioner  David Stern 
and the owners, he alienated employees and the agents who
orchestrated the dismissal of his predecessor, Simon Guordine,
according to a half-dozen people who have worked with Hunter and
who spoke on the condition of anonymity.  Stern declined to comment on Hunter, the Paul, Weiss report
or union matters. Hunter declined an interview request.  NBA players receive about 50 percent of so-called
basketball-related income under the current contract, which was
reached after a lockout in 2011. That’s about the same
percentage as their football and hockey counterparts who
recently negotiated agreements after their owners imposed
lockouts. Only the National Football League avoided missing
games and paychecks.  Vuitton Bags  The Paul, Weiss report said Hunter spent more than $100,000
in union funds over the past 10 years on luxury gifts for
members of the executive committee, which sets association
policies. They included alligator belts, gold cuff links,  Louis
Vuitton  bags and the watch given to Fisher.  “The facts do show that, at times, Mr. Hunter’s actions
were inconsistent with his fiduciary obligations to put the
interests of the union above his personal interest,” according
to the report.  Keith Murnighan, the Harold J. Hines Jr. Distinguished
Professor of Management and Organization at Northwestern
University’s Kellogg School of Management, said in a telephone
interview that no chief executive would keep his job in the face
of such a report.  “The combination is clearly a picture of someone who has
lost sight of their basic duties and responsibilities,”
Murnighan said on Feb. 11 after reading the Paul, Weiss report.
“He clearly was not always putting the union first.”  Hunter has denied wrongdoing, and offered a point-by-point
rebuttal of the Paul, Weiss report to the New York Times last
week. Hunter said he would fight to keep his job.  “It’s almost like you put enough together, and you throw
it up against the wall, hopefully something will stick,” Hunter
was quoted as saying in the newspaper. “But when you look at
them each individually, we can rebut them.”  Family Pay  The union paid more than $4.8 million to Hunter’s family
members and their professional firms since 2001, according to a
U.S. Department of Labor filing first reported by Bloomberg News
in April. Hunter purged family members from the association
after the report was released nine months later.  Agent  Arn Tellem , in a letter to clients that include
former Most Valuable Player  Derrick Rose , accused the executive
director of “treachery.”  David Falk , who represented Hall of
Fame members  Michael Jordan  and former union president  Patrick Ewing , lambasted apathetic players in a Jan. 19 Bloomberg News
interview for creating an anything-goes atmosphere at the New
York-based association.  “Hunter is betting that the players -- historically
passive -- will let him slide,” Tellem said in his Jan. 28
letter. “I hope you don’t. Clearly, Hunter has violated your
trust.”  Transparent Dealings  Theo Ratliff, 39, sees it differently. He spent 1998-2012
on the union’s executive committee. Contrary to the Paul, Weiss
report’s finding, he said Hunter was always transparent with the
association’s officers.  “All he’s ever done is enhance the union and try and have
it more forward-thinking. I’ve always had the utmost respect as
far as how he’s handled his business,” said Ratliff, who last
played for the Los Angeles Lakers. “My biggest problem is you
have a guy, Derek Fisher, that’s basically trying to control the
union. He’s trying to control the guys by giving them the
information he wants to give them. Billy can’t tell his side.”  Like Ratliff,  Bob Lanza , the union’s general counsel from
1997 to 2002, said in an interview that Hunter should be granted
an audience with the players who’ll decide his fate.  “This is the single most important decision they’re going
to make,” Lanza said. “A rush to judgment doesn’t serve the
players.”  Both Sides  Etan Thomas, a Tellem client and retired player who was on
the union’s executive committee during the most recent labor
talks with owners, says he wants to ensure that players are
making up their own minds and not taking direction from their
agents.  “The only way that can happen is if they hear both
sides,” he said, adding that he and Tellem have frequently
disagreed about Hunter. “We know what the report says. Now
let’s hear from Derek, and let’s hear from Billy. Both of them
have earned that respect. After that, whatever the vote is, the
other person bows out gracefully.”  Pat Garrity , a former union treasurer who graduated from
Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business after his retirement
in 2008, unsuccessfully tried four years ago to warn Fisher and
other executive committee members about questionable business
and hiring practices. Garrity says the late Gary Hall, Hunter’s
friend of 30 years and the union’s general counsel, told him he
wasn’t an active member and that his input wasn’t welcome.  Speculative Businesses  Players are taking notice of the conclusions made in the
Paul, Weiss report, which also said Hunter spent at least
$300,000 pursuing speculative business ventures as potential
investments for the union, including a mixed-martial-arts
fighting league in Japan and a failing bank that had Hunter’s
son as a director, according to the report.  Brooklyn Nets teammates  Deron Williams  and  Jerry Stackhouse ,
and  Paul Pierce  of the Boston Celtics are among those who have
publicly called for a change in leadership. Stackhouse said
Fisher should be ousted as president, too.  Fisher, 38, didn’t respond to a request for comment through
his publicist, Jamie Wior.  The union, in debt when Hunter took over, has assets listed
at $184 million in 2012 filings with the U.S. Labor Department.  Rift Forms  The rift between Hunter and Fisher, a 17-year veteran with
five championships, began after Foxsports.com reported that
Fisher during the lockout usurped the executive director and
privately negotiated a 50-50 revenue split agreement with Stern.
The commissioner and Fisher denied the report.  Ratliff said Fisher “disappeared” after the labor
agreement was reached.  “And then when he shows up he wants to do an internal
audit,” Ratliff said.  The  Patek Philippe  was given to Fisher in June 2010, when
he was finishing his first year of a four-year term. Union
presidents historically were given a watch at the end of their
term. Williams, 39, said he was unaware of luxury gifts to
executive committee members until he read the Paul, Weiss report.  Hunter, according to the report, told Fisher that if a
lockout occurred he might never get his gift. Fisher was quoted
by investigators as saying he didn’t recall any discussion about
the timing and that he felt uncomfortable accepting the gift.  “So Billy Hunter, if we give him a benefit-of-the-doubt
outlook on it, it’s easy to say to yourself, ‘I’m doing the best
things for these guys,”’ said Murnighan, the Northwestern
professor. “If you look beyond the surface, it’s very clear
that a lot of his actions favored himself at least as much as
the union he’s representing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  