-- US Airways-AMR Merger Produces Bondholder Windfall: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-02-14T23:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/us-airways-amr-merger-produces-bondholder-windfall-muni-credit.html
Investors in  $3.4 billion  of
municipal debt backed by American Airlines parent  AMR Corp . are
enjoying a windfall as the bankrupt company’s merger with US
Airways Group Inc. creates the world’s largest carrier.  AMR munis sold for airport construction in cities from Los
Angeles to New York and repaid by its revenue have gained as
much as 487 percent since the company filed for bankruptcy
protection in November 2011, with prices on some reaching
historic highs. The merger will help strengthen American’s
operations and make it more competitive, said  John Miller , co-
head of fixed-income at Nuveen Asset Management LLC.  In one example, AMR-backed muni securities sold for Fort
Worth Alliance Airport in Texas, which serves cargo and
corporate flights, reached 105 cents on the dollar yesterday,
the highest since their 2007 offer and up from 17.88 cents on
Nov. 30, 2011. The bonds, due in 2029, are among $1.9 billion of
AMR munis that would convert to equity in the deal, Miller said.  “They will have the strongest overall network of any
airline in the U.S.,” Miller, who helps manage $86.5 billion of
munis, including $400 million of AMR debt, said from Chicago.
“They have operated well in bankruptcy and they could perhaps
operate even better upon the emergence and the combination of
the two companies.”  Yield Draw  Investors have bought AMR munis, which are in default and
rated speculative grade, as they search for extra yield with
interest rates in the $3.7 trillion local market close to a  47-
year low . AMR bonds are helping high-yield airline muni debt
earn about 1.1 percent in 2013, beating the 0.9 percent gain for
all high-yield munis, according to Barclays Plc.  The two airlines yesterday announced an $11 billion
agreement to combine, retain all airport hubs and expand
service. The companies expect the transaction to close in the
third quarter. The combined airline would still face competition
from United Continental Holdings Inc. and Delta Air Lines Inc.,
which would have stronger and more balanced route networks,
Standard & Poor’s said in a report yesterday.  Nuveen is part of a committee of creditors participating in
repayment negotiations, Miller said. Muni bonds account for more
than 11 percent of the $29.6 billion of debt of Fort Worth,
Texas-based AMR. US Airways is based in Tempe, Arizona.  Muni Driver  “American Airlines is somewhat unique in that an unusually
high percentage of their debt is muni debt,” Miller said. More
so than in prior airline bankruptcy agreements, “municipal
bonds were actually an important driver,” he said.  Creditors such as corporate-bond investors, muni holders
and unions have agreed to the debt negotiation, according to
Miller.  “You’re going into this approval process with all of the
key stakeholders saying, ‘Yes, I can sign up for this,’” Miller
said. “So that is giving greater clarity to what the traders
think the bonds might be worth.”  While AMR has pledged to repay the debt, some bonds have
additional security through lease payments American makes on
airport gates. Even if American abandons those gates, the bonds
may still be repaid by renting the facilities to other carriers.  Security Pledge  AMR debt sold for John F. Kennedy International Airport and
Los Angeles International Airport has such an additional
security. The Fort Worth Alliance bonds, and AMR debt sold for
Dallas-Fort Worth International, American’s biggest hub, don’t.  Securities without the additional pledge saw steeper
declines after the bankruptcy filing, said  Chris Fornal , a muni
transportation-credit analyst at New-York based BlackRock Inc.
The company oversees about $109 billion of munis, including AMR
debt.  The secured AMR debt may still have room to gain, said
 Michael Walls , who manages $2.6 billion of high-yield munis,
including AMR debt, at Waddell & Reed Financial Inc., which is
based in Overland Park, Kansas. His firm holds $15 million of
AMR bonds sold for JFK airport, after Walls bought $3 million
worth following the filing.  “You may see a little bit of marginal rally because it’s
now cleared up and you would consider it a performing bond,”
meaning that investors will receive interest and principal,
Walls said about secured AMR debt.  JFK bonds maturing in August 2016 traded as high as 112
cents on the dollar yesterday, up from 88.25 cents on Nov. 30,
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The merger will generate yearly savings and new revenue of
more than $1 billion by 2015, the airlines said. Of more than
900 routes, only 12 have overlap between the carriers, US
Airways Chief Executive Officer  Doug Parker , who will run the
new company, said in an interview.  “We are going to need to keep all the hubs in place,”
Parker said.  In trading yesterday, benchmark 30-year muni yields rose to
2.96 percent, the highest since September, Bloomberg Valuation
data show.  Following is a pending sale:  NEW YORK CITY plans to borrow $1.4 billion of general-
obligation bonds as soon as Feb. 25, according to the Office of
Management and Budget. Proceeds will finance capital projects,
refund debt and refinance variable-rate bonds into a fixed
interest rate. (Added Feb. 14)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Kaske  in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  