-- Usmanov’s Metalloinvest Said to Seek Norilsk Shares for Udokan
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-02-14T07:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/usmanov-s-metalloinvest-said-to-seek-norilsk-shares-for-udokan.html
Billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s
Metalloinvest, Russia’s largest iron ore producer, is seeking to
swap its Udokan copper deposit for shares in OAO GMK  Norilsk
Nickel , according to three people familiar with the matter.  Metalloinvest, which holds 4 percent of Norilsk, the
world’s largest nickel producer, is in preliminary talks with
other Norilsk shareholders about the proposal, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the information is private.  Norilsk’s largest shareholders, billionaire  Vladimir Potanin  and  Oleg Deripaska -controlled United Co. Rusal, signed
an agreement in December on the management of Norilsk to end
more than four years of conflict. Udokan contains 14.4 million
metric tons of copper, making it one of the world’s five largest
deposits, according to Metalloinvest.  Norilsk fell 0.9 percent to 5,833 rubles, heading toward a
five-week low, at 11:32 a.m. in Moscow. Kommersant newspaper
reported Usmanov’s interest in swapping Udokan for Norilsk
shares earlier today. Norilsk’s market value is about $37
billion.  Metalloinvest may get as much as 2 percent of Norilsk for
Udokan,  Barry Ehrlich , a metals analyst at Alfa Bank, said in
report today. Such a deal would be bad for Norilsk investors
because it would contradict the company’s stated goal of
“minimum capex and maximum dividends,” he said.  Metalloinvest, Rusal and Potanin’s Interros all declined to
comment on a possible deal.  Metalloinvest won the bidding for Udokan in 2008 for 15
billion rubles ($499 million) and last year estimated total
development costs at $8 billion. Norilsk, Russia’s No. 2
producer of copper, which accounts for a quarter of its sales,
dropped of the bidding amid another shareholder dispute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  