-- Venezuela to Limit Medicine Prices After Chavez Devaluation
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-02-14T19:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/venezuela-to-limit-medicine-prices-in-wake-of-chavez-devaluation.html
Venezuela will cap prices on
essential medicines after President  Hugo Chavez , who is
undergoing “complex” cancer treatments in Cuba, ordered a 32
percent devaluation of the bolivar.  The government ordered the country’s price controls agency
to submit a report “to establish maximum prices” within two
weeks, Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  said on state television
yesterday. The decision was made at a meeting of the economic
team during the Carnival holiday this week, he said.  “We will establish the maximum prices for the people’s
essential medicines and control them strictly so the medicine is
available in all the establishments,” Maduro said.  Chavez, who hasn’t been seen or heard from publicly since
arriving in Havana on Dec. 10 for cancer surgery, ordered his
government to weaken the exchange rate by 32 percent to 6.3
bolivars per dollar starting yesterday. The devaluation,
announced Feb. 8, spurred Venezuelans to shop for everything
from televisions to airline tickets before prices climbed.  Venezuelan businesses will have to charge prices
“exactly” in line with dollars received at the 6.3 bolivar
rate according to a formula tying final prices with dollars sold
to importers, Maduro said yesterday. Businesses are allowed
“manageable” profit margins, he said.  Companies will not be allowed to raise prices on their
current inventories and will only be allowed to implement
adjustments on goods obtained at the new exchange rate, Commerce
Minister  Edmee Betancourt  said today on state television.  Sabotage, Conspiracies  A pharmaceutical company working in Venezuela is conducting
“sabotage” and involved in “conspiracies,” Maduro said,
adding that the company, which he didn’t name, will eventually
be singled out publicly.  “Simply put, they should get in line with the law or the
law will put them in line,” Maduro said.  A weaker currency may further fuel the fastest inflation
rate in the region as about 70 percent of products consumed in
Venezuela are imported or assembled from raw material shipped
from abroad, according to the Consecomercio trade chamber in
Caracas. Consumer prices rose 22 percent in January from a year
earlier.  The devaluation, which seeks to narrow the budget deficit
by providing the government with more bolivars for its oil
export revenue, may undermine support for Chavez and his allies
ahead of possible elections this year as the cost of living
increases at a faster pace.  ‘Economic War’  “These are necessary actions to stop short the speculative
attack against the currency, against prices, against the induced
shortages by these perverse sectors of the economic right
wing,” Maduro said today on state television. “This attack is
the beginning of an economic war.”  Former opposition presidential candidate  Henrique Capriles Radonski  said the devaluation would hurt the poor hardest and
that the measure meant to make up for the government’s spending
ahead of last year’s elections.  “You can’t justify this red mega-package during these
years with history’s highest oil prices,” Capriles, who lost to
Chavez by 11 percentage points in elections last October, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Cancer Treatment  Chavez, 58, is receiving “complex and difficult” medical
treatments as he nears recovery from an undisclosed cancer,
Maduro said yesterday after arriving from Cuba.  “They are complex treatments that should at some point
close the cycle of treatment for his disease,” Maduro said.  The government hasn’t given an official health update on
Chavez since Jan. 26 when Information Minister  Ernesto Villegas 
said the former paratrooper had overcome a lung infection he
contracted after the Dec. 11 operation.  South America’s biggest oil producer may have to call
elections if Chavez dies or steps down. Before leaving for his
fourth surgery in 18 months, he named Maduro as his successor in
case he was unable to continue as president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 