-- Walking-Pace Trains Spur $17 Billion India Rail Revamp: Freight
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-02-14T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/walking-pace-trains-spur-17-billion-india-rail-revamp-freight.html
Vinay Kumar’s locomotive thuds into
coal cars at a New Delhi power plant, coupling with a deep clunk
to end a journey whose last two kilometers took over six hours,
a pace slower than walking.  “We were held for hours at a stop signal because passenger
trains get priority,” the 28-year-old said as he prepared to
drive the cars away. He embodies the issues freight trains face
across India, where a network built mostly under British
colonial rule now struggles with supply disruptions and rising
costs. That contributes to transport losses that  McKinsey & Co. 
estimates may reach $140 billion a year by 2020.  India’s solution is to add 3,322 kilometers (2,064 miles)
of track dedicated to cargo trains, a $17-billion expansion
that’s the biggest since independence in 1947. The government
raised passenger fares in January for the first time in a decade
and freight rates about 20 percent last year to help boost funds
for the delayed upgrade. The increases are part of a wider push
to revive investment in a  faltering economy .  “The dedicated freight corridor is a game-changing
expansion of infrastructure,” said Manish Saigal, head of
transport and logistics at KPMG in India, who has analyzed the
nation’s freight network for more than a decade. “Increasing
capacity and speeds will ease the flow of goods, helping to
contain inflation and spur faster economic growth. But it’s
crucial the government ensures rapid implementation.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s office has urged officials
to give the expansion the highest priority, saying in February
last year that the project’s two new railroads due by 2017 may
become a “ backbone ” of Indian freight transport.  Train Slump  One will connect western ports in Maharashtra and Gujarat
to inland container depots in Rajasthan and Haryana. The other
will run east from Punjab through five other states, joining
power plants to coalfields to ease energy shortages in a nation
that had its biggest blackout in 2012.  Average speeds will more than double to as much as 70
kilometers an hour along the links. Trains will be twice as long
at 1,500 meters, enabling them to carry greater loads, said
Rajesh Khare, a spokesman for the  Dedicated Freight Corridor
Corporation of India Ltd. , which manages the project.  The  World Bank  and  Japan International Cooperation Agency 
will lend about 60 percent of the 900-billion rupee ($17
billion) cost in stages as progress goals are met, according to
the state-owned company, with the Railway Ministry and public-
private partnerships providing the rest.  Trailing China  The share of goods hauled by trains  slid  to 33 percent by
2008 from almost 90 percent in 1950 due to slow speeds, with
India now lugging about a fourth of the cargo China carries per
kilometer of rail, reports from the United Nations show.  Indian Railways , Asia’s oldest network, has struggled to
raise passenger tariffs to fund capacity addition as it faces
pressure to keep costs affordable. In India, more than 800
million people live on less than $2 per day.  Last month’s increase is a “good sign” of change, said
 Juergen Maier , a Vienna-based fund manager at Raiffeisen Capital
Management, which manages about $1.1 billion in emerging-market
assets.  Construction companies including  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. ,
 IVRCL Ltd. ,  Simplex Infrastructures Ltd. ,  Gammon Infrastructure
Projects Ltd. ,  NCC Ltd.  and Era Infra Engineering Ltd. stand to
benefit from the rail expansion, according to  P. Phani Sekhar , a
fund manager at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai.  Larsen & Toubro and Gammon are based in Mumbai, IVRCL and
NCC in Hyderabad, Simplex in Kolkata and Era in New Delhi.  Missed Targets  The freight corridors face a legacy of missed
infrastructure targets. About 20 percent of the land needed for
the tracks has yet to be acquired more than six years after the
government set up Dedicated Freight Corridor.  That’s one key reason why the project may be completed as
late as 2019 even on the most optimistic timeline, said Srinath
Manda, the program manager for transportation and logistics at
consultancy Frost and Sullivan in Chennai.  “We did have our share of problems,” R.K. Gupta, the
Dedicated Freight Corridor’s managing director, said in an
interview on Feb. 8. “We’re confident of finishing the project
come what may.”  Approximately 70 percent of the new railroad will be ready
by the 2017 target, and one section of a corridor will probably
be completed by December this year, he said.  The rise in ticket prices of as much 39 percent will add 66
billion rupees to revenues at Indian Railways, whose 1.4 million
workers make it one of the world’s biggest employers.  Railway Bonds  The revenue gains are “positive” for the company’s bonds
as their rating will improve, said  D.K. Aggarwal , chairman of
SMC Investments & Advisors Ltd. in New Delhi.  The yield on the 4.406 percent dollar-denominated note of
Indian Railway Finance Corp. reached a record low of 2.52
percent on Feb. 14, according to prices provided by ING Groep
NV. The security, due March 2016, was issued five years ago.  The fare increase in January added to economic changes
Singh began Sept. 13 that aim to speed up infrastructure
projects, damp consumer-price inflation of almost 11 percent and
lure capital inflows to support the rupee.  The premier, facing a general election by May 2014, snapped
two years of policy paralysis with the changes as he tries to
stem the worst Indian growth slowdown in a decade.  India’s statistics office predicts gross domestic product
will rise 5 percent in the year to March 31, the least since
2003. Claims of graft against officials contributed to the
earlier logjam, deterring spending on roads, railways and ports.  For train driver Kumar, that adds up to long delays for
many years yet, sipping tea to while away the hours in his
locomotive as passenger carriers trundle past.  “We’re helpless,” he said. “We’ll just keep on waiting
for the signal to move.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  