-- Wesfarmers Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on Supermarkets
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-14T06:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/wesfarmers-first-half-net-income-climbs-9-beating-estimates.html
Wesfarmers Ltd. , Australia’s largest
employer, posted first-half profit that beat analyst estimates
as sales from its Coles supermarkets and chain stores limited
the effect of falling earnings from its coal mines.  Net income rose 9.3 percent to A$1.29 billion ($1.34
billion) in the six months ended December, Perth, Australia-
based Wesfarmers said in a statement today. That compares with 
the A$1.27 billion median estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Wesfarmers, which owns mines, chemical companies, an
investment bank and retailers, has spent five years turning
around the department stores and Coles supermarkets it bought in
Australia’s largest corporate takeover. It has refurbished
outlets and cut prices on staples including bread and milk to
win customers from first-ranked  Woolworths Ltd.  in a country
where they share  80 percent  of the market.  “The promotions from the supermarkets seem to have become
a bit more rational,” meaning discounts aren’t so steep,  Grant Saligari , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Melbourne,
said before today’s announcement. “The retail division is quite
healthy, though clearly coal is going to struggle.”  Steelmaking coal from Wesfarmers’ Curragh mine will sell at
a benchmark price of $160 a metric ton in the current quarter,
the company said in a Jan. 30 statement. The price is about 30
percent less than a year earlier.  Shares Gain  Wesfarmers  shares  rose 1.2 percent to A$38.88 at the close
in Sydney after earlier gaining as much as 3.3 percent. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.7 percent.  The company’s retail chains, which include the Target and
Kmart discount department stores and Bunnings hardware outlets,
will “provide resilience and growth in an overall challenging
consumer environment” over the remainder of the year, it said
in the statement.  First-half group earnings before interest and tax, or Ebit,
rose 5.5 percent from a year earlier to A$2.04 billion.  Coles earnings jumped 15 percent to A$755 million and
Bunnings profit rose 6.8 percent to A$518 million.  The Kmart discount department store grew Ebit by 25 percent
to A$246 million while profit at the Target chain slumped 20
percent to A$148 million.  Earnings at the resources division dropped 63 percent to
A$93 million on lower coal prices, a stronger Australian dollar,
and the impact of a rebate paid to a state-owned electricity
generator.  The insurance division faces claims of about A$40 million
connected to weather and fire incidents, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  