-- Why Football Won’t Go the Way of Boxing (Yet)
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-02-14T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/why-football-won-t-go-the-way-of-boxing-yet-.html
One of the most exciting American
boxers in years will  defend his title  this weekend. You’ve
probably never heard of him.  His name is Adrien Broner, and although he is the world
lightweight champion, he is not exactly famous. That boxing is
no longer a popular sport in the U.S. is hardly a revelation.
The reasons for its demise, however, may surprise you.  As we continue to learn more about the serious long-term
health risks of playing football, we keep hearing the question:
Is football destined to go the way of boxing? The implication is
that people stopped watching boxing because they were turned off
by the spectacle of two men doing serious, possibly permanent
harm to each other. The only problem with this theory is that it
isn’t true.  The force most responsible for boxing’s decline is the same
one that causes all sports to live or die: television.  Boxing once relied heavily on prime-time Olympic exposure
to introduce its future stars to the U.S. sports-viewing public.
We first met  Muhammad Ali  as Cassius Clay -- the slender,
charismatic 18-year-old light-heavyweight gold medalist in 1960
in Rome. Boxing was the highest-rated Olympic sport of the 1976
summer games in Montreal, which featured  Sugar Ray Leonard  as
well as Michael and Leon Spinks. Just 16 years later, in
Barcelona, Olympic boxing made its final prime-time appearance
on U.S. broadcast television.  Network Abandonment  In the intervening period, the networks basically abandoned
the sport. This happened partly because an aggressive Home Box
Office executive named Seth Abraham spent a lot of money
systematically luring the big fights away from the networks.  Not that the networks put up much resistance. Boxing’s fan
base wasn’t necessarily shrinking, but its sponsors were turning
against it. The unpredictability of the length of fights posed a
problem for advertisers: A heavily promoted  1983 bout  between
heavyweight champion  Larry Holmes  and Marvis Frazier, for
instance, lasted less than one round.  Advertisers also had issues with boxing’s reputation -- not
for brutality but for corruption. The sport was dominated by
promoters such as  Don King , who served time in prison for
manslaughter, and  Bob Arum , who once tried to reassure the
public that he could be trusted by saying, “Yesterday, I was
lying, but today I’m telling the truth.”  HBO -- and later Showtime -- didn’t have to worry about
satisfying advertisers; it could underwrite fights by making
them pay-per-view events. This may have worked as a business
strategy (Mike Tyson, in particular, was a cash cow for HBO),
but it helped to turn boxing into a niche sport followed only by
those willing to pay $59.95 or more to watch big bouts. It also
ensured that football would become America’s socially
sanctioned, violent sport of choice -- and that Adrien Broner
would never become a household name.  Boxing remains plagued by corruption. Not so many years
ago, a cable-TV programming manager was discovered to have been
giving preferential treatment to a promoter in exchange for
“dates” with a porn star. Boxing’s biggest problem, however, is
a lack of recognizable stars. Blame that on not being able to
watch fights for free during prime sports-viewing hours.  Before boxing’s demise, horse racing followed a similar
trajectory, for similar reasons. You might still be able to tick
off the names of dozens of thoroughbred horses if track owners
hadn’t been so scared that TV would keep people in their living
rooms instead of at the betting windows.  Network Embrace  Other sports were smarter about television. According to 
the mythology, it was  Michael Jordan  (with an assist from 
Commissioner  David Stern ) who single-handedly saved the
National Basketball Association. No less important was a TV 
strategy that included cutting back on the glut of games 
available on local cable channels, changing the league’s
playoff schedule to accommodate CBS and televising the annual
slam-dunk contest and college draft.  Virtually every sport that has flourished in the modern era
has TV to thank. The National Collegiate Athletic Association
basketball tournament has been around for almost 75 years, but
it was “March Madness” -- now a joint production of CBS and
Turner Sports -- that engraved it in our national sports
calendar.  College football’s popularity can be traced to a 1984
 Supreme Court decision , NCAA v. Board of Regents of the
University of Oklahoma, that freed schools and their conferences
to negotiate their own contracts with the networks. (Three times
as many college games were televised nationally in 1984 as in
1983; end-of-season bowl games were now available for just about
any company looking to sponsor one.)  Even in the age of the digital video recorder, we still
like to watch our sports live. Television rights are priced
accordingly. The TV sports bubble, inflated by increasingly
exorbitant national and local deals, just keeps expanding. The
Los Angeles Angels, Texas Rangers and Los Angeles Dodgers have
all recently signed multibillion-dollar contracts with Fox
Sports affiliates. Such irrational exuberance is driving
subscriber fees so high that at least one cable executive  has
said  government intervention may be necessary.  So the next time someone asks you if football is destined
to go the way of boxing, feel free to answer: Yes -- just as
soon as the networks stop televising it.  ( Jonathan Mahler  is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  