-- Willis Dies Bored; Pretty ‘Creatures’; ‘Safe Haven’: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-02-14T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/willis-dies-bored-pretty-creatures-safe-house-film.html
This isn’t 1986, a Russian bad guy
reminds  Bruce Willis  in “ A Good Day to Die Hard .”  Don’t we know it.  Loud with nothing to say, “Good Day” joins recent duds
from  Sylvester Stallone  and  Arnold Schwarzenegger  in a trifecta
of pointless wallows in ’80s action nostalgia.  Under John Moore’s chaotic, illogical direction, this once-
clever franchise has devolved into something between comic book
and Looney Tunes, with Willis’ John McClane surviving not on
brains, muscle or wisecrack, but cinematic convenience.  Explosions, crashes, beatings, leaps from tall buildings --
Willis’ McClane smirks them off, his bald dome barely bloodied.
Nothing resembling a human reaction -- fear, defiance, anger,
boredom -- registers in this phoned-in performance.  This time around, McClane is in Moscow to rescue his
estranged son, a CIA agent (Jai Courtney, of Starz’s
“ Spartacus: Blood and Sand ”) assigned to protect a Russian
whistleblower with secrets about the Chernobyl disaster.  Action and absurdities commence from the get-go, with the
just-arrived McClane literally bumping into a getaway car driven
by son Jack (who’s still angry at dad for not spending quality
time with the family, or something).  “I believed work was all that mattered,” consoles the
Russian dissident (Sebastian Koch) as he and the elder McClane
ignore nearby explosions and machine-gunfire to bond quietly
over ungrateful children.  With a sharper director and the slightest shift in tone,
that moment could be a funny little comment on a genre formula
that demands wedging personal motivations into sociopolitical
machinations.  Moore isn’t that director, and this isn’t that movie.  “A Good Day to Die Hard,” from Twentieth Century Fox, is
playing across the U.S. Rating: * (Evans)  ‘Beautiful Creatures’  Doomed love, redeeming love, premonitory dreams,
graveyards, catfights and a Civil War-era curse: “ Beautiful
Creatures ” is scrumptious junk food that perhaps only a teenage
audience can fully appreciate. I reverted to 14 as I watched,
and ate it up.  Adapted by Richard LaGravenese from Kami Garcia and
Margaret Stohl’s Young Adult novel, it tells the story of Lena
Duchannes (Alice Englert), a South Carolina witch whose pre-
destined nature -- good or evil -- will be revealed on her 16th
birthday.  “I don’t know who I really am inside,” she frets to her
mortal boyfriend, Ethan Wate (Alden Ehrenreich), speaking for
every adolescent who’s ever lived.  Southern Gothic  Inside her Southern Gothic family, there’s a battle for her
soul going on. Her louche uncle ( Jeremy Irons , with a bad
accent) is on the side of the good; her wicked mama ( Emma Thompson , whose accent is, predictably, perfect) and her slutty
cousin (Emmy Rossum) represent the forces of hell.  Viola Davis , as a sympathetic seer, wears her now signature
expression of suffering disgust.  A false move or two and “Beautiful Creatures” would
crumble into camp. But except for a joke about  Nancy Reagan  that
will pass over its target audience, the movie is as earnest as
Ethan, who’s determined to rescue Lena with his love.  “Beautiful Creatures,” from Warner Bros., is playing
across the U.S. Rating: *** (Seligman)  ‘Berlin File’  The Cold War isn’t over on the Korean peninsula. So it was
logical of writer-director Ryoo Seung-wan to set his breakneck
thriller “ The Berlin File ” in the long-divided German capital
that was once its emblem.  The movie offers just about all you could ask of a genre
flick: poisonings, defections, a secret North Korean bank
account, gloriously choreographed fights that go insanely over
the top, febrile tension and doomy romance (but no sex).  Ryoo throws out so much so fast that the opening arms
deal/gun battle/rooftop chase, crowded with agents from at least
five countries, may seem indecipherable. For a moment, I
despaired. By the end, though, as in most thrillers, the story
has come down to an elemental battle.  At its heart is a loyal North Korean couple (Ha Jung-woo
and Gianna Jun) who start to suspect that somebody on their side
is setting them up. They eye one another warily.  These actors have far more to do than jump off buildings
and dodge gunfire. Passions flare. Tragedy hovers as a threat
and the climax rises to grand opera.  But Ryoo also has a sly touch. His capper -- an unexpected
phone call -- ends the picture with a sharp little stab.  “The Berlin File,” from CJ Entertainment, opens Friday in
selected cities across North America. Rating: **** (Seligman)  ‘Safe Haven’  Is she guilty? A knife has been wielded ... a woman has
fled ... and what a cute coastal town she lands in. What a
handsome widower she hooks.  He’s dreamy, she’s perky, and the movie, “ Safe Haven ,” is
as pretty and bland as a boy band, until its final half hour of
fireworks, flames and gunfire.  Nicholas Sparks  wrote the novel;
Julianne Hough and Josh Duhamel star;  Lasse Hallstrom  directed.
I can only hope he did it for the money.  “Safe Haven,” from Relativity Media, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: * (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and D.C.
 Scene .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 