-- Woolworths Earnings Climb 21% on Resilience of Higher Income
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-02-14T10:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/woolworths-says-first-half-profit-climbs-21-as-sales-increase.html
Woolworths Holdings Ltd. , a South
African food and clothing retailer, posted a 21 percent increase
in first-half earnings helped by demand from higher-income
consumers.  Earnings per share excluding one-time items advanced to
1.23 billion rand ($139 million), or 1.64 rand a share, in the
six months through Dec. 23 from 1.01 billion rand, or 1.36 rand,
a year earlier, the Cape Town-based company said in a statement
today. Revenue rose 18 percent to 16.8 billion rand. Sales at
stores open for more than a year climbed 9.4 percent.  “These are excellent results, way ahead of the market,”
said Evan Walker, a portfolio manager at 36One Asset Management.
He helps oversee assets of about 8 billion rand. “Second-half
prospects are ahead. They are well positioned on all ranges, be
it food or clothing. The upper middle class is immune to the
economic slowdown.”  Retail-sales  growth in Africa’s biggest economy, where one
in four people is unemployed, slowed to 2.3 percent in December
as quickening inflation curbed consumer demand. The economy will
expand 2.6 percent this year, near the estimated growth of 2.5
percent last year, which would be the lowest since a 2009
recession, the central bank said Jan. 24.  “Economic conditions in South Africa will remain
constrained, especially in the lower- and middle-income segments
of the market where consumer debt levels remain under
pressure,” the company said in a statement today. “The upper-
income segment in which we operate continues to show some
resilience. Trading for the first six weeks of the second half
of the financial year has been positive, and we expect sales
growth to be broadly in line with the first half.”  Witchery Group  Woolworths will add more products in food and clothing in
South Africa and plans to introduce the fashion retail brand the
 Witchery  Group, acquired in August, within a year, Chief
Executive Officer Ian Moir said today in an interview.  The company’s expansion plans for Africa are on target to
reach 100 stores from a current 61, said Moir. Woolworths is
also negotiating to buy back the franchise license from the
holder for Botswana, Namibia and Swaziland.  “We just want to operate a different business model,”
said Moir in Johannesburg. “We don’t believe in the franchise
model.”  Woolworths has the biggest weighting in the  FTSE/JSE Africa
General Retailers Index  at 27 percent. The stock slipped as much
as 4.2 percent and traded 3.7 percent lower at 64.65 rand by 12
p.m. in Johannesburg, extending its decline this year to 9
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  