-- WTI Oil Gains as UN Officials Fail to Reach Iran Deal
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-02-14T20:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/wti-oil-gains-amid-iran-nuclear-talks.html
West Texas Intermediate oil rose for
the third time this week as United Nations nuclear inspectors
failed to reach a deal with Iran and fewer Americans than
forecast filed  applications  for unemployment benefits.  Futures advanced 0.3 percent as UN officials said they
didn’t secure an agreement that would allow access to atomic
facilities and couldn’t settle on a date for another meeting,
indicating that sanctions on the country may remain in place.
Gains accelerated after a report showed jobless claims fell by
27,000 last week, signaling fuel demand may grow.  “We did get a little bit of a support from Iran,” said
 Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
Chicago. “The market really gave up hopes on these talks.
Jobless claims are pretty good and the economic data is
supportive.”  Crude oil for March delivery rose 30 cents to settle at
$97.31 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The volume
of all futures traded was 5.2 percent below the 100-day average
at 3:22 p.m. Prices have advanced 6 percent this year. Open
interest of West Texas Intermediate futures on the Nymex climbed
to a record yesterday, according to exchange owner CME Group
Inc.  Brent oil for April settlement gained 12 cents to end the
session at $118 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The volume of all futures traded was 4.6 percent below the 100-
day average. The March contract settled at $118.72 when it
expired yesterday.  WTI-Brent Spread  The front-month European benchmark grade was at a premium
of $20.10 to the April West Texas Intermediate contract, based
on settlement prices. The gap expanded to $23.18 on Feb. 8, the
widest level since Nov. 26.  Brent erased a decline of as much as 0.5 percent after
tanker tracker Oil Movements said OPEC will cut crude shipments
by 0.9 percent this month. Brent came under pressure earlier as
the European Union’s statistics office reported that the  euro-
area recession  in the fourth quarter, with the worst performance
in almost four years.  “WTI is still set to breach resistance at $98 a barrel, it
just needs the proper catalyst,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.
“The poor European GDP numbers earlier today probably kept us
from building a good head of steam.”  Iran Talks  A team of UN officials, led by  Herman Nackaerts , the
International Atomic Energy Agency’s chief inspector, met
yesterday with Iranian officials to win access to people and
places, including a military base in Parchin, about 20
kilometers (12 miles) southeast of Tehran. The IAEA says it was
provided with intelligence that Iran may have built a blast
chamber for testing nuclear-weapons components at the site.  “Time is needed to reflect on a way forward,” Nackaerts
said today at Vienna International Airport after returning from
the one-day meeting in Tehran. The IAEA has an “unwavering”
commitment to negotiations, he said.  Iran is under sanctions on its oil sales because of its
nuclear program, which the U.S. and its allies say is designed
to make an atomic weapon, a charge the Islamic republic denies.
The country’s crude shipments fell at least 36 percent to less
than 1 million barrels a day in January and output slumped to
2.65 million a day, the least in more than three decades, the
 International Energy Agency  said yesterday.  New York futures advanced after Labor Department figures
showed that 341,000 new jobless applications were filed in the
week ended Feb. 9. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected
360,000 filings, according to the  median  of projections.  Macroeconomic Optimism  “There are three reasons for the strength of the market,
starting with macroeconomic optimism,” said  Julius Walker ,
global energy markets strategist at UBS Securities LLC in New
York. “The fundamentals are defiantly tighter with increasing
demand in China and the U.S., and we’re seeing a geopolitical
premium in the price.”  U.S. fuel demand climbed and stockpiles slipped sending
gasoline to the highest level in more than four months and
providing support for the crude market, said  Kyle Cooper ,
director of commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston.  Total products supplied , a measure of fuel demand, jumped
5.5 percent last week to 19 million barrels a day, the Energy
Information Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical
arm, reported yesterday. It was the highest level since Dec. 14.  Gasoline for March delivery advanced 8.12 cents, or 2.7
percent, to $3.1166 a gallon in New York, the highest settlement
level since Sept. 28.  “Crude oil isn’t doing that much but gasoline continues to
move higher,” Cooper said. “It looks like we’re seeing a
delayed reaction from yesterday’s inventory report.”  OPEC Exports  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
export 23.51 million barrels a day in the four weeks to March 2,
down 220,000 a day from 23.73 million in the previous period,
amid lower production by Saudi Arabia, Oil Movements said today.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, pumped
9.1 million barrels a day this month, the lowest level since May
2011, a Bloomberg survey of oil companies, producers and
analysts showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 441,846
contracts as of 3:22 p.m. It totaled 706,370 contracts
yesterday, 35 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was a record 1.67 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net 
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  