-- Yankees May Record Fewest Wins in 20 Years, Vegas Oddsmakers Say
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-14T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/yankees-may-record-fewest-wins-in-20-years-vegas-oddsmakers-say.html
The New York Yankees face plenty of
questions as Major League Baseball’s spring training begins, and
oddsmakers are among those awaiting answers.  The 27-time champions are conspicuously absent among the
favorites to win the World Series this year, according to sports
books in Las Vegas, and aren’t the oddsmakers’ pick to win a
division title they’ve claimed 12 of the past 15 years.  Steve Mikkelson, who has set baseball betting lines since
1987 and is the sports book director for the  Atlantis Casino
Resort  in Reno, Nevada, yesterday put the Yankees’ projected win
total for this season at 86 1/2. The Yankees haven’t won fewer
than 87 games in a full season since 1992, and have had 94 wins
or more seven of the past eight years.  “I can never recall seeing the Yankees in this position,”
said Mikkelson, who put up Nevada’s earliest win totals for MLB
teams for the seventh straight year. “They’ve always been one
of the top two or three teams, if not the top team, year in and
year out for the last 20 years.”  The Yankees began workouts for pitchers and catchers
yesterday in Tampa, Florida, and have their first full-squad
practice scheduled for Feb. 18. Their regular-season schedule
begins April 1 against the Boston Red Sox.  With a projected win total of 86 1/2, bettors can place a
season-long wager on whether the Yankees will have 87 wins or
more, or if they’ll have 86 wins or fewer. A winning $115 wager
would return a $100 profit. New York’s worst record during the
past 17 years was an 87-74 mark in 2000, when it went on to win
a third straight World Series title.  Championship Odds  The Yankees head into spring training with 14-1 odds of
winning this year’s World Series, tied for eighth among the
league’s 30 teams at the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The Los
Angeles Angels, Detroit Tigers, Los Angeles Dodgers, Washington
Nationals, Cincinnati Reds, Toronto Blue Jays and defending
champion San Francisco Giants currently have better odds.  “I can’t remember the last time they’ve been in this range
to win the World Series at the start of the year,” Chris
Bennett, who sets baseball lines for the LVH Super Book, said in
a telephone interview. “I feel like they’ve always been less
than 10-1, at least, coming into the season. People have a lot
of questions about the Yankees.”  The Yankees hadn’t been lower than third favorites to win
the World Series in the past five years, according to Las Vegas-
based handicapping information website Pregame.com.  The Yankees have been uncharacteristically quiet this
offseason, with their biggest additions including the signings
of third baseman  Kevin Youkilis  as an injury replacement for
 Alex Rodriguez , and oft-injured slugger  Travis Hafner .  Roster Changes  With  Nick Swisher ,  Russell Martin ,  Raul Ibanez ,  Eric Chavez 
and  Andruw Jones  signing elsewhere and Rodriguez set to miss at
least the first three months of the season following offseason
hip surgery, the Yankees will be without six of their top 10
home run hitters from last season.  Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said two days ago that he
thinks his team can win 95 games this season, noting the
importance of re-signing free agents  Mariano Rivera ,  Andy Pettitte ,  Ichiro Suzuki  and  Hiroki Kuroda .  “Sometimes the people that we’ve signed, we overlook
because they’ve been around here so much,” Girardi said. “I
love the people we brought back because I know they’re tested
and I know they know how to play in New York.”  Toronto Trades  The Blue Jays’ World Series odds moved to 10-1 from 50-1
after an active offseason that included the acquisitions of
National League Cy Young Award winner  R.A. Dickey  and fellow
pitchers  Josh Johnson  and  Mark Buehrle , along with All-Star
shortstop  Jose Reyes  and outfielder  Melky Cabrera .  While Toronto’s projected win total is the same as the
Yankees’ at 86 1/2, the Blue Jays have slightly better odds to
win the AL East. They’re currently listed at 8-5, followed by
the Yankees at 9-5, the Tampa Bay Rays at 7-2, the Boston Red
Sox at 7-1 and the Baltimore Orioles at 10-1.  “The Yankees can finish anywhere from first to last in
that division and I wouldn’t be surprised,” Mikkelson said in a
telephone interview. “I’ve never been able to say that at any
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  