-- Euro Falls on Economy; S&P 500 Advances as Heinz Jumps
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-02-14T22:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/yen-drops-after-former-boj-deputy-comment-platinum-gains.html
The euro slid as the region’s
recession deepened more than forecast, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose to a five-year high after a drop in U.S.
jobless claims and a $23 billion buyout offer for HJ Heinz Co.  Europe’s 17-nation currency depreciated 0.7 percent versus
the dollar at 4 p.m. in New York. The S&P 500 increased 0.1
percent to 1,521.38, its highest level since October 2007, while
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent. Treasury 30-year
bonds rose for the first time in four days as the highest yields
at an auction of the securities since May bolstered demand.
Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.5 percent, and Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index climbed 0.9 percent after the market
reopened following the Lunar New Year holiday.  Gross domestic product  in the euro area fell 0.6 percent in
the fourth quarter from the previous three months, the worst
performance since the first quarter of 2009. Japanese GDP
declined for a third straight quarter, stoking speculation Prime
Minister  Shinzo Abe  will step up efforts to end deflation.  “They’re pretty awful figures,” said  Neil Mellor , a
foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in
London. “It could get a lot worse because the euro has risen a
long way since the start of the fourth quarter. While the
Japanese are doing what they’re doing, you can’t refute the fact
that people will buy the euro on dips.”  European Currencies  Europe’s shared currency weakened against 15 of 16 major
peers. Earlier reports showed Germany’s economy, the largest in
Europe, contracted 0.6 percent last quarter, and French GDP
dropped 0.3 percent. The currencies of euro-area neighbors also
declined, with the Polish zloty, Swedish krona and Norwegian
krone sliding versus the dollar.  Hungary’s forint snapped five days of gains, dropping 0.6
percent per euro, after data from the statistics office in
Budapest showed GDP tumbled the most in three years. Japan’s yen
was stronger against 15 of 16 major peers as Russia’s finance
minister said Group-of-20 nations should take a
stronger stance against currency manipulation.  The Group of 20 nations said that it recognizes global
economic growth is still weak, that stronger economic and
monetary union is needed in the euro area and Japan and the U.S.
need to resolve fiscal uncertainties, according to a draft of a
statement prepared for a meeting of finance ministers and
central bank governors in Moscow this week.  In the U.S., fewer Americans than projected filed
applications for unemployment benefits last week, Labor
Department data showed, while Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. and 3G Capital agreed to buy Heinz.  Heinz Jumps  HJ Heinz surged the most since at least 1980, jumping 20
percent to $72.50. Berkshire and 3G will pay $72.50 a share,
compared with yesterday’s closing price of $60.48, according to
a statement today. Berkshire will spend about $12 billion to $13
billion on the deal for the maker of condiments and Ore-Ida
potato snacks, Buffett told CNBC. The deal will also be financed
with cash from 3G affiliates, plus the rollover of existing
debt, and is valued at about $28 billion including debt,
according to the statement.  Berkshire’s Class A shares rose 1 percent to a record
$149,240.  Cisco Systems Inc. slipped 0.7 percent as the largest maker
of computer-networking gear forecast sales this quarter that
missed analysts’ most optimistic projections. US Airways Group
Inc. fell 4.6 percent after agreeing to an $11 billion merger
with AMR Corp.’s American Airlines.  ‘Positive’ on M&A  Mergers and acquisitions have surged this month with
megadeals for iconic companies such as Dell Inc. and H.J. Heinz
Co., fueling optimism that more buyers are ready to embrace $10
billion pricetags.  Almost $40 billion in deals have been announced today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Transaction volume has increased by
27 percent so far this year compared with the same period year
earlier, signaling buyers are willing to spend
again following last year’s mergers slump.  “We’re positive on the fact that M&A will continue to move
higher,”  Jeff Morris , the Boston-based head of U.S. equities
for Standard Life Investments, said in a phone interview. His
firm oversees $263 billion in assets. “If we can get some
clarity in Washington and if the economy continues to grow, I
think you’ll see more and more companies use M&A.”  Approaching Record  The  S&P 500  is within 3 percent of its record reached that
month. Jobless claims decreased by 27,000, the most in a month,
to 341,000 in the week ended Feb. 9, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. The level of filings was lower than
any projection in a Bloomberg survey in which the median
forecast was 360,000.  Bearish U.S. stock options have fallen to the cheapest
level in more than two years on signs the economic recovery is
gaining momentum. Puts protecting against a 10 percent decline
in the S&P 500 cost 7.88 points more than calls betting on a 10
percent gain, according to three-month options data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price relationship known as skew fell to 7.49 on
Feb. 1, the lowest since November 2010. The S&P 500 has rallied
6.7 percent this year.  U.S. 30-year bonds rose, with the yield six basis points
lower at 3.18 percent, as the euro area’s recession supported
demand at a $16 billion auction of the securities.  Two shares fell for every one that gained in the Stoxx 600
as gauges of chemical and telephone companies led losses.  European Movers  Nestle SA fell 2.3 percent, the most in four months, after
the biggest food company reported the slowest sales growth in
three years. Renault SA surged 7.7 percent as France’s second-
largest carmaker reported better-than-expected operating profit
and eliminated debt in its automotive division.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV  jumped 5.9 percent in Brussels
after agreeing to sell its brewery in Piedras Negras and grant
perpetual rights for the Corona and Modelo brands in the U.S. to
Constellation Brands Inc. for $2.9 billion. ABB Ltd., the
world’s largest maker of power transformers, advanced 5.6
percent in Zurich after reporting better-than-estimated
earnings.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.1 percent as
declines in Europe, the Middle East and Africa offset gains in
Asia. Benchmark gauges in Russia, Turkey, Poland, Hungary and
the Czech Republic sank at least 0.4 percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
climbed 1.4 percent on the first day of trading this week.
People’s Insurance Co., New China Life Insurance Co. and
Greentown China Holdings Ltd. rose after MSCI Inc. said it will
add the stocks to its China index.  India’s Sensex gauge slid 0.6 percent as a report showed
the inflation rate dropped to lowest in more than three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  