-- Zillow Rises Most Since May on Fourth-Quarter Earnings
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-02-14T21:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/zillow-rises-most-since-2011-on-fourth-quarter-earnings.html
Zillow Inc ., operator of the largest
real estate information website, jumped the most in eight months
after reporting stronger-than-estimated fourth-quarter results
as the U.S. housing market recovers.  Zillow rose 8.6 percent to $42.30, the biggest gain since
May 23. The company reported fourth-quarter profit of 2 cents a
share after the close of trading yesterday, compared with the
break-even median estimate by 10 analysts in a Bloomberg  survey .
Revenue rose 73 percent from a year earlier to a record.  “Zillow has leveraged a focus on technology, particularly
in mobile, to create a differentiated product,”  Heath Terry , an
analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York, said in a
note today. He has a buy  rating  on the shares.  The Seattle-based company joined Realogy Holdings Corp.,
owner of the Coldwell Banker and Century 21 brokerage brands,
and competitor  Trulia Inc.  in reporting results that indicate
rising real estate demand from consumers. Realogy’s fourth-
quarter net revenue climbed 30 percent from a year earlier,
while transaction volume for its brokerage and franchising
segments jumped 35 percent, the Parsippany, New Jersey-based
company said in a statement today.  Realogy fell 2.3 percent to $45.42. The stock has gained 68
percent since Apollo Global Management LLC took the company
public in October.  Trulia Gains  Trulia, based in San Francisco, climbed 5.2 percent today
to $30.50, a record. It surged 22 percent  yesterday  after
reporting a narrower fourth-quarter loss and a 75 percent jump
in revenue.  Home  sales  and values have been rising after the worst
housing  slump  since the Great Depression as low interest rates
and declining  unemployment  spur more people to buy.  Prices  for
single-family homes increased in 88 percent of U.S. cities in
the fourth quarter, while the national median sales price jumped
10 percent from a year earlier for the biggest gain since 2005,
the National Association of Realtors said this week.  “With more homebuyers getting off the sidelines in this
persistent low-mortgage-rate environment, we remain well-
positioned to benefit from the improving housing market,”
Zillow Chief Executive Officer  Spencer Rascoff  said on a
conference call with analysts yesterday.  Zillow  shares  have surged 52 percent this year and have
more than doubled since the company’s July 2011 initial public
offering. Trulia, which went public at $17 a share in September,
has gained 88 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  