-- Zuckerberg’s Christie Fundraiser Draws Fans, Protesters
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-02-14T04:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-14/zuckerberg-s-christie-fundraiser-draws-fans-protesters.html
Mark Zuckerberg , the billionaire co-
founder of  Facebook Inc ., welcomed  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  to his California home, holding his first political
fundraiser as demonstrators outside protested the Republican’s
stance on women’s health funding.  Guests including  Condoleezza Rice , former secretary of
state under President  George W. Bush , arrived last night at the
Palo Alto home of Zuckerberg, 28, and his wife,  Priscilla Chan ,
in black sedans mixed with the occasional Maserati, Ferrari, BMW
and Mercedes. Attire was mixed, with Rice in a yellow jacket,
black top and gold necklace, while a man in a black Audi came in
jeans and a hoodie.  The governor, 50, is seeking re-election this year and has
been raising funds in California since Feb. 11. Christie has
said Zuckerberg’s gathering showed that support for his policies
extends to people who generally aren’t connected to Republican
politics. About 40 protesters greeted party-goers.  “When we heard that Mark Zuckerberg was going to be
inviting his wealthy Silicon Valley friends to raise money for
Chris Christie, we thought they needed to see a bunch of us out
here,” said Becky Bond, one of about 40 men and women gathered
on the street outside the home, many carrying blue signs
reading, “Zuck + Chris, hands off Planned Parenthood.”  Bond, political director of CREDO Action, an activist
network affiliated with mobile phone provider CREDO Mobile, said
her group was “delivering the message that to give money to
Chris Christie, even at Mark Zuckerberg’s house, is funding the
war on women.”  Women’s Health  The first Republican elected New Jersey governor since
1997, Christie has blocked Democrats’ efforts to raise taxes on
millionaires, add funding for schools and women’s health, and
allow gay marriage. He has also battled with public-employee
unions over pensions and benefits.  The event was Zuckerberg’s idea, Christie told reporters on
Jan. 25. The two met in 2010 when the chief executive officer of
the world’s largest social-networking service, announced plans
to donate $100 million to assist schools in Newark, New Jersey’s
most populous city.  “Mark and Priscilla have worked closely with Governor
Christie on education reform in the Newark school system,” said
a Facebook spokesman,  Andrew Noyes . “They admire his leadership
on education reform and other issues and look forward to
continuing their important work together on behalf of Newark’s
school children.”  Residential Street  Three Palo Alto police officers stood outside the front
gate of Zuckerberg’s home, which is set back from a residential
street behind tall trees and a brick wall.  “One, two, three, four, this is not the Jersey Shore,”
the demonstrators chanted. “Five, six, seven, eight, Zuck send
Christie to his state.”  Anti-Christie groups, including gay-rights organizations
and unions, are using Facebook to urge Zuckerberg to “unfriend
Chris Christie.” Some change their profile pictures to a photo
that says “Friends Don’t Let Friends Veto Equality.”  Zuckerberg, who started his company in his Harvard
University dorm room in 2004, is expanding his role beyond the
day-to-day duties of running Facebook, which has more than 1
billion users.  ‘No Preference’  Zuckerberg is listed as “no preference” on voter rolls in
his home county of Santa Clara, said Elma Rosas, a spokeswoman
for the Registrar of Voters. She said he voted in the 2008 and
2012 general elections.  In early 2011, Zuckerberg joined other technology
executives to dine with President  Barack Obama . That April,
Zuckerberg hosted the president in a town-hall meeting at
Facebook’s headquarters, appearing with Obama on stage as he
fielded questions. Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  held one with Christie later that year.  Christie is enjoying a record 74 percent approval rating
for his response to Hurricane Sandy, up from 56 percent before
the Oct. 29 storm, according to a  Quinnipiac University  poll on
Jan. 23. He led his presumptive Democratic challenger, state
Senator  Barbara Buono , by 41 percentage points in the polling.  The governor raised $2.1 million for his re-election bid
through December, while Buono raised $212,927, according to
campaign-finance  reports .  Rice, who now teaches political science at nearby Stanford
University, declined to answer when asked what she thought about
the event as she left.  “I’m here privately,” she said, then slipped into the
passenger side of a silver Lexus sport-utility vehicle and drove
off.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  