-- 
ADRs Best Weekly Gain Since 2008 Led by Allot: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-10-16T08:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/adrs-best-weekly-gain-since-2008-led-by-allot-israel-overnight.html
Israeli stocks listed in the U.S.
posted their biggest weekly gain in almost three years, led by
 Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , on growing speculation technology
company profits will improve on demand for smartphones.  Allot, Israel’s biggest maker of high-speed networking
equipment, advanced 22 percent to $12.93, leading the increase
in the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest Israeli
companies traded in New York. Allot surged 14 percent to 47.10
shekels, or the equivalent of $12.88, at 9:56 a.m. in  Tel Aviv .
Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index, trading for the first time since
Oct. 11, rose 3.4 percent to 1,121.41. The Israel-US 25 climbed
6.3 percent last week, the biggest weekly surge since October
2008.  Israeli technology companies, which raised $569 million in
capital during the second quarter, the most in two years, are
benefiting from rising Internet traffic and increased online
video streaming. Allot will report adjusted third-quarter
earnings on Nov. 1 of 10 cents per share, according to the
median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Companies that have good exposure to robust businesses
such as smartphones’ suppliers, those are the ones that will be
holding on well,” said Jay Srivatsa, an analyst at Chardan
Capital Markets LLC in New York.  Twenty-four of the 25 companies in the Bloomberg Israel-US
25 Index gained last week as the measure beat the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index’s 6 percent advance. Global stocks rallied on
Oct. 14, extending the biggest weekly rally since July 2009, as
the Group of 20 began talks to tame  Europe ’s debt crisis and
U.S. retail sales and Google Inc.’s results beat estimates.  High Growth  Hundreds of people in cities from New York to London and
 Tokyo  lined up overnight at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s stores to snap up the
company’s newest iPhone on Oct. 14. The device sold out for pre-
order at AT&T Inc.,  Verizon Wireless  and Sprint Nextel Corp. a
day before it officially went on sale, according to the
carriers’ websites.  Allot of Hod Hasharon, Israel, whose customers include
 Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  and billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s fixed-line
carrier, Telefonos de Mexico SAB, developed a technology that
allows Internet providers to differentiate network traffic and
provide tailored plans to their clients as demand for faster
data surges.  ‘Infrastructure Market’  “Allot’s business is exposed to the high-growth service
provider mobile infrastructure market,” Catharine Trebnick, an
analyst at Northland Securities Inc. in  Minneapolis , wrote in an
e-mailed report dated Oct. 12. Trebnick rated Allot’s shares
“outperform” in her initial coverage of the company.  Before today, the company’s Tel Aviv shares were at a
discount of $1.57 to the New York shares, the biggest among the
largest Israeli companies traded in the U.S.  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  increased 1 percent to 126.50
shekels, or the equivalent of $34.60. The maker of network
processors that counts Cisco Systems Inc. as a customer rallied
5.9 percent to $34.31 in the U.S. last week.  EZchip, based in Yokneam, Israel, will report third-quarter
adjusted earnings per share of $0.32, according to eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) , the world’s second-
largest network-security company, rose 5.1 percent to $58.89
last week, the highest level in more than 10 weeks.  The company will report profit of 70 cents per share in the
third quarter, according to the median estimate of 24 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Check Point  “Check Point represents one of the most compelling mid-cap
stocks in our coverage,” Philip Winslow, an analyst at Credit
Suisse in  New York , wrote in an e-mailed report dated Oct. 13,
ahead of the company’s third-quarter earnings announcement on
Oct. 18. “Check Point continues to benefit from network
refreshes, pent-up demand from an aging firewall hardware
installed base, and a growing pipeline for the company’s
software blades.”  The amount of capital raised by Israeli technology
companies during the second quarter of 2011 was up from $343
million in the same period last year, according to the Israel
Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released July 13.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq stock
market, the most of any country outside  North America  after
 China . It is also home to the largest number of startup
companies per capita in the world.  The nation’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation.  Technology companies that rely on enterprise and government
spending may not be able to weather the global economic
slowdown, Srivatsa said.  RADVision, AudioCodes  RADVision Ltd. (RVSN)  and  AudioCodes Ltd. (AUDC)  lowered their earnings
forecasts for the last quarter at the beginning of the month.  RADVision, the maker of video-conferencing systems, said it
expects revenue of $17 million to $17.5 million, below the
previous forecast of $19 million, because of “challenging
economic conditions” and stronger competition.  AudioCodes, whose technology enables Internet phone calls,
reduced its sales forecast to as little as $155 million this
year from $174 million because of “lower-than-anticipated
technology, government and residential business.”  Israeli inflation eased in September as food costs declined
following consumer protests and end-of-summer sales that brought
down apparel prices, the Central Bureau of Statistics in
Jerusalem reported on Oct. 14.  Price Cuts  Annual inflation slowed to 2.9 percent from 3.4 percent,
according to the report. Food prices declined 1.3 percent on the
month, while fruit and vegetable prices fell 5.3 percent.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s cabinet approved a
program on Oct. 9 that aims to ease the cost of living after
rallies brought hundreds of thousands of protesters onto the
streets.  The demonstrations and boycotts, which started in June
over the cost of cottage cheese, prodded Tnuva Food Industries
Agricultural Co-Op In Israel Ltd., which controls about 70
percent of the dairy market, to cut recommended selling prices
by as much as 15 percent earlier this month. Competitor Strauss
Group Ltd. followed with reductions of 12 percent on some of its
 milk products .  Teva  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, gained 3.1 percent to 144.50 shekels, or
the equivalent of $39.53. The shares advanced 6.6 percent to
$39.17 in New York last week.  Teva won European approval for its $6.2 billion acquisition
of Cephalon Inc., the final regulatory hurdle for the deal,
after agreeing to divest the right to sell a generic drug in
 France .  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the adapter maker that’s part
owned by Oracle Corp., lost 3.4 percent to 125.60 shekels, or
$34.36, today. The shares gained 2.1 percent in the U.S. last
week to $34.34.  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd., the company whose founders
invented the technology for making phone calls over the
Internet, dropped 1.8 percent last week and was the only company
among the 25 largest Israeli companies traded in New York that
fell.  MagicJack was added to the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index
last week after Ness Technologies Inc. was delisted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  