-- 
Thailand Protects Bangkok From Flooding, 10 Provinces ‘Critical’

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-16T00:09:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/thailand-says-floods-threaten-10-provinces-bangkok-s-defenses-are-holding.html
Thailand  moved to protect the
capital, Bangkok, and the main international airport from flood
waters as Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said 10 provinces
are still at “critical risk” after being inundated.  “This disaster has caused the greatest loss and is the
most severe in Thailand’s history,” Yingluck said in a
nationwide television and radio address yesterday. “We are
working on solving the crisis and will introduce long-term
measures to prevent it from happening again.”  Bangkok authorities are rushing to widen canals and bolster
flood barriers around the city of 9.7 million people to save the
capital from floods that crippled manufacturing hubs in central
provinces last week.  Yingluck said the disaster, which has displaced more than 2
million people, is the worst in the nation’s history.  “The government has to protect strategic areas and the
heart of the economy including industrial and business zones,
provincial capitals, Bangkok, Suvarnabhumi airport and
evacuation centers,” Yingluck said.  At least 297 people have been killed since monsoon rains
began lashing Thailand in late July, according to the Department
of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation. Heavy rains are expected
in central and eastern provinces and in Bangkok today and
tomorrow, the agency said.  Industrial Estates  Yingluck said the situation remains “critical” in 10 of
the 26 provinces still affected by flooding. Floodwaters have
swamped industrial estates in Ayutthaya province, 67 kilometers
(42 miles) north of Bangkok, halting production at factories
operated by Japanese manufacturers including  Nikon Corp. (7731)  and
Pioneer Corp.  The cost of the disaster may rise to as much as 120 billion
baht ($3.9 billion), and force the central bank to cut its
forecast for economic growth this year, Governor Prasarn
Trairatvorakul said Oct. 14. A total of 930 factories nationwide
have been damaged, according to data from the Ministry of
Industry.  “The flooding impact on the whole economy will depend on
the rehabilitation process after this,” Prasarn said. “We need
to monitor the situation closely.”  Yingluck’s two-month-old administration is balancing needs
to protect Bangkok from inundation while evacuating people and
delivering aid to areas outside the capital’s flood barriers
that are already under as much as a meter of water.  “The government realizes that people have already suffered
from this disaster for three months,” Yingluck said. “It’s our
priority to solve the problem.”  Tropical Storms  Thailand is affected by seasonal floods each year, though a
southwest monsoon and five tropical storms in recent months have
made this year’s deluge the most severe in terms of damage and
loss of life, Yingluck said.  A U.S. C-130 transport plane carrying thousands of sandbags
and 10 Marines landed at Don Muang airport yesterday to support
the aid effort, U.S. embassy spokesman Walter Braunohler said.  The U.S. offered two helicopters to help with relief
efforts, along with 10 marines and thousands of sandbags, said
Sean Boonpracong, a spokesman for the flood-relief center. Japan
and  China  both offered 30 million baht, he said.  Water levels in central Nakhon Sawan province have
stabilized after dams reduced the amount of water released
downstream, Yingluck said. Water levels rose in Ayutthaya Oct.
14, though authorities are working to improve drainage.  “The government will accelerate water drainage from the
Chao Phraya river into the sea and through the eastern and
western sides of Bangkok,” Yingluck said.  Drainage Efforts  Authorities have finished widening three canals to
accelerate drainage and will widen four more near the capital,
she said. Three flood barriers in the city have been extended
over the past few days, Yingluck said.  While inner Bangkok is still unaffected by flooding,
authorities are concerned about areas in the city’s west, where
defenses are weaker, the state-owned MCOT news agency reported,
citing Bangkok’s Governor Sukhumbhand Paribatra.  Four provinces in Thailand’s south are at risk from flash
floods and landslides, the nation’s disaster agency said on its
website yesterday. Train services to northern Thailand remain
suspended, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  