-- 
Yemeni Forces Clash With Protesters; Demonstrations in Syria Turn Deadly

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-10-16T13:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/al-qaeda-s-yemen-media-chief-killed-by-u-s-drone-strike-al-jazeera-says.html
Thousands of Yemeni protesters
clashed with security forces and armed gunmen loyal to President
Ali Abdullah Saleh, leaving at least eight people dead.  Five demonstrators and two soldiers who defected and joined
the opposition were killed in the capital today, Sana’a,
according to Mohammed al-Qubati, a doctor at the field clinic at
the demonstrators’ camp. At least one woman was killed in
clashes in the southern city of Taiz, Hisham al-Jaradi, an
activist, said by telephone. The renewed violence comes a day
after 16 people were slain in fighting.  Demonstrations began in the Arab world’s poorest country at
the end of January, inspired by revolts that ousted the leaders
of Tunisia and  Egypt . They deepened as military and tribal
leaders joined the opposition. Efforts by the Gulf Cooperation
Council to broker a power-transfer agreement have failed.  Saleh returned to Yemen on Sept. 23 after three months in
 Saudi Arabia , where he received medical treatment following a
rocket attack in the capital.  Yemen LNG, the country’s liquefied natural gas exporter,
halted production yesterday after an attack on a  gas pipeline .
Attacks against the country’s pipeline network have disrupted
exports and caused nationwide shortages since protests against
Saleh started.  Limited Loss  The loss of production is expected to be limited as the
plant was due to shut down on Oct. 23 for annual maintenance,
Yemen LNG said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Elsewhere in Yemen, two U.S. drone strikes killed at least
seven al-Qaeda militants, including the group’s media chief in
Yemen, the  Associated Press  reported, citing unidentified
government officials and tribal leaders.  The Oct. 14 operation killed Ibrahim Mohamed Saleh al-Bana,
an Egyptian national and a media officer for al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula. The strikes also killed Abdul-Rahman al-
Awlaki, son of the late Anwar al-Awlaki, a U.S.-born Islamic
cleric who recruited for al-Qaeda and was killed by an American
drone aircraft in Yemen Sept. 30, the AP reported.  Yemen has the eighth-largest crude reserves in the  Middle
East  and relies on oil sales for 90 percent of its hard currency
earnings, according to the U.S. Energy Information Oil
Administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  