-- 
Manchester City Defeats Villa to Move Above Man. United in Premier League

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-10-15T19:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/manchester-united-ties-1-1-at-liverpool-keeps-top-spot-in-premier-league.html
Manchester City  got three second-
half goals to defeat Aston Villa 4-1 to move atop England’s
Premier League as  Manchester United  tied at Liverpool 1-1.  Chelsea stayed in third place by beating Everton 3-1 in
London, and is now one point behind United.  City took a first-half lead with a goal from Mario
Balotelli, and then added scores from Adam Johnson in the 47th
minute, Vincent Kompany five minutes later and James Milner in
the 71st minute. Villa, which suffered its first defeat of the
league season, got a 65th-minute goal from  Stephen Warnock .  City and United entered the day tied on points after seven
games, with United holding a one-goal edge on goal difference.
City, which suspended striker Carlos Tevez for disobeying
manager  Roberto Mancini  in a Sept. 27 Champions League loss, was
able to get advantage of Villa’s defending while resting several
players, including France’s Samir Nasri, who played for their
national teams last week.  “We played with players who were here this week and we
played well,” Mancini said in a televised interview. It was
important to rest  David Silva , Edin Dzeko and Nasri “because
they played two games this week - if not it could be bad later
in the season.”  In Liverpool, United’s  Javier Hernandez  scored 9 minutes
from the end to even the match after  Steven Gerrard ’s free kick
gave the home side the lead in the 68th minute.  Liverpool had more than half the possession in the game,
and had 8 shots to United’s 3.  “I’m sure our fans will feel a little hard done by,”
Gerrard said. “We’re playing the best side in the league, so I
suppose it’s fair enough.”  City has 22 points, two more than United after 8 games.
Liverpool is in 5th place with 14 points.  Chelsea got first half goals from  Daniel Sturridge  and John Terry and Ramires scored in the 61st minute. Everton got a 81st
minute goal from striker Apostolos Vellios, who’d come on a
minute earlier.  Stoke defeated Fulham 2-0 with second-half goals from
Jonathan Walters and Rory Delap, while Bolton won 3-1 at Wigan
to move out of the bottom three, getting goals from Nigel Reo- Coker, David Ngog and Chris Eagles.  Queen’s Park Rangers tied 1-1 at home with Blackburn and
Norwich defeated Swansea 3-1 at home in a game between two
promoted teams.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  