-- 
Apple May Sell 4 Million IPhones as AT&T Gets Record Activations

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   S a r a h   G i l l
-- 
2011-10-15T00:37:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/apple-may-sell-4-million-iphone-4s-versions-this-weekend-as-crowds-gather.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4S barreled
toward unit sales of up to 4 million this weekend, as the
company’s carrier partner  AT&T Inc. (T)  reported a record number of
customers activating the device on its network.  The latest version of Apple’s best-seller, which went on
sale yesterday in the U.S., Australia, Canada, France,  Germany ,
 Japan  and the U.K., is outpacing the iPhone 4 -- a device that
topped 1.7 million units in its first weekend in 2010. Most
estimates for weekend sales range from 2 million to 3 million,
with Yankee Group analyst  Carl Howe  predicting up to 4 million.  In  New York ,  London ,  Tokyo  and Frankfurt yesterday,
hundreds of people lined up at the company’s stores. At London’s
Covent Garden store, 20 Apple employees formed a human tunnel
for shoppers entering the store, whooping, chanting and doling
out high fives. The line outside New York’s iconic glass cube
store on Fifth Avenue snaked back and forth across the plaza out
front and stretched halfway down the block.  “I’m a diehard Apple fan and I’ve been using Apple
products since I was 12,” said Cary Santos, 24, who lined up at
the Fifth Avenue store at 11 p.m. on Oct. 13 and spent the night
checking e-mail and news on his iPad 2. “This company has
rocked American life.”  As of 4:30 p.m. New York time, AT&T had activated a record
number of iPhones on its network, the company said. The Dallas-
based carrier said it was likely to double its previous high for
one-day activations.  Noontime Record  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , another mobile-phone service provider
offering the iPhone, said that by noon it had already reached
its best sales day ever. Verizon Wireless also reported a surge
of customers, without getting specific.  “We are seeing a nice mix of people who are first-time
smartphone purchasers as well as those who are switching from
competitors,”  Brenda Raney , a spokeswoman for Basking Ridge, New
Jersey-based Verizon Wireless, said in a statement.  The release of the new phone represents the end of Apple’s
era under  Steve Jobs , who died this month after an eight-year
battle with cancer. The iPhone 4S has received positive reviews
for its voice-recognition software, speedier processor and
improved camera. The device also provides Apple with fresh
ammunition in its fight against  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software,
which will appear on a host of new smartphones in the year-end
holiday season.  “It’s going to easily outpace any previous launch,” said
 Charlie Wolf , an analyst at Needham & Co. in New York. It helps
that the iPhone is available on the three largest U.S. carriers
for the first time, which will bring in new buyers, he said.  New Software  The phone costs $199, $299 or $399, depending on features.
Apple also released an update to its iOS mobile operating
system, which customers can download to their existing devices.
The software comes with 200 new features and a Web storage
service for synchronizing photos, documents, music and other
files across different Apple gadgets.  While the iPhone is the best-selling single smartphone, the
combined devices running Google’s Android operating system
account for more of the industry’s sales. HTC Corp., Samsung
Electronics Co., Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and other
manufacturers have adopted the software. Google offers Android
for free and then makes money on mobile advertising and
services. That revenue is on pace to account for $2.5 billion a
year, the company said this week when it released quarterly
results.  Topping Exxon  Apple’s stock rose 3.3 percent to $422 in yesterday’s
trading, for a gain of 14 percent this week. The company is the
world’s most valuable business, with a market capitalization of
$391.2 billion. That compares with $379.8 billion for the
second-ranking  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Heavy demand for the new iOS 5 software contributed to
glitches at Apple even before the iPhone 4S went on sale.
Customers downloading the operating system to their older phones
overwhelmed the company’s servers, making it harder to upgrade.  Apple hasn’t said how many people were affected. The wait
time to get a call back from an Apple support representative via
the company’s Express Lane service is much longer than usual.
Typically, an Apple rep will call back within a few hours. Now,
the earliest appointments aren’t for days.  Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment.  Jobs’s admirers turned storefronts into makeshift
memorials, adding a solemn tone to the frenzy that accompanies
the company’s product releases. Jobs co-founded Apple and
returned to the company in 1997 after a 12-year absence,
rescuing it from near-bankruptcy.  ‘IPhone for Steve’  In  Australia , the first country where the product went on
sale, Jackie Guo, 25, and his girlfriend, both students at
Macquarie University, said they lined up as a tribute to Jobs.  “It’s the iPhone for Steve, it’s for the memory of
Steve,” Guo said. “It was the last product he worked on. He
pushed this company to become a viable company. His ideas are
better than others.”  In  San Francisco  yesterday, a line stretched around the
block at the Union Square store. Customers were given bagels,
nutrition bars and energy drinks as they waited. Eva Nunez, 46,
was in line to buy the new iPhone for herself and her 14-year-
old son. “It’s a mom’s duty,” she said.  In Frankfurt, Grigory Stolyarov, a 27-year-old employee of
 DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale , spent the night in front of the
store on the city’s main shopping street. He had put on two
pairs of socks, sweaters and jackets to weather the first near-
freezing night of fall and be among the first 20 people in a
line of more than 1,000.  ‘I’ll Cry’  In London, Harriet Sneddon, 20, a computer science student,
waited in line outside a store run by Telefonica SA’s O2 mobile-
phone operator.  “I’m an Apple freak,” Sneddon said. “I’m just hoping
they’ve got one left or I’ll cry.”  The iPhone 4S will go on sale later this month in 22
additional countries, including Ireland, Italy, Mexico and
Spain. Apple didn’t say when it will be available in  China , a
country Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  has said will be
critical for the company’s future growth.  Apple said earlier this week that it had received more than
1 million preorders for the iPhone 4S. The three U.S. carriers
selling the device sold out of preorders as well.  The demand puts Apple on pace to sell a record number of
iPhones in the December quarter, according to the analysts’
reports.  Gene Munster , of Piper Jaffray Cos., estimates that
Apple could sell more than 25 million iPhones in the period.  App Cakes  Terry Stenzel, vice president and general manager for AT&T
in Northern California and Reno, Nevada, helped manage the
crowds at one of the carrier’s stores in San Francisco. He
expected to sell out of the iPhone 4S this weekend, even though
the location had three times as much supply as it did during the
last iPhone release. The store offered water and candy to the
crowd. Some AT&T stores handed out Apple cider and cupcakes
decorated with application icons.  “If you had asked me two weeks ago, this would have
exceeded expectations,” Stenzel said. “But when we saw the
amount of preorders, we adjusted them.”  The iPhone, first introduced in 2007, has become Apple’s
top moneymaker, accounting for almost half its total revenue.
Sales from the new model won’t be part of the fourth-quarter
financial results Apple is due to release on Oct. 18. Even so,
profit rose about 60 percent in the period to $6.9 billion on
sales of $29.5 billion, according to the average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Apple controlled 19.1 percent of the smartphone market in
the second quarter, according to research firm IDC, ahead of
Samsung, Nokia Oyj and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)   Few companies can build excitement around a new product the
way Apple can, Yankee Group’s Howe said.  “This is what they are good at,” he said. “They know how
to make a big launch weekend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Gill in New York at 
 sgill23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  