-- 
Canada Dollar Gains Most in Three Months on Europe Debt Rescue Optimism

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-10-15T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/canada-dollar-gains-most-in-three-months-on-europe-debt-rescue-optimism.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened by the
most since July as speculation European officials are making
progress fashioning a rescue plan for the region’s debt crisis
stoked appetite for riskier assets.  The currency advanced 2.9 percent this week versus its U.S.
counterpart, the second straight gain, as stocks climbed and
crude oil topped $87 a barrel. A report yesterday showed
September U.S. retail sales exceeded forecasts in September.
Economists project Statistics Canada data will show Oct. 21 that
inflation slowed last month.  “The combination of better U.S. data and hope for Europe
have helped soothe markets and drive risk aversion lower,” said
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia
in Toronto, in an e-mail yesterday. Technical indicators and
lower readings on a volatility index suggest “the Canadian
dollar should hang onto the gains it’s made over the last five
sessions,” she said.  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, closed yesterday at C$1.0098
per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto, recording the largest gain since the
five days through July 1. It touched C$1.0097, the strongest
since Sept. 22. One Canadian dollar buys 99.03 U.S. cents.  September Loss  The currency lost 6.9 percent in September, the most in
almost three years, as volatility surged on speculation European
officials will fail to contain the region’s debt crisis. The
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials climbed 4.5 percent
this week, the most since December, as Group of 20 finance
ministers began a two-day meeting yesterday to discuss plans to
tackle Europe’s debt crisis.  The loonie performed eighth-best among the U.S. dollar’s 16
most-traded counterparts this week, lagging behind the
currencies of Australian, Norway and  New Zealand , which also
rely on raw-material exports to underpin their economies.  November futures on crude oil hit $87.42 a barrel and ended
the week up 5.3 percent at $87.28 a barrel in  New York . The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 6 percent this week after
tumbling 14 percent from July through September, the biggest
loss since the last quarter of 2008.  Volatility in the greenback versus the Canadian dollar
reached a two-week low. One-month implied volatility on the
 currency pair  touched 12 percent yesterday, the lowest level
since Sept. 22. It climbed as high as 16 percent on Oct. 4. The
average during the past five years is 11.6 percent.  Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency.  Europe  Plan  European leaders may complete the rescue plan at an Oct. 23
summit to present to a meeting of G-20 leaders on Nov. 3-4. The
aim is to put together what the French and German governments
call a “durable” fix to the turmoil that has propelled  Greece 
to the edge of default and is roiling global markets.  G-20 and International Monetary Fund officials said the
ministers meeting in Paris until today are working on a European
rescue plan including boosting the IMF’s lending resources.  “We could continue to see some residual Canadian dollar
strength here in the next week or two,” said  Shaun Osborne ,
chief currency strategist in Toronto at TD Securities Inc., a
unit of Canada’s second-largest bank, in a telephone interview.
“It remains to be seen what happens on Monday after the G-20.”  Canada’s government bonds fell, pushing the 10-year note’s
yield higher by 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to
2.40 percent. The yields touched a record low 1.994 percent on
Oct. 4. The price of the 3.25 percent security maturing in June
2021 dropped C$1.46 this week to C$107.26.  Bond Returns  Canada’s government bonds have lost 1.2 percent this month,
the most since November, trimming gains this year to 6.5
percent, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Consumer prices rose 3.1 percent last month from a year
earlier, according to the median of 24 economist forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Statistics Canada  is due to release the
data on Oct. 21 at 7 a.m.  Canada will sell C$3.5 billion of two-year bonds on Oct.
19, according to the central bank’s website. The previous
auction of two-year bonds, on Sept. 14, fetched an average yield
of 1.03 percent and a bid-to-coverage ratio of 2.53 times,  Bank
of Canada   data  show.  The nation’s factory sales rose 1.4 percent on a seasonally
adjusted basis to C$47.6 billion in August, the highest level
since October 2008, Statistics Canada said yesterday in Ottawa.
The increase exceeded all 21 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists that had a median estimate of a 0.5 percent gain.  U.S. retail sales gained 1.1 percent in September, the
biggest advance since February, and followed a 0.3 percent gain
for August, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday in
 Washington . The median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 0.7 percent rise.  The loonie has dropped 4.1 percent this year, the worst
performance in a gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
The greenback is down 2.8 percent. The yen is up 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  