-- 
Canadians ‘Occupy’ Toronto, Montreal in Wall Street Protests

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-10-15T19:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/canadians-occupy-toronto-montreal-in-wall-street-protests.html
Thousands of protesters gathered
peacefully in Canadian cities, including Toronto and  Montreal ,
joining the Occupy Wall Street demonstrations that began in  New
York  and have spread worldwide.  About 1,000 people gathered in the heart of Toronto’s
financial district beginning at 10 a.m. local time to protest
inequality and advocate higher taxes for the wealthy. About an
hour later, organizers began moving the  demonstration  to nearby
St. James Park.  “To see people take action like this is amazing,” said
Neal Hamell, a student from London, Ontario, who traveled to
Toronto today to join the protests. “I’d like to see change. If
this doesn’t do anything, then something is wrong with the
world.”  The demonstrations, along with similar events planned this
weekend in cities including  London , Madrid and Milan, aim “to
seek and work toward drastic changes to economic systems that
are destroying our economy,” according to a statement on the
Occupy Toronto  website .  Signs in Toronto carried messages such as “Nationalize The
Banks!,” “CEO pay up 444% in 12 years. How about you?” and
“We’re All In The Same Boat.” Others were protesting war,
serial killers and hydro-electric costs.  Protests were planned in at least 15 Canadian cities,
including Calgary, Vancouver and Winnipeg, Manitoba, according
to the Canadian Broadcasting Corp.  website . The broadcaster
didn’t report any incidents of violence.  World’s Soundest Banks  An anemic global economy, the European sovereign debt
crisis and high U.S. unemployment among other causes have led to
discontent among the protesters, who’ve vowed to occupy Wall
Street for months. The demonstrations have spread to U.S. cities
including Boston,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco , San Diego, Denver
and Seattle.  Canada’s banks, which include  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , have been ranked
the world’s soundest for four straight years by the Geneva-based
World Economic Forum.  “We don’t have financial institutions in Canada that
failed, that cost taxpayers money,” Canadian Finance Minister
Jim Flaherty said today in an interview on CBC Television. “The
situation in Canada, thank goodness, is better than that and our
unemployment rate is significantly better than that of the
Americans.”  Bob Rae, interim leader of Canada’s opposition Liberal
Party, was at the Toronto event, according to CP24 television.
About 1,500 people gathered in  Vancouver  at the city’s art
gallery, according to a local radio station report.  Toronto, Canada’s most-populous city, is also the third-
largest financial center in  North America , according to the
Toronto Financial Services Alliance. The city houses 10 domestic
banks, 129 securities firms and 60 life insurers, according to
the organization’s  website . The financial-services industry
contributes 14 percent to Toronto’s gross domestic product,
according to the TSFA.  Toronto’s financial district was damaged last year during a
weekend of Group of 20 summit-related protests, which led to
hundreds of arrests and left police cars burned and windows
smashed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 