-- 
Carney Said to Be Leading Candidate to Succeed Draghi at FSB

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-10-15T10:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/carney-said-to-be-leading-candidate-to-succeed-draghi-at-fsb.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
is the leading candidate to replace  Mario Draghi  as head of the
body charged with rewriting the rules of international finance,
according to two officials from Group of 20 nations.  If chosen, Carney would take the helm of the Financial
Stability Board from Bank of Italy Governor Draghi, who next
month becomes president of the  European Central Bank . Swiss
central bank President Philipp Hildebrand is also being
considered for the job. The officials spoke on condition of
anonymity because a decision hasn’t been made yet.  Carney, 46, worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for more
than a decade before becoming a policy maker in 2003 and then
chief of Canada’s central bank in 2008. He has pushed for
tougher regulations for global lenders and clashed with banking
executives over new rules requiring them to hold more capital.  In a Sept. 25 speech to a banking group in  Washington , he
said new financial-market regulations wouldn’t hobble the global
economic recovery, citing the recent  UBS AG (UBSN)  trading loss of $2.3
billion as an example of why greater controls are needed.  “The implementation timetable” for the new rules, Carney
said in the speech to the  Institute of International Finance ,
“begins in two years and ends in 2019.”  “It is difficult to believe that prolonging this
implementation phase even further would have a material impact
on real economic outcomes,” he said.  Capital Surcharges  The FSB brings together regulators and finance ministry
officials from the G-20, as well as standard-setting bodies such
as the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Switzerland  is
not a G-20 member. The FSB’s next chairman would oversee the
implementation of planned capital surcharges of as much as 2.5
percent for the world’s biggest banks.  Bank watchdogs have clashed with some lenders over the
additional capital rules.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer
of JPMorgan Chase & Co., and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  are among bankers who have said that the proposals
would constrain lending and hurt the economy. Dimon, who has
said they are “anti-American,” criticized Carney at a closed-
door meeting in the presence of more than two dozen bankers and
finance officials, the Financial Times reported on Sept. 26.  G-20 officials today will also discuss formalizing the
powers of the FSB to ensure new rules agreed by leaders are
implemented, a separate G-20 official told reporters yesterday.
The FSB has said that work on the surcharge rules should be
finished in time for them to be approved at a summit of leaders
from the G-20 in Cannes,  France , on Nov. 3-4.  Carney helps to oversee a Canadian financial system that
largely escaped the last financial crisis and has been ranked
the world’s soundest for a fourth straight year by the Geneva-
based  World Economic Forum . The country’s three largest banks --
Royal Bank of  Canada , Toronto-Dominion Bank and Bank of Nova
Scotia -- are among the world’s 20 largest by market
capitalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  