-- 
Carney Said to Be Lead Candidate for FSB Role as Decision Looms

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-10-15T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/carney-said-to-be-lead-candidate-for-fsb-role-as-decision-looms.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney ,
a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. manager who has clashed with
banks on the need for tougher regulations, is the leading
candidate to run the body charged with rewriting the rules of
global finance, two officials from Group of 20 nations said.  If chosen, Carney would take the helm of the Financial
Stability Board from Bank of  Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi , who
next month becomes president of the  European Central Bank . Swiss
central bank President Philipp Hildebrand is also being
considered for the job. The officials spoke on condition of
anonymity because a decision hasn’t been made yet.  Carney is “a highly qualified candidate,” Canadian
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters yesterday following
a meeting in Paris, where G-20 officials agreed to strengthen
the regulator’s capacity and resources. He said the FSB
appointment will be announced at a summit of leaders from the G-
20 in Cannes,  France , on Nov. 3-4.  Carney, 46, worked at Goldman Sachs for more than a decade
before becoming a policy maker in 2003 and then chief of
Canada’s central bank in 2008. He has pushed for tougher
regulations for global lenders and clashed with banking
executives over new rules requiring them to hold more capital.  In a Sept. 25 speech to a banking group in  Washington , he
said new financial-market regulations wouldn’t hobble the global
economic recovery, citing the recent  UBS AG (UBSN)  trading loss of $2.3
billion as an example of why greater controls are needed.  Rule Revamp  “The implementation timetable” for the new rules “begins
in two years and ends in 2019,” Carney said in the speech to
the  Institute of International Finance .  “It is difficult to believe that prolonging this
implementation phase even further would have a material impact
on real economic outcomes,” he said.  The FSB brings together regulators and finance ministry
officials from the G-20, as well as standard-setting bodies such
as the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Switzerland  is
not a G-20 member. The FSB’s next chairman would oversee the
implementation of planned capital surcharges of as much as 2.5
percent for the world’s biggest banks.  Bank watchdogs have clashed with some lenders over the
additional capital rules.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer
of JPMorgan Chase & Co., and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  are among bankers who have said that the proposals
would constrain lending and hurt the economy. Dimon, who has
said they are “anti-American,” criticized Carney at a closed-
door meeting in the presence of more than two dozen bankers and
finance officials, the Financial Times reported on Sept. 26.  G-20 Talks  G-20 officials yesterday discussed formalizing the powers
of the FSB to ensure new rules agreed by leaders are
implemented. The FSB has said that work on the surcharge rules
should be finished in time for them to be approved at the Cannes
summit.  Carney helps to oversee a Canadian financial system that
largely escaped the last financial crisis and has been ranked
the world’s soundest for four years by the Geneva-based  World
Economic Forum . The country’s three largest banks -- Royal Bank
of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and Bank of Nova Scotia -- are
among the world’s 20 largest by market capitalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  