-- 
Chinese City Probes Illegal Lending to Keep ‘Financial Order’

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-10-15T04:26:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/chinese-city-probes-illegal-lending-to-keep-financial-order-.html
The eastern Chinese city of Wenzhou
will implement measures to “maintain financial order” as it
seeks to clamp down on illegal financing and keep executives
whose companies are saddled with bad debt from trying to flee.  The measures include pursuing companies that fail to pay
worker salaries and investigating “in a timely manner financial
crimes that harm public assets,” the city’s public security
bureau said in a  statement  on its website yesterday.  “This is for the financial stability of our city,” the
statement said. “The bureau is determined to fight illegal
activities.”  Media reports that Wenzhou factory owners fled after
failing to pay debts unnerved investors concerned about Chinese
banks’ asset quality and a slowdown in the  property market , UBS
AG said in an Oct. 11 report. The city of 9.1 million residents
has gained a reputation for non-bank lending and speculative
property investment, the brokerage said.  Security forces will provide protection to owners who
cannot pay workers’ salaries on time due to “temporary
difficulties,” the bureau said. It also vowed to tackle
activities that spread rumors or create panic.  Excessively high lending rates prompted Wenzhou to set an
upper limit on the  interest rates  that private non-bank lenders
can charge in an effort to control risk in the banking industry.
Tighter government credit policies have led smaller Chinese
manufacturers to seek loans through informal channels.  China ’s bank lending last month was the least since 2009 as
inflation stayed above the government’s target, according to
central bank data released yesterday.  Wenzhou set up a 500 million yuan ($78 million) fund to
offer loans to small companies in the city, Zhejiang Online, a
news portal run by the local government, reported on Oct 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  