-- 
McLaren’s Hamilton Takes Pole Position for Korean Formula One Grand Prix

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-10-15T10:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/mclaren-s-hamilton-takes-pole-position-for-korean-formula-one-grand-prix.html
Lewis Hamilton  held off Formula One
champion Sebastian Vettel to give his McLaren team its first
pole position in more than a year at tomorrow’s Korean Grand
Prix.  Hamilton had a gap of two-tenths of a second over Vettel,
who clinched his second straight F-1 title last week in the
Japanese Grand Prix. His teammate  Jenson Button  will start
third, while  Red Bull ’s  Mark Webber  will be fourth. Ferrari’s
 Felipe Massa  is fifth, and teammate Fernando Alonso sixth.  Red Bull has dominated the world’s most-watched motor sport
in the last two seasons. Vettel, 24, last week became the
youngest ever two-time Formula One champion, securing the
drivers’ title with four races of the season remaining. McLaren
hasn’t take pole since the Canadian Grand Prix in June 2010.  “Pole position is still only the first step, particularly
when we know that tomorrow’s race will be long and
unpredictable,” Hamilton said on the F-1 website. “Pole is
always a great achievement and I’m particularly proud to have
achieved it at the team’s 700th Formula 1 Grand Prix.”  Vettel has an unassailable 114-point lead over Button, the
2009 world champion, who won in Japan with  Fernando Alonso  of
Ferrari in second. Button’s win gives him 210 points in the
standings, eight more than Alonso, as they battle to finish
behind Vettel.  Vettel has started in pole position 12 times this season,
underscoring the superiority of his Red Bull car over Ferrari
and McLaren.  Drink-maker Red Bull GmbH spent $675 million on bankrolling
the team between 2005 and 2009, according to filings by the
team’s parent company based in Milton Keynes, England. Since
then it has been rewarded with two straight driver’s titles and
is closing on another constructors’ championship with a 130-
point lead over McLaren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 