-- 
E&Y’s ITEM Club to Cut U.K. Forecast, Say BOE QE Not Enough

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/e-y-s-item-club-to-cut-u-k-forecast-say-boe-qe-not-enough.html
Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club will
cut its U.K. growth forecast and say the  Bank of England  should
lower its key interest rate as its expansion of stimulus this
month is unlikely to be enough to aid the economy.  Gross domestic product will increase 0.9 percent in 2011
and 1.5 percent in 2012, compared with July projections of 1.4
percent and 2.2 percent respectively, the research group will
say in a quarterly report to be issued in  London  tomorrow,
according to an e-mailed statement.  As the euro-area debt crisis roiled financial markets, the
Bank of England increased its bond-purchase program to 275
billion pounds ($433 billion) from 200 billion pounds. If 
European leaders fail to resolve the region’s crisis, larger
doses of so-called quantitative easing will be insufficient and
the government may need to provide additional support such as
tax cuts to boost growth, ITEM Club will say.  “With the U.K. recovery grinding to a halt, new measures
are now needed to help stimulate growth,” Peter Spencer, chief
economic adviser to the ITEM Club, will say.  As well as raising the ceiling of its asset-purchase plan,
the Bank of England also held its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent on Oct. 6.  A cut in the key rate “would provide a boost to borrowers
and potentially help to stimulate  consumer spending  during the
difficult months ahead,” Spencer will say.  ITEM Club will say its central forecast assumes that the
Bank of England will expand its quantitative easing program
further and not raise  interest rates  until November 2012.  U.K. GDP grew just 0.1 percent in the second quarter and
data on Oct. 12 showed unemployment rose to 2.57 million in the
three months through August, the most since 1994. While economic
growth probably accelerated to 0.4 percent in the third quarter,
business surveys indicate there will be “a soft patch around
the turn of the year,” ITEM Club will say.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  