-- 
ECB’s Stark Says PSI Made Second Greek Bailout More Expensive

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-15T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/ecb-s-stark-says-psi-made-second-greek-bailout-more-expensive.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Juergen Stark said getting banks involved in the
second Greek bailout added to the cost of the package for euro-
area governments.  The debate about letting the private sector shoulder some
of the bill “aggravated the situation,” created “more
uncertainty” and “made it more expensive for governments than
if the banks had not contributed,” Stark said, according to a
transcript of an interview with Dutch newspaper NRC Handelsblad
which was provided by the ECB.  European officials are now considering writedowns of as
much as 50 percent on Greek bonds, a backstop for banks and
continued central bank bond purchases as key planks in a
revamped strategy to combat the debt crisis, people familiar
with the discussions said. The sovereign-debt crisis has pushed
 Greece  to the brink of default, roiled financial markets and
threatens to tip the global economy into recession.  Stark said that while governments acted “decisively” to
the recession, reaction to the debt crisis was “too slow.”
Governments “lost half a year because, at the end of 2009, they
did not immediately force Greece to take very tough measures,”
he said.  “The only solution is debt reduction -- spend less, reform
more,” Stark said. “The alternative is spending more on crisis
resolution.”  Stark resigned from the ECB board last month in protest at
the central bank’s purchase of Italian and Spanish bonds. He
declined to comment on his resignation saying he intends “to
stay another 2 1/2 months at the ECB” and “might consider
saying something then” about his reasons for leaving.  Stark defended the ECB’s two interest-rate increases this
year as “completely justified” since the “economy
stabilized” and “price pressures were creeping in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  