-- 
Merkel Says U.S. Reluctance on Financial Transaction Tax ‘Not Acceptable’

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-10-15T13:59:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/merkel-says-won-t-accept-u-s-balking-at-finance-transaction-tax.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
criticized governments including President Barack Obama’s
administration for refusing to make the financial sector pay for
the global financial crisis, and vowed to push for a financial
transaction tax until it applies at least in Europe.  “It’s not acceptable that especially those outside the
euro region, who are time and again pushing us to take broad-
based action to manage the debt crisis, are at the same time
flatly refusing to impose a financial transactions tax,” Merkel
said at a labor union congress in the city of Karlsruhe
yesterday. “I think this is not okay. We want, and we have to
make, financial market participants contribute to the costs of
 crisis management .”  Merkel said she will continue to push for a levy because
“reasonable regulation” is needed for economic confidence to
return. Trust in the reliability and competence of many
financial market participants has been damaged, she said. Her
comments were published by the  government press office .  A European Commission proposal for a financial transactions
tax, set to take effect in 2014 and raise about 57 billion euros
($79.1 billion) a year, would set minimum tax rates for
financial transactions throughout the 27-nation the European
Union, the commission said on Sept. 28. European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet has said a levy on financial
transactions should be global.  G-20 Meeting  Leaders from the world’s 20 biggest economies will meet in
Cannes,  France  on Nov. 3-4 to discuss the tax and other topics.
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  before a preparatory
meeting in Paris on Oct. 13 renewed his country’s refusal to
back a global transactions tax.  “We will talk intensively about financial market
regulation,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
yesterday, also before the Paris meeting. “We have to fight the
causes of this crisis, and the main reasons of the crisis are a
lack of financial market regulation and an abundance of
government deficits and debt.”  Obama and Merkel spoke yesterday about the “evolving
financial situation in the euro zone,” White House press
secretary Jay Carney said. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  flew to Wroclaw,  Poland , for an unprecedented 10-hour
visit to warn against “catastrophic risks” from the bloc’s
debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Paris at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  