-- 
Euro Advances Most Since 2009 on Bets Europe Debt Crisis Will Be Resolved

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-15T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/euro-advances-most-since-2009-on-bets-europe-debt-crisis-will-be-resolved.html
The euro rallied the most against
the dollar in more than two years on speculation the currency
union’s political leaders will be able to resolve the region’s
sovereign debt crisis.  The 17-nation euro rose yesterday to a five-week high
versus the yen as Group of 20 finance ministers convened in
Paris. The yen fell this week against all of its most-traded
peers on bets Japanese authorities will take steps to limit its
gains next week. Commodity currencies led by the Australian
dollar rallied versus the greenback on signs of stronger global
growth including an increase in U.S. retail sales.  “Markets are feeling more positive about the European
leaders coming up with a comprehensive solution,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New
York. “The numbers still point to ongoing growth in the global
economy and most importantly the U.S. It looks like a classic
return of risk appetite.”  The euro rose 3.8 percent to $1.3882 yesterday in the
biggest gain since the week ended March 20, 2009. The shared
currency advanced 4.4 percent to 107.20 yen after touching
107.45, the highest level since Sept. 9. The yen dropped 0.6
percent to 77.22 per dollar.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  index of stocks surged 5.4 percent this week
while the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
rose 4.5 percent.  Aussie Rises  Australia ’s dollar advanced 5.9 percent to $1.0340 in the
biggest five-day advance since February 2009. The Aussie rose
for a second straight week after losing 9.8 percent in
September. Norway’s krone rallied 4.6 percent to 5.5627 per
greenback. Canada’s dollar strengthened 2.9 percent to C$1.0098
per  U.S. dollar  after dropping as much as 1 percent on Oct. 13.  “ Risk aversion  has come in lower,” said  Camilla Sutton ,
chief currency strategist in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia.
“Markets feel a lot calmer than they felt even a week ago.”  The yen slid after an improved economic outlook damped
refuge demand and as Dow Jones Newswires reported government
officials said they would take steps against a strong yen as
early as next week. The steps may include more funding to
encourage foreign mergers and acquisitions and won’t include a
tax on currency transactions, Dow Jones reported.  “This is a very direct response to people not wanting to
be too long yen going into the weekend in case there’s some real
meat in the talk of action early next week,” said  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in New York. A long is a bet an asset may gain in value.  Record Yen  The yen increased to a post-World War II high of 75.95
against the dollar in August, making  Japan ’s exports more
expensive, even after the government intervened in the  currency
market  for the third time in the past year, selling yen in an
effort to curb its appreciation.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, decreased 2.7 percent to 76.612 in the biggest weekly
slump since May 2009 on reduced demand for a refuge in the
world’s main reserve currency.  U.S. retail sales increased 1.1 percent last month, the
most since February, after a revised 0.3 percent gain in August,
the Commerce Department reported yesterday.  “This report is a game changer,”  said  Michael Woolfolk ,
senior currency strategist in  New York  at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than
$26 trillion in assets under administration.  Fed Minutes  Minutes from the Fed’s Sept. 20-21 meeting released this
week showed some policy makers saw “considerable uncertainty”
that U.S. economic growth will pick up. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  decided to replace $400 billion of shorter-term
Treasuries in the central bank’s portfolio with longer
maturities to keep borrowing costs low under the policy known as
Operation Twist.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased bets that
the dollar will gain against the yen, euro, Australian dollar,
Swiss franc, Canadian dollar, pound, Mexican peso and  New
Zealand dollar . Net dollar long positions increased to 132,835
contracts in the week ended Oct. 11, figures from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission showed yesterday. That’s the highest
level since June 2010.  The euro rose this week as G-20 and International Monetary
Fund officials said the finance ministers meeting in Paris are
working on a European rescue plan including boosting the IMF’s
lending resources.  European leaders may complete the rescue plan at an Oct. 23
summit to present to a meeting of G-20 leaders on Nov. 3-4. The
aim is to put together what the French and German governments
call a “durable” fix to the turmoil that has propelled  Greece 
to the edge of default and is roiling global markets.  The euro has strengthened 1.1 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which gauge the currencies of 10 developed nations. The yen has
fallen 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  