-- 
France Beats Wales 9-8 to Advance to Rugby World Cup Final for Third Time

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-15T12:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/france-beats-wales-9-8-to-advance-to-rugby-world-cup-final-for-third-time.html
France  beat 14-man  Wales  9-8 in
their Rugby  World Cup  semifinal to become the first team to
advance to the final after losing two pool matches.  In the lowest scoring knockout match in 20 years, fly-half
Morgan Parra kicked three penalties for France at Auckland’s
Eden Park last night. Scrum-half  Mike Phillips  scored a try and
 James Hook  added a penalty for Wales, which had to play a man
down for 62 minutes after captain Sam Warburton was red-carded
for a dangerous tackle.  France, the runner-up in 1987 and 1999, rebounded from
back-to-back losses to the All Blacks and Tonga in the pool
stage and reports of infighting in its squad to secure a place
in the Oct. 23 final. New Zealand hosts  Australia  today in the
other semifinal at  Eden Park .  “We had a guardian angel tonight,” France coach Marc Lievremont said in his post-match news conference. “We had a
very narrow escape and we are alive and kicking. We did not play
the most spectacular game but we are still here. We know we are
privileged.”  Wales had a chance to go ahead when Phillips scampered over
for the only try in the 59th minute, but Stephen Jones’s
conversion attempt hit the post. Leigh Halfpenny’s penalty from
halfway with five minutes left dropped a meter (3 feet) below
the crossbar and was the third penalty Wales missed after Hook
put two first-half kicks wide.  Wales had reached the final four for the first time since
1987, when it finished third. The fourth-ranked Welsh had won
four straight games at the tournament after also losing by a
point to  South Africa  in its opener.  Warburton’s red card cost Wales a place in its first World
Cup final, coach Warren Gatland said.  ‘Out of Our Hands’  “We just feel like the destiny of the result was taken out
of our hands,” he said. “I’m just gutted. We were down to 14
but we showed great character and I’m proud of our efforts. I
feel let down, I thought this team were good enough to go on and
take the final but it was not to be.”  A pre-match downpour made early conditions slippery and the
teams made five handling errors in the first 10 minutes.  Hook, recalled in place of injured fly-half Rhys
Priestland, kicked an eighth-minute penalty though missed a
chance to double the lead from in front of the posts when he
slipped as he was about to strike the ball.  Wales went a man down when open-side flanker Warburton was
sent off by referee Alain Rolland of Ireland for a tip tackle on
Vincent Clerc. Warburton lifted Clerc up in the air, though he
didn’t appear to drive him into the ground. Rolland showed the
Wales skipper the red card instead of yellow.  ‘Nothing Malicious’  “Obviously I’m gutted with the red card but there was
nothing malicious,” said Warburton, who became the second
Welshman to be sent off at a World Cup after lock Huw Richards
in the 1987 semifinal loss to  New Zealand . “I went to compete
for the ball, thinking it was a normal tackle. The next thing I
know I’m walking off into the stands.”  Parra tied the scores with a penalty four minutes later and
Hook missed with another chance in the 30th minute. Parra was on
target with another penalty 12 minutes later to give his team a
6-3 lead at the break.  Fly-half Parra, who took over the kicking duties because
regular goal-kicker Dimitri Yachvili wasn’t able to kick after
injuring his leg in the quarterfinal win over  England , made it
9-3 before Phillips touched down.  The scrum-half picked up the ball at the base of a ruck and
threw a dummy before handing off Pascal Pape and running in a
solo try. Jones hit the post with the conversion to leave France
a point ahead before Halfpenny’s long-range penalty fell just
short. With the 80 minutes up, Wales took the ball through 26
phases before spilling the ball and Yachvili re-gathered and
kicked into the stands to end the game.  ‘One Short’  “If we’d knocked a few points over it would have probably
have been the most heroic victory in history of the  Rugby World
Cup ,” said Wales assistant coach Shaun Edwards. “Unfortunately
we came up one short.”  Top-ranked New Zealand takes a 25-match winning streak at
Eden Park into today’s game against two-time champion Australia,
whose last victory at the venue was in 1986. The Wallabies won
when the teams last met on Aug. 27 to clinch their first
southern hemisphere Tri-Nations title in a decade.  Lievremont, who played in France’s defeat to Australia in
the 1999 World Cup final, said he would prefer to meet the host
nation at Eden Park next week in a repeat of the inaugural final
24 years ago, which New Zealand won.  “I will always be an All Blacks supporter unless we play
them,” Lievremont said. “Playing the All Blacks in the final
in New Zealand would be extraordinary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Eden Park, Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  