-- 
French Socialists Set to Pick Candidate to Challenge Sarkozy

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-16T15:03:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/french-socialists-set-to-pick-candidate-to-challenge-sarkozy.html
France’s  Socialist Party  supporters
began voting to choose their candidate to challenge President
Nicholas Sarkozy in the May 2012 elections in a runoff that is
attracting more voters than the first round, early returns show.  Francois Hollande , 57, leads the race, having gotten the
most votes in the first round of the party’s primaries. His
rival for the nomination, former Labor Minister and party chief
 Martine Aubry , 61, has criticized him for lacking experience.
Hollande has never served in a government.  “They haven’t shown any major differences in their
proposals,” said Erwan Lestrohan, a pollster at Paris-based  LH2
Institute . “She is more left-wing, he is more centrist.”  The two finalists voted earlier today, Aubry in Lille, the
city where she is mayor, and Hollande in the central town of
Tulle, where he was mayor from 2001 to 2008. Harlem Desir, who
heads the Socialists during the campaign, said turnout for
today’s runoff was 869,000 at 1 p.m., an 8.6 percent increase
from the same time during the first round. About 2.7 million
people cast a ballot on Oct. 9. Voting stations across  France 
will close at 7 p.m. local time.  ‘Only Goal’  “The only goal is for the Left to win in 2012,” Hollande
said after voting today. Aubry called “every French person to
vote with their belief and their heart for a real change,”
after casting her ballot. Their comments were both aired on I-
Tele cable news channel.  Aubry may struggle to close the 8.8 percentage-point gap
that separated her from Hollande in the first round. Polls show
that Hollande would win the presidential elections if they were
held now. Sarkozy has yet to declare his intention to seek a
second term.  Le Figaro newspaper  yesterday said Sarkozy may
declare his intention to run in February after he started
campaigning last week.  The two finalists focused more on social issues and
 protectionism  in the final days of their campaigns, mirroring
the stance of Arnaud Montebourg, who placed third in the first
round and whose supporters they seek. The lawmaker advocates
“de-globalization,” more financial regulation and steps toward
re-nationalizing French banks. Montebourg said Oct. 14 he will
vote for Hollande today.  “Mathematically, Hollande should win but Aubry’s odds may
get a boost from voters who believe in a more left-wing
candidate and who voted for Arnaud Montebourg last Sunday,”
Lestrohan said.  Few Differences  Today’s election isn’t “a done deal,” Hollande said in an
interview in yesterday’s  Liberation newspaper , adding that he
and his rival don’t have clear-cut political differences. “The
choice is less between two political lines than between two ways
of doing things, two personalities,” Hollande said.  Aubry, who suggested Hollande would represent the “ soft
left ,” accused him of having a right-wing bent.  “It always disturbs me when a man of the left uses the
terminology of the right,” she told RTL radio after their final
 televised debate Oct. 12 .  In the debate, both said the state must take greater
control of banks and called for increased regulation of global
financial transactions. They said the country’s banks should be
under state supervision if they receive government aid.  Greek Default  Hollande also said he sees a Greek default before the end
of the year. Aubry said “the banks must pay” for their Greek
investments. Both called for increased global regulation and
barriers to trade if countries, including  China , don’t respect
commercial and environmental rules.  Hollande declined to call for increased taxes on wealthy
people on Oct. 12, while Aubry suggested that she would add a
new tax bracket for those earning more than 250,000 euros
($347,000) per year.  Sixty-one  percent  of French voters say Hollande, who heads
the local council of Correze in central France, is more likely
to bring the Socialist Party back to power, 17 years after its
previous presidential victory. That compares to 43 percent of
the voters who say Aubry, the mayor of the northern city of
Lille, will be the winner, according to an LH2 poll for the
weekly magazine Le Nouvel Observateur. The Paris-based polling
institute surveyed 953 people aged 18 or older Oct. 7-8. LH2
didn’t publish a margin of error.  Hollande, the former head of the Socialist Party, secured
his lead this week with the backing of three of the four
candidates defeated in the first round.  Segolene Royal, the French 2007 Socialist presidential
candidate, called on her supporters yesterday to vote for
Hollande in the second round. Manuel Valls and Jean-Francois
Baylet, who lost in the first round, also called on their
supporters to vote for Hollande. Montebourg, the third-ranked
candidate of the first round, disclosed his personal preference
for the front-runner while avoiding an official endorsement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  