-- 
G-20 Said to Consider List of 50 Systemically Important Banks

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-15T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/g-20-said-to-consider-fsb-list-of-systemically-important-banks.html
Group of 20 governments are
considering naming as many as 50 banks as systemically important
to the global economy and in need of extra capital, two
officials from G-20 nations said.  The list, drawn up by Financial Stability Board Chairman
 Mario Draghi , will be published in time for a G-20 leaders
meeting in Cannes,  France , on Nov. 3-4, said the officials, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
Regulators have said the banks named will be forced to take on
more capital.  Regulators are at loggerheads with some institutions over
the additional capital rules, with lenders arguing the
requirements may harm the world’s economic recovery.  Jamie Dimon ,
chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  are among bankers who have
suggested this year that the new rules will constrain lending
and hurt growth.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers meeting in Paris
yesterday discussed the standards that will be applied when
compiling the list of systemic banks.  Twenty-nine to 40 banks could be designated depending on
the potential impact on financial markets, according to one
person familiar with the matter. Two officials from G-20 nations
said the list could even be expanded to about 50 institutions.
The regulators are also contemplating including the institutions
in categories according to their ability to absorb losses.  G-20 Statement  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  confirmed at a news
conference that the G-20 members will publish a list of the
systemic institutions at the Cannes summit next month. In its
communiqué, the G-20 said it endorsed a framework to reduce the
risks posed by systemically important institutions through
strengthened supervision, a cross-border resolution plan and
additional  capital requirements .  The FSB is assessing how systemically important
institutions are on the basis on five broad categories: size,
interconnectedness, lack of substitutability, global activity
and complexity.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said in July
that, based on data available at the time, 28 banks would be
considered systemic and face an additional capital surcharge.  The framework for systemic institutions was set to be the
focus of the G-20 meetings before  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
intensified. The Basel panel announced in June that it had
completed its work on the surcharge rules, and the FSB approved
them on Oct. 3. The FSB brings together finance ministry
officials, central bank governors and regulators. Lenders whose
collapse could roil global markets will face global capital
surcharges as high as 2.5 percentage points on top of Basel III
capital standards.  Carney Leading Candidate  Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  is the leading
candidate to replace Draghi as head of the FSB, two officials
said on condition of anonymity because a final decision is
pending. Draghi becomes president of the  European Central Bank 
on Nov. 1  Carney, 46, worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for more
than a decade before becoming a policy maker in 2003 and then
chief of Canada’s  central bank  in 2008. At a gathering of bank
executives on Sept. 23 in  Washington , Dimon, 55, attacked Carney
on the Basel III capital surcharge rules, saying many of them
discriminated against U.S. banks and he would continue to
describe them as “anti-American.”  One official said global regulators recommended areas for
strengthening oversight of shadow banks and that they will
contemplate plans for such institutions in 2012. The FSB
suggested assessing banks’ involvement with shadow banks, reform
of money-market funds, securitization regulation, supervision
with an emphasis on risk and scale, and regulation of lending
and repo markets, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  