-- 
G-20 Sets Aside China Currency Concerns as Europe’s Debt Crisis Dominates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-15T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/g-20-sets-aside-china-currency-concerns-as-debt-crisis-dominates.html
The world’s leading economies set
aside concerns about  China ’s currency for now as  Europe ’s debt
crisis took centre stage at a Group of 20 meeting in Paris.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers refrained from
ratcheting up their language on exchange rates in a statement
yesterday, sticking to the line that they should be “market
determined.” Chinese deputy finance minister  Zhu Guangyao 
welcomed the statement, saying in an interview that its
description of the currency issue was “comprehensive and
balanced.”  China, which has been criticized for not allowing the yuan
to appreciate more, said the current priority is fixing Europe’s
debt crisis. The U.S. on Oct. 14 postponed a report on the
 exchange-rate  policies of its trading partners, including China,
until after global meetings scheduled for this month and next.  “We reiterate that excess volatility and disorderly
movements in exchange rates have adverse implications for
economic and financial stability,” the G-20 statement said,
repeating a mantra last expressed on Sept. 23.  Japan ’s concerns about excessive currency movements were
reflected in the G-20 statement, Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said yesterday.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
said on Oct. 14 that global uncertainties are driving up the yen
and urged European nations to tackle their debt problems swiftly.  Geithner’s Stance  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has been pushing
China to allow its currency to strengthen, saying that would
help support global growth, while avoiding actions that could
cause friction with the world’s No. 2 economy and the second-
largest U.S. trade partner.  “It’s in the interest of the world economy for China to let
the exchange rate appreciate more rapidly and more broadly,”
Geithner said in Paris yesterday.  A G-20 official, speaking on condition of anonymity in line
with his government’s policy, said China had given no signal at
the meeting that it’s prepared to allow the yuan to appreciate
more quickly.  The yuan has risen 10 percent against the dollar, adjusted
for inflation, since mid-2010. Premier  Wen Jiabao , after paying
a visit to exporters and manufacturers in the southern  Guangdong
province , said China will keep the yuan “basically stable to
avoid hurting the nation’s foreign-trade companies excessively,”
China National Radio reported yesterday.  Chinese Exports  China’s exports rose the least in seven months in September
and the customs bureau warned of “severe” challenges as the
global economic outlook dims.  China’s central bank limits conversion of the yuan onshore
for investment purposes and restricts daily movements to 0.5
percent from its daily fixing. Intervention by buying and
selling the currency has contributed to the buildup of $3.2
trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest.
Chinese investors hold $1.2 trillion of U.S. Treasuries.  G-20 nations may step up pressure on China to allow more
yuan appreciation if Europe manages to resolve its debt crisis.
European Union leaders are aiming to present a comprehensive
plan at a summit on Oct. 23.  China’s reluctance to allow more flexibility in its
currency has been a “persistent thorn,” Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television, adding that a move in this direction would be in the
Asian country’s interests.  “There needs to be a recognition that flexibility of the
currency also benefits China,” Flaherty said. “Inflexible
currencies endanger free trade, ultimately, because they lead to
protectionist sentiment.”  --Victoria Ruan with assistance from Toru Fujioka, Rainer Buergin and Cheyenne Hopkins in Paris. Editors:  Matthew Brockett, Craig Stirling  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Paris at  vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  