-- 
G-20 Signals Additional IMF Aid Possible to Help Europe’s Fiscal Crisis

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-10-15T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/g-20-signals-additional-imf-possible-to-help-europe-contain-fiscal-crisis.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs and
central bankers opened the possibility of handing more
International Monetary Fund aid to  Europe , while splitting over
whether the lender should be given more resources.  If European leaders step up efforts to tackle their debt
crisis, the U.S. would be willing to back more IMF cash to
“supplement” them, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said after the G-20 meeting in Paris yesterday. While the U.S.
would respond to a “compelling case” for providing more money,
he called the fund’s $390 billion of uncommitted reserves a
“very, very substantial amount of financial firepower.”  Such remarks suggest global authorities want European
governments to take fresh steps to contain their region’s
turmoil before considering additional aid, let alone a fillip of
the IMF’s coffers. The G-20 said in a statement that the “IMF
must have adequate resources to fulfill its systemic
responsibilities” and promised to return to the issue when its
leaders meet in Cannes,  France  on Nov. 3-4.  There is some discord among G-20 officials as those from
rich nations such as Germany and  Canada  questioned proposals to
expand the resources of the IMF to help contain Europe’s woes.  ‘Adequate Tools’  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told Bloomberg
Television at the meeting that the European situation is “a
problem for the euro zone to sort out” and the 17-member region
has “adequate tools and adequate resources to get the job
done.” He said that he doesn’t “think we ought to be asking
the IMF to do a great deal more.”  “Everybody agrees that the IMF has to have adequate
resources at its disposal at all times, but I want to add that
from our point of view there is no need at this time for an
increase of the IMF’s resources,” German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters.  Some nations have signaled they’re in favor of increasing
the IMF’s lending power after Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said last month her $390 billion war chest may not be
enough to meet all loan requests should the global economy
worsen. Additional funds could be used to help shelter Italy and
 Spain  with precautionary lending, according to three officials
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private.  China, Japan  Chinese Deputy Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said that his
country “supports stability in Europe and holds an open
attitude toward all discussions,” while Japanese Finance
Minister Jun Azumi said he would first want an explanation of
why the extra money is needed before offering it.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said at the
meeting that strengthening the IMF is “the second most
important issue we have to discuss.”  “It’s really important to provide whatever financial
resources that are required by the IMF to cope with future
challenges,” Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan told Bloomberg TV
in an interview in Paris.  The G-20 also called on the IMF to consider new ways to
provide short-term liquidity to countries “facing exogenous,
including systemic, shocks.” It said the meeting of G-20
leaders next month will also make progress on broadening the
IMF’s Special Drawing Rights, a synthetic currency.  ‘Stronger’ IMF  “We have resources available today for any contingencies
we face right now but we have to look forward to the risk the
global economy faces,”  John Lipsky , a special adviser to
Lagarde, said in a Bloomberg TV interview in Paris. The
important thing “is there is a commitment to ensure the IMF has
adequate resources.”  Any move to bolster the IMF’s firepower would be similar to
a G-20 decision in 2009 to triple the fund’s resources as part
of plan to pull the world out of recession. As back then,
additional resources may come through bilateral loans or by
purchasing IMF notes rather than by an increase in its permanent
resources, according to the officials. One solution being
considered is the creation of an IMF-run special purpose
vehicle, two of them said.  “We are having bilateral discussions to see what is the
best proposal,” Mantega said. “There is no homogeneous
position, but we are trying to reach a common proposal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  