-- 
Europe Crisis Plan Wins Global Backing as G-20 Urges Action

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-15T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/g-20-tells-europe-to-deal-decisively-with-debt-crisis-at-oct-23-summit.html
Europe ’s revamped strategy to beat
its two-year sovereign debt crisis won the backing of global
finance chiefs, who urged the region’s leaders to deal
“decisively” with the turmoil when they meet for emergency
talks in a week’s time.  European officials yesterday outlined the initiatives
they’re considering at a meeting in Paris of finance ministers
and central bankers from the Group of 20 economies. With the
continent’s fiscal woes rattling financial markets and
threatening the world economy, governments were urged to
complete the plan at their Oct. 23 summit in Brussels and to
tame the threat of contagion by maximizing the firepower of
their 440 billion-euro ($611 billion) bailout fund.  “The plan has the right elements,” U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told reporters in Paris. Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said that “some of what is being
considered, if fully implemented, would be sufficient in our
opinion.”  Policy makers held out the possibility of rewarding
European action with more aid from the  International Monetary
Fund , while splitting over whether the Washington-based lender
needs a fillip of cash.  ‘Substantial Arsenal’  “The IMF has a substantial arsenal of financial resources,
and we would support further use of those existing resources to
supplement a comprehensive, well-designed European strategy
alongside a more substantial commitment of European resources,”
Geithner said. He added that the U.S. would back more money for
the IMF only if a “compelling case” was made as its current
$390 billion war chest is “very, very substantial.”  Europe’s strategy, which has still to be made public,
currently includes writing down Greek bonds by as much as 50
percent, establishing a backstop for banks and multiplying the
strength of the newly-enhanced European Financial Stability
Facility, people familiar with the matter said Oct. 14. Optimism
the crisis may soon be tamed spurred stocks higher last week 
and pushed the euro to its biggest gain against the dollar in 
more than two years.  European officials “will have left Paris under no
misunderstanding that there is a huge amount of pressure on them
to deliver a solution,” U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told reporters. Next weekend “is the moment people are
expecting something quite impressive.”  Agreement ‘Close’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said his G-20
counterparts welcomed Europe’s “confirmation that we’re aware
of our responsibility and we’ll solve the problems in the  euro
zone .” European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told Bloomberg Television that euro-area
authorities are “close” to an agreement on how to capitalize
banks.  The G-20 officials -- who met to prepare for a Nov. 3-4
gathering of leaders in Cannes, France -- said the world economy
faces “heightened tensions and significant downside risks”
that must be addressed.31  They vowed to keep banks capitalized and financial markets
stable, while reiterating an aversion to excess currency
volatility. They also considered shortly naming as many as 50
banks as systemically important, two officials said.  Almost two years to the day since  Greece  set the crisis in
motion by announcing it had underestimated its  budget deficit ,
Europe’s latest strategy hinges on putting it on a viable path.
Austerity has plunged Greece deeper into recession and provoked
civil unrest that threatens political stability.  Italy  Targeted  Failure to curb the pain has led to Portugal and Ireland
requiring bailouts, and markets are now targeting larger debt-
strapped nations such as Italy. Investors are concerned that if
the crisis is allowed to fester, the world economy could face a
repeat of the chaos that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Geithner warned three weeks ago that
failure by Europe to act would risk “cascading default, bank
runs and catastrophic risk.”  In the works is a five-point plan foreseeing a solution for
Greece, bolstering of the EFSF rescue fund, fresh capital for
banks, a new push to boost competitiveness and consideration of
European treaty amendments to tighten economic management.  The Greek bond losses now envisaged in the plan may be
accompanied by a pledge to rule out debt restructurings in other
countries that received bailouts, such as  Portugal , to persuade
investors that Europe has mastered the crisis, said the people
on Oct. 14.  Options Discussed  Options include tweaking a July accord struck with
investors for a 21 percent net-present-value reduction in Greek
debt holdings. One variant would take that reduction up to 50
percent, the people said.  Under a more aggressive proposal, investors would exchange
Greek bonds for new debt at a lower face value collateralized by
the euro area’s AAA-rated rescue fund, the people said. The
ultimate option is a restructuring involving writedowns without
collateral, they said.  The bank-aid model under discussion is to set up a
European-level backstop capitalized by the rescue fund, the
people said. It would have the power to take direct equity
stakes in banks and provide guarantees on bank liabilities.  Officials are considering seven ways of multiplying the
strength of Europe’s temporary rescue fund. The options break
down into two broad categories: enabling it to borrow from the
 European Central Bank  or using it to partly insure new bonds
issued by distressed governments. The ECB has all but ruled out
the first method, making bond insurance more likely, the people
said.  EFSF Guarantees  EFSF guarantees of new bonds might range from 20 percent to
30 percent, a person familiar with those deliberations said.
Recourse to bond insurance suggests the central bank will need
to maintain its secondary-market purchases for an unspecified
“interim” period, people said.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who attended his last G-
20 meeting before he retires Oct. 31, reiterated the central
bank hopes to stop purchasing  government bonds  once the EFSF is
able to take over.  A consensus is emerging to accelerate the setup of a
permanent aid fund planned for July 2013, the European Stability
Mechanism. This week’s discussions will focus on creating it a
year earlier, in July 2012, and easing unanimity rules that
permit solitary countries to block bailouts.  Officials divided over whether Europe’s travails meant the
IMF should be handed more cash, beyond agreeing it must have
“adequate resources to fulfil its systemic responsibilities.”
Emerging markets such as  China  are considering whether the
lender needs more money, while officials from the U.S.,  Germany 
and  Canada  were among those to say either that the euro area
must fix for its problems first or the IMF already has plentiful
and untapped resources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Paris at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Cheyenne Hopkins in Paris at  chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at  cstirling1@bloomberg.net  