-- 
G-20 Said to Refrain From Taking Tougher Currency Stance

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-10-15T07:31:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/g-20-said-to-refrain-from-taking-tougher-stance-on-currencies.html
The Group of 20 will refrain from
toughening language on currency flexibility in its statement at
the conclusion of a meeting of finance chiefs in Paris today,
said an official from a G-20 nation.  The communique -- the drafting of which ended 7:30 a.m.
Paris time -- will mention the euro region’s sovereign debt
crisis, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
citing his government’s policy. The G-20 has yet to find
consensus at this meeting of finance ministers and central
bankers on communique language on the International Monetary
Fund’s surveillance role and the introduction of a financial
transactions tax, the official said.  China , which has been criticized for not allowing the yuan
to appreciate more, said yesterday that the current priority is
fixing  Europe ’s debt crisis. The U.S. yesterday postponed a
report on the exchange-rate policies of its trading partners,
including China, until after global meetings scheduled for this
month and next.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has been pushing China
to allow its currency to strengthen, saying that would help
support global growth, while avoiding actions that could cause
friction with the world’s No. 2 economy and the second-largest
U.S. trade partner.  The G-20 official said China had given no signal in Paris
that it’s prepared to allow the yuan to appreciate more rapidly.  ‘Persistent Thorn’  China’s reluctance to allow more flexibility in its
currency has been a “persistent thorn,” Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday, adding that a move in this direction would
be in the Asian country’s interests.  “There needs to be a recognition that flexibility of the
currency also benefits China,” Flaherty said. “Inflexible
currencies endanger free trade, ultimately, because they lead to
protectionist sentiment.”  When G-20 finance chiefs last met on Sept. 23 in
 Washington , they maintained their traditional view “that excess
volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates have
adverse implications for economic and financial stability.”
They added that emerging markets would contribute more to the
global economy by spurring domestic-led growth and that would be
easier if they allowed “enhanced exchange rate flexibility to
reflect economic fundamentals.”  Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi, who at recent
gatherings has voiced concern about the impact the stronger yen
will have on  Japan ’s economy, said today he wants his nation’s
views reflected in the G-20 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  