-- 
G-20 Calls for Europe to Act ‘Decisively’ on Debt Crisis (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 4 0 0 9 2 0 ]   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-15T15:12:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/g-20-calls-for-europe-to-act-decisively-on-debt-crisis-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
statement released today in Paris by Group of 20 finance
ministers and central bank governors.  We, the G-20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors, met
at a time of heightened tensions and significant downside risks
for the global economy that need to be addressed decisively to
restore confidence, financial stability and growth.  We have progressed in delivering the commitments we made three
weeks ago in Washington DC. In particular, we welcome the
adoption of the ambitious reform of the European economic
governance. We also welcome the completion by euro area
countries of the actions necessary to implement the decision
taken by euro area leaders on 21 July, 2011 to increase the
capacity and the flexibility of the EFSF. We look forward to
further work to maximize the impact of the EFSF in order to
avoid contagion, and to the outcome of the European Council on
Oct. 23 to decisively address the current challenges through a
comprehensive plan. We made progress on our action plan of
coordinated policies for consideration by our leaders at the
Cannes summit. This action plan will encompass a set of measures
to address immediate vulnerabilities and strengthen the
foundations for a strong, sustainable and balanced growth
whereby:  - Advanced economies, taking into account different national
circumstances, will adopt policies to build confidence and
support growth, and implement clear, credible and specific
measures to achieve fiscal consolidation. Those with large
current account surpluses will also implement policies to shift
to growth based more on domestic demand. Those with large
current account deficits will implement policies to increase
national savings.  - Emerging market economies will adjust macroeconomic policies,
where needed, to maintain growth momentum in the face of
downside risks, contain inflationary pressures and endeavour to
enhance resilience in the face of volatile capital flows.
Surplus emerging market economies will accelerate the
implementation of structural reforms to rebalance demand toward
more domestic consumption, supported by continued efforts to
move toward more market-determined exchange-rate systems and
achieve greater exchange-rate flexibility to reflect economic
fundamentals.  - All countries will undertake further structural reforms to
raise potential growth.  - In all of our actions we still strive to foster growth,  job
creation  and promote social inclusion.  We remain committed to take all necessary actions to preserve
the stability of banking systems and financial markets. We will
ensure that banks are adequately capitalized and have sufficient
access to funding to deal with current risks. Central banks have
recently taken decisive actions to this end and will continue to
stand ready to provide liquidity to banks as required. Monetary
policies will maintain  price stability  and continue to support
economic recovery.  We are taking concrete steps to build a more stable and
resilient ISM to help both deal with the current stress and
promote long-term stability. We agreed on coherent conclusions
to guide us in the management of capital flows in order to deal
with the risks and reap the benefits from cross-border capital
flows. To further reach these objectives, we agreed on an action
plan to support the development and deepening of local currency
bond markets. We welcomed the recent improvements to IMF
surveillance and will review further progress by the Cannes
summit notably on enhancements toward a more integrated, even-
handed and effective surveillance framework, particularly on
financial sector coverage, fiscal, monetary and exchange-rate
policies. We adopted common principles for cooperation between
the IMF and Regional Financial Arrangements. As a contribution
to a more structured approach, we called on the IMF to further
consider new ways to provide on a case by case basis short-term
liquidity to countries facing exogenous, including systemic,
shocks building on existing instruments and facilities and
called on the IMF to develop concrete proposals by the Cannes
summit. In addition, we recognize that central banks play a
major role in addressing global liquidity shocks. We committed
that the IMF must have adequate resources to fulfil its systemic
responsibilities and look forward to a discussion of this in
Cannes. We call for the full implementation of the 2010 quota
and governance reform of the IMF, as agreed. We look forward to
making progress by the Cannes summit on a criteria-based path to
broaden the SDR basket, as a contribution to the evolution of
the IMS, based on the existing criteria. We will continue our
work on assessing developments on global liquidity, country
specific analysis or drivers of reserve accumulation, avoiding
persistent exchange-rate misalignments, and the role of the SDR.  We reaffirm our shared interest in a strong and stable
international financial system, and our support for market-
determined exchange rates. We reiterated that excess volatility
and disorderly movements in exchange rates have adverse
implications for economic and financial stability.  We are more determined than ever to reform the financial sector
to better serve the needs of our economies. We reaffirm our
commitment to implement fully, consistently and in a non-
discriminatory way agreed reforms on OTC derivatives, all Basel
agreements on banking regulation within agreed timelines and
reducing overreliance on external credit ratings. We endorsed a
comprehensive framework to reduce the risks posed by SIFIs,
including strengthened supervision, key attributes of effective
resolution regimes, a framework for cross-border cooperation and
recovery and resolution planning as well as additional loss
absorbency requirements for those banks determined as G-SIFIs.
Now that the framework applicable to GSIFIs is agreed, we urge
the FSB to define the modalities to extend expeditiously the
framework to all SIFIs. We agreed on initial recommendations and
a work plan to strengthen regulation and oversight of shadow
banking, we welcomed the joint IMF-WEB-FSB report on financial
stability issues in emerging markets and developing economies,
endorsed the FSB report and the common principles on financial
consumer protection prepared by OECD with FSB and call for
further work on implementation issues, endorsed the progress
report of the FSB OTC derivatives working group to ensure proper
coordination and sequencing, and agreed on the importance of the
work to set margining standards on non-centrally cleared OTC
derivatives; endorsed the IOSCO report on commodity derivatives
markets and called IOSCO to report on implementation of its
recommendations by end 2012. We endorsed first recommendations
by IOSCO on market integrity and call for further work by mid-
2012. We welcomed initial work by FSB-IMF-BIS on macro
prudential policy and look forward to further work in 2012. We
underscored our support for a global legal entity identifier
system which uniquely identifies parties to financial
transactions, with an appropriate governance structure
representing public interest. We reaffirmed our objective to
achieve a single set of high quality global accounting
standards. We look forward to discussion of progress made in
tackling non-cooperative jurisdictions and tax havens in Cannes.
We underlined in particular the importance of comprehensive tax
information exchange and encourage competent authorities to
continue their work in the global Forum to assess and better
define the means to improve it. We agreed on a coordinated
framework for monitoring implementation of our financial
regulation agenda, including enhanced monitoring of  Basel II ,
II-5 and III implementation, setting up a peer review council
for GSIFI policies, a coordination group on OTC derivatives
complementing the OTC derivates working group, and an ongoing
monitoring and public reporting on compensation practices
focused on remaining gaps and impediments to full implementation
of FSB standards and principles on compensation, and also
reviewed a scoreboard to track progress of our Leaders. To
ensure that the FSB keeps pace with our ambitious financial
regulation agenda, we commit to strengthen its capacity,
resources and governance building on its chair’s preliminary
proposals and calls for first steps to be implemented by the end
of this year.  The proper functioning of commodity markets is key for sustained
global economic growth. We reaffirm our commitment to improve
the timelines, completeness and reliability of the JODI-Oil
database and call on IEF, IEA and OPEC to regularly assess our
progress. We commit to work on contributing to the JODI-Gas
database, on the basis of the same principles, call for further
work on gas and coal market transparency and will review
progress in 2012. Building on the January 2011 Riyadh meeting,
we call for annual symposiums on short, medium and long-term
outlook and forecasts for oil, gas and coal. We ask IOSCO, in
collaboration with IEA, IEF and OPEC, to prepare recommendations
to improve the functioning and oversight of Price Reporting
Agencies for mid-2012. We reaffirm our commitment to rationalize
and phase-out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies in the medium
term, while providing targeted support for the poorest.  We welcome the MDBs Infrastructure Action Plan and the HLP
recommendations to be presented to our leaders in Cannes for
promoting enabling environment, diversifying sources of funding
and identifying exemplary infrastructure investment projects. We
call on the MDBs, working with countries involved to pursue
implementation of transformational regional infrastructure
projects following the criteria set by the HLP and to prioritize
project preparation financing. We emphasize the importance of
this agenda and welcome regular updates from MDBs on the
progress achieved. We welcome the GPFI progress report and
encourage further efforts to achieve universal access to
financial services. We call on MDBs to assist their clients
scale up use of risk management tools that help mitigate the
impact of food price volatility.  We debated options for innovative financing, as well as a range
of different financial taxes, and look forward to  Bill Gates ’
report on financing for development. We discussed the World
Bank-IMF-OECD-RDBs report on mobilizing climate finance and the
recommendations of  Trevor Manuel  based on this report, taking
into account the principles of YNFCCC. We call for further work
by MDBs and UN organizations. We look forward to an effective
design for the Green Climate fund, based on the work of the
Transitional Committee as an element of a balanced outcome of
Durban.  We thank  France  for hosting the Finance Ministers and Central
Bank Governors meetings this year and welcome  Mexico  as chair in
2012.
 