-- 
Geithner Says G-20 Plan Has the ‘Right Elements’ to Stop Crisis

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-15T16:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/geithner-says-g-20-plan-has-the-right-elements-to-stop-crisis.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , attending a meeting of finance ministers and central
bankers from the Group of 20 nations, welcomed European efforts
to tackle the region’s fiscal crisis.  “The elements of this plan include a much more substantial
financial firewall to ensure that the governments of  Europe  can
borrow at sustainable  interest rates ,” Geithner said at a
briefing after the G-20 meeting in Paris today. It also includes
“a broad recapitalization of banks, further support for a
sustainable program in Greece and steps toward fiscal union.”  European leaders are seeking to stop the fiscal crisis from
spreading to larger nations as investors grow increasingly
concerned about a Greek default. Slovakia last week became the
last euro nation to agree on boosting the firepower of the
region’s 440 billion-euro ($610 billion) rescue fund ahead of an
Oct. 23 summit in Brussels.  The European Financial Stability Facility, or EFSF, has
gained the authority to buy sovereign bonds on the secondary and
primary markets, offer credit lines to governments and grant aid
to banks as the region’s debt troubles have spread. Its role so
far has been to sell bonds to finance rescue loans.  Geithner said the plan would complement “more aggressive
action” taken by the  European Central Bank  while the bailout of
 Dexia SA (DEXB)  helped “limit the potential collateral damage that
could have accompanied” the collapse of a bank.  ‘More Work’  European leaders “clearly have more work to do on the
strategy and the details, but when  France  and Germany agree on a
plan together and decide to act, big things are possible,”
Geithner said. The G-20 meeting was also attended by ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet .  The G-20 policy makers are preparing for a Nov. 3-4 summit
of global leaders in Cannes, France. In the works is a five-
point plan foreseeing a solution for Greece, bolstering of the
EFSF rescue fund, fresh capital for banks, a new push to boost
competitiveness and consideration of European treaty amendments
to tighten economic management.  Geithner didn’t call for expanding funding for the
 International Monetary Fund . In the statement, the G-20
ministers said they are “committed that the IMF must have the
adequate resources to fulfill its systemic responsibilities.”  “The IMF has a substantial arsenal of financial resources,
and we would support further use of those existing resources to
supplement a comprehensive, well-designed European strategy
alongside a more substantial commitment of European resources,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  