-- 
German Bonds Drop for Third Week; French, Belgian Debt Slumps

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-10-15T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/german-bonds-drop-for-third-week-french-belgian-debt-slumps.html
German 10-year bunds dropped for a
third week, the longest streak of declines in six months, as
European leaders made progress in resolving the debt crisis,
sapping demand for the safest  government securities .  Two-year German yields reached a six-week high as Slovakia
approved  Europe ’s enhanced bailout fund, completing ratification
across the 17 euro countries. French 10-year yields rose by the
most since 1998 and Belgium’s bonds slumped amid speculation the
nations will need to provide funding to backstop their banks,
creating an additional burden on state finances. Spain’s 10-year
bonds fell for the first week in four and Italian 10-year yields
reached a 10-week high.  “There’s still some positive sentiment left out there”
which is undermining support for bunds, said Elwin de Groot,
senior market economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht,
 Netherlands . “That’s obviously built on the prospect that
Europe will finally make some important progress in battling the
sovereign debt crisis.”  Ten-year German note yields were 20 basis points higher
from last week at 2.20 percent as of 4:55 p.m. London time
yesterday. They reached 2.22 percent yesterday, the most since
Sept. 1. Two-year bund yields rose six basis points to 0.66
percent.  European officials are outlining a rescue plan that may
include deeper investor losses on Greek bonds, higher bank
capital levels and increased firepower for bailouts and the
 International Monetary Fund . The aim is to craft what French
Finance Minister Francois Baroin yesterday called a “durable,
complete package” to fix the turmoil.  French Spread  French 10-year  government bonds  dropped, pushing the yield
up by 38 basis points, the most since the week ended Oct. 9,
1998. The decline pushed the difference in yield, or spread,
between French and German bonds to the widest since the euro was
introduced in 1999. Belgian 10-year bond yields advanced for a
second week, adding 42 basis points to 4.40 percent.  Spain’s 10-year bond yields climbed 26 basis points to 5.25
percent as its  credit rating  was cut by  Standard & Poor’s , which
cited the weakening profile of the country’s banks. Italian 10-
year bond yields climbed 27 basis points even as the  European
Central Bank  bought the nation’s securities and those of  Spain ,
according to people with knowledge of the transactions.  German Sale  Germany  is scheduled to sell 5 billion euros of securities
maturing in 2021 on Oct. 19. An index of investor and analyst
expectations compiled by the ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim is forecast to decline to minus 45 in
October from minus 43.3 in September, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the Oct. 18 report.  German bonds have handed investors a 1.2 percent loss this
month, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. That pared
the year-to-date return to 6.5 percent. The safest euro-area
debt securities are sliding amid optimism the region’s officials
are moving closer to a comprehensive solution to the sovereign
debt crisis.  French bonds have lost 1.9 percent this month, trimming
year-to-date gains to 4.1 percent, the indexes show, while
Italy’s have fallen 1 percent, extending this year’s loss to 3.7
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 