-- 
Gilts Fall Most in Three Months as Stock Gains Curb Safety Bid

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-10-15T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/gilts-fall-most-in-three-months-as-stock-gains-curb-safety-bid.html
Gilts had their biggest weekly
decline in three months as stocks gained around the world on
optimism European policy makers will contain the debt crisis,
curbing demand for the safety of government debt.  Ten-year yields reached the highest level since August as
European stocks rallied for a third straight week. European
Union Commissioner Olli Rehn said the 17-nation euro-region can
avoid a calamity, according to a pre-recorded speech to a Dublin
conference on Oct. 12. Group of 20 officials meeting in Paris
this weekend said they are working on a plan to stem the euro-
area’s debt woes, including a boost to the International
Monetary Fund’s lending resources.  “Some of the despair in equity markets has eased up a bit
so investors are taking some of their chips off the fixed-income
table and looking at riskier asset classes,” said Anthony O’Brien, a fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley in  London .
“People are also feeling a little less gloomy about the
political situation in  Europe  towards the debt crisis, even
though the economic picture doesn’t look too good.”  The 10-year gilt yield rose 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, this week to 2.61 percent as of 4:32 p.m.
London time yesterday. It climbed to 2.67 percent on Oct. 13,
the highest since Aug. 9. Thirty-year yields also increased 14
basis points, to 3.53 percent.  Stocks Gain  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 2.8 percent in the past
week as optimism that euro-area policy makers will contain the
sovereign debt crisis boosted demand for riskier assets. The
FTSE 100 Index advanced 3.1 percent.  Stocks rallied even after Standard & Poor’s cut  Spain ’s
credit rating by one level to AA-, the fourth-highest investment
grade, in a statement issued late on Oct. 13. It was the
country’s third downgrade in three years.  The pound appreciated 1.6 percent to $1.5803 and posted a
2.4 percent weekly advance versus the  Japan ’s currency to 121.82
yen. Sterling weakened 2 percent against the euro to 87.68
pence.  Gilts have returned 11 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Gains have been underpinned as the
euro-region debt crisis drove investors to the relative safety
of gilts, Prime Minister  David Cameron  pursued austerity
measures amid a global economic slowdown and as the  Bank of
England  resumed government debt purchases to keep borrowing
costs low.  The central bank announced an increase in the size of its
bond purchases on Oct. 6, expanding the program to 275 billion
pounds from 200 billion pounds, the biggest rise since the first
round of so-called quantitative easing began in March 2009.
Policy makers “could well decide” to expand the program again,
the  Guardian newspaper  quoted Bank of  England  deputy governor
 Charles Bean  as saying in an Oct. 13 article.  The pound has weakened 1.3 percent in the past six months
and 3.1 percent in the past year against a basket of its nine
most-traded peers as measured by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  