-- 
Netflix Bets New Content Deals Will Be Mea Culpa to Angry Users

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-10-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/netflix-bets-new-content-deals-will-be-mea-culpa-to-angry-users.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive Officer
Reed Hastings, reeling from a number of marketing blunders, is
forging new content agreements to placate angry customers and
reignite subscriber growth.  The mail-order and video-streaming company on Oct. 13
announced a third major content deal in as many weeks, acquiring
online rights to TV shows from the CW Network owned by  CBS Corp. (CBS) 
and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)   “We’re going to show customers the value of the service,
and reinforce it’s still the same service you’ve loved,”  Steve Swasey , a spokesman for  Los Gatos , California-based Netflix,
said in an interview.  It may take months to rebuild goodwill, Steve Frankel, a
Dougherty & Co. analyst in  Minneapolis , said in an Oct. 13 note.
He estimates Netflix lost 800,000 DVD customers and 200,000
online users to a price increase and now-jettisoned plans to
create separate services for both. According to Swasey, Netflix
failed to adequately explain changes that hit almost half of its
25 million-plus customers.  “What most people didn’t get is that this was a price
increase for 12 million members and a non-event for 12 million
who wanted streaming only,” Swasey said. “We should have said
$2 a month for unlimited DVDs just wasn’t covering it.”  The trouble started on July 12, when Netflix announced it
would separate its DVD and streaming plans, with each available
for $7.99 a month on its own. Customers with both streaming and
DVDs saw their bills jump to $15.99 from $9.99. The change
didn’t affect users who only wanted online viewing.  Internal Numbers  Netflix relied more too much on internal numbers that
showed 75 percent of new customers were opting for the $7.99
streaming only, Swasey said. Customers who were also paying $2
more for DVDs would have understood an explanation that the
company needed to recoup shipping and handling costs, he said.  Then on Sept. 1, Netflix customers learned they would lose
access to newer films from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  after
talks to obtain those movies from the Liberty Media Corp.’s
Starz LLC cable network broke down. Starz was an early supplier
to Netflix. The loss created the impression of a major setback,
even though the films were making up a smaller share of viewing.  “That was another issue where we did not get out in front
of it as well as we could have,” Swasey said. “We did not say
clearly that we didn’t think the price they were asking is the
price we should pay.”  Netflix has lost more than 60 percent of its value since
July, falling from an intraday high of $304.79. The shares
dropped 0.8 percent yesterday to $116.04.  Qwikster  While the price change upset customers, the decision to
separate the DVD operation into a business called Qwikster was a
mistake, Swasey said. The company failed to take into account
the convenience of a single website and login, as well as the
customers’ emotional attachment to the hybrid service, he said.  “You can move too quickly and you can upset a lot of
people, which is what we did with Qwikster,” Swasey said.  To woo customers, Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos is on
a spending spree. In addition to the CW deal, Netflix signed
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , producer of the “Shrek” films,
on Sept. 26, and  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) , the maker of
“Man vs. Wild,” on Sept. 21. On Oct. 7, the company reached an
extended deal with AMC Networks Inc.  Netflix also picked up North American rights to “Borgia,”
a 15th century crime drama, and “Lilyhammer,” an original
series featuring “Sopranos” actor Steve Van Zandt.  “Moving forward step by step, despite the foot with the
bullet hole,” Hastings wrote on his Facebook page after
securing the deal with DreamWorks Animation.  Even with the latest content deals, the company faces the
challenge of finding movies to replace Sony and Disney when the
accord with Starz expires in February.  “We expect Netflix to concentrate on TV series as well as
selected original series such as ‘House of Cards’ until  HBO ’s
contracts with some of the major studios begin to expire in 2013
and beyond,” Frankel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  