-- 
No Decision Made on Iraq Troop Withdrawals, Administration Officials Say

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-10-15T22:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/no-decision-made-on-iraq-troop-withdrawals-administration-officials-say.html
President  Barack Obama  hasn’t made a
final decision on U.S. personnel levels remaining in Iraq past
2011, spokesmen for the White House and the Defense Department
said today.  An Associated Press report, citing two unidentified
officials, said the administration had made the decision to pull
out all but 160 troops by the Dec. 31 deadline set between the
two countries in 2008. The remaining troops would be attached to
the embassy, the AP reported.  The U.S. and Iraq have been negotiating over whether some
American military personnel may stay past the end of the year,
when the remaining 50,000 are due to leave. Both governments
have said Iraq needs help with external security and the
continued training and development of its security forces.  “President Obama has repeatedly made it clear that we are
committed to keeping our agreement with the Iraqi government to
remove all of our troops by the end of this year,” Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the White House National Security
Council, said in an e-mail.  “At the same time, we’re building a comprehensive
partnership with  Iraq  under the Strategic Framework Agreement,
including a robust security relationship, and discussions with
the Iraqis about the nature of that relationship are ongoing,”
Vietor said.  Among the issues on which the two nations have disagreed is
immunity from prosecution for members of the U.S. forces. Iraq
said earlier this month that should any U.S. personnel stay in
the country past the year-end withdrawal deadline, they won’t be
granted immunity, prompting Defense Secretary Leon Panetta to
say that Iraq must give at least some legal protections. Among
the issues still being worked out is the training relationship
between the U.S. and Iraqi governments.  “Suggestions that a final decision has been reached about
our training relationship with the Iraqi government are wrong,”
Pentagon Press Secretary George Little said in an
e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  