-- 
Northfield, BNC Bancorp Add Lenders as 2011 Failures Rise to 80

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-10-15T00:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/northfield-bnc-bancorp-add-lenders-as-2011-failures-rise-to-80.html
Northfield Bancorp Inc. (NFBK)  and  BNC
Bancorp (BNCN)  acquired failed lenders as state regulators closed firms
in  New Jersey , North Carolina,  Georgia  and Illinois, pushing
this year’s tally of failures to 80.  Northfield, based in Avenel, New Jersey, acquired First
State Bank, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said today in a
 statement . BNC, based in Thomasville, North Carolina, picked up
 Blue Ridge  Savings Bank Inc.,  the agency said . Piedmont
Community Bank in Georgia and Illinois’s Country Bank were also
seized. The four failures drained the deposit-insurance fund of
$221.7 million.  “We are pleased to welcome First State Bank customers to
Northfield and believe they will benefit from being with a well-
capitalized institution,” Northfield Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer John W. Alexander said in a statement. “Our
team is working closely with the FDIC to ensure a smooth
transition.”  Banks are closing under stress from commercial real estate
loans, tied to property values that fell about 49 percent from
the October 2007 peak through April, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. Regulators have shuttered more than 400
lenders since the start of 2007, FDIC data show.  Northfield rose 1 cent to $13.60 at 5:20 p.m. in New York
trading, and has gained 2.1 percent this year. BNC was unchanged
at $6.78 and has fallen 25 percent this year.  Northfield added about $204 million in assets and $201
million in deposits when state banking regulators shut down
Cranford, New Jersey-based First State Bank. It was the first
bank closing in New Jersey this year, according to the FDIC.  Blue Ridge  Blue Ridge, based in Asheville,  North Carolina , was closed
by state banking officials, the FDIC said. BNC acquired Blue
Ridge’s $161 million in assets, $159 million in deposits, and 10
offices. BNC counts G. Kennedy Thompson, former chairman and
chief executive officer at Wachovia Corp., as a director and
representative of the largest shareholder, Aquiline Capital
Partners LLC, according to an April filing.  “Blue Ridge’s loyal customer base was a significant
attraction to our company in considering this transaction,”
BNC’s CEO W. Swope Montgomery Jr. said in a statement. “We will
work diligently to make their banking experience pleasant and
rewarding.”  Georgia officials closed Piedmont Community, which had
about $202 million in assets and more than $180 million in
deposits, according to the FDIC. Macon’s State Bank & Trust Co.
added the deposits and most of the assets, the agency said. It
was the 20th bank closure in the state this year.  Country Bank, based in Aledo,  Illinois , was closed by state
officials. Blackhawk Bank & Trust of Milan, Illinois, picked up
almost $168 million in deposits and $113 million in assets,
according to the FDIC.  U.S. bank failures through 2015 will drain $19 billion from
the FDIC’s deposit insurance fund, the agency said this week in
an update of its reserve ratio projections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 