-- 
Obama Iced Tea Toast Marks Republican-Backed Trade Deal Win

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/obama-iced-tea-toast-marks-win-for-republican-backed-trade-deals.html
President  Barack Obama  and South
Korean President Lee Myung-bak were dining at a Korean barbecue
restaurant in Northern Virginia when aides interrupted with news
that had been more than four years in the making: the  U.S.
Congress  had approved a trade deal between the two nations.  The leaders celebrated with a toast: iced tea for Obama and
a Korean beer for Lee, in town for a state visit, according to
an Obama administration official who spoke with the president
about the meal. They talked about how their deal could serve as
a model for future trade agreements.  The accord passed Oct. 12 as part of a broader package of
trade deals with Panama and  Colombia . Lawmakers also voted to
renew assistance for U.S. workers displaced by outsourcing and
exporting of jobs, a demand of Democrats and some Republicans.  “We said we believed in trade, but that we had to have a
new approach, and that we couldn’t continue along the same path
that many Americans thought was failing them,” Ron Kirk, the
U.S. Trade Representative, said in an interview.  For the U.S., the Korea trade deal is the biggest since the
 North American Free Trade Agreement  in 1994 and a chance to
strengthen the U.S. foothold in  Asia . Korean officials have told
the Obama administration that the Korean national assembly could
give its final approval in the next few weeks and the deal may
be fully implemented in the first half of 2012, the official
said.  Burdened by Unemployment  For Obama, 50, whose re-election prospects are burdened by
9.1 percent unemployment, his push for the trade deals over
opposition from many fellow Democrats and the AFL-CIO, the
biggest U.S. labor federation, reflects an evolution since his
criticism of the accords as a candidate in 2008. It is also a
calculation that voters will reward him for trying to create
jobs rather than punish him for opening the U.S. to more foreign
competition.  Obama used the trade agreements in his  weekly radio and
internet address  to try and put pressure on lawmakers to move
forward on his $447 billion jobs plan. The bipartisan agreement
in Congress to pass the trade deals underscores Congress’s
“lack of action” on the jobs proposal, Obama said.  In the address, taped Oct. 14 while the president and Lee
were at a General Motors plant in Lake Orion,  Michigan , Obama
said House Republicans are “picking partisan ideological
fights” over issues such as environmental protection.  Republican House Speaker  John Boehner ’s office said that,
while the trade deals will help boost economic growth, they were
delayed for months by the Obama administration.  Working Together  “This is an example of where the two parties worked
together to get something done on jobs,”  Brendan Buck , a
Boehner spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We just wish it happened
sooner because we ended up in the same place the speaker
proposed eight months ago.”  The Korea deal may increase U.S. exports as much as $10.9
billion in the first year it’s in full effect, according to the
U.S. International Trade Commission. It may increase imports
from South Korea by $6.9 billion, the commission said. The
accord with Colombia would raise exports as much as $1.1 billion
a year. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce said the deal will prevent
loss of 380,000 jobs.  Kirk told lawmakers after Obama took office in 2009 that
the South Korea accord was unacceptable and vowed to renegotiate
it. Obama spent the next two years working to win a scaled-back
reduction on auto tariffs with South Korea that won support from
the United Auto Workers union,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Michigan
Democratic Representative Sander Levin.  Republican Control  When Republicans won control of the U.S. House in November,
Boehner and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky
said trade is an area where they could work with the Obama
administration to boost the economy, according to a senior
congressional aide.  Kirk in March told lawmakers the administration was ready
to work with Congress on the Korea accord. Senators  Orrin Hatch ,
a Utah Republican, and  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, urged
Kirk to focus on improving the accord with Colombia, which had
been blocked by former Democratic Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , and on
Panama so all three could advance together.  By May, the Obama administration had won assurances on
labor rights for Colombian workers and a tax-information
exchange agreement from  Panama  that it said made the trade
agreements worthy of congressional consideration. Then, on May
16,  Gene Sperling , director of the National Economic Council,
announced that the deals wouldn’t be submitted to Congress until
lawmakers agreed to renew the worker-aid program.  Political Stalemate  A two-month stalemate took hold, with the Obama
administration pushing lawmakers for a commitment to renew the
program while Hatch and other Republicans opposed it as
unaffordable and ineffective. The administration sought to
attach the worker protections to the Korea deal, later backing
away from that approach.  For Boehner, the delay seemed unnecessary and became
frustrating, according to a congressional aide. The logjam was
broken on Aug. 3, a day after Congress ended a separate impasse
on raising the federal borrowing limit.  Lawmakers agreed when they returned from recess to vote on
the trade agreements and scaled-back worker benefits negotiated
between the Obama administration, Baucus and Republican
Representative  Dave Camp .  “The nature of the legislative process was somebody has to
go first,”  William Reinsch , president of the  National Foreign
Trade Council  and a Commerce Department official in the Clinton
administration, said in an interview. “At the end trust
prevailed.”  Visiting  Washington   On Sept. 13, the Obama administration announced that  South
Korea ’s Lee would be visiting Washington this week. His trip
helped spur Obama to submit the accords on Oct. 3 and push for
final passage the day before a state dinner, according to the
congressional aide.  The Korea trade accord was approved in the House 278-151,
with 219 Republicans and 59 Democrats voting for it. Similarly,
there were more Republicans than Democrats backing the other two
treaties. The Korea accord passed 83-15 in the Senate. Panama
was approved 77-22 and Colombia was the most controversial,
passing 66-33 over the opposition of 30 Democrats.  “There were a lot of hands in this victory,” Buck said.
“It starts with President Bush’s vision on trade. And while it
could have been done a lot quicker, some credit goes to
President Obama for not folding to his left flank.”  Workers Concerns  Thea Lee, deputy chief of staff at the AFL-CIO, a frequent
Democratic ally, said that while the autoworkers supported the
Korea deal, union worker’s concerns that trade agreements might
cost them jobs may hurt Obama’s re-election prospects.  She said Obama “gave up on some of the concerns he had
raised during the campaign” and the displaced worker assistance
is “not an adequate tradeoff” for 159,000 jobs the group
estimates could be lost to foreign competition.  “It’s something people will take into account when they
decide” how actively to campaign, who to endorse and whom to
vote for, she said. “A lot depends on what else he does between
now and the election. The president has a lot of challenges in
front of him and a lot of opportunities to do the right thing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  