-- 
Obama Says Trade Deal Passage Shows Congress’s Inaction on Jobs

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-10-15T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/obama-says-trade-deal-passage-shows-congress-s-inaction-on-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Congress’s bipartisan passage of trade deals with  South Korea ,
 Colombia  and  Panama  underscores its “lack of action” on his
jobs plan.  “Next week, I’m urging members of Congress to vote on
putting hundreds of thousands of teachers back in the classroom,
cops back on the streets and firefighters back on the job,” he
said today in his weekly  radio and Internet address . He said he
will give Republicans who control the House “another chance”
to approve his $447 billion jobs plan, which he has said could
be brought to Congress piecemeal after the Senate blocked
consideration of the full plan on Oct. 11.  Obama said the plan, which includes spending on
infrastructure, tax cuts for small businesses and aid to states
to keep teachers and first responders employed, would “give the
economy a jumpstart and lead to nearly 2 million new jobs.”
Obama is facing a re-election year with unemployment at 9.1
percent and is looking for ways to stimulate job growth.  He said bipartisan agreement in Congress to pass the trade
deals on Oct. 12 shows “why it was so disappointing to see
Senate Republicans obstruct the American Jobs Act.”  Yesterday, the president visited a  General Motors Co. (GM)  plant
near  Detroit  with South Korean President Lee Myung-bak, who was
in the U.S. for a state visit. The president said the federal
funds he provided to help GM and Chrysler LLC reorganize under
bankruptcy in 2009 helped save the nation’s auto industry.  Touting Trade Deals  The two used the visit to tout the trade deals that will
reduce or end tariffs faced by U.S. exporters and are the
biggest since the  North American Free Trade Agreement  took
effect in 1994. The Korean deal would end tariffs on about 95
percent of U.S. exports of industrial and consumer goods within
five years and support about 70,000 American jobs according to
the White House.  The accord provides GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group
LLC wider access to the Korean market while protecting the U.S.
industry against a surge in imports from Seoul-based  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)   In his address, taped while he was at GM’s Orion assembly
plant, Obama accused House Republicans of “picking partisan
ideological fights,” including efforts to roll back
environmental protection and  women’s rights . He said “economic
security for the middle class” is at stake in passage of the
jobs plan.  Traveling the Country  “I’m going to travel all over the country over the next
few weeks so that we can remind Congress that’s their job,” he
said. “If they vote ‘no’ on that, they’ll have to tell you
why.  They’ll have to tell you why teachers in your community
don’t deserve a paycheck again. They’ll have to tell your kids
why they don’t deserve to have their teacher back.”  House Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy  of  California , in the
 weekly Republican address , called on the president “to come off
the campaign trail and get to work” on the passage of
Republican bills to spur the economy.  “All told, the House has passed more than a dozen bills as
part of our plan to get Americans working again,” he said. He
said Obama should force Democrats who control the Senate to vote
on the bills.  “The president needs to get off the sidelines and get
involved,” McCarthy said.  Republican Ideas  He said Republicans have ideas to make Washington more
accountable, including a balanced budget amendment to the
Constitution, which he said has had bipartisan support and would
help guard against wasteful Washington spending.  “Americans deserve a long-term solution to our nation’s
spending problem so that we don’t run up trillion-dollar annual
deficits,” he said. “No more budget tricks, no more accounting
gimmicks, no more broken promises.”  He said Republicans in Congress are working to help grow
the economy and that when Obama proposed his plans Republicans
“looked at our own plan and outlined specific opportunities for
both parties to come together.”  House Republicans  will seek to roll back some regulations
on small businesses “including those that have been handed down
as far back as the Great Depression, well before Twitter and
Facebook, before cellphones and color TV’s, even before we
landed on the moon,” McCarthy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  