-- 
Obama Ends Kennedy-Backed Long-Term Care Program as Too Costly to Sustain

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/obama-scraps-kennedy-backed-long-term-care-plan-as-too-costly.html
The U.S. won’t start a long-term
care plan created by the 2010 health overhaul, the largest piece
of the law so far to be stopped by Congress, the courts or
President Barack Obama’s administration.  The Health and Human Services Department said it would
indefinitely suspend the program, known as the Class Act,
calling it financially unsustainable. In doing so, officials
said that deficit savings from the health law would be cut by
$86 billion over a decade, from $210 billion.  “I do not see a viable path forward for Class
implementation at this time,” HHS Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius 
said yesterday in a letter to congressional leaders.  The long-term care program had been championed by Senator
Edward Kennedy of  Massachusetts  before his death. Republicans in
Congress called it an accounting gimmick whose premiums would be
used to pay for other parts of the law and said Democrats vastly
underestimated its future costs. The decision to shut it down
validated their criticisms, they said.  The program was “a naked scam, cooking the books trying to
cover up the unsustainable cost” of the health law, said
 Michael Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, in an e-mail.  Democrats and Class supporters said it was a well-intended
attempt to solve the mounting cost of long-term care for the
disabled, which can be as much as $80,000 a year in a nursing
home, according to an administration memo.  The administration and Congress should “continue to
explore all of the options to address the critical long-term
care needs of Americans,” wrote the memo’s author, Kathy Greenlee, assistant secretary for aging under Sebelius.  Kennedy’s Role  Kennedy had advocated the need for a long-term disability
insurance program during his 46-year career in the Senate and
pushed for Class -- Community Living Assistance Services and
Supports -- as part of the health overhaul before his August
2009 death. Obama signed the health law in March 2010.  The aim was to help people disabled by illness or accident.
By paying premiums while employed, beneficiaries would be
eligible after five years for at least $50 a day toward health
and support services provided at home. The program was billed as
paying for itself.  Class was voluntary and applicants couldn’t be refused
because of their medical condition, a problematic combination
because healthy people might not enroll in large enough numbers
to offset sick people needing benefits.  Monthly Premiums  Greenlee said in her memo that monthly premiums for the
program may have been as much as $3,000 “if adverse selection
is particularly serious” and too many sick people signed up.  Republicans celebrated the program’s demise, calling it
misguided policy used to reduce cost estimates for the health
law. At the time, the  Congressional Budget Office  subtracted $70
billion from the cost of the law, the amount Class premiums were
estimated to exceed benefits during its first decade.  The program “was destined to fail in the real world,”
said Senator  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , the senior Republican
in the chamber, in a statement.  Advocates for the program said it can be salvaged.  “Where our position has been and continues to be is that
they have the authority to move forward and twist this Rubik’s
Cube until a solution pops up,” Connie Garner, executive
director of AdvanceClass, said in a telephone interview before
Sebelius’ announcement. Her group represents nursing homes,
disability organizations and seniors’ lobby AARP in pushing for
the program’s implementation.  Find Answers  Representative Frank Pallone of  New Jersey , a Democrat who
was one of the program’s leading proponents in the House, said
the Obama administration was “wrong to abandon” it.  “Giving up on it is simply not an option,” he said in a
statement. “If the program needs improving, then let’s find the
way to do it.”  The government could make 95 percent of the necessary
changes to help fix the program without congressional action,
Garner said.  Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, described an
early version of the program as a “ Ponzi scheme .” He later
supported the law that created it. Republicans, seizing on that
statement, have derided Class as an unaffordable entitlement
that would cost more than it took in from premiums.  The program’s end was “sad but not surprising,” said Paul Van de Water, a Medicare and budget specialist at the  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities , a nonprofit research group whose
studies often support Democratic policies.  ‘Good’ Idea  “The aim here was a good one,” he said in an interview.
“But the program as written in law was over-constrained.”  The health law required Class to sustain itself on
beneficiary premiums without taxpayer subsidies, Van de Water
said, and Sebelius wasn’t allowed to begin it unless actuarial
analysis showed it would be financially stable for 75 years.  The program didn’t meet that bar, Greenlee said in her
memo. Steps the administration might have taken to avoid the
program’s collapse, such as requiring people to buy the
insurance, risked violating the law.  “We do not have a path to move forward,” Greenlee said in
a conference call with reporters.  The chief actuary for the U.S. Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services,  Richard Foster , predicted in an April 2010
report that the program would cost the federal government more
than it took in starting in 2025.  Nod to Future  Sebelius telegraphed the program’s fate in February when
she told a Senate Finance Committee hearing that Class “will
not start unless we can be certain it will be solvent and self-
sustaining into the future.”  A spokesman for her department, Richard Sorian, confirming
last month that Class was on the ropes, said that “it is an
open question whether the program will be implemented.”  Republicans in Congress plan to keep investigating the
program that Democrats used to “inflate alleged savings and
mask the true costs” of the health law, said Debbee Keller, a
spokeswoman for the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, Republican  Fred Upton  of  Michigan , whose panel has
jurisdiction. “Everyone saw the writing on the wall that this
program was not sustainable, yet the administration continued to
stand behind the program right up until this announcement.”  The Senate Appropriations Committee passed a fiscal 2012
spending bill for the health department on Sept. 21 that
eliminated funding to enact Class, saying it wasn’t clear
whether it would proceed. Obama had asked for $120 million for
the program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  