-- 
Osborne Says G-20 Expects ‘Impressive’ Euro-Area Solution

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-10-15T11:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/osborne-says-g-20-expects-impressive-euro-area-solution-1-.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said the world is expecting leaders from the euro
area to deliver an “impressive” set of measures next week to
put a stop to the crisis engulfing the region.  Osborne said finance ministers from Group of 20 nations
have heard from European colleagues of the “action they are
working on” to resolve the two-year-old crisis. Talks at the G-
20 Paris meeting today on whether the International Monetary
Fund’s resources should be boosted must be no substitute for
action from euro-area countries, Osborne said.  “I think they will have left Paris under no
misunderstanding that there is a huge amount of pressure on them
to deliver a solution to the euro-zone crisis,” Osborne told
reporters today. “The Oct. 23 European council is the moment
people are expecting something quite impressive.”  Osborne is lobbying European neighbors for a solution to
the crisis as the U.K. faces the risk of falling into recession
for the second time in three years. The economy has barely grown
in the last 12 months and unemployment touched a 15-year high in
the quarter through August as Osborne drives through the biggest
squeeze in public spending since World War II.  Revamped Strategy  Euro-area finance chiefs are revamping their strategy to
combat the debt turmoil, people familiar with the plans said
yesterday. Efforts include a plan to write down Greek bonds by
as much as 50 percent and establish a backstop for banks, the
people said.  The G-20 is pushing the European Union to maximize the
power of its regional rescue fund and to avoid contagion.
Osborne today said that  Europe  has become “the epicenter of the
world’s current economic problems.”  The European effort comes as G-20 nations including China
and  Brazil  seek to boost the resources of the IMF so that it can
come to the rescue of indebted countries such as those in Europe.  Osborne said the U.K. backs expanding the IMF’s resources
while warning that those talks shouldn’t distract Europeans from
finding a solution to their own problems.  “We have indicated our willingness to consider additional
resources,” Osborne said. Any change “should not be considered
a distraction by euro-zone countries.”  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  told member
countries last month that her current $390 billion war chest may
not suffice to meet all loan requests should the global economy
worsen. Additional funds could be used to help shelter Italy and
 Spain  with precautionary lending, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Paris at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  