-- 
Qantas Will Cut 400 Flights Next Month, Ground Aircraft on Labor Strikes

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-10-15T06:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/qantas-says-to-ground-5-planes-cut-400-flights-after-labor-union-strikes.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
biggest carrier, said it will cut almost 400 domestic flights
affecting 60,000 passengers for the next month as a result of
labor union strikes.  Bans on overtime by engineers caused a backlog of
maintenance and forced the grounding of five aircraft from next
week, Sydney-based Qantas said today in an e-mailed statement.  While a planned four-hour strike in Adelaide and one-hour
stoppages in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide have been
postponed for two weeks, this “will not help get these five
grounded aircraft back up in the air,” said  Olivia Wirth  , a
spokeswoman for Qantas.  Workers from the airline’s engineering, long-haul pilots
and ground crew unions have held strikes, used public address
systems to criticize Qantas and banned overtime as they seek
higher pay and job security clauses in contracts.  Disruptions by the end of this week will have affected more
than 60,000 passengers, the company said.  The union action comes amid Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce’s plans to establish new carriers in  Southeast Asia  and
 Japan  to tap Chinese travelers as he seeks to turn around A$200
million ($204 million) in annual losses from international
operations.  ‘Coordinated Attacks’  “The coordinated attacks on Qantas and our passengers from
the pilots’ union, the licensed engineers’ union and the
Transport Workers’ Union are continuing to impact the business
and our passengers,” Wirth said. “The biggest impact on Qantas
and our passengers comes from the overtime bans and ‘go slow’ on
work, which have caused the backlog of maintenance.”  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said yesterday the
government is able to intervene if disputes escalate.  “In our industrial relations system there has been the
ability of government to get involved in major disputes which
have implications for the national economy, or implications for
health and safety,” Gillard said in an interview on ABC radio.  Joyce said Oct. 13 the company isn’t “at war” with its
labor unions. He also said that further planes may be taken out
of service if disruptions continue. The carrier is achieving an
on-time rate of 77 percent compared with 87 percent four weeks
ago, Qantas said two days ago.  “The union is still demanding significant pay increases
and guarantees that old work practices remain in place,” Wirth
said. “Until the union drops its unreasonable demands, we are
not going to get any closer to an agreement.”  Qantas shares fell 0.3 percent to close at A$1.56 in Sydney
trading yesterday, while the benchmark  stock index  declined 0.9
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  