-- 
Qantas CEO Joyce Says No Quick Resolution to Strikes by Three Labor Unions

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-10-16T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/qantas-ceo-joyce-says-sees-no-quick-resolution-to-strikes-by-labor-unions.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  is being damaged
by strikes that have forced the grounding of aircraft and the
cutting of 400 domestic flights for the next month, Chief
Executive Officer Alan Joyce said.  The Sydney-based airline’s engineering, long-haul-pilot and
ground crew unions have held work stoppages, used in-flight
address systems to criticize Qantas and banned overtime as they
seek higher pay and  job security  clauses in contracts. The
 Australian and International Pilots Association  said yesterday
Qantas management has halted talks with the union.  “These three unions are sticking by unrealistic, outdated
demands that are going to be damaging to the future of the
company,” Joyce said in an interview on  Sky News  yesterday.
“We don’t see this getting better anytime soon. If anything,
this is getting worse.”  Qantas,  Australia ’s biggest carrier, said it will ground
five aircraft starting today because bans on overtime by
engineers have caused a maintenance backlog. Disruptions will
have affected more than 60,000 passengers and more aircraft may
be grounded if stoppages continue, Joyce said.  The union action comes amid Joyce’s plans to establish new
carriers in  Southeast Asia  and  Japan  to get more Chinese
travelers as he seeks to halt around A$200 million ($204
million) in annual losses from international operations.  ‘Secure All Jobs’  “We’re going to make the radical change that’s needed to
our international business so we can stop our A$200 million
losses, turn that business around, and grow jobs here and secure
all 35,000 jobs within Qantas,” Joyce said. “This union action
is an attempt to stop us making that change. They would like the
work practice to be outdated. If we allow that to happen, Qantas
will not be around for the next nine years.”  Calls to the office of Tony Sheldon, national secretary of
Transport Workers Union of Australia in Sydney, weren’t answered
yesterday.  The pilot association is asking Qantas to rethink its
“baffling decision to suspend” talks and return to the
negotiating table, it said in the statement yesterday.  “Qantas pilots can’t stand the damage being done to the
airline through this bitter dispute, which is why we are eager
to come to a negotiated solution,” association President Barry Jackson said. “That’s pretty tough to achieve when one side
suspends negotiations.”  Government Can Intervene  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said last week the
government is able to intervene if disputes escalate.  “In our industrial relations system there has been the
ability of government to get involved in major disputes which
have implications for the national economy, or implications for
health and safety,” Gillard said in an interview on ABC radio
last week.  The government’s attention “shows the impact that Qantas
has on the general economy,” Joyce said of Gillard’s comment.
The airline has been forced to move some of its aircraft heavy
maintenance work offshore as a result of the industrial action,
he said.  Qantas shares fell 0.3 percent to close at A$1.56 in Sydney
trading on Oct. 14, while the benchmark  stock index  declined 0.9
percent.  The carrier is achieving an on-time rate of 77 percent
compared with 87 percent four weeks ago, Qantas said. Joyce said
on Oct. 13 the company isn’t “at war” with its labor unions.  “The union leaders are saying they’re after job
security,” said Joyce. “Well, these outrageous demand and
claims and a statement that people shouldn’t be traveling with
Qantas only damages that job security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  