-- 
Rehn Says EU Close to Reaching an Agreement on Recapitalization of Banks

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 
2011-10-15T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/rehn-says-eu-close-to-reaching-agreement-on-recapitalization.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said member states are set to
agree on a “very serious plan” to recapitalize the region’s
lenders and help contain its fiscal crisis.  “I expect that in the coming days, we’ll have more clarity
on this,” Rehn told Bloomberg Television after a meeting of
finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group of
20 nations in Paris yesterday. “Member states and banks need to
have very clear plans to put recapitalization in place as
swiftly as possible.”  With a summit looming on Oct. 23, European leaders are
groping toward a master plan for dealing with  Greece ’s oversized
debt, insulating the Spanish and Italian markets, and shielding
banks from the fallout. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  put bank recapitalization at
the top of the priority list in an Oct. 9 declaration in Berlin
that triggered a flurry of consultations in European capitals.  There’s now a “strong sense of urgency” among leaders,
Rehn said. “The EU is acting very hard in order to put together
a comprehensive strategy to overcome the sovereign debt crisis
and banking-sector fragilities, which are severely
intertwined.”  Banks may be required to maintain a 9 percent capital
buffer to absorb sovereign risks, up from the 5 percent core
capital level used in July’s stress tests, a person with
knowledge of discussions at the authority, the EU’s top banking
regulator said last week. Rehn said he “wouldn’t want to
confirm any figures at this stage.”  ‘Crisis Consciousness’  There’s a “crisis consciousness which is now facilitating
even difficult decisions, especially in order to reinforce the
firewalls and contain contagion in  Europe  as well as pursue a
very serious plan of recapitalization,” he said.  Officials are also working out ways to scale up the
European Financial Stability Facility’s firepower without
requiring another round of parliamentary approvals or dipping
into the balance sheet of the  European Central Bank . The
strengthened fund will gain the power to buy bonds in the
primary and secondary markets, offer IMF-style precautionary
credit lines and enable the bolstering of bank capital.  Credit-default swaps on Greece signal a more than 90
percent chance the government will renege on its obligations
within five years, assuming investors would recover 32 percent
of their holdings in the event, according to CMA, which is owned
by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices from dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The swaps market is anticipating a
63 percent probability  Portugal  will default in that time, a 48
percent chance for Ireland and about 8 percent for  Germany .  “There have been changes in market circumstances including
swap rates since July and also some other changes in terms of
agreement,” Rehn said. “We’re working on the basis on the July
agreement, we don’t want to reopen it but revisit it. We’re
looking forward to a new second program for Greece with adequate
financing from the public sector and the private sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Paris at  smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in Paris at  pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  