-- 
Reliance Profit Rises 16% on Refining as Gas Production Declines

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-10-15T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/reliance-industries-profit-climbs-16-to-1-16-billion-matching-estimate.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,  India ’s
biggest company by market value, posted a 16 percent increase in
second-quarter profit as earnings from turning crude oil into
fuels offset a drop in natural gas output.  Net income in the three months ended Sept. 30 rose to 57.03
billion rupees ($1.16 billion), or 17.40 rupees a share, from a
year earlier, the Mumbai-based energy explorer and refiner said
in a stock exchange filing yesterday. That matched the median
profit estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and was
little changed from the previous quarter.  “Refining has helped them this quarter after fuel demand
in  Asia  rose,” said Rina Sanghavi, a Kolkata-based research
analyst at SPA Securities Ltd. “But this may not sustain as
their margins are stagnating from quarter to quarter.”  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , may earn
less from every barrel of oil processed at its Jamnagar complex,
the world’s largest, as global refining capacity additions
exceed growth in fuel demand. The company, which sold stakes in
21 fields to  BP Plc (BP/)  for $7.2 billion to gain technology, may
take as long as three years to reverse a slump in production
from India’s biggest natural gas deposit.  Reliance, which has the biggest weighting in India’s
benchmark Sensitive Index, slumped 18 percent this year,
compared with a 17 percent drop in the index. The stock has
trailed a 3 percent decline in  China  Petroleum & Chemical Corp.
and a 2.2 percent gain in Valero Energy Corp.  Refining Margins  Reliance’s earnings from every barrel of crude turned into
fuels fell to $10.1 from $10.3 a barrel in the three months
ended June 30.  Sales rose 37 percent to 785.7 billion rupees from a year
earlier, less than the record 810.20 billion rupees in the
previous quarter.  Crude oil for November delivery rose $2.57 to $86.80 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Sept. 20. Prices have dropped 5 percent in
2011.  Margins of complex refiners in Singapore processing Dubai
crude have declined from this year’s high of $8.68 a barrel on
Aug. 11 and averaged $6.18 a barrel in the quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refineries in Asia Pacific will add the most supply next
year as China brings 730,000 barrels a day of capacity online,
mainly to produce gasoline, according to a note by Bank of
America Corp. analyst Sabine Schels dated Oct. 5.  Cash, Debt  The two adjacent refineries that Reliance operates at
Jamnagar in the western state of Gujarat can process a combined
1.24 million barrels a day.  The company had cash and equivalents of 614.9 billion
rupees as of Sept. 30, Reliance said. Debt was 714 billion
rupees.  “Reliance has a strong balance sheet and sustained earning
base to pursue growth opportunities,” Ambani said in the
statement, without elaborating.  Reliance sold a 30 percent stake in 21 oil and gas fields
to BP to help gain deepwater technology and expertise to boost
output. The fields include KG-D6 in the  Bay of Bengal , where
lower pressure and thinner-than-expected reservoirs resulted in
production dropping 25 percent. Output may increase in 2014, BP
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said Sept. 28.  Gas Production  The decline in gas production to less than 45 million cubic
meters a day is likely to have a modest impact on Reliance’s
financial health, Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 28. The
block produced 60 million cubic meters in June 2010.  Tests at KG-D6 show that increasing production may not be
viable at the current price of gas in India, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said Sept. 23.  Gas from KG-D6 is sold at $4.2 per million British thermal
units, a rate set by the government, which is about half the
price in the U.K. Output from deepwater deposits needs market
prices for gas, Dudley said.  “Triggers are missing and the major one will be higher gas
production,”  Deepak Pareek , a Mumbai-based analyst with
Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt., who has an “accumulate” rating on
Reliance, said before the earnings were announced. “Refining
margins aren’t expected to rise significantly from here.
Investors are primarily waiting for Reliance to boost gas
production.”  Reliance, which also owns chemical plants, fuel outlets and
a retail-store chain, is diversifying from its core energy
business in India to telecommunications, hotels and financial
services. The company bought shale gas acreages from three
companies in the U.S. last year and plans to buy assets in
 Canada .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  