-- 
Spain’s Socialists Pledge Changes to Mortgage Law for Debtors

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-10-15T15:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/spain-s-socialists-pledge-changes-to-mortgage-law-for-debtors.html
Spain ’s ruling Socialist party,
lagging in the polls ahead of next month’s general election,
pledged changes to rules on mortgages that would make it easier
for defaulting homeowners to walk away from their debts.  The Socialists pledged incentives to allow homeowners to
cancel mortgage debt by handing over their homes, according to a
manifesto approved  today . Most Spanish mortgages allow the bank
to claim the difference from the borrower if a foreclosed
property is sold for less than the outstanding mortgage, and has
access to borrowers’ present and future assets and earnings.  “We will incentivize agreements to cancel debts by handing
over of the property as a more efficient solution, to benefit
mortgage-debtors of good faith,” the text said. It will
encourage “balanced agreements” between debtors and creditors
in the case of default.  The party will also make banks offer mortgage contracts in
which the loan is backed solely by the property, and proposed
measures to encourage the rental of the 700,000 unsold new homes
left over from a decade-long construction boom.  The Socialists are battling to retain voters amid the
deepest austerity measures in at least three decades and with
unemployment running at 21 percent. Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero isn’t seeking re-election and his party chose
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, a former deputy prime minister and
interior minister, to replace him as its candidate.  The opposition  People’s Party  has a 14.4 percentage-point
lead over the Socialists, according to a poll published
yesterday by the Fundacion Ortega y Gasset institute and the
University of Murcia.  Rubalcaba proposed a tax on hydroelectric and nuclear
energy to finance renewable energy. He would take measures to
cut public spending by avoiding overlap between different
administrations, and would encourage citizens to buy Treasury
bonds by making it easier for taxpayers to invest their annual
tax rebate in bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  