-- 
London Exchange Access Curbed as Wall Street Protests Spread

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-17T14:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/wall-street-protest-rallies-at-jpmorgan-branch-in-support-of-worker-banks.html
Police sealed off routes to the
 London  Stock Exchange and Italian officers conducted nationwide
raids following protests against economic inequality on four
continents.  Metropolitan Police officers carrying batons and gas sprays
manned steel barriers close to St Paul’s Cathedral in London,
blocking supporters of the  Occupy London Stock Exchange  group
from approaching the LSE. At least 25 police vans with wire-mesh
screens and carrying additional officers were parked in side
streets.  “We’ll stay for however long it takes to build a new
democratic financial system,” said Kai Wargalla, a 26 year-old
German studying sustainable economics in London, who’s one of
those camping next to Christopher Wren’s 17th century church.
“It’s about creating something new.”  The Occupy Wall Street demonstrations began last month,
with about 6,000 people gathering in Times Square for what
organizers called a “global day of action against  Wall Street 
greed” on Oct. 15. The protests then spread to Europe and  Asia ,
with more than 100 people injured in Rome after as many as
200,000 people gathered, the Corriere della Sera newspaper
reported.  Italian police today launched raids in cities including
Rome and Milan, according to the Ansa news agency, while gas
masks and balaclavas were seized in Florence.  A board placed on Paternoster Square, home to the LSE, said
the area is private and that “any licence to the public to
enter or cross this land is revoked forthwith.”  ‘Working Groups’  The St Paul’s demonstrators had divided into “working
groups” to formulate their demands and organize a kitchen, said
protest spokeswoman Wargalla, who estimated as many as 250
people were taking part. About 4,000 people had signaled their
intent to attend, a spokeswoman said on Oct. 12.  The London demonstrators said in an e-mailed statement that
they opposed bailing out banks, public expenditure cuts, arms
dealing, corporate profits, global oppression and war, while
supporting genuinely independent regulators and “authentic”
global equality.  The campers had been given indefinite permission to remain
by  cathedral  authorities, who also asked police to leave the
area, Wargalla said, and this “sets the stage for long-term
occupation.” An e-mailed statement from the cathedral today did
not explicitly support the protest and said that the building
must remain open to the public. Clerics would not be giving
interviews, a spokeswoman said.  ‘Jail the Bankers’  “I want to see stricter regulation of the finance
system,” said Joe Spence, 23, an anthropology student at Kent
University. “I want a government that will not just pander to
the banks.” A notice at the campsite, about 100 yards from the
LSE, read “Jail the Bankers.”  A capitalist economy “is the quickest way to generate
wealth,” LSE Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  said at a
conference in London on Oct. 14. “What is profoundly disliked
by -- I wouldn’t say average citizens in the street -- is the
boom and bust cycle of the capitalist economy. This is directly
connected in the mind of citizens to unemployment.”  In Amsterdam, protesters lined up at the entrance of the
Amsterdam Stock Exchange this morning and greeted employees with
slogans, broadcaster AT5 reported. Demonstrators burnt fake
money and hosted an alternative exchange, bidding for “shares”
titled stress, health, future and happiness.  About 50 people took over a disused hotel close to the
Puerta del Sol square, the focus of demonstrations in  Madrid ,
Efe news agency reported.  Chicago Arrests  In Zurich, an estimated 1,200 protesters at the weekend
occupied the Paradeplatz, home of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the
Swiss Social Democratic Party’s youth organization said in a
press release. Over 60 people stayed overnight, until police
asked them to leave this morning. Protests have now moved to the
nearby Lindenhof, overlooking Zurich’s old town.  In  Australia , about 30 people gathered in front of the
central bank in Sydney. Signs on a nearby fence included: “When
I do it, it’s counterfeiting. When the  Reserve Bank  does it,
it’s called Quantitative Easing.” Another 70 protesters
occupied  Melbourne ’s city square in front of the  Westin Hotel .  Chicago police arrested about 175 protesters in  Grant Park 
around 1 a.m. local time yesterday after they refused to
disperse, the  Chicago Tribune  reported.  ‘The 99 Percent’  Tokyo , Toronto and other cities also saw protests in
support of the month-old movement, which organizers say
represents “the 99 percent,” a nod to Nobel Prize-winning
economist  Joseph Stiglitz ’s study showing the top 1 percent of
Americans control 40 percent of U.S. wealth.  In  Hong Kong , protests extended for a second day yesterday
after about 40 demonstrators slept overnight in a foyer beneath
the Asian headquarters of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in the central
financial district.  Equipped with tents, bullhorns and a gas-powered generator
used to help them recharge their laptops, the protesters
occupied the public thoroughfare under the building as about a
dozen police stood by. Demonstrations were also held in Seoul
and Taipei.  “Wall Street has a campaign to start asking questions
about capitalism but this is not enough,” said art student
Derrick Benig, 22, who slept in a tent overnight in Hong Kong.
“I want to tear down capitalism.”  In Rome on Oct. 15, firecrackers were thrown at the
Ministry of Defense and windows of Cassa di Risparmio di Rimini
and Poste Italiane SpA shattered, Sky TG24 reported. Italian
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  called “the unbelievable
violence” in  Rome  “a worrying signal for civil coexistence.”  ‘Violent Extremists’  “Violent extremists have to be identified and punished,”
Berlusconi said in a statement.  More than 800 people have been arrested in  New York  since
the protests began Sept. 17, mostly for disorderly conduct, as
demonstrators solidified their hold on Zuccotti Park, which has
become the de facto epicenter of Occupy Wall Street.  A wider confrontation was avoided after the park’s owner,
Brookfield Office Properties Inc., postponed a cleanup that
would have removed and banned protesters’ sleeping bags, tents
and other gear that provided overnight accommodations.  Protesters and local politicians had gathered 300,000
signatures, flooded the city’s 311 information line and drew
more than 3,000 people to the park to oppose the cleanup,
according to Patrick Bruner, an Occupy Wall Street spokesman.  “The world will rise up as one and say, ‘We have had
enough,’” Bruner said in an e-mail. A news release from the
organization said there were demonstrations in 1,500 cities
worldwide, including 100 in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  