-- 
Yemen LNG Plant Production Halted After Gas Pipeline Attack

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-10-15T10:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-15/yemen-lng-plant-production-halted-after-gas-pipeline-attack-2-.html
Yemen LNG, the Arab country’s
liquefied natural gas exporter, said production was halted after
an attack on a  gas pipeline  as fighting in the country’s
capital, Sana’a, left nine people dead.  The explosion on a line transporting fuel from a field to
the Balhaf processing plant occurred 12:30 a.m. this morning and
caused no victims,  Yemen LNG  said in a statement received by e-
mail today. “The production has stopped but the loss of
production is expected to be limited as the LNG plant was due to
shut down on Oct. 23 for annual maintenance,” it said.  Attacks against the country’s pipeline network have
disrupted exports and caused nationwide shortages since protests
against President Ali Abdullah Saleh started this year. The Al
Shabwan tribe in March blew up part of the pipeline carrying oil
from the central province of Marib to Ras Eisa, Yemen’s main
outlet for crude exports. The government said it had to raise
refined product prices until the line was repaired in July.  Total SA (FP)  owns about 40 percent of the Yemen LNG venture and
is the project leader as well as a buyer of the fuel. The
company is Yemen’s biggest foreign investor.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) ,
which has agreed to buy 2 million tons a year of LNG from Yemen,
owns 6 percent of Yemen LNG.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA also has a long-term
supply contract with the plant.  Sana’a was rocked by blasts and gunfire today as forces
loyal to Saleh battled tribes in northern parts of the city.
Dozens were wounded by live gunfire, including twelve who are in
critical condition, Mohammed al-Qubati, a doctor at the field
clinic of the protest camp, said by phone.  Al-Qaeda  Seven suspected al-Qaeda militants were killed in overnight
air strikes in the southern province of Shabwah,  Yemen’s defense
ministry  reported today on its website. Ibrahim al-Banaa, an
Egyptian national and a media officer for al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula, was killed by the bombing, the ministry said.  Hours after the strike against the suspected militants,
unidentified people attacked a pipeline in the area, Mohammed
Baodhah, a resident in the area, said by phone today.  Yemen has the eighth-largest crude reserves in the  Middle
East  and relies on oil sales for 90 percent of its hard currency
earnings, according to the  U.S. Energy Information Oil
Administration . The Arab Peninsula country pumped 260,000
barrels a day of crude last year, down from an estimated 286,000
barrels in 2009 and a 2001 peak of 440,000 barrels, according to
the EIA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  