-- 
Viacom’s ‘Thor’ Top Movie Again With $34.7 Million in Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-05-16T20:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/-thor-repeats-as-weekend-s-top-movie-with-34-5-million-in-ticket-sales.html
The superhero saga “Thor” was the
top film at U.S. and Canadian theaters for a second weekend,
taking in $34.7 million for  Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount Pictures and
 Walt Disney Co. ’s Marvel.  The comedy “Bridesmaids” opened in second place with
$26.2 million and the vampire thriller “Priest” took in $15
million in its debut in fourth place, researcher  Hollywood.com
Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  Hollywood is relying on comic book heroes to help surpass
last year’s record $4.35 billion in summer ticket sales. Other
films based on comics or graphic novels scheduled for release
include “X-Men: First Class,” “Green Lantern” and “Cowboys
& Aliens.” Studios are trying to erase a 13 percent year-to-
date sales decline and a 14 percent drop in attendance. A
sequel, “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides,” opens
next weekend and is expected to be the No. 1 film.  “It’s going to easily top the box office -- anywhere
between $80 million and $100 million -- because there’s
absolutely no competition,”  Jeff Bock , a box-office analyst
with Exhibitor Relations, said in a telephone interview.  In “Thor,” the arrogant, hammer-wielding god of Norse
mythology is banished by his father Odin to Earth to live among
humans. Thor learns to accept the responsibility that comes with
his great power when evil forces invade Earth.  ‘Bridesmaids’  Chris Hemsworth stars as Thor and  Anthony Hopkins  plays
Odin.  Natalie Portman  co-stars as Thor’s human love interest.
Paramount is distributing the movie for Marvel, which was
acquired by Burbank, California-based Disney last year.  “Bridesmaids,” produced by  Judd Apatow , stars  Kristen
Wiig  as the maid of honor who must cope with her own financial
woes and personality conflicts among members of the bridal
party. The film is distributed by  Comcast Corp. ’s Universal
Pictures.  “Bridesmaids” had “a huge start for an R-rated comedy
that’s geared specifically toward females,” Bock said. “Women
don’t necessarily rush out opening weekend. This has the
opportunity to play for several weeks.”  “Fast Five,” Universal’s fifth installment in the series
about street racers, was third with $20.4 million in receipts.
The movie has take in $169.7 million in three weeks in cinemas.  ‘Priest’  In the film,  Vin Diesel ’s character, a racer and
professional thief, is on the run from police. He and friends
confront a Brazilian drug lord and pursuing U.S. agents to win
their freedom.  Paul Walker  and  Dwayne Johnson  co-star.  Sony Corp.’s “Priest” features  Paul Bettany  as a
clergyman/warrior who breaks his vows to battle an army of
vampires and rescue his niece. He also has to persuade his
skeptical leaders that the threat is real. Karl Urban and Maggie
Q co-star.  “Rio,” the animated film from News Corp.’s Twentieth
Century Fox, had sales of $8.3 million in fifth place. The film
features the voices of  Anne Hathaway  and  Jesse Eisenberg  and
tells the story of a domesticated macaw who travels to Rio de
Janeiro from Minnesota to find a mate. The movie has earned
$125.2 million in five weeks.  Revenue for the top 12 films fell 1.9 percent this past
weekend to $128.9 million from a year ago, Hollywood.com said.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for May
13 to May 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  