-- 
Ai Arrest Jangles Beijing Nerves as Fish, Bike Go on Show

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-05-16T08:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/ai-arrest-jangles-beijing-art-scene-nerves-as-fish-head-bike-go-on-show.html
Beijing’s  798 art zone , housed in a
former East German-built factory complex built under Mao Zedong’s rule, still features Communist slogans in bold red
characters on its functional, Bauhaus-style walls.  Over the past decade, the spacious, spare halls have
attracted the unapologetically capitalist international art
world. The district has morphed into a buzzy social center, a
popular place to stroll from one gallery to the next with breaks
to sip lattes in hip cafes and explore designer shops.  Yet on a recent visit it was clear that, lurking beneath
the gentrified veneer, there is unease among the artists and
dealers who work in 798 about government repression of artistic
freedom following the detention of Ai Weiwei.  The Chinese artist was held at Beijing airport on April 3
and had not been heard from until yesterday. His wife, Lu Qing,
told the  Associated Press  that she was allowed to meet him for
about 20 minutes at an unknown location, the newswire said. She
said that he was healthy, though unable to speak freely with
her, the AP reported.  Human Rights Watch  says Ai is one of more than 100 people
detained this year in “the largest crackdown on dissent in over
a decade.” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters
on April 7 in Beijing that Ai had been arrested on suspicion of
economic crimes.  “Not only are we concerned, the whole world is
concerned,” says Gao Zhen, the elder of two artist brothers,
when asked about Ai during a tour of the brothers’ studio in the
798 zone. Ai curated one of their exhibitions last year.  “We need people to promote change, and we want to feel
free in our art,” Gao said.  Studio Guards  The  Gao brothers  have experienced their own fair share of
police intervention: In 2007, they were forced to close their
studio to the public and two guards were stationed outside.  “We were the only artists in the world to have this kind
of service,” Gao says with an ironic smile. Since then, they
have had to operate the studio as a private space.  Yet Gao is quick to point out that  China  has opened up in
the past 10 years. “In Mao’s time, there would have been no
guards outside the studio -- we would have been taken away.”  The brothers’ work, which meshes photography and painting,
is critical of Mao’s legacy. One image shows the portrait of the
leader that hangs above the gate to the Forbidden City on
Tiananmen Square with a crack in the frame. It’s depicted from
four angles. In the uppermost version, the portrait is tipped so
far back that the flaw dominates the image -- a visual joke
about perspectives on Mao.  In another picture, the Gaos’ family portrait takes the
place of Mao’s image at the Forbidden City.  Monster Fish  At nearby  Tang Contemporary Art , a monstrous fiberglass
fish head dominated the space, where works by six Chinese
artists, all of whom spent time abroad and have some critical
distance to their homeland, were on display.  Huang Yong Ping’s “Leviathanation” fish head is pierced
with stuffed animal heads, and pulls two train carriages, decked
out exactly as Mao’s private train was. The heads represent
China’s other communist leaders of the time.  The artist emigrated to  France  in 1990 with his partner,
Shen Yuan. One of her works was also on show: A collection of
tables and chairs for child laborers in southeast China, fixed
to the walls of a room. In Wang Du’s sculpture, a simple
allegory of the pressures of the West, a bicycle buckles under
two tons of crates of Coca-Cola.  In Chen Zhen’s installation “Reading the Cinders,” a
collection of the charred remains of newspapers are separated by
plexiglass sheets imprinted with articles. Chen died of cancer
in Paris in 2000.  Taming Criticism  For the Tang Contemporary exhibition, which ended last
week, articles printed on the plexiglass that were critical of
the Chinese regime had to be exchanged for less controversial
reports “because you couldn’t show the Paris ones here,” said
Yang Shengnien, the assistant director at the gallery.  “You can’t say everything directly in China,” he said.  The fate of Ai is a reminder of that. The  Ullens Center for
Contemporary Art , a non-profit art center in the 798 zone
founded by a Belgian collecting couple, had planned to mount an
Ai exhibition earlier this year. (The show was to be one in a
series of exhibitions by guest curators, sponsored by Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.)  “We have to postpone the plan for another suitable time,”
Vivienne Li, the communications director at UCCA, wrote in an e-
mailed response to questions.  You won’t find Ai’s work on show now in the 798 district.
For that, you can choose between London, Berlin or  New York .  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 