-- 
Malaysian Growth May Quicken, Allow Rate Increase

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-05-16T02:24:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/malaysian-growth-may-accelerate-giving-scope-for-rate-increase.html
Malaysia’s economic growth probably
accelerated last quarter amid rising investment and demand for
commodities, supporting an Asian expansion that has prompted
policy makers to raise  interest rates .  Gross domestic product may have increased 4.9 percent in
the three months through March from a year earlier, after a 4.8
percent expansion in the previous quarter, according to the
median forecast of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
central bank is scheduled to release the economic data at 6 p.m.
on May 18.  Bank Negara Malaysia  has raised borrowing costs four times
since the beginning of March 2010 to contain inflation as the
Southeast Asian nation recovered from a recession the previous
year. The ringgit reached a 13-year high this month as higher
interest rates from  China  to  Taiwan  boosted Asian currencies
even as regional growth eases from a rebound last year.  “The stellar performance in commodity exports was the
major driver of economic growth, although we are also encouraged
by a better-than-expected showing in private consumption,” said
 Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
Singapore. “Our assessment on the overall economic outlook
remains fairly sanguine at this point.”  Malaysia’s exports rose 7.8 percent in March from a year
earlier as palm oil shipments surged 22.8 percent and
electronics sales gained 6.7 percent. The amount of loans
disbursed by the country’s lenders rose 17.3 percent in March
from a year earlier, according to central bank data.  Asian Currencies  Most Asian currencies have climbed over the past year,
partly because of foreign capital inflows seeking higher yields.
The Malaysian ringgit has jumped 5.5 percent, advancing below 3
per  U.S. dollar  for the first time in more than 13 years on
April 25. The currency fell 0.9 percent as of 9:55 a.m. local
time today.  “With robust momentum in consumer credit showing the
underlying demand growth, we expect Bank Negara to remain
vigilant on inflationary pressures,” said  Rahul Bajoria , an
economist in Singapore at Barclays Plc. “At the current
juncture, inflation risks outweigh growth risks.”  Inflation accelerated to a 23-month high in March, climbing
3 percent from a year earlier. Consumer prices probably rose at
a faster pace in April, gaining 3.1 percent, according to the
median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
statistics department will release the figures on May 18.  The Southeast Asian nation’s economy may expand 5 percent
to 6 percent this year, after growing 7.2 percent in 2010,
according to the central bank. Policy makers led by Governor
Zeti Akhtar Aziz resumed rate increases this month after pausing
since July, saying borrowing costs still support growth.  ‘Steady Growth’  “The assessment is for the Malaysian economy to remain
firmly on a steady growth path, with growth improving gradually
during the course of the year,” the central bank said May 5.
“Growth will be underpinned by the firm expansion of domestic
demand. Sustained employment conditions and income growth is
expected to provide support to private consumption.”  Still,  Malaysia ’s export growth has cooled since a rebound
last year helped the country recover from the 2009 global
recession, and the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  have
clouded the outlook for overseas sales for exporters from the
 Philippines  to  Thailand .  Rising prices for raw materials may hurt companies that
have difficulty passing the higher cost of production to
consumers, said Yong Yin Ng, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
 Kuala Lumpur . He is “cautious” on power utility  Tenaga
Nasional Bhd. (TNB) , construction and property group Gamuda Bhd. and
budget carrier AirAsia Bhd.  Inflation Threat  “Overall business sentiment appears to have turned
cautious as inflationary threat looms,” Ng said. “Export
sluggishness could extend another quarter following the Japan
quake and further ringgit strength.”  Citigroup said it views “positively”  Petronas Chemicals
Group Bhd. (PCHEM)  and oil palm planter QL Resources Bhd., and considers
mobile-phone operator Axiata Group Bhd. and casino group Genting
Bhd. as “attractive.”  Singapore and Taiwan will release revised first-quarter
growth numbers on May 19. Singapore’s economy may have expanded
an annualized 22 percent last quarter from the previous three
months, when it climbed 3.9 percent, according to the median
forecast of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That’s
less than the 23.5 percent growth estimated by the government on
April 14.  Taiwan’s economy probably grew 6.2 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, after expanding 6.92 percent in the three
months through December, a survey of 11 economists showed. An
April 29 preliminary estimate showed first-quarter growth of
6.19 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  