-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold-Coin Sales Show Higher Prices

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-05-15T23:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-coin-sales-show-higher-prices.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold-Coin Sales at One-Year High Show Higher Prices in History  Sales of gold coins are on track for the best month in a
year amid the worst commodities rout since 2008, a sign that
bullion’s longest bull market in nine decades has further to run,
if history is a guide.  COMMODITIES EXCLUSIVES:  ADM Says Cocoa Plant in  Ivory Coast  Operating at Capacity (1)  Archer Daniels Midland Co., the world’s largest grain
processor, said its cocoa-processing plant in Abidjan, Ivory
Coast, is operating at capacity and the company expects to start
exporting within the next week.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises as Europe Economic Growth Fuels Demand Prospects  Copper rose for the fourth time in five days as Europe’s
economy expanded faster than analysts forecast, enhancing
prospects for raw-material demand.  MINING:  Vedanta to Boost Zinc Production From  Namibia ’s Skorpion Mine  Vedanta Resources Plc, the metals producer with assets from
 Africa  to  Australia , plans to boost output from its Skorpion
zinc mine in Namibia to take advantage of rising prices for the
stainless steel-making ingredient.  Glencore Unlikely to Seek Immediate Cash M&A Deals, RBC Says  Glencore International Plc, selling as much as $11 billion
of shares in an initial public offering, is unlikely to seek
cash-funded mergers and acquisitions in the immediate wake of
the IPO, according to  RBC Capital Markets .  ThyssenKrupp to Fund Emerging-Market Growth With Asset Sales (2)  ThyssenKrupp AG,  Germany ’s largest steelmaker, will fund
growth in emerging markets with planned asset sales, Chief
Executive Officer Heinrich Hiesinger said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Drops as Dollar’s Rebound Erodes Metal’s Investment Appeal  Gold futures fell for the second time in three days as the
dollar’s advance eroded the appeal of the precious metal as an
alternative asset. Silver also declined.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Rises on Sign of Increasing Demand; Wheat, Soybeans Fall  Corn futures rose for the second straight day on signs that
demand for U.S. exports is increasing after prices slumped,
while wet weather delays planting in parts of the Midwest. Wheat
and soybeans fell.  Cattle Drop as Drought Spurs Sales to Beef Plants; Hogs Gain  Cattle futures fell the most in more than a week on
speculation that U.S. ranchers will be forced to send more
animals to slaughterhouses because a drought is damaging
pastures in the Great Plains. Hogs rose.  Orange-Juice Futures Jump to Four-Year High on Supply Concerns  Orange-juice futures jumped to a four-year high on mounting
supply concerns in  Florida , the world’s second-biggest producer.  Sugar Advances on Lower Output in  Brazil ; Coffee, Cocoa Decline  Sugar gained, capping the biggest weekly gain since January,
after output plunged in Brazil, the world’s biggest producer and
exporter. Coffee and cocoa futures fell in  New York .  U.S. Cotton Production May Fall 17% Next Year, FCStone Says (1)  U.S. cotton production may decline 17 percent next year
because of drought conditions in  Texas , the biggest U.S.
producing state, said Gary Raines, an economist at FCStone
Fibers & Textiles in Nashville,  Tennessee .  Farmland Values Surge 20% in Central U.S., Kansas City Fed Says  Farmland values in the central U.S. surged in the first
quarter as higher prices for crops and cattle sparked demand for
rural properties, the Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas City  said.  SHIPPING:  Baltic Index Has Weekly Decline on Softening Pacific Ship Demand  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity-shipping costs,
had its first weekly decline in three weeks on weaker demand to
haul cargoes from Pacific Ocean ports.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Economy: Consumer Prices Rise on Fuel, Food Costs (1)  The cost of living in the U.S. rose in April, led by
increases in food and fuel that are starting to filter through
to other goods and services.  Stiglitz Says Austerity Kills Jobs, Brings Economic Decline (1)  Austerity measures “don’t work” and prevent countries
from creating jobs needed to generate economic growth, said
 Nobel Prize  winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz .  Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Rose More Than Forecast in May (2)  Consumer confidence  climbed more than forecast in May as
Americans turned more hopeful that employment gains will be
sustained, helping them cope with higher fuel and food costs.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Fall as Dollar, U.S. Treasuries Advance; Commodities Rise  Stocks slid as the dollar and Treasuries rallied, with 10-
year notes near reaching the highest level of the year, amid
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen and economic growth
won’t be strong enough to justify this year’s equity rally.
Commodities recouped earlier losses.  Pound Weakens as ‘Lackluster’ Economy Curbs Bets on Rate Rise  The pound weakened after data showed economic growth in
Germany and  France  exceeded estimates and a report said U.K.
living standards will fall, spurring bets that euro-region
 interest rates  will outpace increases in Britain.  Crude Oil  Rises for a Second Day as European Growth Accelerates  Crude oil climbed for a second day as stronger-than-
forecast economic growth in the  euro zone  signaled that European
fuel consumption will increase.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  