-- 
Atlanta Fed’s Lockhart Says It’s Too Soon to Consider Exit From Stimulus

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-15T21:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/atlanta-fed-s-lockhart-says-it-s-too-soon-to-consider-exit-from-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said it’s too early to consider an
exit from record stimulus, a process that’s likely to begin only
when the recovery becomes “more clearly sustainable.”  “Even if they are a bit premature in my view, questions
are already arising about the specifics of the Fed’s exit
strategy,” Lockhart said today in a speech in Atlanta. He said
a change in the Fed’s public statements “would actually start
the process” of tightening.  Lockhart has backed the Federal Open Market Committee’s
plans to complete a $600 billion Treasury-securities purchase
program by June aimed at boosting the recovery. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other policy makers last month reduced their
forecasts for U.S. growth this year after the economy slowed in
the first quarter, while increasing estimates for inflation
excluding food and energy prices.  The Atlanta Fed chief told reporters after his speech that
the start of an exit could be triggered by a “clearly
sustainable” expansion, including “healthy growth” in output
matching his forecast and “continued evidence that employment
is coming back.”  In his speech, Lockhart said the public’s expectations for
future inflation are “reasonably stable.”  Lockhart said that an increase in the inflation rate may
subside as prices of oil and other commodities moderate. The
 consumer price index  rose 3.2 percent in April from a year
earlier, the biggest increase since October 2008. The index
excluding food and energy rose 1.3 percent, the most since
February 2010.  Inflation Objective  “I anticipate that over the next two years, inflation will
converge to the Fed’s de facto inflation objective of 2 percent
or a bit less,” Lockhart said to the Media Financial Management
Association conference in Atlanta. “Prices of many commodities,
including oil, have either leveled off or declined recently.
Many analysts have begun to speculate that this softening in
commodity prices might be reflected in consumer prices later
this year.”  Lockhart echoed Bernanke, who said last month he expects
inflation resulting from higher commodities prices to be
“transitory.”  “I do believe what we have seen is temporary,” Lockhart
told reporters, describing the consumer-price index as
“elevated and they reflect commodity prices.”  The yield on the Treasury 10-year note last week fell to
3.13 percent, the lowest level this year, which Lockhart said
reflects investors’ perceptions that inflation is transitory.  “The markets seem to be accepting the view that inflation
has not risen to a level that will be persistent for the longer
term,” he said.  Lockhart told reporters he agreed with Bernanke that
Congress should raise the ceiling on government debt to avoid
roiling financial markets, while also working on a credible plan
to reduce the deficit and debt.  While Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  has laid
out an exit strategy, Lockhart said he was wary of talking in
too much detail.  “Talking about doing will actually start the process of
doing,” he said in his prepared remarks. He cited an Aug. 27
speech by Bernanke about the potential need to purchase
additional long-term securities. While the program to buy $600
billion in Treasuries wasn’t announced until Nov. 3, “markets
began to price in this move” after the speech.  First Exit Step  “I think a similar approach might be used for exit,” he
said. “In other words, the first step toward implementation of
an exit strategy could start with communication, recognizing
that what the FOMC says has real economic impact.”  At the same time, Lockhart indicated that recent comments
by Fed policy makers about possible steps toward an exit
shouldn’t be read as a signal that a move is imminent.  “It would be a mistake to assume that these public
conversations on exit are much more than an open discussion of
the options the central bank should consider.”  Lockhart repeated his view that growth will likely pick up
later this year to a pace of 3 percent to 4 percent after a
first-quarter slowdown and maintain that pace for the next
couple of years.  “I expect growth of consumer and business spending to be
sustained, reflecting increased confidence in the durability of
the recovery,” he said. “Robust economic growth of some of our
major trading partners should boost exports. The manufacturing
sector is likely to contribute significantly to growth, as
domestic and foreign demand for U.S.-made goods increases.”  The economy grew at a 1.8 percent pace in the first quarter
of 2011, according to Commerce Department data. Growth will pick
up to 3.3 percent in the current quarter and will average 2.7
percent for the year, according to the median of 67 economists
surveyed this month by Bloomberg News.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  