-- 
Basel Ruling Slashes Size of Kangaroo Bond Sales by 50%: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-05-16T05:17:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/basel-ruling-slashes-size-of-kangaroo-bond-sales-by-50-australia-credit.html
The average size of bond sales in
 Australia  by top-rated overseas borrowers has shrunk by almost
50 percent this quarter as new bank capital rules cut demand.  Offerings of AAA rated kangaroo debt have dropped to A$264
million ($279 million) on average since March 31, the lowest
since the credit crisis caused the market to slam shut in 2008
and down from A$516 million in the same period last quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Germany ’s Kreditanstalt
fuer Wiederaufbau and  Norway ’s Kommunalbanken AS are among
state-backed borrowers that sold A$1.9 billion of the debt this
quarter, compared with A$9.8 billion from Jan. 1 through mid-
February.  Sales slowed from a record pace at the start of the year
after the  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority  said in
February the securities don’t count as assets local banks must
hold under Basel Committee on Banking Supervision standards. The
ruling boosted demand for state debt that does qualify, cutting
borrowing costs for Australia’s regional governments.  “The ruling effectively took away a large cornerstone
investor: the bank treasuries,” said David Plank, Sydney-based
head of research at Deutsche Bank AG. “The market is having to
find its feet again and find what’s appropriate in terms of
issuance size.”  Relative yields on state bonds have fallen 5 basis points
this year, while spreads for U.S. municipalities widened 9 basis
points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  ‘Expectations Management’  When Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank sold A$800 million of
fixed- and floating-rate 2016 kangaroo bonds in January, buyers
from Australia and  New Zealand  took 77 percent of the notes,
with banks accounting for 72 percent, according to Stefan Goebel, the Frankfurt-based development agency’s head of
treasury. Asian investors were the only buyers when Rentenbank
sold a further A$200 million of the fixed-rate securities on May
9, he said.  Smaller deal sizes will require “expectations management”
to satisfy central bank investors that had become accustomed to
larger trades, Goebel said.  Sales of kangaroo bonds by borrowers including the World
Bank and European Investment Bank rose 88 percent last year to a
record A$37.3 billion, Bloomberg data show. Issuance surged amid
demand from banks that anticipated AAA rated securities would
meet global  capital requirements .  Basel Rules  Under Basel rules coming into force by 2015, banks must
hold enough assets that can be converted into cash to meet their
needs for 30 days in a sudden crisis. APRA announced in February
that only sovereign and semi-government bonds were traded in
sufficiently “large, deep and active markets” to meet the
criteria.  The regulator’s ruling caused yields on kangaroo bonds sold
by some supranational issuers to rise relative to state
government debt.  The extra yield investors demand to hold  European
Investment Bank ’s A$2.6 billion of August 2020 notes instead of
NSW Treasury Corp.’s debt due the same year surged to 75 basis
points on March 3 from 51 basis points on Feb. 22, Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices show. It’s since narrowed
to 63.  Banks were drawn to AAA rated kangaroo bonds to strengthen
their balance sheets because of a shortage of Australian
government debt. The nation’s sovereign burden of A$189.6
billion is the smallest in the developed world as a percentage
of gross domestic product after  Hong Kong , Bloomberg data show.  The nation will sell about A$53 billion of nominal and
inflation-linked bonds in the coming financial year, the
government  said  May 11. The U.S. sold $72 billion of Treasuries
last week.  Swan’s Pledge  While planning to return the budget to surplus by 2012-
2013, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  pledged last week to maintain bond
issuance after a panel of regulators and market participants
recommended borrowings should stay at about the current level of
12 percent to 14 percent of GDP.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond fell 3
basis points today to 5.34 percent, extending a 6 basis point
drop last week. The notes yield 219 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries.  The gap widened to as much as 275 basis points last year as
 Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens increased
borrowing costs seven times between October 2009 and November
2010 to 4.75 percent to contain inflation amid a mining-
investment boom. The U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its main
interest-rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  Consumer prices in Australia may rise an annual 3.07
percent in the next five years, based on the gap between yields
on government bonds and inflation-indexed notes. The RBA aims to
hold inflation between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  The Australian dollar climbed 19 percent against the U.S.
dollar over the past year to $1.0558 at 2:49 p.m. in Sydney
today. The so-called Aussie touched $1.1012 on May 2, the
highest since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  Basis Swaps Discounts  While Australia’s benchmark interest rate is the highest in
the developed world, kangaroo bond issuers cut funding costs by
using the currency swaps market to switch the proceeds into U.S.
dollars.  The five-year Australian dollar basis swap, which measures
the cost of switching interest based on the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, for payments linked to Australia’s bank
bill swap rate, was at 20 basis points in Sydney today.  It peaked at 48 basis points in November 2009, and has
averaged 21.3 this month, compared with an average 8.6 for the
five years to 2007. The higher the level, the greater the
discount for overseas borrowers selling debt in Australia.  “The recent deterioration of the cross currency basis has
had a huge impact, too, meaning that kangaroo funding is less
cost effective compared to other currencies,” said Rentenbank’s
Goebel.  Contingency Loans  The RBA has responded to the shortage of government bonds
outstanding by offering local banks contingency loans to help
them meet the Basel liquidity requirements.  Kangaroo debt sold by top-rated issuers, bank bonds rated
A- or higher and AAA rated mortgage bonds are among securities
that can be used as collateral to access the facility, for a fee
that hasn’t been determined, according to the central bank.  Four issuers have sold AAA kangaroo bonds since the APRA
ruling -- KfW, Kommunalbanken, Rentenbank and Nederlandse
Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden NV, the
Dutch development finance company known as FMO, Bloomberg data
show.  RBC Capital Markets  tops the underwriter rankings with an
18 percent market share, followed by ANZ Bank with 11 percent,
Bloomberg data show.  Dearth of Sales  Borrowers may be drawn back to the market as the dearth of
new sales pushes down relative yields, said Deutsche Bank’s
Plank.  The extra yield investors demand to own Kommunalbanken’s
A$1.075 billion of 6 percent bonds due October 2014 instead of
similar-maturity government debt has narrowed 8 basis points
this quarter to 69, ANZ prices show. Spreads on A$1.4 billion of
5.5 percent, October 2014 bonds sold by the  World Bank ’s
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development shrank 10
basis points to 42 in the same period, according to ANZ.  “The reason supranationals have been performing well in
the last few weeks is the lack of supply, which is putting
pressure on spreads,” Plank said. “That will help drive
issuance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 