-- 
India’s Move to Increase Gasoline Prices May Stoke Inflation

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-05-16T08:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/biggest-gasoline-price-increase-in-india-since-2008-may-fuel-inflation.html
India ’s move to increase gasoline
prices by the most in three years may accelerate what is already
the fastest inflation rate among  Asia ’s major economies, damping
demand for the nation’s assets.  Benchmark bond yields may climb to a 31-month high on
concern faster price increases will erode returns from
financial-market investments, said Pradeep Madhav, managing
director at Securities Trading Corp., a primary dealer which
underwrites government debt. India raised gasoline prices by as
much as 8.5 percent yesterday to limit losses at state-run
refiners and help the government cut fuel subsidies.  State refiner Indian Oil Corp., the country’s largest,
raised the price of gasoline by 5 rupees a liter to 63.37 rupees
($1.4) in  New Delhi , the company said on its  website . That is
the biggest increase since June 2008. Inflation in India is the
highest after Russia among the so-called BRICS economies and if
left unchecked could rekindle public protests and undermine
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government.  “The financial market has been expecting a rather steep
petrol price increase but still there’s bound to be an immediate
negative reaction,” Mumbai-based Madhav said. “We may see bond
yields rise by about two to three basis points when the market
opens.”  The yield on the benchmark 7.8 percent government note due
April 2021 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
8.28 percent in Mumbai today, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The rate increased to 8.30 percent last week,
the highest level since October 2008.  Crude Costs  Crude oil has climbed 41 percent in  New York  in the past
year as unrest in the Middle East and North Africa toppled
leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  and spread to  Libya , Algeria,
 Bahrain ,  Iran , Syria and Yemen. Import costs for India, which
buys almost three-quarters of the oil it uses from overseas,
surged to a one-year high of $9.4 billion in March.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index of local shares
has lost 10 percent this year and the nation’s bonds are the
worst performers in the region on concern inflation that has
exceeded the central bank’s target will damp economic growth.
Indian debt returned 0.2 percent this year while Indonesian
notes earned 4.3 percent, according to indexes compiled by  HSBC
Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Interest Rates   India’s inflation rate rose more than estimated in April,
adding pressure on the central bank to extend interest-rate
increases. The monetary authority raised interest rates by half
percentage point this month, the biggest increase in three years
and the ninth since March 2010, to cool price gains and said
economic expansion may slow as borrowing costs rise.  The wholesale-price index climbed 8.66 percent in April
from a year earlier after an 8.98 percent gain in March, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. The
median forecast of 19 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for an 8.5 percent increase.  By comparison, consumer prices rose 5.3 percent in  China ,
9.6 percent in  Russia , 6.5 percent in  Brazil  and 4.1 percent in
 South Africa .  Indian Oil climbed as much as 4.7 percent to 359.70 rupees
in Mumbai trading and was at 342.95 rupees at 1:15 p.m. local
time. Bharat Petroleum Corp., the second-biggest state refiner
in the country, gained as much as 3.1 percent and Hindustan
Petroleum Corp. advanced as much as 5.6 percent.  Public Protests  Higher prices are eroding purchasing power in the second-
most populous nation where, the  World Bank  says, 66 percent of
the people live on less than $2 a day. Tens of thousands of
protesters from 19 of India’s 28 states gathered in New Delhi on
Feb. 24 to protest against rising costs.  The first nationwide increase in gasoline prices in four
months may help reduce losses at government-run refiners and
also address a disadvantage they face against non-state
companies such as  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , which sell fuels at
market rates in India and overseas. State oil companies lose
almost 5 billion rupees a day on fuel sales, according to the
oil ministry’s  website .  India’s state-run refiners also sell diesel, cooking gas
and kerosene below market prices to help curb inflation, while
the government set gasoline prices free of all controls on June
26. Indian Oil hadn’t increased diesel prices since June 26 and
gasoline since Jan. 16, according to the company’s website.
Diesel has a 4.7 percent weighting in India’s benchmark
wholesale-price index and gasoline 1.1 percent.  A panel of Indian ministers will review prices of diesel,
liquefied petroleum gas and kerosene next week, Press Trust of
India reported, citing Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee.  The group of ministers will decide on the oil ministry’s
demand to increase diesel by 4 rupees a liter, the report cited
Mukherjee as telling reporters after meeting Congress
legislators from West Bengal state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  