-- 
Billionaire Rao’s Lanco to Borrow $5.6 Billion to Add India Power Capacity

-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-05-16T06:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/billionaire-rao-s-lanco-to-borrow-5-6-billion-to-add-india-power-capacity.html
Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , an Indian
electricity producer controlled by billionaire L. Madhusudhan Rao, plans to borrow about $5.6 billion to expand power
generation about fourfold in four years.  The company aims to raise as much as $2.2 billion of debt
overseas and will borrow the remainder from local banks in the
next 15 months, Chairman Rao said in an interview. Lanco will
spend $1.4 billion of its own cash as it builds plants to
generate an additional 6,000 megawatts by March 2015, he said.  Indian power developers including  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  are
expanding generation capacities as the nation’s accelerating
economic growth fuels demand for more electricity. Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  aims to add 120,000 megawatts of power
by 2017 to reduce blackouts and plug a deficit of 10.5 percent
during peak hours that threatens to slow development.  “The growth rate is going to be there,” Rao, 45, said on
May 12 in his office at Gurgaon near  New Delhi . “What we are
trying to create today is a small portion of the opportunity we
have in the future.”  Lanco, which also has a construction business, plans to
increase total power generation capacity to more than 15,000
megawatts by 2015, he said. The company currently produces 3,300
megawatts and is building plants to reach 9,300 megawatts by
December 2013, Rao said. Lanco plans to spend $7 billion on the
additional capacity.  Shares of Lanco fell as much as 1.6 percent today. They
declined 0.9 percent to 33.55 rupees at 11:26 a.m. in Mumbai.  Interest Rates   India ’s central bank this month raised key interest rates
for a ninth time since March 2010, prompting Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to forecast growth in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy may slow
in the year started in April.  The cost of raising rupee funds has become more expensive
compared with dollar-denominated debt borrowed overseas. The
difference between five-year rupee benchmark rates for top-rated
companies and dollar costs was at 456 basis points on May 13,
near a record reached two days earlier.  The company will consider borrowing from Chinese lenders
and the U.S. Export-Import Bank, Rao said.  Lanco may need to expand its equity to be able to borrow
more, said Shubhranshu Patnaik, a senior director at  Deloitte &
Touche LLP  in Gurgaon.  “If all the projects they have are to be operational,
there’s not enough equity in the books to raise that kind of
finance,” said Patnaik. “They will ultimately need to seek out
more equity to leverage their growing debt or scale down their
projects, which isn’t going to happen.”  Lanco had a debt of 83.2 billion rupees ($1.8 billion),
according to Bloomberg data. Its profit has more than doubled in
three years.  Generating Cash  The company will be adding power generation capacity every
quarter that will generate cash for its expansion, Rao said.  “Cash flows from the power portfolio will go up and so
also revenue from engineering, procurement and construction,”
said Rao. “And those cash flows are more than enough to fund
our growth.”  The company expects revenue from its construction and power
generation business to grow to 500 billion rupees by the year
ending March 31, 2015, Rao said. Sales, including that of units,
increased 34 percent to 81.08 billion rupees in the year ended
March 31, 2010. Lanco will announce earnings for the last fiscal
year on May 29.  Lanco, which bought  Australia ’s Griffin Mining Co. earlier
this year, is examining a bid for the Premier Coal unit of
Wesfarmers Ltd., Rao said.  Rao has $2.3 billion of assets and is India’s 29th richest
person, according to Forbes magazine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Subramaniam Sharma in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  