-- 
Bosworth, U.S. Envoy on North Korea Policy, to Visit South Korea This Week

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-05-16T00:29:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/bosworth-u-s-envoy-on-north-korea-policy-to-visit-south-korea-this-week.html
Stephen Bosworth , U.S. special envoy
on  North Korea  policy, today begins a visit to South Korea less
than a week after  Kim Jong Il ’s regime rejected a proposed
summit to discuss the peninsula’s nuclear situation.  During the three-day trip, Bosworth will meet with National
Security Advisor Chun Yung Woo, Unification Minister Hyun In Taek and Wi Sung Lac, South Korea’s chief envoy to the nuclear
talks on North Korea’s nuclear program, the State Department
said in a May 13  statement  on its website.  Bosworth’s second visit since January comes after North
Korea last week dismissed South Korean President Lee Myung Bak’s
proposal for a summit with Kim. The so-called six-party talks
involving two Koreas, the U.S., China,  Japan  and  Russia  aimed at
dismantling Kim’s pursuit of nuclear weapons haven’t convened
since 2008.  “He is likely to focus mainly on two things:
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and the issue of food
aid” to the North, said Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the
University of North Korean Studies in Seoul. “The visit is seen
as a step to help create atmosphere for dialogues toward the
resumption of six-party talks ultimately.”  Sung Kim, the U.S. special envoy to the six-party talks,
will accompany Bosworth, the statement said.  Island Shelling  Relations between the two Koreas deteriorated last year
after North Korea shelled a disputed island, killing four South
Koreans, and an international investigation blamed Kim’s
military for a torpedo attack that sank a South Korean warship
and killed 46 sailors.  South Korea  has resisted giving aid to
the North after the incidents.  North Korea criticized the South Korean president’s
invitation to a summit to discuss nuclear issues as a
“ridiculous attempt to disarm” the communist nation. Lee plans
to host a summit in Seoul next year as part of a global
initiative championed by U.S. President  Barack Obama  to secure
nuclear stockpiles.  Inviting North Korea requires a “firm statement” by Kim’s
regime “that it will renounce nuclear weapons,” Lee said on
May 9. Kim told visiting former President Jimmy Carter in April
that he is ready to meet Lee any time and over any issue.  Carter, who made a second trip to North  Korea  in less than
a year last month to help push forward the stalled nuclear talks,
urged immediate donations of food to North Korea, where the
 United Nations  says more than 6 million people need food
assistance.  Outside Handouts  While South Korea is open to providing humanitarian aid
across the border, North Korea should allow more transparency in
ensuring that the donations reach people in need, the South’s
Unification Minister Hyun said on April 25. North Korea has
relied on outside handouts since the mid-1990s when an estimated
2 million people died from famine.  North Korea’s economy shrank 0.9 percent in 2009 when UN
sanctions were toughened following the regime’s second nuclear
test in May that year, curbing trade and international aid,
according to the  Bank of Korea  in  Seoul . South Korea’s economy
is about 38 times bigger than the North’s $22 billion economy.  Kim’s government has reported progress on its nuclear
programs even after the UN increased sanctions, in November
disclosing its capabilities to enrich uranium that provide a
second means of making weapons.  North Korea and  Iran  may have exchanged ballistic-missile
technology in violation of UN sanctions, Reuters reported on May
14, citing a confidential report it obtained. More than 200
North Korean engineers are living in Iran to help the country
develop nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, Japan’s Mainichi
newspaper reported today, citing an unidentified person familiar
with the matter.  North Korea and South Korea, facing off across the world’s
most heavily armed border, remain technically at war since their
1950-53 conflict ended in a cease-fire, which was never replaced
by a peace treaty. The U.S. stations troops in South Korea as a
legacy of the  Korean War , when  China  fought alongside North
Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  