-- 
Britain Should Scrap Electricity Plans, Curb Utility Dominance, Panel Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-05-16T11:04:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/britain-should-scrap-electricity-plans-curb-utility-dominance.html
Britain should scrap proposed
legislative changes to the  electricity market  and reduce the
power of the six biggest energy companies in order to spur low-
carbon investment, according to a panel of lawmakers.  The dominance of companies including Electricite de France
SA and  RWE AG (RWE)  needs to be reduced to encourage the 110 billion
pounds ($178 billion) in spending needed to replace aging power
plants and cut carbon emissions, the  Energy and Climate Change
Committee  said. If the government thinks subsidizing nuclear
power is a way to achieve its goals, it should be upfront about
it, even if the move is unpopular, it said.  Proposals are “skewed by the wish of the coalition to
disguise support for nuclear,”  Tim Yeo , chair of the committee
and a Conservative member of parliament, said by phone. “If
meeting targets involves giving nuclear some support, then it
would be sensible for the government to just admit that.”  The Commons committee examines and reports on policy shifts
that focus on the work of government departments. While  its
findings aren’t binding, they usually require a government
response within 60 days. The planned revamp of energy markets,
the most sweeping changes in two decades, will be included in an
energy bill to be presented to parliament by July 20.  “The government must go back to the drawing board and come
up with a more straightforward and coherent set of plans to
reform the electricity market,” Yeo said in an e-mailed
statement. “Radical reform of the wholesale energy market is
needed to stop the Big Six from stitching it up, but at the
moment ministers are only tinkering at the margins.”  Nuclear Subsidy  The six companies, who also include  Centrica Plc (CNA) , EON AG,
 Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE)  and  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish Power
unit, supply 99.5 percent of Britain’s electricity, according to
figures from Ofgem, the energy regulator. Ofgem, who’s role is
under review, has said that liquidity in the futures market is
limited and it may force the companies to sell up to 20 percent
of their output at auction.  “Britain is widely acknowledged to have one of the most
competitive energy markets in the world,” Association of
Electricity Producers Chief Executive Officer David Porter said
in a statement. Extending changes beyond the proposals “would
take much longer, create uncertainty and could lead to deferral
of investment,” he said.  ‘Too Many Levers’  The U.K.  proposed  Dec. 16 a shift in British  energy policy 
to rein back the market structure put in place by former Prime
Minister  Margaret Thatcher  in the early 1990s. The Department of
Energy and  Climate Change  recommended guaranteeing long-term
prices for low-carbon energy such as nuclear and wind power and
setting a minimum price for CO2 emissions.  “The government is trying to pull too many levers at once
which will deter the 110 billion investment needed over the next
nine years,” Volker Beckers, chief executive officer of RWE’s
U.K. unit, said in a statement. The policy review must “deliver
a stable framework which is attractive to new and existing
investors,” and provide a level playing field for competing
low-carbon technologies.  Under the proposals, a “contract for difference” feed-in
tariff would be paid to low-carbon generators if electricity
prices fall below a certain level. Such a contract would
compensate utilities for lower-than-expected energy prices or
charge them if prices are higher, in this way locking in returns
and allaying concerns that costly projects won’t get paid off.  Increased Costs  This “one size fits all’ approach will fail to bring
forward the low carbon investment we need,” the committee said
in the report. The model “could increase costs and risks for
intermittent generators such as wind and technologies like
 carbon capture  and storage and electricity storage,” they said.  The committee asked the government to consider proposals
that would give nuclear generators guaranteed electricity prices
and raise taxes from  carbon emissions . Both measures could be
viewed as subsidies to the atomic industry, according to the
report.  The U.K.’s new tax on carbon from 2013 would “effectively
hand windfall profits” to existing nuclear generation including
the eight nuclear plants owned by EDF and Centrica, the
committee said. More than 3,000 turbines around the country
would also benefit from the higher power price as a result of
raised costs. About 80 percent of the nation’s power currently
comes from a mixture of coal and gas-fueled stations.  ‘Political Risk’  Other proposals include emissions performance standards and
capacity payments. An emissions performance standard is
“pointless” and introduces “additional political risk,” the
committee said. Capacity payments, which may be useful for
managing inflexible and intermittent generation in the future,
are unlikely to be made available soon enough to encourage the
construction of  power plants , they said.  Britain has pledged to get 15 percent of its energy from
renewable sources by the end of the decade and reduce carbon-
dioxide emissions by 80 percent by 2050 from 1990 levels.  Achieving this will require as much as 40,000 megawatts of
low-carbon energy projects, according to a Dec. 7 report from
the  Committee on Climate Change , a separate adviser to the
government. About a third of the nation’s fossil-fueled power
stations are due to close over the next decade to comply with
European legislation to curb acid rain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  