-- 
Cameron Presses Ahead With Health-Service Overhaul in Face of Opposition

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-05-16T12:59:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/cameron-presses-ahead-with-health-service-overhaul-in-face-of-opposition.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he is pressing ahead with an overhaul of the state-run
 National Health Service  in England and  Wales , rebutting
political criticism and attacks from the medical profession.  In a speech today, Cameron said the NHS needs to change to
tackle “waste and inefficiency” and “inflexibility,” arguing
the U.K.’s budget deficit rules out borrowing more money to
“chuck at” the service. If the NHS is not reformed, it risks a
20 billion pound ($32 billion) funding gap by 2015, he said.  “We save the NHS by changing it. We risk its long-term
future by resisting change now,” Cameron said in the speech at
a London hospital. “To make it more efficient and more
effective -- and above all, more focused on prevention, on
health, not just sickness.”  The passage through  Parliament  of the Health and Social
Care Bill, which sets out the planned revamp, is currently
halted for public consultation after the plan was attacked by
doctors’ groups, the opposition  Labour Party  and lawmakers from
Cameron’s own  Conservative Party  and their Liberal Democrat
coalition partners. Cameron said everyone in the government is
working to get the legislation right.  “There is a case for reform that we have to make, a case
for change in our NHS in order to meet the challenges and the
whole cabinet is united behind that,” Cameron said. “I don’t
see this as the  Lib Dems  saying one thing and Conservatives
saying another, I’m probably the keenest member of the
government to make sure we get the NHS reforms right.”  Bill Amendments  The bill allows for the transfer of about 60 percent of the
NHS budget from local boards to groups run by family doctors and
for the extension of a competitive market in health-care
provision. Conservative Health Secretary Andrew Lansley has come
under pressure to make further amendments to the bill to tackle
doctors’ concerns, and British newspapers have suggested he
might lose his job if the bill fails to get through Parliament.  Patients and those working in the NHS fear the proposed
changes, particularly the plans to increase competition, will
“destroy essential services,” Professor Steve Field, the
doctor leading a review of the plans, said in an interview with
The  Guardian newspaper  published May 14.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , the leader of the  Liberal
Democrats , has said he is prepared to veto the legislation
entirely if amendments are not to his party’s satisfaction.  Liberal Democrat activists voted at a conference in March
to oppose the plans. Clegg has also vowed to make his party’s
voice heard more within the coalition after it lost hundreds of
local-council seats in elections earlier this month, taking the
brunt of voters’ anger over government spending reductions.  NHS funding was ring-fenced in the government’s austerity
program last year, which saw most other departments having to
make budget cuts. Even so, the health service faces rising costs
in caring for an aging population with increasingly expensive
treatments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net 
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  