-- 
Oil Drops on Economy Risk; BofA’s Blanch Sees Demand Destruction

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-16T03:07:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/crude-oil-declines-in-new-york-ahmadinejad-takes-over-iran-s-oil-ministry.html
Oil dropped for the first day in
three in  New York  after President Barack Obama said failure to
raise the U.S. debt ceiling may unravel global finances and
threaten growth in the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures slipped as much as 1.3 percent after Obama said the
U.S. “could have a worse recession than we’ve already had,”
according to a segment taped for CBS’s “Face the Nation”
program. Prices also slid on concern  Greece ’s debt crisis may
worsen, threatening  Europe ’s economic growth. Oil may drop in
the second half of the year amid signs prices are causing demand
to slow, said  Francisco Blanch , head of Global Commodity
Research, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “At the moment, anything seen to adversely impact growth
in the U.S. gets factored into oil prices,” said  Ben Westmore ,
a minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd.
in Melbourne, who predicted crude in New York will average $113
a barrel in the third quarter.  Crude for June delivery slid as much as $1.30 to $98.35 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $98.79 at 1:06 p.m. Sydney time. The contract gained
2.5 percent last week, the biggest weekly gain since the period
ending April 8. Prices are 41 percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for June settlement lost 44 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $113.39 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract advanced 4.3 percent last week.  The U.S. administration will begin stimulating domestic
crude production to blunt rising gasoline prices with measures
including encouraging drilling in  Alaska  and giving  oil
companies  more time to comply with safety regulations, Obama
said in his weekly address.  Mississippi Flooding  Gasoline prices outpaced crude, dropping 0.6 percent in New
York, as flooding from the Mississippi River threatened the
second-largest U.S. oil refinery. Futures for June delivery lost
1.7 cents to $3.0572 a gallon today.  Louisiana  opened four of the 25 gates at the Morganza
floodway, allowing the Mississippi River to pour into the
Atchafalaya River basin. Inside the threatened area are 2,264
oil or natural gas wells that each day produce 19,278 barrels of
crude, about 10 percent of Louisiana’s onshore total, and 252.6
million cubic feet of gas, according to the state.  The Mississippi was threatening to reach to a flow rate of
1.62 million cubic feet per second unless water was diverted,
putting in peril the levees at Baton Rouge, home to an estimated
229,000 people and industrial areas that include an Exxon Mobil
Corp. refinery, the company’s second largest U.S. facility.  Louisiana Refineries  Alon USA Energy Inc.’s refinery in Krotz Springs is in a
zone under a mandatory evacuation order, St. Landry’s Parish
spokeswoman Francine Sias said. Alon spokesman Blake Lewis said
the parish had granted the company an extension. A temporary
levee is being constructed by employees to protect the 83,000-
barrel-a-day refinery and 243 nearby homes.  Oil prices  will head lower in the July-to-December period
amid signs of demand destruction, Blanch said at a media
briefing in  Hong Kong  today. Brent may trade at an average $122
a barrel in the second quarter and $94 in the fourth, he said.  The European benchmark has climbed 20 percent this year as
unrest in the Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in
Tunisia and Egypt and spread to Libya, Algeria, Bahrain, Iran,
Syria, Oman and Yemen.  Brent traded at a premium of $14.59 a barrel to U.S.
futures, compared with $14.18 on May 13. The difference between
front-month contracts in  London  and New York surged to a record
$19.54 on Feb. 21. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  Yemen’s Joint Meetings Party, a coalition of six opposition
groups, says a plan to end the country’s political crisis is
dead following a visit by the chief envoy of Arab Gulf states
seeking to broker a deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  