-- 
Dubai’s Shares Drop as Emaar Revenue on Apartments Slump; Israel Declines

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-15T13:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/dubai-s-shares-drop-as-emaar-revenue-on-apartments-slump-israel-declines.html
Dubai’s shares dropped to the lowest
level in more than a month as Middle East stocks retreated after
 Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  said first-quarter revenue from apartment
deliveries plunged 81 percent amid weak property demand.  Emaar, the builder of the world’s tallest skyscraper with
the heaviest weighting on Dubai’s index, declined the most in a
week. Arabtec Holding PJSC, the biggest publicly traded
construction company in the United Arab Emirates, slid to the
lowest since April 5. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  fell 0.7 percent to
1,585.45, the lowest since April 11, at the 2 p.m. close in
Dubai. Israel’s benchmark stock index slid 1 percent in Tel
Aviv.  “Investors are now starting to look closer at the Emaar
balance sheet where potentially we could see some deterioration
as deliveries wind down and overheads remain high,” said Majed Azzam, an AlembicHC Securities analyst in Dubai. “This is
potentially the reason why there’s caution surrounding Emaar at
these levels.”  Emaar’s income from apartment sales dropped to 375 million
dirhams ($102 million) and from villas to 60 million dirhams,
according to an earnings statement posted to the  Dubai Financial
Market  today. Overall revenue fell 31 percent to 1.98 billion
dirhams and profit slid 45 percent to 421 million dirhams in the
quarter. Revenue from villa sales retreated 50 percent. Emaar,
which reported first-quarter earnings April 24, provided a
revenue breakdown today.  Slumping Prices  The company was hurt by a more than 60 percent slump in
property prices in its home market as speculative demand waned
and banks tightened lending since mid-2008. Emaar’s U.A.E. sales
contributed 79 percent of revenue in the first quarter compared
with 96 percent a year earlier, according to today’s statement.  Emaar shares retreated 1.6 percent to 3.17 dirhams. Arabtec
fell 1.5 percent to 1.35 dirhams. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of
Persian Gulf stocks slipped 0.9 percent.  Stocks in Qatar and the U.A.E. have rallied on optimism the
countries will be raised to emerging market status from frontier
market status at index provider  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  The decision will be
announced in June and will take effect in May 2012. Foreign-
ownership limits on stocks and “efficiency” are some issues
that both countries face, Manuel Rensink, head of Middle East
and North Africa at MSCI, said May 3.  ‘Taking a Breather’  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  dropped 0.5 percent after gaining 3.1
percent last week.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  declined 0.7
percent.  “After a very long streak of sessions with inflows from
foreigners positioning on the MSCI decision we see the market
taking a breather,” said Anastasios Dalgiannakis, a Dubai-based
trader at Mubasher Financial Services.  Israeli shares tumbled the most in more than a week amid
army clashes in the Palestinian territories and at the Lebanese
and Syrian borders. Israeli soldiers opened fire as protesters
from Syria tried to cross the border between the two countries.
 Israel ’s Channel 2 television said four Syrians were killed. The
Israeli military said dozens of people were injured.  The TA-25 Index retreated the most since May 5 to 1,277.74.
The yield on the 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit note due January 2020
dropped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.13
percent.  Four people were killed and 11 others wounded when Israeli
forces opened fire on Palestinian protesters near the southern
Lebanese village of Marun al-Ras, the Lebanese state news agency
said.  MSCI Talks  Separately, the Saudi Arabian stock exchange is in early
talks with MSCI about having the  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  become
a component of MSCI indexes, Saudi Capital Markets Authority
Chairman Abdulrahman al-Tuwaijri said yesterday.  Saudi Arabia ’s gauge fell 0.3 percent. Bahrain’s BB All
Share Index gained 0.1 percent. Kuwait’s measure decreased 1
percent.  Egypt ’s  EGX 30 Index (CASE)  advanced 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  