-- 
EDP, Fiat, Klepierre, Parmalat, Sacyr, UniCredit: European Equity Preview

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-05-15T22:13:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/edp-fiat-klepierre-parmalat-sacyr-unicredit-european-equity-preview.html
The following companies’ shares may
have unusual moves in European trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.5 percent to 280.50. The
Stoxx 50 Index declined 0.7 percent to 2,619.16. The Euro Stoxx
50 Index, a benchmark for nations using the euro, slipped 0.8
percent to 2,894.60.  Ackermans & van Haaren NV (ACKB)  , Cie. d’Entreprises CFE
SA (CFEB BB): Dredging Environmental & Marine Engineering NV,
the dredging company co-owned by Ackermans and CFE, said its
Australian joint venture with Van Oord Groep NV won a contract
valued at about $580 million for the development of the
Gladstone liquefied-natural-gas project. Ackermans was little
changed at 70 euros. CFE fell 3 percent to 55 euros.  Carrefour SA (CA)  : The world’s second-largest retailer
said it obtained an initial nod from Spanish stock-market
authorities for the listing of its Dia hard-discount chain. The
shares added 0.3 percent to 30.61 euros.  EDP-Energias de  Portugal  SA (EDP PL): The biggest power
company in Portugal said in a regulatory filing it may sell a
stake of as much as 14 percent of its Brazilian unit in a public
offering. The stock rose 0.61 percent to 2.62 euros.  Fiat SpA (F)  : Chairman John Elkann said the Italian
carmaker wants to open a headquarters in  Asia  to go along with
those it already has in Europe,  North America  and  Brazil . “We
hope to do more in Asia where today we don’t have a satisfying
presence,” he said at a conference outside Siena,  Italy . Fiat
shares fell 0.6 percent to 7.1 euros.  Floridienne SA (FLOB)  : The Belgian  investment company 
with holdings in the food, chemical and biotechnology industries
will pay off all net debt by the end of the year with proceeds
from the February sale of a stake in MCP Group SA, Le Soir said,
citing Chief Executive Officer Gaetan Waucquez. Floridienne was
unchanged at 143.70 euros.  Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA)  : The Italian insurer said its
first-quarter net loss narrowed to 24.9 million euros ($35.2
million) from 92.3 million euros a year ago, while premiums fell
15 percent to 2.99 billion euros.  Stock market regulator Consob also ruled that UniCredit SpA
(UCG IM) won’t have to make a full takeover bid for the company
after entering into a shareholder agreement with Premafin
Finanziaria SpA, the insurers’ controlling shareholder.
Fondiaria shares fell 3.9 percent to 6 euros.  Klepierre (LI)  SA: Europe’s second-largest shopping-
center owner ruled out acquisitions and is betting on internal
growth,  Investir  said, citing Chief Executive Officer Laurent Morel. The shares slipped 0.2 percent to 27.62 euros.  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  :  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)   Chief
Executive Officer  Corrado Passera  has ruled out a counterbid for
Parmalat, he said near Siena, Italy. A financing package for
Groupe Lactalis’s bid for the dairy company is “not on the
table,” he said. Parmalat fell 0.2 percent to 2.63 euros.  Renta Corporacion Real Estate SA (REN SM): The Spanish real
estate company said in a regulatory filing its losses were 4.9
million euros in the first quarter compared with 1.7 million
euros a year earlier. The stock rose 1.9 percent to 1.33 euros.  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  : Daimler AG and Rolls-Royce
Group Plc submitted their 2.4 billion-euro ($3.4 billion) offer
for Tognum AG in writing and may hear as soon as today whether
the German engine-maker’s management backs the increased bid,
according to people familiar with the matter. Rolls-Royce shares
gained 1.2 percent to 648 pence.  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  : The Spanish builder is
seeking to refinance 4.9 billion euros of loans used to buy a
stake in  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  , El Economista said, citing
Chief Financial Officer Fernando Lacadena. The shares declined
0.8 percent to 7.9 euros.  SEB SA (SK)  : The world’s largest maker of countertop
kitchen appliances bought control of  Vietnam ’s Asia Fan for an
undisclosed sum, SEB said in an e-mailed statement. The shares
declined 0.7 percent to 73.55 euros.  Southern Cross Healthcare Plc (SCHE LN): The company that
runs 750 care homes for the elderly in the U.K. may sell or
close some of its care homes and give its landlords a share in
the business in return for rent cuts, the Sunday Times reported,
without citing anyone. The shares surged 25 percent to 10.63
pence.  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR)  : China Youngman Automobile Group
Co. is frontrunner for a deal with  Saab Automobile , the Swedish
carmaker owned by Spyker Cars, Dagens Industri said, citing
unidentified sources. Spyker Cars fell 1.2 percent to 3.55
euros.  Sofina SA (SOF)  : Toshiba Corp. is near an agreement to
buy Landis+Gyr AG, the Swiss electronic-metering company in
which Sofina holds a 9.94 percent stake, for more than $2
billion, according to two people who declined to be identified
because the details are private. Sofina climbed 1.3 percent to
72.17 euros.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  : Italy’s biggest bank may provide
financing for Groupe Lactalis’s bid to purchase the shares it
doesn’t own in Parmalat SpA, Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  told reporters. UniCredit shares rose 1.8 percent to
1.7 euros.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  : The world’s biggest mobile-
phone operator and Verizon Communications Inc. will this week
announce a partnership to sell their services, the Sunday Times
reported, without citing anyone. The shares retreated 0.1
percent to 167.55 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  