-- 
Election Is About ‘Paychecks Versus Food Stamps,’ Gingrich Says

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-05-15T17:21:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/election-is-about-paychecks-versus-food-stamps-gingrich-says.html
U.S. Republican presidential
candidate  Newt Gingrich  rejected a suggestion that race played a
role in his characterization of President Barack Obama during a
May 13 speech as “the most successful food-stamp president in
American history.”  “That’s bizarre, this kind of automatic reference to
racism,” Gingrich said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” today. “The
president of the United States has to be held accountable. And
what I said is factually true.”  The number of Americans receiving  food stamps  rose to a
record 44.199 million in February, up from 44.188 million in the
previous month, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said this
month. Gingrich’s comment about Obama being a “food-stamp
president” came during a speech to the Georgia Republican
Party’s convention in Macon,  Georgia .  Obama “follows the same destructive political model that
destroyed the city of Detroit,” Gingrich said today. “One of
the central themes of this campaign is going to be paychecks
versus food stamps,” he said.  Gingrich, who served as speaker of the U.S. House of
Representatives from 1995 to 1999, declared his candidacy for
president last week. In today’s interview with NBC he also
criticized the Obama administration’s performance on creating
jobs, saying the National Labor Relations Board was “breaking
the law” to punish  Boeing Co. (BA)  and the Environmental Protection
Agency is trying to control “the entire American economy by
bureaucratic fiat.”  A complaint last month by the labor board that the airplane
manufacturer retaliated against union workers in Washington
state by adding a nonunion factory in  South Carolina  has drawn
fire from Republicans, who say they will try to strip the labor
board of funding and bar actions that interfere with “right-to-
work” laws in states such as South Carolina.  Republicans are attacking the EPA as well, saying agency
regulations will hurt the economy and destroy jobs. New and
pending rules under scrutiny include limits on  greenhouse gases 
blamed for climate change and a proposal to cut mercury and air
toxins from coal-fired plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  