-- 
Euro Declines Versus Dollar Before Finance Ministers Meet on Greek Debt

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-05-16T05:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/euro-falls-before-finance-ministers-meet-to-discuss-avoiding-greek-default.html
The euro fell to a seven-week low
against the dollar on concern European finance ministers meeting
today and tomorrow will fail to quell speculation  Greece  will
have to restructure its debt.  The 17-nation currency dropped against 10 of its 16 major
counterparts as Greece today asks for a boost to its 110
billion-euro ($155 billion) financial lifeline from European
governments and the  International Monetary Fund . The Dollar
Index rose to a six-week high. The Australian dollar fell for a
fourth day as commodity prices fell and a report showed home-
loan approvals declined.  “The market is closely watching what will come out from
this week’s meetings,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior currency
analyst in Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which provides foreign-
exchange margin-trading services. “Any preemptive move is
unlikely, and concern about Greece’s restructuring may spread to
countries like Ireland. That may continue to give selling
pressure for the euro.”  The euro dropped to $1.4100 as of 6:41 a.m. in  London  from
$1.4119 in New York on May 13. It earlier reached $1.4048, the
lowest level since March 29. The shared currency was at 114.14
yen from 114.06. It touched 113.42 yen, the weakest level since
March 18, the day when Group of Seven nations sold yen to stem
its surge after an earthquake and tsunami in Japan. The dollar
fetched 80.95 yen from 80.80.  Aid for Greece  Ministers will discuss Greece’s financing needs at meetings
starting at 3 p.m. in Brussels today. Also on the agenda are
approval of 78 billion euros in aid for  Portugal  and the
nomination of Bank of  Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi  to be the next
president of the  European Central Bank .  IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn has been
charged with attempted rape and a criminal sex act on a woman in
a  New York  hotel, police said. Strauss-Kahn denies the charges.  “The euro is likely to react negatively as the IMF head’s
arrest injects a degree of uncertainty at a critical moment in
the  euro zone  sovereign debt crisis,”  Gareth Berry , a foreign-
exchange strategist at UBS AG in  Singapore , wrote in a note to
clients yesterday.  The euro has dropped 1.1 percent over the past month in a
measure of the currencies of 10 developed nations, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has
gained 4.5 percent, while the dollar is up 1.5 percent.  U.S. Recovery  The dollar rose versus 13 of its 16 major counterparts. The
Federal Reserve Bank of New York will say today its general
economic index was 19.7 in May from 21.7 in April, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the so-
called Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern  New
Jersey , and southern  Connecticut . That would be the first
decline in the gauge in six months.  “The overall trend is that the U.S. economic recovery is
solid,” said Morio Okayasu, chief analyst in  Tokyo  at FOREX.com
Japan Co., a unit of the online currency trading firm Gain
Capital in Bedminster, New Jersey. “The fact that the Fed needs
to shift its monetary policy sooner or later is positive for the
dollar.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, increased to as
much as 76.000 today, the highest level since April 5. The Fed
has kept its key rate at zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008 and is aiming to boost growth by completing $600 billion of
Treasury purchases through June.  Commodities, Stocks  Crude oil dropped 1 percent, and the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index of stocks slid 1.3 percent. Australian home-loan permits
fell 1.5 percent in March, the statistic bureau said today.  “There’s a lot of concern about the unwind of
commodities,” said Derek Mumford, a Sydney-based director at
Rochford Capital, a foreign exchange and interest-rate risk
management firm. “The Aussie had a volatile range last week and
that very choppy trading could continue this week.”  Australia ’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.0553. It reached
$1.0521 on May 13, the least since April 20.  The yen gained earlier after  Japan ’s machine orders
advanced 2.9 percent after dropping a revised 1.9 percent in
February, the government reported today. The median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 10 percent
decline.  “Conditions are favorable for the yen” as stocks fall,
said Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in Tokyo at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd., Japan’s second-largest publicly traded
lender. “The machine orders came as a surprise and contributed
to yen buying.”  Futures traders reversed their bets that the yen will
decline against the greenback, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed on May 13. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on an advance in the yen compared with those
on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 13,054 on May 10,
compared with net shorts of 18,819 a week earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  