-- 
Euro Crisis May Hit Eastern Europe Again as Markets Rally

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-05-16T14:16:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/euro-crisis-may-scuttle-eastern-europe-economy-as-investors-bet-on-region.html
Eastern  Europe ’s economic recovery
may be scuttled by any Greek debt restructuring, which would
curb lending by western banks and undermine investor bets that
have propelled the region’s stocks, bonds and currencies.  While the region has three of this year’s 10 best-
performing currencies and five of the 10 equity indexes that
rose the most, 76 percent of its banking market is controlled by
western European lenders still threatened by the euro’s debt
crisis.  “You would expect that the Greek troubles now would have a
bigger impact on emerging Europe,” said  Neil Shearing , senior
emerging-market analyst at  Capital Economics  in London. “It’s a
puzzle. I suspect it might just be the calm before the storm.”  The risk is that a new round of Europe’s sovereign debt
turmoil will prompt lenders including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group
Bank AG (EBS)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA to rein back lending just as the
region recovers from a credit crunch that contributed to
recessions three years ago. The European Union forecast on May
13 that every eastern economy will grow this year for the first
time since 2008.  Euro-area finance ministers meet today in Brussels to
prepare a new plan to ease  Greece ’s debt burden and prevent the
euro area’s first sovereign debt restructuring. Eighty-five
percent of international investors surveyed last week said
Greece will probably default, with smaller majorities predicting
Portugal and Ireland will do the same, according to a Bloomberg
Global Poll released last week.  ‘Cause Tremors’  A Greek default would “cause tremors” in eastern Europe,
affecting currencies, Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas said at a
press conference in Katowice,  Poland  today.  The cost of insuring Hungary’s debt against default, which
climbed to 410 basis points last June, is now at 247. Romania’s
credit default swaps trade at 227 basis points, down from 415
last year. Greece’s CDS jumped to a record 1,251 basis points
last week from 488 a year ago.  In the event of a “disorderly” default by Greece or
Ireland, east European CDS spreads and bond yields would rise
and currencies and stocks would tumble, according to Christian Keller, an emerging-markets economist at  Barclays Capital  in
London who said he doesn’t expect this to occur.  ‘More Radical Evolution’  “If someone was to think that there’s a risk of some more
radical evolution of things in Europe, then things are not
priced correctly,” Keller said. “The European banking system
would be liquidity starved and would go through a shock. At that
moment all emerging European countries, which constantly need
financing, would have an issue.”  Eastern Europe would find it hard to avoid contagion from
the west transmitted through banks and trade links, the
 International Monetary Fund  said May 12 in its regional outlook.
Authorities in the east should “make every effort to reduce
vulnerabilities,” the Washington-based fund said.  “In an adverse scenario in which western banks take a
significant hit, they might have to resort to sizable cuts of
their exposures to emerging Europe,” the IMF said.  At the same time, the IMF increased its economic growth
forecast for emerging Europe, citing increased domestic demand
and stronger public finances. The region’s economies will expand
a cumulative 4.3 percent this year and next, instead of the 3.7
percent and 4 percent the IMF projected April 11, the fund said.  ‘Economic Revival’  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny doesn’t expect a contagion on eastern Europe from
Greece, he told reporters in Vienna today. He said “these
countries have learnt and are experiencing an economic
revival.”  Erste Bank, the second-biggest lender in eastern Europe,
said April 28 that growth in the  Czech Republic ,  Slovakia  and
 Austria  will offset “economic issues” in Romania and  Hungary ,
helping the bank increase profitability this year.  Eastern “economies no longer stand out as the ‘rotten
apples,’’ said  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-markets analyst
at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. ‘‘They didn’t loosen fiscal
policy during the crisis and they are in a much better state.’’  Hungary’s debt, the highest among the EU’s eastern members,
will be 75.2 percent of gross domestic product this year,
compared with 55.4 percent in Poland and 41.3 percent in the
Czech Republic, according to the EU forecast. Euro-region debt
will average 87.7 percent, with Greece at 157.7 percent.  ‘Significant Risk Factor’  Still, Hungary’s central bank identified the euro crisis as
‘‘a significant risk factor,” according to its financial
stability report.  “The institutionalized crisis management scheme of the EU
has so far been able to offset the deepening euro area crisis
only to a small extent,” the bank said last month. “All this
may have a considerable negative impact.”  While the largest western banks in the region made pledges
to remain in eastern Europe at the height of the credit crunch,
they have reduced lending by 15 percent over the last two years,
IMF data show.  The practice of borrowing in euros and Swiss francs pushed
some eastern countries to the verge of insolvency in 2008 as
credit dried up and plunging local currencies ballooned
repayment costs. Foreign-currency loans account for about two-
thirds of outstanding credit in Hungary,  Romania  and  Bulgaria ,
with higher rates in the Baltic states.  ‘Constant Strain’  Those loans will keep weighing on bank balance sheets and
economic growth, said Franziska Ohnsorge, senior economist at
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  In  Lithuania , loans more than 90 days past due equaled 19.1
percent of lending at the end of the first quarter, compared
with 18.7 percent in  Latvia , according to central bank data.
Hungary’s ratio was 12.5 percent at the end of last year, and
the central bank forecasts it will reach 15 percent by year-end.  “What puts a constant strain on the banking system is the
recovery lagging,” Ohnsorge said. “That puts pressure on
capital and capitalization rates and delays more buoyant credit
growth. This pressure on the capital base continues until the
pre-crisis credit booms have unwound themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  