-- 
Fiat, UniCredit, Bialetti, Fondiaria: Italy Equity Preview

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-15T15:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/fiat-unicredit-bialetti-fondiaria-italy-equity-preview.html
The following companies may be active
in Italian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses and share
prices are from the previous close.  Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  lost 23.4, or 0.1 percent,
to 21,764.31.  Bialetti Industrie SpA (BIA)   and  Unione di Banche
Italiane SCPA (UBI)  : Bialetti, a manufacture of coffee pots
and other kitchen items, and the lender known as UBI Banca are
among the companies due to report first-quarter earnings
tomorrow. Bialetti gained 1.3 percent to 37 euro cents and UBI
declined 2 percent to 5.8 euros.  Fiat SpA (F)  : Fiat SpA Chairman John Elkann said
yesterday the Italian carmaker wants to open a headquarters in
Asia to go along with those it already has in Europe,  North
America  and Brazil. “We hope to do more in Asia where today we
don’t have a satisfying presence,” he said at a conference
outside Siena, Italy. Fiat shares fell 0.6 percent to 7.1 euros.  Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA)  : The insurer said yesterday that
its first-quarter net loss narrowed to 24.9 million euros from
92.3 million euros a year ago, while premiums fell 15 percent to
2.99 billion euros. Stock market regulator Consob also ruled
that UniCredit won’t have to make a full takeover bid for the
company after entering into a shareholder agreement with
Premafin Finanziaria SpA, the insurers’ controlling shareholder.
Fondiaria shares fell 3.9 percent to 6 euros.  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  :  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  Chief Executive
Officer Corrado Passera ruled out a counterbid for Parmalat SpA,
he told reporters near Siena, Italy yesterday. A financing
package for Groupe Lactalis’s bid for the dairy company is “not
on the table,” he said. Parmalat fell 0.2 percent to 2.63
euros.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  : Italy’s biggest bank may provide
financing for Groupe Lactalis’s bid to purchase the shares it
doesn’t own in Parmalat SpA, UniCredit Chief Executive Officer
Federico Ghizzoni told reporters yesterday. UniCredit shares
rose 1.8 percent to 1.7 euros  Editors: Raj Rajendran, Francis Harris  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  