-- 
Ford Freestyle SUV Is Probed by U.S. Over Unintended ‘Lunging’

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-05-16T21:05:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/ford-freestyle-suv-is-under-u-s-review-for-unintended-lunging-.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Freestyle crossover
SUVs are being investigated by the U.S. auto-safety regulator
after 238 complaints about unintended “lunging” at low speeds
when the driver’s foot isn’t on the gas pedal.  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  is
investigating about 170,000 Freestyles, model years 2005 through
2007, after 18 crashes attributed to the defect, including one
that resulted in a minor injury, the agency said yesterday in a
posting on its website.  “We will fully cooperate with the government as they
review this matter,” Susan Krusel, a spokeswoman for the
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker, said in an e-mail.  For all cars sold in the U.S., the agency received 15,174
complaints involving unintended acceleration from 2000 to March
2010 and ran 141 investigations of the phenomenon since 1980,
closing 112 of them without corrective action, according to data
compiled by NHTSA for Bloomberg News last year.  U.S. regulators and lawmakers last year investigated  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest automaker, for defects that
could cause a car to speed up unexpectedly. Toyota, based in
Toyota City,  Japan , identified floor mats that could jam
accelerator pedals and pedals supplied by CTS Corp. that could
stick as the causes of the incidents.  Toyota has recalled millions of vehicles worldwide since
2009 because of the flaws.  Ten-Foot ‘Lunge’  In the Ford recall posted at NHTSA’s website yesterday,
what consumers have described as a “lunge,” can be stopped by
applying the brakes, “but in some cases the vehicle has moved
as much as 10 feet if the brake was not applied, lightly applied
or applied late,” the agency said, citing complaints.  Consumers have reported movement in both forward and
reverse gears and described it as “sudden and unexpected and
generally brief in duration,” NHTSA said.  The reported injury was to a pedestrian in a residential
driveway whose knee was bruised, NHTSA said. Reports indicate
the lunges may be made worse when vehicles’ air conditioning is
on or when the steering wheel is turned sharply, NHTSA said.  NHTSA documented 20 deaths related to claims of sudden
acceleration in Ford vehicles going back to 1980, according to
the data compiled for Bloomberg News last year. That compared
with 51 fatalities linked to Toyota and 12 to Chrysler Group
LLC.  NHTSA Associate Administrator for Enforcement Daniel Smith,
in a June 2010  presentation  to the  National Academy of Sciences ,
said the agency had confirmed one Toyota accident that had a
“vehicle-based” unintended-acceleration cause. The August 2009
crash in  San Diego  killed four people when a Lexus they were in
sped out of control. Investigators identified floor mats as a
probable cause of the accident.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  