-- 
Second-Largest U.S. Refinery Threatened as Mississippi Floods In Louisiana

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-15T22:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/four-floodgates-now-pouring-muddy-mississippi-into-louisiana-countryside.html
Four of the 125 gates at Louisiana’s
 Morganza  floodway are open, allowing the muddy  Mississippi River 
to pour into the Atchafalaya River basin as part of the  Army
Corps of Engineers  strategy to save  Baton Rouge  and  New Orleans .  With the gates open, the  National Weather Service  is
predicting near-record flooding for towns along the  Atchafalaya 
and surrounding wetlands. The Mississippi was  threatening  to
reach to a flow rate of 1.62 million cubic feet per second
unless water was diverted, putting in peril the levees at Baton
Rouge, home to an estimated  229,000  people and industrial areas
that include an  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  refinery, the company’s second
largest U.S. facility.  “With the opening of the Morganza, we are expecting some
significant rises on the Atchafalaya,” said Fred Zeigler, a
weather service meteorologist in Slidell, Louisiana. “It will
be the second-highest crest at Butte La Rose.”  Butte La Rose,  Louisiana , is a small town at a bend on the
Atchafalaya about 40 miles west of Baton Rouge. Last night
residents came to the river bank to watch the rising waters,
while a work gang of convicts wearing black and white striped
uniforms filled sandbags under the watchful eye of armed guards.  The Atchafalaya is expected to crest at Butte La Rose on
May 24 at 27 feet, Zeigler said. The record of 27.28 feet was
set there on May 23, 1973. When the river rises to 22 feet,
shipping will become difficult because of the twists and the
turns, Zeigler said. When it reaches 26 feet, the gauge used to
measure it will be underwater, he said.  Can’t Stop It  “Controlled chaos,” is how Joe Torres described the
unfolding events. As the Lafayette resident was filling sandbags
to build a temporary levee on  Lake Palourde  in Amelia, about 8
miles east of  Morgan City , he said, “It’s a sunny, beautiful
day, but it’s like the calm before the storm. We know the water
is coming and there’s not much we can do to stop it.”  The water from Morganza may reach Interstate 10 in
southern Louisiana sometime today and roar into Morgan City near
the  Gulf of Mexico  later this week. In Morgan City, the
Atchafalaya is expected to crest at 11 feet on May 25, which is
above the record 10.53 feet set in 1973, when Morganza was last
opened.  “They sacrificed Morgan City to save Baton Rouge and New
Orleans,” said Leslie Delaney, 46 of Lafayette, who was pulling
a boat out of the Atchafalaya in  Butte La Rose .  Morgan City Sacrifice  The corps opened the first gate on the 57-year-old spillway
yesterday, releasing 10,000 cubic feet per second of  Mississippi 
flood water that shook the structure, sent rabbits scurrying
from their holes, and flooded several square miles in less than
an hour. Colonel Ed Fleming, Morganza’s commander, said as much
as 150,000 cubic feet per second may eventually pour out in an
effort to reduce the Mississippi’s flow as it passes Baton Rouge
and then New Orleans.  The Morganza can release as much as 600,000 cubic feet per
second of water when all the gates are opened, enough water to
fill a football field 10 feet deep every second across the heart
of what is known as Cajun country, eventually filling an area
almost as large as  Connecticut . The corps has no current plan to
open additional gates, the agency said.  The river system in Louisiana “is under tremendous
pressure and it is going to be under tremendous pressure for a
long time,” said Major General Michael Walsh, president of the
 Mississippi River  Commission.  ‘Tremendous Pressure’  An estimated 15,000 acres of farmland will be underwater
initially in the south-central part of Louisiana along the
Mississippi River as the water flows 100 miles toward Morgan
City and into the Gulf of Mexico, said Kyle McCann, a spokesman
at the Louisiana Farm Bureau Federation.  Louisiana  Agriculture and Forestry Commissioner Mike Strain
said the  U.S. Dept. of Agriculture  has guaranteed that farmers
in the Morganza Spillway whose crops are damaged by flooding
will be eligible for crop insurance payments under their crop
insurance policies.  Inside the threatened area are 2,264 oil or natural gas
wells that each day produce 19,278 barrels of crude oil, about
10 percent of Louisiana’s onshore total, and 252.6 million cubic
feet of gas, according to the state.  Refinery Threatened  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ) ’s refinery in Krotz Springs is
threatened by rising spillway waters. The 83,000-barrel-a-day
refinery is within a zone that is under a mandatory evacuation
order, St. Landry’s Parish spokeswoman Francine Sias said. Alon
spokesman Blake Lewis said the parish had granted the company an
extension. A temporary levee is being constructed by employees
to protect the facility and 243 nearby homes.  About 2,500 people and 2,000 structures are within the
spillway and another 22,500 and 11,000 buildings are vulnerable
to the rising water, according to Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal.  The corps is opening the Morganza bays slowly to avoid
damaging the structure, said Fleming. The agency also wants to
give the people and wildlife living behind Morganza, located
about 310 river miles above New Orleans, time to escape.  The Morganza is a 3,906-foot, dam-like structure that
carries Louisiana Highway 1 and a freight line of the Kansas
City Southern railroad atop it. Its gates may be open for as
many as three weeks, said Fleming. This is the first time in
U.S. history three of the major floodways on the Mississippi
have been opened at one time, according to Fleming.  Mississippi Watershed  The Mississippi is the largest river system in the country,
the third-largest watershed in the world and drains 41 percent
of the continental U.S., according to the corps. The river’s
rising water has interrupted coal shipments to  power plants  in
 Tennessee , flooded more than 100,000 acres of  Missouri  cropland
and forced thousands from their homes.  The corps’ cities-first strategy prompted the agency to
blast a Mississippi River levee on May 3 to divert water onto
more than 200 square miles of Missouri farmland to prevent
flooding that threatened to destroy the nearby city of Cairo,
 Illinois . The corps detonated a breach at the Birds Point levee
near  Cape Girardeau  in southeast Missouri.  In New Orleans, the water level at the corps Carrollton
gauge held at 17 feet on Sunday and officials expect to keep the
water below 18 feet “by using the spillways to divert the
river’s crest,” Chris Bonura, a spokesman for the Port of New
Orleans said today in an e-mail.  The Coast Guard isn’t forecasting significant navigation
restrictions in New Orleans, one of the most active U.S. ports,
unless the Carrollton Gage reaches 18 feet, Bonura said. Port
operations are operating normally, he said.  Fishing Camps  The Bonnet Carre spillway west of New Orleans was opened
May 9 so excess river water could pour north into  Lake
Pontchartrain  to reduce the river’s force through New Orleans.  At a high point in the spillway along the Atchafalaya
River, Jim Davis spent hours securing his two small cabins built
on stilts atop the murky water.  The structures, known locally as “fishing camps” were
tied with trailer anchors. Davis used eight anchors on the nicer
of the two. On the other he punched holes in the walls and floor
in the hope the water would pass through and not sweep the
structure away.  “The guy I bought them from said there was about six to
eight inches of air space between them and the water back in
73,” said Davis, 58, from Lafayette. “I have been coming out
here all my life and it’s coming up,” Davis said as he looked
back at the rushing river.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 