-- 
Geithner Emerges as Obama’s Indispensable Man: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-05-15T15:05:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/geithner-emerges-as-obama-s-indispensable-man-albert-r-hunt.html
If, two years ago, reports of Timothy Geithner possibly leaving reached the White House, some advisers
would have seized on them as an opportunity; President Barack Obama’s Treasury secretary got off to a very rocky start, and
was considered a short-termer.  Today, if rumblings that he’s thinking about stepping down
made their way to 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., there would be near
panic. Geithner is as close to an indispensable figure as there
is in the Obama administration.  The 49-year-old Treasury chief is unrivaled in economic
policymaking in the administration, commands respect in Asia and
 Europe , and is a presidential favorite.  Some associates say that in recent months, he has ruminated
privately about leaving before the end of this term, perhaps
when the battle over the debt ceiling is resolved this summer. A
few knowledgeable people take this seriously; most doubt it.  It’s understandable that Geithner at times feels spent. He
was the head of the New York Federal Reserve beginning in 2003.
In his final year in that post, 2008, he was at the epicenter of
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. He then
took on the Treasury job, starting with a contentious
confirmation and embarrassing initial public performances.  And he had to devise a plan to prop up a teetering
financial system, as well as a faltering economy. In so doing,
he collaborated with his friend, the then-director of Obama’s
National Economic Council,  Larry Summers , a sworn enemy of self
doubt.  Testimony to Congress  The post of Treasury secretary demands punishing global
travel, and painful obsequiousness to Congress. By one count,
Geithner has testified before congressional committees 52 times,
with many more private meetings, and  House Republicans  would
love to double that number this year.  Over the past three years, no public official, save the
president, has endured a more grueling pace.  The father of a college-aged daughter and a son in high
school, Geithner has spent almost his entire life in public
service. His means are relatively modest; his net worth is
estimated in official disclosures between $770,000 and $1.8
million.  In addition to the economic challenges he confronts,
Geithner has some internal problems. There are at least a half-
dozen important Treasury jobs that are unfilled, partly due to
the cumbersome confirmation process, and also to the remarkable
slowness this administration exhibits on such matters.  ‘Travels Light’  It also isn’t clear what Obama would do if Geithner
expressed a wish to leave. Presidents  Lyndon Johnson , through
coercion, and  Bill Clinton , through charm, would have talked a
valued Cabinet member out of such thoughts. That’s not the Obama
style. During the 2008 campaign, one associate said he “travels
light” when it comes to people.  There would be no natural replacement. Knowledgeable
observers say the first two names that come to mind would be the
former White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles and the current
occupant of that post, Bill Daley; both lack Geithner’s
financial and international expertise.  The secretary’s experience with China goes back to his
youth, when his father was posted there for a time, and he is a
favorite of financial elites in Beijing. Although U.S.- China 
relations are fraught with strategic and political tensions,
economic ties have been comparatively smooth and improving over
the past two years; Geithner and Vice Premier Wang Qishan have a
real rapport.  European Debt Crisis  The Treasury chief nudging on the debt crisis has ruffled
some feathers in Europe; still, many top European officials
express respect for his views and expertise.  At home, his relations with Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  recall the celebrated alliance of  Robert Rubin , Summers
and  Alan Greenspan  in the 1990s. The difference is, this time,
given the political heat from the Republican right, neither man
talks about the relationship much.  The Treasury secretary’s political acumen has improved, as
have his once acrimonious relations with congressional
Republicans. “You can have a conversation with  Tim Geithner ,”
says House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin .  His political instincts, however, fall well short of his
financial ones. He’s no  James Baker , who was President  Ronald Reagan ’s astute Treasury chief. Geithner was genuinely surprised
by the outrage on Main Street over the bonuses paid to
executives of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  after the
insurer was bailed out by taxpayers.  Public Demeanor  While he no longer has the deer in the headlights look he
had in early public appearances, he sometimes still comes across
as a passionless technocrat; in private sessions with
politicians, the press and business leaders, he’s much more
effective and personable, displaying a wickedly sharp sense of
humor.  His role model for the current job probably is his friend
and predecessor, Bob Rubin. There hasn’t been a secretary since
Rubin left 12 years ago who possessed Geithner’s influence both
with the financial community and the president.  Still, if Geithner were to leave after the debt crisis, the
legacy would be incomplete. That’s one reason that people who
know him believe he will stay.  Another is his genuine loyalty to Obama and a sense of
pride in the administration’s accomplishments.  More so than all but a handful of people in the higher
echelons of government, Geithner is genuinely devoted to public
service. It’s in the genes. His father was a top  Ford Foundation 
official, mainly in  Asia  -- where he supervised Obama’s mother -
- and his uncle,  Jonathan Moore , was a leading Republican
official and Harvard College dean.  When the debt ceiling ruckus is resolved -- probably close
to the Aug. 2 deadline -- the Treasury secretary will be
exhausted. He’ll rest for a few days and then in all likelihood
come back for the final battles of this Obama term.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 