-- 
Gillard Says Opposition’s Abbott ‘Desperate’ for Early Australian Election

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-05-15T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/gillard-says-opposition-s-abbott-desperate-for-early-australian-election.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  rebuffed opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s call for an
early election over her proposed carbon tax, saying she signaled
the need to price carbon during the 2010 election campaign.  “With his election call, what Tony Abbott was really
saying to all of us is even he doesn’t believe that his campaign
of negativity can last all the way to 2013,” Gillard told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. yesterday. “That’s why he’s so
desperate for an election now.”  Gillard said she’d discussed the need to tackle  climate
change  during the previous election and her preference was for
an emissions-trading project. The Labor government plans to
introduce a carbon tax in July 2012, before an emissions-trading
system that may begin as early as 2015, as part of a plan to
reduce greenhouse gas releases by at least 5 percent in 2020
compared with 2000 levels.  Australia , the world’s biggest exporter of coal, has also
set a target of generating 20 percent of its energy from
renewable sources like wind and solar by 2020.  “I didn’t mean to mislead anybody but in the Parliament
that we have now, in order to get to that full emissions-trading
scheme with a floating price, we will go through a fixed-price
period,” Gillard said today on the ABC’s “Insiders” program.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan , delivering the budget to Parliament
on May 10, committed to ending 23 years of spending growth to
ease inflation from a mining boom fueled by demand for
Australia’s iron ore and coal. The government plans A$22.2
billion ($23.5 billion) in savings over the next four years to
deliver a A$3.5 billion surplus in 2012-13, an election year.  Lacks Legitimacy  Abbott said May 12, in his reply to the budget, that
Gillard’s government lacks legitimacy and should call an
election before legislating to introduce a carbon levy.  Under the system, companies would be charged a fixed cost
per ton of carbon for the first three years to five years before
trading begins. The government, which is yet to announce the
starting price, has said more than 50 percent of the carbon
revenue would be used to assist households, with the rest to
help companies adjust and to fund clean energy projects.  The annual impact on households of an A$30 per metric ton
carbon price, excluding petrol price concessions, would be
A$863.20, according to preliminary Treasury estimates released
on April 1 under an Australian Freedom of Information Act
request. At A$20 a ton the cost would be A$577.20.  Public support for Gillard’s  Labor Party  fell to a 15-year
low in an opinion survey last month that showed most voters
oppose the carbon tax plan. The Nielsen poll was published in
the Age newspaper April 18.  Curbing Emissions  Independent lawmaker  Tony Windsor  said yesterday he’s
waiting for a Productivity Commission report on what other
countries are doing to curb  carbon emissions  before he decides
on whether to support a tax. Windsor is a member of the
multiparty climate change committee of lawmakers set up by
Gillard to recommend a strategy before the government introduces
laws to parliament.  The panel is studying policies in countries including the
U.S., U.K.,  Germany ,  China ,  Japan  and  India .  Gillard’s government needs support from four non-party
lawmakers, including the independents and Greens, to pass laws
in parliament after the August 2010 election delivered the
closest result in 70 years.  ‘Cheapest Pathway’  “The issue is really, is the globe doing anything, and if
so, what should our role be as one of the players
internationally,” Windsor said in an interview with Channel 10
television’s “Meet the Press” program yesterday. “The
cheapest pathway is probably to have an emissions-trading
scheme.”  Windsor said he won’t block the government’s May 10 budget.  In his weekly economic note yesterday, Swan said the
government last week made difficult savings decisions to ease
price and capacity constraints amid the nation’s biggest mining-
investment boom. The budget will return to surplus over two
years even with an A$130 billion revenue decline in the five
years to 2012-13 caused by the global financial crisis, the
strength of local currency and natural disasters, he said.  Asia ’s rapid development will help generate around 500,000
jobs in Australia over the next few years and these positions
will not be confined to the  mining industry , Swan wrote.  “With a highly educated and skilled workforce, we are
well-placed to benefit from supplying services to these hundreds
of millions of new consumers,” he said. Employment growth
“won’t all be jobs working in  iron ore  or coal mines. In fact
most won’t be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  