-- 
Portugal $110.8 Billion Aid Approved as EU Presses Greece on Asset Sales

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-05-16T18:47:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/greece-to-plead-for-more-aid-as-arrest-of-imf-s-strauss-kahn-clouds-talks.html
European finance chiefs endorsed a 78
billion-euro ($111 billion) bailout for  Portugal  as they stepped
up pressure on Greece to do more to win improved aid terms.  Portugal followed Greece and Ireland in seeking emergency
loans from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund , bringing to 256 billion euros the aid provided to stamp
out the sovereign debt crisis.  The backing for Portugal came during deliberations in
Brussels today clouded by the absence of International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn . Europe’s rich
countries tied extra money for Greece to pledges that it deepen
spending cuts and reap more revenue from asset sales. They also
weighed whether to make bondholders share the pain.  “Greece also has a huge privatization potential and the
Greeks should help themselves before calling for more money,”
Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter told reporters before the
meeting in Brussels today.  The European finance ministers were also set to approve the
nomination of  Bank of Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi  to be the next
president of the  European Central Bank .  Greek bonds fell after the euro area’s economic powerhouses
put up hurdles to an expanded aid package, with public
discontent simmering in northern Europe over the costs of
propping up high-deficit countries on the continent’s periphery.  Finance ministers said the IMF’s role as the contributor of
a third of the bailout money for Greece, Ireland and Portugal
won’t be hampered by Strauss-Kahn’s May 14 arrest on sexual-
assault charges in  New York .  Held in New York  Strauss-Kahn, 62, who has denied the charges, was ordered
held without bail by a New York judge. He didn’t enter a plea
today in Manhattan Criminal Court. The Washington-based IMF was
represented in Brussels by Nemat Shafik, a deputy managing
director.  IMF loans to Portugal will come at a 3.25 percent interest
rate. The rate on the European portion will be between 5.5
percent and 6 percent, EU Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on May 10.  The three-year plan calls for Portugal to implement the
austerity measures that parliament rejected in March. Spending
reductions for 2012 and 2013, including cuts to pensions, will
amount to 3.4 percent of gross domestic product, while revenue
increases will represent 1.7 percent of economic output. The
plan also earmarks 12 billion euros for banks.  Approval Needed  The package still requires approval by all euro-area
governments, with most putting it to parliament.  Finance ministers called Portugal’s planned budget cuts
“ambitious but credible,” according to the statement. The aid
program will run for three years.  On  Greece , German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
there “certainly” won’t be a decision today, since European
and IMF experts have yet to complete an updated assessment of
the  Greek economy .  Greek 10-year bond yields added 17 basis points to 15.61
percent in  London  today. The extra yield that investors demand
to hold 10-year Greek debt instead of benchmark German bunds
rose 14 basis points to 12.5 percentage points.  Greece, which received a 110 billion-euro loan package last
year, is preparing a new economic-recovery program, including 76
billion euros of asset sales and spending cuts, to persuade
European governments and the IMF to release the next 12 billion-
euro portion in June.  Greek Extension  Official creditors in March granted the Athens government
more time to repay its current loans, and are considering
another extension in order to save Greece from becoming the
first euro country to default.  “We are in favor of extending the time period, of giving
the Greeks more time, but the tranche can only be paid out if
structural reforms are put on track,” Austria’s Fekter said,
referring to next month’s disbursement.  Greece needs to slice more out of the budget, the  European
Commission  said on May 13 after forecasting a deficit of 9.5
percent of gross domestic product in 2011, above the 7.4 percent
target set when Greece was bailed out last year.  Greece’s debt will balloon to 157.7 percent of GDP in 2011
while the economy slumps for the third year, the forecasts
showed, fueling doubts whether the country will generate enough
growth to pay its bills.  Plans to offload 50 billion euros of state assets “have
top spot on the agenda,” Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
told Italian newspaper Corriere Della Sera on May 14. “We will
show that we’re in a position to keep our obligations on the
debt.”  Default Expected  Eighty-five percent of international investors surveyed by
Bloomberg last week said Greece will probably default on its
debt, with majorities predicting the same fate for Ireland and
Portugal.  While a debt restructuring -- with options ranging from an
extension of maturities to a write-off of principal -- remains
officially taboo, it has seeped into the public discourse.  European finance officials “discuss all kinds of topics,
including restructuring, but in public we are very reluctant
about discussing restructuring and debating restructuring,”
Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said.  Central bankers are putting up the most vocal opposition.
Bending its mandate to focus on fighting inflation, the
Frankfurt-based ECB has bought 76 billion euros of bonds of
fiscally struggling countries in the past year and would suffer
along with private investors in a restructuring.  ‘Just a Nightmare’  Default is “just a nightmare,” ECB council member
 Christian Noyer  said in  Tokyo  today. “It’s the absolutely wrong
solution. It would be a catastrophe.”  Greece’s chances of escaping a restructuring hinge on the
public mood in  Germany , which crafted the euro’s low-deficit
rules and, as  Europe ’s largest economy, is the biggest guarantor
of the unprecedented loan packages.  Forty-one percent of Germans oppose further financial aid
for Greece, with 48 percent in favor, according to an Emnid
survey published in  Bild am Sonntag  yesterday. Some 58 percent
voiced “very low” or “quite low” trust in the 12-year-old
euro, up from 54 percent in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Brussels at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  