-- 
Strauss-Kahn Awaits Arraignment in Sex Assault Case

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d ,   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-05-16T09:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/imf-s-strauss-kahn-held-for-questioning-in-new-york-assault.html
International Monetary Fund  chief
Dominique Strauss-Kahn awaits his first court appearance on
attempted rape charges after giving police permission to examine
him for physical evidence of scratches and DNA from his accuser.  The alleged attack on a 32-year-old female maid at a
Sofitel hotel in midtown Manhattan occurred May 14, according to
the New York Police Department. Strauss-Kahn, who was taken into
custody aboard an Air  France  flight at  John F. Kennedy
International Airport  as it prepared to depart, also was charged
with unlawful imprisonment and a criminal sex act. He remains in
custody until an 11 a.m. hearing in Manhattan criminal court.  A potential candidate for the French presidency, Strauss-
Kahn, 62, has denied the charges and will plead not guilty, his
lawyer Benjamin Brafman said. The IMF chief was picked out of a
lineup yesterday by the maid, police said. His arraignment,
during which bail terms may be set, had been scheduled for
yesterday and was delayed after investigators sought a warrant
for a physical examination of Strauss-Kahn.  The IMF “remains fully functioning and operational”
following Strauss-Kahn’s arrest, the Washington-based
organization said in a  statement  yesterday.  John Lipsky , the
IMF’s first deputy managing director, is serving as acting
managing director, IMF spokesman William Murray said.  Strauss-Kahn had been scheduled to attend a meeting of
euro-area finance ministers in Brussels today. The meeting will
take place as officials discuss increasing a 110 billion-euro
($155-billion) loan package to Greece amid concerns the country
may be unable to finance its debt next year.  ‘Terrible News’  “For the fund, this is terrible news at a time when its
leadership needs to portray stability, wisdom, and confidence,”
 Bessma Momani , a professor in at the University of Waterloo in
 Canada  specializing in the IMF and its policies, said in an e-
mail.  The alleged assault occurred about 1 p.m. on May 14 when
the woman entered Strauss-Kahn’s $3,000-a-night suite, where he
had been staying since the day before,  New York  police said.
Strauss-Kahn is alleged to have emerged from a bathroom naked
and made two attempts to forcibly have sex with the maid, New
York Police Deputy Commissioner  Paul Browne  said.  The maid escaped and notified co-workers who called the
police, Browne said. When officers arrived, Strauss-Kahn wasn’t
there and his mobile phone was left behind, he said. He was
later detained by Port Authority police while sitting in first-
class aboard the Air France flight. He has been held in a cell
in an East Harlem precinct house, where the NYPD’s Special
Victims Unit is located. The unit handles sex-crime cases.  King of Pop  Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, France’s environment minister,
said in an interview with Canal Plus that the arrest would hurt
the country’s image abroad.  A former  Manhattan  assistant district attorney, Brafman has
represented singer  Michael Jackson , rapper Sean “Diddy” Combs
and Salvatore “Sammy the Bull” Gravano of New York’s Gambino
crime family. At a press conference outside Manhattan criminal
court last night, he said Strauss-Kahn was “tired” and that
the arraignment was postponed “because of the hour.”  Press and photographers had packed the arraignment part of
the courthouse in lower Manhattan since morning, when news that
the IMF chief may appear was first reported. Brafman and co-
counsel William Taylor said their client agreed to the
government request for a physical examination.  Popular Candidate  New York police said Strauss-Kahn doesn’t have diplomatic
immunity. The French Foreign Ministry in Paris said the IMF will
have to examine what immunity Strauss-Kahn may have. A French
consul visited Strauss-Kahn in detention, ministry spokesman
 Bernard Valero  said in a phone interview.  Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister and member
of France’s opposition Socialist Party, has consistently been
among the most popular possible candidates to contest France’s
2012 presidential election, according to opinion polls.  Manuel Valls, a Socialist Party executive, told RTL radio
today that Strauss-Kahn told him two weeks ago, during a
personal trip to Paris, that he was “getting ready” to run in
the party primaries and potentially the presidential election.
Valls said Strauss-Kahn’s decision to run was made, even though
he hadn’t declared his intentions.  With his IMF term expiring next year, Strauss-Kahn has, in
the past several months, declined to say whether he was planning
to run for office. The vote will be held in April and May 2012.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  would have trailed Strauss-Kahn
by 5 percentage points in the first round of presidential voting
if the election had been held at the end of last month, a CSA
poll for 20 Minutes newspaper, BFM Television and RMC radio
showed April 28.  ‘A Tsunami’  Any prospect of getting elected has now vanished, said
Laurent Dubois of the Paris Political Studies Institute.  “It’s a tsunami,” Dubois said in a phone interview.
“There is no way he can recover from this and run.”  This is the second time since taking over the IMF that
Strauss-Kahn has faced allegations of misconduct.  In 2008, he had a relationship with Piroska Nagy, a female
economist at the IMF, who quit in August of that year. An
investigation by the IMF board, released in October 2008,
concluded that, while he had made a “serious error of
judgment,” he shouldn’t be fired.  Strauss-Kahn apologized to his staff and family, which
includes his third wife, French television journalist Anne Sinclair, and four children from his previous marriages.  ‘Open, Transparent’  Sinclair yesterday said she doesn’t “for a second”
believe the accusations against her husband, Agence France-
Presse reported, citing a statement from her.  Last month, officials from the Group of 24, which includes
 Brazil ,  China  and  Mexico , repeated a call for “an open,
transparent, merit-based process” for choosing the heads of the
 World Bank  and IMF, “without regard to nationality.” The IMF
job has traditionally been held by a European, while an American
typically leads the World Bank.  Strauss-Kahn took the helm of the IMF in November 2007,
following his loss in the primaries of the French Socialist
Party ahead of the 2007 presidential elections.  Strauss-Kahn, who succeeded  Spain ’s Rodrigo Rato, has
helped reshape the agency’s mission and restore its relevance.
When he arrived, its emergency lending dropped to $58.7 billion
in 2006 from $66.4 billion in 2002. Among his first moves there
was to cut about 400 jobs.  The global financial panic triggered by the bankruptcy of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in September 2008 restored the
Washington-based IMF’s relevance as emergency loans soared to a
record of $91.7 billion last year from $1.1 billion in 2007.  IMF Resources  Strauss-Kahn gained backing from the Group of 20 to triple
the IMF’s resources, and the group has over the past two years
given the agency a host of new missions to help avoid another
crisis. The IMF is helping the G-20 single out countries whose
policies threaten global growth, and has also submitted
proposals to fortify the international monetary system.  More recently, Strauss-Kahn played a key role in efforts to
stem the European debt crisis which started last year in  Greece ,
with a pledge to contribute about a third of future bailouts in
the region by the European Union. The IMF has co-funded aid
packages to Greece and Ireland. He had been scheduled to meet
with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  yesterday.  Under Strauss-Kahn, the IMF also approved a plan that will
make China the third-strongest voice in the 187-member
organization, founded in 1945, while weakening  Europe ’s
influence to make room for emerging countries.  1986  Strauss-Kahn has juggled careers as an economics professor,
lawyer and Socialist politician. He holds a law degree and a
doctorate in economics from the University of Paris.  In 1986, he was elected to France’s National Assembly and
served as industry minister from 1991 to 1993. He returned to
office as finance minister under Premier Lionel Jospin in 1997.
He cut France’s budget deficit to less than 3 percent in 1999,
the level required for euro membership.  In November 1999, he resigned as finance minister after
magistrates began an investigation into financial irregularities
at MNEF, a French student-insurance group. The probe covered an
allegation that the company had paid him about $100,000 from
1994 to 1996 for legal work on a property deal which he never
performed. Strauss-Kahn denied wrongdoing and was cleared by a
Paris court in November 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in Manhattan Criminal Court
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington 
at   srastello@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin Manhattan Criminal Court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mike Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  and;
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  