-- 
Khatibi Says Iran’s Energy Minister Eligible for OPEC Role

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-05-15T14:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/iran-s-khatibi-says-energy-minister-temporarily-responsible-for-opec-role.html
Iran ’s OPEC Governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi said his country’s energy minister would be eligible to
take over temporarily as president of the crude exporters’ group
after the government yesterday dismissed the oil minister.  Energy Minister Majid Namjou’s possible role as head of
Iran’s oil and energy ministries, which are to be combined,
means he could also assume the presidency of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, Khatibi said today in a telephone
interview from Tehran.  Iran, the second-largest crude producer in OPEC after  Saudi
Arabia , currently holds the group’s presidency. OPEC ministers
plan to meet next on June 8.  Iran’s government had been required to reduce the number of
ministries to 17 from 21 by 2015, as part of a plan to improve
efficiency. The government of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
announced on May 9 that the Oil Ministry will merge with the
Energy Ministry. The Industries and Mines Ministry is to be
combined with the Commerce Ministry, while the Welfare Ministry
will merge with the Labor Ministry, Ahmadinejad said.  The president yesterday dismissed Oil Minister Masoud Mir- Kazemi, Industry and Mines Minister Ali Akbar Mehrabian and
Welfare Minister Sadegh Mahsouli, saying their responsibilities
had ended.  Parliament Must Approve  A new minister for the combined oil and energy ministries
will be appointed “as soon as possible,” Khatibi said. Iran’s
parliament must approve the structure of the enlarged ministry
before any nominations can be made for the post, he said.  Khatibi told the state-run Fars news agency today that he
is waiting for the president “to clarify the Oil Ministry’s
situation and to name someone as the caretaker. Either Namjou
will be the caretaker, or the president will name someone
else,” he said in the Fars interview.  Ahmadinejad named Commerce Minister Mehdi Ghazanfari to
oversee the Industry and Mines Ministry and Labor Minister
Abdolreza Sheikholeslami to take over the Welfare Ministry, in
two separate letters posted on the president’s website today.
Ahmadinejad hasn’t named a caretaker for the Oil Ministry.  The removal of Mir-Kazemi and the two other ministers sends
a message that Iran is “unstable,” the  Arman  newspaper
reported, citing Ahmad Tavakoli, head of the parliament’s
research center. It goes against national interests when Iran,
for the first time in 38 years, holds the OPEC presidency,
Tehran-based Arman cited Tavakoli as saying.  Lawmakers criticized Ahmadinejad last week for what they
said was his failure to consult with then on details of the
ministry mergers. The president should have sought parliamentary
approval for the structural changes as well as dismissals, Arman
reported, citing Tavakoli.  Iran holds the world’s fourth-largest proven oil reserves,
according to data from BP Plc. Brent crude futures for June
settlement rose 85 cents, or 0.8 percent, on May 13 to end the
week at $113.83 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Ayesha Daya} in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
{Ladane Nasseri} in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  