-- 
Israeli Stocks Retreat Most in 2 Months as Israel, Arabs Clash

-- B y   R o n i t   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-15T13:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/israeli-stocks-retreat-most-in-2-months-as-israel-arabs-clash.html
Israeli shares tumbled the most in
almost two months amid army clashes in the Palestinian
territories and at the Lebanese and Syrian borders. Gas shares
slid as drilling at Leviathan 2 was halted.  Delek Drilling-LP and Avner Oil Exploration LP, partners in
the Leviathan project off the country’s coast, slid the most in
six weeks. The TA-25 Index retreated 1.8 percent to 1,267.09 at
3:05 p.m. in  Tel Aviv , the most since March 15.  “The market has been trading lower since the beginning of
the day and this momentum is now intensifying,” Uriel Goren,
the head of equities sales at Tel Aviv-based DS Securities &
Investments Ltd. said by telephone.  Israeli soldiers opened fire as demonstrators from  Syria 
tried to cross the border between the two countries.  Israel ’s
Channel 2 television said four Syrians were killed. The Israeli
military said dozens of people were injured. Four people were
killed and 11 others wounded when Israeli forces opened fire on
Palestinian protesters near the southern Lebanese village of
Marun al-Ras, the Lebanese state news agency said.  At least 30 Palestinians in the  Gaza Strip  were injured
when Israeli tanks fired shells near demonstrators marching
toward the border fence with Israel. Also, Israeli police are
investigating whether a fatal traffic accident in Tel Aviv in
which the driver, a resident of the Arab town Kafr Kassem,
killed one person and injured five, was “deliberate.”  Drilling Halt  The violence occurred on the anniversary of what
Palestinians call the Nakba, or catastrophe, referring to their
displacement in 1948 as a result of the creation of the state of
Israel. Israelis celebrated their 63rd  Independence Day  last
week, corresponding with the date in the lunar Hebrew calendar.  Delek Drilling retreated 4.9 percent to 12.38 shekels and
Avner lost 5.3 percent to 2.18 shekels, the biggest intraday
declines since April 3. Noble Energy Mediterranean Ltd., the
operator of the Leviathan project off Israel’s coast, notified
the explorers that it decided to stop drilling at Leviathan 2
because of water flow and that an alternative assessment
drilling would be made at a nearby location.  Government bonds  advanced. The yield on the 5 percent
Mimshal Shiklit note due January 2020 dropped five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.13 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronit Goodman in Tel Aviv at 
 rgoodman9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  