-- 
Israeli Consumer Price Index Climbs Less Than Expected in April

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-05-15T15:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/israeli-consumer-price-index-climbs-less-than-expected-in-april.html
Israeli consumer prices climbed by
less than expected in April, as a strengthening shekel partially
offset price increases and inflationary expectations declined.  The consumer-price index advanced 0.6 percent from the
previous month, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics 
said today. The median forecast of 17 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a 0.8 percent increase. Annual inflation slowed
to 4 percent from 4.3 percent in March, the bureau said.  The shekel strengthened by about 4 percent against the
dollar in the first four months of the year, helping to lower
import prices. Even so, inflation exceeded the government’s 1
percent to 3 percent target for the fourth consecutive month in
April.  “A lower-than-expected index would build on the trend that
we are already seeing in the past weeks of declines in inflation
expectations as commodity prices fall,” Alex Zabezhinsky, chief
economist at Tel Aviv-based DS Securities & Investments Ltd.
said by telephone prior to the announcement.  Expected inflation, derived from bond prices, has declined
by about 0.2 percentage points in the past two weeks to about 3
percent for the coming year, Zabezhinsky said.  Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  is likely to
increase the benchmark interest rate on May 23 to 3.25 percent,
according to 10 of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg at the
end of April and the beginning of May. One predicted Fischer
would keep the rate unchanged.  Growth accelerated to 7.8 percent in the last quarter of
2010, the fastest pace in four years. Unemployment fell for a
third consecutive month to 6 percent in February, according to
preliminary data released by the statistics bureau on April 28.
The economy is likely to expand 4.5 percent this year, the Bank
of  Israel  said March 30.  The benchmark TA-25 stock index has gained about 13 percent
in the past 12 months, led by Avner Oil Exploration-L.P. The
shekel has gained about 7 percent against the dollar during the
same period, and was trading at 3.5145 on May 13, the last day
it traded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  