-- 
Israel Police Clash With Jerusalem Arab Protesters in ‘Nakba’ Disturbances

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-05-15T10:49:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/israel-police-clash-with-jerusalem-arab-protesters-in-nakba-disturbances.html
Palestinians clashed with Israeli
security forces in Jerusalem, the  West Bank  and Gaza Strip in
“Nakba Day” protests, while police are investigating whether a
fatal traffic accident in  Tel Aviv  was a deliberate attack.  The violence occurred on the anniversary of what
Palestinians call the Nakba, or catastrophe, referring to their
displacement in 1948 as a result of the creation of the state of
 Israel . Israelis celebrated their 63rd  Independence Day  last
week, corresponding with the date in the lunar Hebrew calendar.  Today “is an occasion wherein Palestinians reaffirm the
adherence and commitment to their legitimate rights including
the right of return and self-determination in an independent
state on the lands occupied in 1967,” Palestinian Authority
Prime Minister Salam Fayyad said at a press conference in
Ramallah today.  At least 30 Palestinians in the  Gaza Strip  were injured
when Israeli tanks fired shells near demonstrators marching
toward the border fence with Israel, Gaza medical official Adham
Abu Selmaya told reporters. The army is investigating the
incident, a military spokeswoman said, speaking anonymously
according to regulation.  Israeli police arrested several Arab residents of east
Jerusalem for stone-throwing and have boosted forces in the city
and in Arab communities in northern Israel to deal with expected
disturbances throughout the day. Israeli security forces clashed
with Palestinians at several locations throughout the West Bank,
with no serious injuries reported, the army said.  Arab ‘Extremists’  “I regret that there are extremists among Israeli Arabs
and in neighboring countries who have turned the day on which
the State of Israel was established, the day on which the
Israeli democracy was established, into a day of incitement,
violence and rage,” Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
said to the Cabinet in  Jerusalem , according to a statement
posted on his office’s website.  A truck driver crashed into several vehicles in Tel Aviv,
killing one person and injuring five, before he was arrested by
police. The driver, a resident of the Arab town Kafr Kassem,
said he lost control of the truck and the collision was an
accident, police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said in a telephone
interview.  “Police are looking into whether the accident was
deliberate,” Rosenfeld said, adding that there were indications
this was the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 