-- 
Israel Police on High Alert After ‘Nakba’ Border Clashes Leave Nine Dead

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-05-16T13:09:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/israel-forces-fire-on-syria-demonstrators-crossing-border-4-reported-dead.html
Israeli police were on high alert
after clashes with demonstrators on four of its borders left as
many as nine people dead in violence that officials in  Israel 
blamed on Syria and  Iran .  The protests in the West Bank, Syria, Lebanon and the Gaza
Strip marked yesterday’s annual observance of what Palestinians
call the “nakba,” meaning catastrophe -- a reference to their
displacement as a result of the 1948 establishment of the state
of Israel.  The violence comes as Israeli-Palestinian peace talks are
at a standstill and protests move through the Arab world, with
demonstrators ousting the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia  and
threatening the governments of Libya, Syria, Yemen and Bahrain.  “Palestinians have been encouraged by the Arab Spring and
by the demonstrations, which have declared so much support for
the Palestinian cause,” Rime Allaf, associate fellow of the
London-based Chatham House’s Middle East and North Africa
program, said today in a phone interview.  Israeli police cordoned off Majdal Shams in the Golan
Heights, a town captured from Syria in 1967, and were conducting
house-to-house searches after dozens of people breached the
nearby border. “We believe there are still Syrians in the
Golan, and this morning one was arrested as he was being driven
out of the town,” the police spokesman,  Micky Rosenfeld , said
by telephone.  Only ‘the Outset’  Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said Israel was preparing for
more demonstrations in the West Bank, Gaza and along the
country’s borders.  “We’re only at the outset,” Barak said late yesterday in
an interview with Israel’s Channel 2 television. “The danger is
that more mass processions like these will appear, not
necessarily near the border, but also other places.”  Brigadier General Yoav Mordechai, a spokesman for the
Israeli army, said, “I see fingerprints of Iranian provocation
and an attempt to use Nakba Day to create conflict.”  Saeb Erakat, the chief Palestinian peace negotiator,
accused Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of “closing the door
on peace” by refusing to recognize the right of Palestinian
refugees to return to their homes in what is now Israel.  Crossings Closed  The Israeli army ordered that all crossings between the
 West Bank  and Israel remain closed today, according to an e-
mailed statement.  Palestinian television broadcast orders from Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  today to lower flags to half-
staff for three days and to close shops for two hours a day to
mourn those killed in demonstrations yesterday. Palestinian
youth movements planned a mock funeral in  Ramallah ’s central
square today, according to a text message sent to journalists.  “We head to a crossroad in the historic path of the
Palestinian cause,” Abbas said in a broadcast speech yesterday.
He pointed to the reconciliation of his Fatah faction with Hamas
in Gaza and “the support of the international community.”  Jordanian forces dispersed protesters who attempted to
approach the Allenby Bridge border crossing late yesterday,
Israel’s  Army Radio  reported.  The TA-25 index rose 0.5 percent to 1284.41 at 2:54 p.m.
after falling 1 percent to 1,277.74 at the end of trading
yesterday in  Tel Aviv , its lowest since May 5.  Golan Heights   Israeli forces used live fire in an attempt to stop
thousands of demonstrators from trying to cross from the usually
quiet border with Syria into the Golan Heights, the army said in
a statement, noting that dozens were injured. Channel 2 said
four people were killed. A local doctor, Wassef Khater,
confirmed three of the deaths.  “Undoubtedly for the first time, the Syrian regime has
allowed people to approach the border knowing that it would
create the kind of result that we saw yesterday, and that the
Israelis would shoot to kill,” Allaf said. Syrian leaders knew
their actions would “divert attention from their own problems,
only temporally of course, and remind Israel that the Syrian
regime is the guarantor of quiet from the Syrian side of the
border.”  The message from Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
government may also be directed at the wider world, Chris Phillips, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in
 London , said in a telephone interview.  “This is an area that has been almost entirely peaceful
since 1974,” Phillips said. “It seems this is a way of the
Syrians sending a message to Israel that if we lose power and if
instability comes to  Syria  we cannot control this area and it’s
a problem for you and the international community.”  War in 1973  Israel and Syria fought a war in 1973 war in which Syrian
forces tried to recapture the Golan Heights.  Syrian security forces have killed at least a dozen people
during the past two days as protesters nationwide defied mass
arrests amid an intensifying crackdown on dissent that began in
mid-March. Syrian authorities have vowed to crush what they
called an anti-government conspiracy.  The Israeli military also shot at protesters trying to
cross from Lebanon, army spokeswoman Avital Leibovich said. Four
people were killed there, the Lebanese state news agency said.  One Palestinian was killed in the  Gaza Strip , Gaza medical
official Adham Abu Selmaya said. Israeli troops fired on a man
spotted trying to plant an explosive device along the Gaza
border fence, according to military spokesman Barak Raz.  In the West Bank town of Qalandiya, about 600 Palestinians
demonstrated and hurled rocks and flares at soldiers, the
Israeli army said. The hospital in Ramallah said 10 people were
admitted with light wounds.  ‘Defend Our Borders’  Netanyahu said yesterday that Israel was “determined to
defend our borders” and said he hoped that calm would return to
the area.  Israeli-Palestinian talks broke down weeks after they began
in September 2010 following Netanyahu’s refusal to extend a 10-
month partial construction freeze in the West Bank, and Abbas’s
vow not to negotiate until all Israeli building there is halted.  Abbas is pushing for United Nations recognition of a
Palestinian state in September.  Netanyahu is scheduled to meet with President  Barack Obama 
on May 20 in  Washington , a day after the U.S. leader plans to
give a speech on the Middle East. The meeting is being held a
week after the resignation of the U.S. special envoy to the
region, former Senator  George Mitchell  of  Maine .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 