-- 
Mississippi Floodgate Opens, Inundating Cajun Country

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-15T14:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/mississippi-river-floodgate-opens-inundating-cajun-country-in-louisiana.html
Louisiana ’s  Morganza  floodway, opened
yesterday, is slowing flooding the Atchafalaya River basin today
with torrents of murky Mississippi River water, a move designed
to spare inundating Baton Rouge and New Orleans.  The spillway gates were opened as the  National Weather
Service  forecast the river’s flow at Baton Rouge would exceed
1.62 million cubic feet per second, exceeding the 1.5 million
cubic feet per second the city’s levees were designed to
withstand.  The water may reach Interstate 10 in southern Louisiana
later today and roar into  Morgan City  near the  Gulf of Mexico 
later this week. The weather service issued flood warnings
throughout the  Atchafalaya River  basin where the water is
expected to close in on record heights now that Morganza is open
and potentially flood many towns along the way.  “They sacrificed Morgan City to save Baton Rouge and  New
Orleans ,” said Leslie Delaney, 46 of Lafayette, who was pulling
a boat out of the Atchafalaya in  Butte La Rose , Louisiana. “We
were out there four hours and in that time I think the water
went up three inches.”  Large as  Connecticut   The Morganza spillway, built in 1954 and not opened since
1973, can release 600,000 cubic feet per second of water at
maximum capacity. It may send enough water to fill a football
field 10 feet deep every second across the heart of what is
known as Cajun country, eventually filling an area almost as
large as Connecticut.  The river system in Louisiana “is under tremendous
pressure and it is going to be under tremendous pressure for a
long time,” said Major General Michael Walsh, president of the
 Mississippi River  Commission. “We will give the river what it
needs.”  Also in Butte La Rose, about 40 miles west of Baton Rouge,
convicts in striped prison uniforms filled sandbags under the
watchful eye of armed guards and residents came to the water’s
edge to contemplate the coming flood.  The water is expected to crest at 27 feet, just under the
1973 record of 27.28 feet, on May 24 in Butte La Rose, according
to the weather service. In Morgan City, the river is expected to
crest at 11 feet on May 25, which is above the record 10.53 feet
set in 1973, the last time the Morganza was open.  Farmland, Oil Wells  An estimated 15,000 acres of farmland will be underwater
initially in the south-central part of Louisiana along the
 Mississippi  River as the water flows 100 miles toward Morgan
City and into the Gulf of Mexico, said Kyle McCann, a spokesman
at Louisiana Farm Bureau Federation. The water will take about
three days to reach the Gulf.  Inside the threatened area are 2,264 oil or natural gas
wells that each day produce 19,278 barrels of crude oil, about
10 percent of Louisiana’s onshore total, and 252.6 million cubic
feet of gas, according to the state.  The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers is opening the Morganza
bays slowly to avoid damaging the structure, said Colonel Ed
Fleming, district commander and district engineer for the corps
in New Orleans.  The agency also wants to give the wildlife living behind
Morganza, located about 310 river miles above New Orleans, time
to escape and avoid overwhelming those living downstream,
Fleming said.  Fishing Camps  About 2,500 people and 2,000 structures are within the
spillway and another 22,500 and 11,000 buildings are vulnerable
to the rising water, according to Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal.  “We wanted to give people as much advance notice as we
can,” Jindal said May 13.  At a high point in the spillway along the Atchafalaya
River, Jim Davis spent hours securing his two small cabins built
on stilts atop the murky water.  The structures, known locally as “fishing camps” were
tied with trailer anchors. Davis used eight anchors on the nicer
of the two. On the other he punched holes in the walls and floor
in the hope the water would pass through and not sweep the
structure away.  “The guy I bought them from said there was about six to
eight inches of air space between them and the water back in
73,” said Davis, 58, from Lafayette. “I have been coming out
here all my life and it’s coming up,” Davis said as he looked
back at the rushing river.  Waterborne Commerce  The Morganza is a 5,000-foot, dam-like structure that
carries Louisiana Highway 1 and a freight line of the Kansas
City Southern railroad atop it. Its gates may be open for as
many as three weeks, said Fleming.  The rushing waters of the Mississippi is a challenge to
waterborne commerce. As many as 25 barges moored along the river
broke loose in Baton Rouge yesterday, with four striking the
Highway 190 bridge, closing the structure to vehicular traffic,
said U.S. Coast Guard Petty Officer Jeremy Green, and the river
to ship movement, said Coast Guard Lieutenant Nick Parham. The
bridge and river reopened late last night.  The river flooded  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s docks at its refinery
in Baton Rouge, company spokesman Kevin Allexon said. The plant,
the second-largest in the U.S. after Exxon’s refinery in
Baytown,  Texas , remains in production and can process 525,000
barrels of oil a day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bonnet Carre  The corps is projecting the most water it will have to
release through the spillway will be about 125,000 cubic feet
per second, or 25 percent of capacity, Fleming said.  Unless Morganza was opened, the Mississippi was forecast to
crest at 19.5 feet in  New Orleans , which is protected by levees
to 20 feet, according to the corps.  The corps on May 9 opened the Bonnet Carre Spillway
upstream from New Orleans to siphon Mississippi water into  Lake
Pontchartrain .  “This is probably as high as I’ve seen it in my
lifetime,” Richard Miller, a New Orleans native, said yesterday
at the Bonnet Carre lookout on the banks of the Mississippi
River as he watched the water flow with his wife, Suzanne.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Baton Rouge  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 