-- 
Hitachi Construction to Recover Fully From Quake This Week

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-05-16T04:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/hitachi-construction-to-recover-fully-from-earthquake-this-week.html
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co.,
the world’s biggest maker of giant excavators, said it expects
to fully recover from  Japan ’s worst earthquake as early as this
week after the calamity halted factories and parts supplies.  Production at five plants in Ibaraki prefecture, north of
Tokyo, will probably return to the pre-quake level of 100
percent capacity this week, Chief Executive Officer Michijiro Kikawa said in an interview at his Tokyo headquarters. Output in
late April dipped to 60 percent of capacity, he said.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami disrupted supply chains
at companies from Toyota Motor Corp. to chipmaker Renesas
Electronics Corp. Restoring production will help Hitachi
Construction Machinery benefit from rebuilding demand at home
and speed expansion in Asian markets, especially  China , which
accounts for half of global sales of excavators.  “The pace of recovery is faster than we thought,” said
Hiroyuki Soma, an analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in
 Tokyo , who rates the stock “neutral plus.” “We assumed there
would be a big drop in production this quarter.”  Hitachi Construction Machinery has an annual worldwide
production capacity of 60,000 excavators, its best-selling
product. It may expand annual production in China to the same
level in the latter half of this decade after doubling output to
30,000 units by March 31, 2013, Kikawa, 63, said May 11.  Spending on factories and equipment will triple to 52.6
billion yen ($652 million) this fiscal year to expand in  Asia ,
the company said last month.  “Major Battleground”  China will be “the major battleground” for the
construction machinery industry, Kikawa said. The nation
surpassed Japan in 2007 as the biggest market for the excavator
industry, according to Hitachi Construction Machinery data. The
company had a 15 percent share of the Chinese market last fiscal
year.  “There’s no market other than China that will have
significant volumes and grow fast,” he said. “ India  and other
Asian markets will follow, but it will take time for those
markets to catch up with China.”  Hitachi Construction Machinery,  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  and
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  are racing to take a bigger slice of the market
in China, where spending on railways, highway construction and
mining is driving demand. China’s excavator market may grow 24
percent to 138,000 units in the year ending March 31, accounting
for 50 percent of the global total, according to an April 26
estimate by Hitachi Construction Machinery.  Hitachi Construction Machinery shares fell as much as 1.8
percent to 1,798 yen and traded at 1,820 yen as of 12:42 p.m. on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock has fallen 11 percent since
the March 11 earthquake, compared with a 6.6 percent decline by
the benchmark Nikkei 225 index.  Asia, Japan Demand  Industry demand in India,  Southeast Asia  and  Australia 
gained 31 percent since 2007, the company’s data shows. Japanese
demand fell 58 percent to 14,000 units in that period, or 6
percent of the global market last year.  The earthquake will create demand for about 4,000
excavators to clear debris and rebuild the devastated areas in
Japan this fiscal year, Kikawa said. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said Japan will need multiple spending programs to repair the
damage his government estimates at as much as 25 trillion yen.  “We still face uncertainties about procurement of some
parts,” Kikawa, said. “But things are far better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at   msuga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  