-- 
Berlusconi Suffers Vote Setback as Milan Candidate Loses

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 
2011-05-16T20:36:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/italy-vote-tests-silvio-berlusconi-s-popularity-after-corruption-sex-case.html
Italy’s Silvio Berlusconi suffered a
setback in local elections with Milan’s city hall poised to fall
to the opposition as a weak economy and corruption charges
sapped support for the prime minister and his allies.  Milan Mayor Letizia Moratti trailed her rival Giuliano Pisapia 41 percent to 48 percent in the race for control of the
government in Berlusconi’s hometown, based on results for a
third of polling sites. Piero Fassino, the Democratic Party
candidate, was on the verge of winning the mayoral seat in
Turin, a manufacturing center that is home to Fiat SpA, results
showed.  “Those are two very important northern capitals where
Berlusconi and his Northern League ally have shown in the past a
very strong ability to turn out voters,” Robert Leonardi,
senior lecturer in European politics at the  London School  of
Economics, said by phone. “If these results are confirmed, then
this ability has failed and Berlusconi’s various problems are
starting to weigh on him and there’s a cost to pay for them.”  As Berlusconi grapples with the fallout from corruption
charges and allegations he paid for sex with a minor, the
outcome was seen as a bellwether of his support in battleground
cities such as Bologna, Naples, Turin and his base, Milan. He
staked his personal reputation on the Milan race, putting
himself as a candidate on his party’s ticket to bolster support
for Moratti.  Capital of ‘Berlusconism’  Milan remains “the effective capital of Berlusconism,”
said Riccardo Giuliano, an IPR spokesman. The premier wanted to
turn the vote into a referendum about himself “because every
time he’s done that in the past, obviously he’s won,” he added.  Pisapia appeared short of the 50 percent threshold needed
to avoid a runoff election and will likely have to face Moratti
in a head-to-head vote in two weeks time. A Berlusconi-backed
candidate fared better in Naples, where Gianni Lettieri was
leading the race.  Berlusconi’s popularity has been hurt by allegations that
he paid an underage nightclub dancer for sex. He also faces
bribery, fraud and tax-evasion charges in three other trials
related to his management of broadcaster  Mediaset SpA (MS)  before he
entered politics. The vote came two days after the Italy’s
national statistics office said the economy expanded just 0.1
percent in the first quarter, one of the slowest paces of any
euro country.  Popularity Slumping  The prime minister’s rating among voters has slipped to the
lowest since his re-election in 2008 as the scandals and the
economy sap support. For the  first time , more Italians would
vote against his coalition if general elections were held now,
with 41.5 percent backing the opposition and 41 percent the
ruling group, Rome-based IPR Marketing said in a survey of 1,000
voters conducted between April 14 and April 16. If the premier
serves his full five-year term, national elections won’t be held
until 2013.  Berlusconi, owner of the Italian soccer team AC Milan, had
sought to tap his hometown popularity to boost support for
incumbent Moratti. She campaigned to turn the northern city into
a European financial center, while critics say its glut of
offices dooms the plan to failure.  Under Moratti’s plan, the city will free up 7 million
square meters (75.3 million square feet) of public land, enough
to build 160 skyscrapers, over the next 20 years. The
development may bring in as much as 25 billion euros ($36
billion) in public and private investment, based on estimates by
analysts and developers including Luigi Colombo, chairman of the
Lombardy region builders’ association.  Opposes Plan  Pisapia opposes Moratti’s plan, noting that the city
already has as many as 80,000 empty apartments and 900,000
square meters of unoccupied  office space .  In the closing moments of a televised debate on May 11,
Moratti accused Pisapia, an attorney, of having been convicted
of stealing a car 26 years ago. Pisapia, who was acquitted of
the charge on appeal, has said he will sue Moratti for slander.  Almost 72 percent of the 13 million Italians eligible voted
in the municipal elections and turnout for provincial balloting
was almost 60 percent, the Interior Ministry said on its
website. Those levels were slightly below the previous local
elections in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 