-- 
Asia Shares Drop on Greek Debt, Goldman Cutting Japan, Korea Stock Ratings

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-16T10:36:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/japanese-australia-stock-futures-drop-on-greek-debt-worries-falling-euro.html
Asian stocks fell, set for the
biggest three-day drop since the aftermath of  Japan ’s record
earthquake, on concern over Greece’s debt crisis and after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded Japanese and Korean shares.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, fell
1.8 percent in Sydney as oil and metal prices dropped. Aluminum
Corp. of  China  Ltd., the nation’s biggest producer of the light
metal, slumped 4.1 percent in Hong Kong.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the
world’s No. 1 carmaker, slid 1.8 percent in Tokyo.  Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc (8306)  lost 1.6 percent, leading the country’s
lenders lower, after Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services cut
long-term corporate credit and debt ratings on  Tokyo Electric 
Power Co., owner of a damaged nuclear power plant.  “The  Greece  issue is worrying markets because it’s clear
the situation hasn’t been resolved yet,” said Nader Naeimi, a
Sydney-based strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
has almost $100 billion under management. “Global growth has
hit a soft patch, and that’s negative for Asian exporters
overall. Investors have becomes more risk-averse, with the
defensive sectors taking leadership”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 1.4 percent to 134.23
as of 7:33 p.m. in Tokyo, set for the lowest close since March
29. More than four stocks fell for each that rose on the gauge,
which recorded its second straight weekly decline last week amid
concern China’s anti-inflation policies may slow global growth.
Energy, utilities and materials stocks dragged most on the index
today, while health, telecommunications and consumer staples
shares contributed least to its declines.  The Asia-Pacific gauge slumped 8.2 percent in the three
trading days starting March 11, when Japan’s worst earthquake
struck.  Regional Indexes  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average sank 0.9 percent today and
South Korea’s Kospi Index retreated 0.8 percent following the
Goldman Sachs downgrades.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 1.3
percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 1.4 percent after the
government raised its inflation forecast.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.5
percent today. In  New York , the index lost 0.8 percent on May 13
as CA Inc., the second-largest maker of software for mainframe
computers, led technology shares lower after earnings missed
estimates and banks slid amid concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Greece today will plead for a boost in its 110 billion-euro
($155 billion) financial lifeline from European governments and
the  International Monetary Fund , in talks clouded by the arrest
of IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble yesterday said
extending the maturities of Greek bonds may be a way to help
ease the country’s debt crisis if private investors participate.  ‘Extra Measures’  While it’s too early to say whether more help is needed,
“extra measures” may be needed if Greece can’t return to
financial markets next year as planned under the European-led
aid program agreed last year, Schaeuble said in an interview
with ARD  television  in Berlin.  BHP Billiton, also Australia’s biggest oil producer, fell
1.8 percent to A$43.52 in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s
second-biggest mining company by sales, sank 1.4 percent to
A$79.06. Newcrest Mining ltd., Australia’s biggest gold producer,
dropped 1.6 percent to A$37.67.  Aluminum Corp. dropped 4.1 percent to HK$6.75 in  Hong Kong .
Mitsubishi Corp., which gets about 40 percent of sales from
commodities, retreated 2.3 percent to 2,032 yen in Tokyo.  The London Metal Exchange Index of six metals including
copper and aluminum fell 0.2 percent on May 13, all but erasing
the previous day’s advance. Copper in New York fell as much as
0.9 percent today, while crude oil for June delivery slid as
much as 1.5 percent. Gold futures for June delivery dropped 0.9
percent on May 13.  ‘Sensitive About Risk’  “Investors are getting more sensitive about taking risks
on concern about the future of Greek debt issues,” said
 Toshiyuki Kanayama , a market analyst at Tokyo-based Monex Inc.
“They may continue putting money in safe bonds or cash, rather
than stocks.”  Japanese and South Korean stocks also fell after the
downgrades at Goldman Sachs, which kept Chinese and Taiwanese
equities at “overweight.”  The bank cut Japan’s equities to “underweight” on
“greater cautiousness” on U.S. growth and domestic risks such
as electricity supply and yen strength. Korean shares were cut
to “market weight” amid slowing global growth and
“persistent” local inflation, according to a Goldman Sachs
note to clients.  Toyota slid 1.8 percent to 3,340 yen in  Tokyo  and Canon
Inc., a camera maker that gets more than 80 percent of its
revenue overseas, lost 0.9 percent to 3,715.  Potential Slowdown  In  Seoul , Dongkuk Steel Mill Co. decreased 9.4 percent to
38,500 won after Goldman Sachs separately cut its stock rating
to “sell,” citing a potential slowdown in earnings growth.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.1 percent this year
through May 13, compared with gains of 6.4 percent by the  S&P
500  and 1.7 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 13.5 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.5 times for the S&P 500 and 11.2 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Mitsubishi UFJ slid 1.6 percent to 377 yen and Shinsei Bank
Ltd. slumped 5.2 percent to 92 yen in Tokyo after Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services said it lowered Tokyo Electric’s long-
term corporate credit and debt ratings to BBB from BBB+.  Tokyo Electric plunged 7.3 percent to 420 yen as the
company also reported that fuel in the Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 1
reactor melted at an early stage after the March 11 tsunami that
caused widespread damage to Japan’s northeastern coast.  Financial Stability  Asian stocks also fell after President Barack Obama said
failure to raise the U.S. debt ceiling might disrupt the global
financial system. Obama is reaching out to Republican and
Democratic lawmakers to win approval of an increase in the debt
ceiling after the government projected this month that the $14.3
trillion limit will be reached today.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  says while he can
juggle accounts for a time, he will run out of options for
avoiding default by early August. Obama said failure to raise
the debt ceiling in time might plunge the nation into another
recession.  If investors “around the world thought the full faith and
credit of the U.S. was not being backed up, if they thought we
might renege on our IOUs, it could unravel the entire financial
system,” Obama said on a segment taped for the “Face the
Nation” program on CBS. “We could have a worse recession than
we’ve already had.”  Inflation Concern  Developers slumped in Hong Kong as the government raised
its forecasts for economic growth and inflation after the
economy expanded 7.2 percent in the first quarter from the same
period in 2010, the fastest pace in a year and more than any of
the estimates in a survey of 17 economists. The gross domestic
product report was released by the government on May 13 after
the market closed.  Henderson Land Development Co., a builder controlled by
billionaire Lee Shau-kee, dropped 1.9 percent to HK$51.60 and
Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., a developer controlled by
billionaire  Li Ka-shing , lost 1.7 percent to HK$115.90. Sino
Land Co. fell 1.5 percent to HK$13.42.  “The robust economic growth is fueling inflation and
adding risk to the already overheated property market,” said
Joseph Lau, a senior economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong
Kong.  In Sydney,  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , an Australian coal
producer that put itself up for sale in October, tumbled 12
percent to A$5.63 after ending talks about a potential takeover
transaction. The proposals didn’t reflect the quality of
Whitehaven, Managing Director Tony Haggarty said today in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 