-- 
K.J. Choi Beats David Toms in Playoff to Win Players Championship Golf

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/k-j-choi-beats-david-toms-in-playoff-to-win-players-championship-golf.html
South Korea ’s K.J. Choi became the
first Asian winner of golf’s Players Championship after David Toms missed a 3 1/2-foot putt in a playoff at the par-3 17th
hole at the TPC Sawgrass.  “I was probably thinking ahead and thinking about the next
hole,” Toms said during a news conference yesterday in Ponte
Vedra,  Florida . “I just got up there and missed it.”  Choi, who turns 41 in three days, receives $1.71 million
for his eighth U.S. PGA Tour title and first since the 2008 Sony
Open. The Players Championship is the sport’s richest event,
with a total purse of $9.5 million.  Choi is the fourth straight non-U.S. player to win at
Sawgrass, following  Spain ’s  Sergio Garcia , Sweden’s Henrik Stenson and  Tim Clark  of  South Africa .  “This course, the back nine is really difficult and puts a
lot of pressure on me,” Choi said through an interpreter. “But
for some reason I felt very comfortable out there.”  Choi and Toms went to the PGA Tour’s fourth straight
playoff after several swings over the final three holes left
them tied at 13-under par, two better than  Paul Goydos .  Toms, the 2001 PGA Championship winner, lost a one-shot
lead at the par-5 16th hole after he hit his second shot into a
water hazard and made bogey.  Choi then took the lead by making a 10-foot birdie putt at
Sawgrass’s signature island green 17th hole. Toms answered with
a 17-foot birdie putt on No. 18 -- the fourth birdie at the
closing hole in the final round -- to force a playoff.  Return to 17th  The players returned to the 17th hole, where Toms missed an
18-foot birdie putt for the win and then pulled his comeback
attempt wide of the hole. Choi, appearing in his first career
playoff, tapped in a three-foot par putt to seal the victory and
deny Toms his first win since 2006.  “I actually kind of hit it on the toe and didn’t get it
rolling,” Toms, 44, said of his short miss. “No excuses, no
spike marks, no ball marks, nothing. Maybe a lot of pressure,
but other than that there was no excuse.”  Luke Donald  and Nick Watney tied for fourth place at 10-
under. Graeme McDowell, who had a one-shot lead after the
completion of the rain-delayed third round yesterday, tied for
33rd after closing with a 7-over 79.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  