-- 
NBC Adds 12 Shows in First Season Under Comcast, Trump Stays With Network

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-16T17:35:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/nbc-adds-12-shows-as-comcast-tries-to-restore-network-s-competitiveness.html
NBC, introducing its first prime-time
schedule under  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , will add 12 new shows including
the police drama “Prime Suspect” featuring Maria Bello, in a bid
to climb out of fourth place in audience ratings.  The lineup will include “The Playboy Club” from producer
Brian Grazer, and the Lorne Michaels comedy “Up all Night,”
NBC said yesterday in a statement. “Smash,” a musical drama
about Broadway theater, and “Free Agents” with John Enbom were
also picked up. Donald Trump, at an NBC presentation in  New York 
today, said he won’t seek the U.S. presidency and will continue
to host “Celebrity Apprentice.”  The network and its stations are under-performing rivals by
“many hundreds of millions of dollars,” Stephen Burke,  NBC
Universal ’s chief executive officer, said on May 4. Comcast will
spend $200 million more than last year, Burke said, to bolster
an NBC prime-time schedule that averages the fewest viewers ages
18 to 49, a group sought by advertisers, and the smallest
audience of the big four U.S. broadcast networks.  “NBC is still behind the curve,”  David Bank , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York, said in an interview ahead
of the schedule announcement. “Fortunately, Comcast is willing
to invest in NBC. They’ve made NBC a very public priority.”  NBC is also adding the dramas “Awake,” “Grimm” and
“The Firm,” and the comedies “Whitney,” “Are You There,
Vodka, It’s Me, Chelsea,” “Best Friends Forever” and “Bent.’  Leno Experiment  Last year’s schedule contained five new comedies and seven
dramas following the failed experiment of airing an hourlong 10
p.m. talk show five nights a week hosted by Jay Leno. Shows
including “Chase,” from “Pirates of the Caribbean” producer
Jerry Bruckheimer, and “Undercovers,” from “Lost” creator
J.J. Abrams, didn’t last.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, acquired control of NBC
Universal from Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
in January and named Greenblatt, former president of Showtime
Entertainment, to oversee development of new dramas and
comedies. Greenblatt inherited a schedule with one top-20 show,
“Harry’s Law” starring Kathy Bates.  Comcast, the biggest U.S. cable operator, fell 24 cents to
$24.89 at 1:26 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
had climbed 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  