-- 
News Corp. Agrees to Disclose Political Giving, Joining Merck

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-05-15T18:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/news-corp-agrees-to-disclose-political-giving-joining-merck.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company
controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , agreed to post its political
spending on its website.  The board of directors of the New York-based company
decided April 12 to publicly disclose its corporate donations
once a year, the company said in a statement on its  website . The
first donations will be posted by July 15 and then once a year
each January, the company said. The  Associated Press  earlier
reported on the News Corp. statement.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and Merck & Co. are among
companies that release their political spending.  The Washington-based  Center for Political Accountability ,
which lobbies companies to publicize their political
expenditures, said almost three dozen companies are being asked
at their annual meetings this year to vote on shareholder
resolutions requiring disclosure.  The issue has gained potency since the U.S. Supreme Court’s
2010 decision in  Citizens United  v.  Federal Election Commission 
removed restrictions on spending from corporate treasuries on
political advertisements.  Several outside groups -- most of them supporting
Republicans, such as Karl Rove’s Crossroads Grassroots Policy
Strategies and the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  -- aired political
ads costing millions of dollars during the 2010 elections and
did not disclose their donors. Senate Republicans last year
blocked legislation that would have required those organizations
to disclose their funders.  Executive Order Considered  Representative Chris Van Hollen, a Maryland Democrat and
author of the bill blocked by the Senate Republicans, has asked
both the federal courts and the  FEC  to require those groups to
reveal the sources of their campaign cash, and President  Barack Obama  is considering issuing an executive order requiring
government contractors to disclose contributions to political
groups.  Opponents of disclosure say that companies could be
targeted for their donations. Minneapolis-based  Target Corp. (TGT) 
faced criticism and calls for a boycott after donating to a
business group supporting Republican gubernatorial candidate Tom Emmer, an opponent of same-sex marriage.  News Corp., which includes  Fox News Channel  and the Wall
Street Journal among its holdings, last year contributed $1.25
million to the Republican Governors Association, which was
disclosed, and $1 million to the U.S. Chamber, which wasn’t. The
second sum was reported by Politco in October.  Such corporate donations are separate from the
contributions made by a company’s political action committee,
which are regularly disclosed to the FEC.  Unlike their PACs, corporations can’t contribute to the
political parties, though they can help fund political groups
such as the RGA and so-called super PACs. While super PACs can
take in unlimited donations, they can’t contribute directly to
federal candidates. They can explicitly urge voters to support
or oppose candidates.  The Democratic Governors Association last year  criticized 
News Corp. for its contribution to the RGA, contending that  Fox
News  could “no longer pretend that it is a ‘fair and balanced’
news organization” because of the corporate donation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  