-- 
Djokovic Beats Nadal in Rome Final, Takes Season Start to 37 Wins in a Row

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-16T02:49:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/novak-djokovic-defeats-nadal-in-rome-final-extends-unbeaten-sequence.html
Novak Djokovic extended his unbeaten
season start to 37 matches by beating  Rafael Nadal  on clay for
the second time in a week to win the Rome Masters tennis title.  Serbia ’s Djokovic defeated defending champion Nadal 6-4, 6-
4 yesterday to open 2011 with seven straight tournament
victories. His streak is second only to  John McEnroe , who began
42-0 in 1984.  Djokovic’s run, which began at the Australian Open, now
includes two consecutive victories over  top-ranked  Nadal on the
Spaniard’s favorite surface. The French Open, the second Grand
Slam tournament of the year, starts May 22 on the clay courts of
 Roland Garros  in Paris.  “He is the king of clay and he is the best player ever to
play on this surface,” second-ranked Djokovic said after his
victory. “I have won against him twice in the last eight days
which is an incredible achievement for me and has given me a lot
of confidence for the  French Open .”  Djokovic, 23, has now won 39 straight matches, the sixth-
longest streak since tennis’s Open Era began in 1968. Guillermo Vilas won a record 46 matches in a row in 1977.  Djokovic last lost to  Roger Federer  in the semifinals of
the ATP World Tour Finals in November. He had two victories in
Serbia’s Davis Cup final win in December before opening 2011 by
taking his second major title at Melbourne Park.  He followed with successes in Dubai,  Indian Wells  and Miami,
where he scored back-to-back victories over Nadal. He then won a
tournament in his hometown of Belgrade before beating Nadal in
the  Madrid  final on May 8.  `Most Happy'  “I am most happy about the game this year on clay,”
Djokovic added. “The way I was fighting all the way, I am
confident and aware and have self belief that I can win against
the top players.”  Nadal, who swept the Monte Carlo,  Rome  and Madrid titles
before winning his fifth French Open championship in 2010,
fought back from 0-40 in the last game yesterday before falling
to his fourth defeat in four finals against Djokovic this year.  Before yesterday, Nadal had lost just one match in his past
32 at the Foro Italico in Rome. The Spaniard said he’s “trying
to find solutions” against Djokovic’s current form.  “I have been doing everything that I can so I cannot ask
myself more,” Nadal said. “I am trying and I am doing very
well, but one player is doing better than me. We will see what
is going on next time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  