-- 
Boehner Says U.S. Must Raise Debt Limit

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/obama-says-debt-default-may-unravel-global-financial-system.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  said
“it’s clear” the U.S. must raise its debt limit, responding to
President Barack Obama’s efforts to secure backing to extend the
government’s borrowing authority.  “At some point it’s clear to me that we have to increase
the debt ceiling,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said yesterday
on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “And as we do, we’re going to do
it in a way that addresses America’s long-term fiscal
challenges.”  Republicans are seeking spending cuts and no tax increases
in exchange for supporting a higher debt limit. The government
projected this month that the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling will
be reached today. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said
that while he can juggle accounts for a time, he will run out of
options for avoiding default by early August.  In an April 13 speech, Obama proposed a long-term deficit-
reduction package of about $4 trillion over 12 years. It would
include $2 trillion in spending cuts, $1 trillion in tax
increases and $1 trillion in reduced interest payments.  Failure to increase the debt limit might disrupt the global
financial system and plunge the nation into another recession,
Obama said on “Face the Nation” in a segment taped May 11 in
 Washington  for broadcast yesterday.  If investors “around the world thought the full faith and
credit of the U.S. was not being backed up, if they thought we
might renege on our IOUs, it could unravel the entire financial
system,” Obama said. “We could have a worse recession than
we’ve already had.”  ‘Totally Irresponsible’  Boehner, who in a May 9 speech demanded spending cuts
greater than the amount of any debt-ceiling increase, told CBS
yesterday that he understood “what the president was saying
about jeopardizing the full faith and credit of the  United
States .”  “Our obligation is to raise the debt ceiling,” he said.
“But to raise the debt ceiling without dealing with the
underlying problem is totally irresponsible.”  Last month Obama appointed Vice President  Joe Biden  to lead
negotiations with a small bipartisan group of congressional
leaders to try to strike a deal on reducing the debt and
deficits. The negotiators have met three times with Biden; the
president held separate talks with Senate Democrats  and
Republicans May 11 and May 12.  “I’ve said, ‘Get them in a room, hammer out a deal, and
make sure that we don’t even get close’” to defaulting on the
nation’s debt, Obama said on CBS yesterday.  Kyl, Durbin  Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican who is among the
lawmakers meeting with Biden, said the negotiators have found
bipartisan agreement on “a couple hundred billion dollars”
when about $2 trillion in savings is needed.  “It’s pretty small-ball compared to the overall job that
we’re going to have to do,” Kyl, the second-ranking member in
the Senate Republican leadership, said on “Fox News Sunday.”  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s No. 2
Democrat, said on the same program that the priority should be
addressing the  budget deficit  by, among other things, reducing
spending, “responsibly” changing entitlement programs and
cutting tax breaks received by the five largest  oil companies .  “We better be careful,” Durbin said. “It’s about the
reputation of the United States and the economy. If we play
games with it or play politics with it, and default on our
national debt, we could plunge this country back in a recession
with even deeper unemployment.”  Bond Yields  Amid debate about the deficit in Washington, bond market
yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government was
running a  budget surplus  a decade ago. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note closed at 3.17 percent on May 13,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices -- well below the
average of 5.48 percent in 1998 through 2001, the last time the
U.S. had a budget surplus.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, appearing yesterday on  CNN ’s “State of the Union,”
said he wants the extension of the debt limit coupled with broad
fiscal reforms.  Obama told CBS that debt reduction must be “balanced” and
include tax increases.  “Are we going to make sure no single group -- not seniors,
not poor folks, not any single group -- is carrying the whole
burden? Let’s make sure the burden is shared,” he said.  Obama said he would resist cuts in such areas as medical
research; infrastructure such as roads, bridges or railroads; or
college loans for needy students.  Boehner said that “for quite a while” he has privately
discussed with Obama his idea for making drastic spending cuts
and changes in entitlements like Medicare and other programs in
tandem with raising the debt ceiling.  The speaker said he told Obama, “‘Let’s lock arms and jump
out of the boat together.’ I am serious about dealing with this.
And I hope he is just as serious.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  