-- 
Housing Probably Lagged Behind Factories: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-15T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/home-sales-starts-probably-lagged-behind-as-factories-drove-u-s-recovery.html
Sales and construction of U.S. homes
probably hovered in April around the lows reached during the
recession, while factories kept churning out more goods, a
reminder that manufacturing remains the engine of the recovery,
economists said before reports this week.  Sales of existing homes rose 2 percent to a 5.2 million
annual pace, according to the median forecast of 55 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before a May 19 report from the
National Association of Realtors. Industrial production grew for
a sixth month, figures from the  Federal Reserve  may show.  Falling real-estate values and more unsold homes lurking in
the foreclosure pipeline mean gains in sales and construction
may be slow to gain traction. Factories have carried the
economy, validating the Federal Reserve’s decision to maintain
record stimulus until the recovery becomes self-sustaining.  “We’re still in the doldrums in the housing market,” said
 David Resler , chief economist at Nomura Securities International
Inc. in  New York . “Manufacturing has been the best performing
sector of the economy and there is reason to believe it will
stay that way, at least for the foreseeable future.”  Estimates for home sales in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from 5.09 million to 5.40 million. Purchases reached a record
7.08 million in 2005, and slumped to a 13-year low 4.91 million
last year.  Builders began work on 568,000 houses at an annual rate
last month, up 3.5 percent from a 549,000 pace in March,
economists forecast the Commerce Department will report on May
17. Starts averaged 1.72 million a year in the decade before the
recession began in December 2007. They slumped to a record low
554,000 in 2009.  Builder Confidence  Confidence among homebuilders remains at recession levels.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment
index rose to 17 this month from 16 in April, data from the
Washington-based group may show on May 16. Numbers lower than 50
signal more respondents view conditions as poor.  Douglas Yearley Jr., chief executive officer at Toll
Brothers Inc., the largest U.S. luxury-home builder, last week
said the spring home selling season has been “disappointing”
and that “people are still scared.”  Demand for new houses will remain weak into 2012, said Bill
Wheat, chief financial officer of D.R. Horton Inc., who last
week also projected a housing recovery will take time to
develop.  Protracted ‘Struggle’  “We don’t see the economic drivers to change in 2011,”
said Wheat, whose  Fort Worth , Texas-based company is the second-
largest homebuilder by revenue. “We feel it could still be a
struggle in 2012.”  The manufacturing industries that make up 12 percent of the
economy continue to spearhead the recovery that began in June
2009, led by business spending on new equipment and demand from
emerging economies like  China ,  Brazil  and  Mexico . American
exports in March rose to the highest level on record.  Industrial production rose 0.4 percent in April after
increasing 0.8 percent the prior month, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast the Fed will report on May 17.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  last month said it expects global economic
growth this year of about 4 percent, with  developing countries 
expanding by 6.5 percent and the U.S. by 3.5 percent.  Caterpillar posted first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates and raised its full-year earnings forecast
as sales surged in developing countries. The Peoria, Illinois-
based maker of earthmoving equipment said its outlook would have
been higher had it not been for the March 11 earthquake in
 Japan .  Sporadic Disruptions  “Our facilities in Japan were not damaged by the
earthquake and tsunami, but many of our suppliers in Japan
were,” Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said on a
conference call April 29. “As a result, we are experiencing
sporadic production disruptions at many of our facilities around
the world.”  Industrial companies have outperformed homebuilders this
year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index has
gained 6.7 percent since Dec. 31, compared with a 2.7 percent
decline for the S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index.  Other reports this week may signal the economic recovery is
cooling. The Conference Board’s index of leading indicators rose
0.1 percent in April, compared with a 0.4 percent gain in March,
economists forecast an April 19 report will show. The projected
increase in the gauge, which is designed to signal the economy’s
path over the next three to six months, would be the smallest
since August.  A jump in claims for unemployment insurance benefits last
month is one reason the leading index moderated. A Labor
Department report May 19 may show that increase is now
reversing.  The number of applications for jobless benefits fell to
420,000 last week from 434,000 the prior week, according to the
survey median. Claims would still exceed the 375,000 reached in
February, a two-year low.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  