-- 
Rajaratnam Deemed Guilty by Day 2 of Deliberations, Juror Says

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-15T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/rajaratnam-deemed-guilty-by-day-2-of-deliberations-juror-says.html
Raj Rajaratnam was convicted of
 insider trading  by a jury that never argued during 12 days of
secret deliberations that he was innocent, a juror said.  By the second day of their discussions in federal court in
Manhattan, the panel decided the Galleon Group LLC co-founder
was guilty of the first conspiracy charge in a 14-count
indictment, concluding he traded on illegal tips from former
McKinsey & Co. partner  Anil Kumar , juror Leila Gonzalez Gorman
said in an interview at her home.  It took 10 more days of what Gorman said were tense and
sometimes tearful talks, punctuated by the replacement of an
ailing juror that forced them to restart deliberations, before a
May 11 verdict that Rajaratnam was guilty of five conspiracy and
nine securities-fraud charges. Jurors never believed the hedge
fund manager’s arguments that his trades were based on a
“mosaic” of publicly available information, she said.  “No one was arguing that he was not guilty,” said Gorman,
44, who teaches second-graders in the Bronx. “Some people said
‘I’m not sure about this’ and ‘I’m not sure about that.’ But no
one said he’s an innocent man at any point.”  Rajaratnam, 53, faces 15 1/2 years to 19 1/2 years in
prison under federal sentencing guidelines. Jurors found he made
$63.8 million in illicit profits during a seven-year conspiracy
to trade on inside information from corporate executives,
traders and directors of public companies.  Lawyers for Rajaratnam, who is free on bail, said he plans
to appeal his conviction in the biggest insider trading trial in
a generation. Prosecutors for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan have charged 47 people with insider-trading over 18
months as part of a nationwide investigation.  Heard His Voice  Rajaratnam didn’t testify, although jurors heard his voice
in more than 40 wiretapped conversations with Kumar; Rajiv Goel,
a managing director at  Intel Corp. (INTC) ; and Danielle Chiesi, an
analyst at New Castle Funds LLC. All pleaded guilty, and Kumar
and Goel testified against Rajaratnam, as did  Adam Smith , a
former Galleon trader.  “The wiretaps helped but they were not the most
compelling” evidence, Gorman said. “They were very, very
helpful because you get to listen to the tone. It pieced
everything together. It was a confirmation that this is
definitely insider trading.”  Just as important, she said, was the testimony of the
conspirators and the government’s expert, as well as e-mails,
instant messages, text-messages and government graphs showing
the share prices of stocks and the dates of Galleon’s trading.
She discounted the testimony of Rajaratnam’s witnesses.  ‘Pieced Everything Together’  “There were numerous things that pieced everything
together,” said Gorman. “As we were going through the counts
and had enough evidence to support the fact that he conspired --
one of the jurors said ‘If it walks like a duck and quacks like
a duck, it’s a duck.’ But no one was that rude and that raw to
say, ‘well he’s a crook.’”  The panel of eight women and four men included a parks
department worker; an activities therapist at a nursing home; a
food service worker; a nurse; an assistant kindergarten teacher;
an educator of blind and visually impaired children; and a
customer service representative for New York’s transportation
agency. The foreman, Robert Jirmnson, a 3-D graphic designer who
said he works for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , declined to comment.  “Everyone in that room was brand new to the stock market
and how traders trade and all the fancy terms,” said Gorman, a
resident of Port Chester, New York.  After two months of testimony, the panel began on April 25
to weigh the evidence in a jury room with a long wooden table, a
window, a refrigerator, a microwave, a toaster and two large
bathrooms. They sat five to a side, with two on one end.  ‘We Were Scared’  “Before we did anything, we didn’t say a word for what
felt like a half hour,” she said. “We were scared, nervous.
Some put their head down, some looked out the window. We said
where do we start?”  After picking Jirmnson as foreman, the panel asked U.S.
District Judge Richard Holwell for transcripts of the taped
calls. The judge sent word back that they would have to listen
to the tapes in open court.  The panel began organizing itself, with one juror making
large flip charts and another searching for documents among
hundreds of pieces of evidence sent to the jury room. After
finishing the first count, the panel methodically proceeded to
the next count, pulling out the relevant documents and laying
them on the table, Gorman said.  ‘Brilliant’ Rajaratnam  Rajaratnam was a “brilliant” and “mild-mannered man with
an intellectual sense of humor,” said Gorman, a divorced mother
with a 28-year-old son and 21-year-old daughter.  “At the same time, he was very stupid,” she added. “That
was the sad part. He traded for less money than he already had.
If you’re going to steal, steal big.”  He was a “chameleon” who “could adapt to whatever
personality to get whatever he wanted,” Gorman said.  “Raj knew how to pick his victims,” she said. “He knew
who was weak and who was crooked. It’s better to have weak and
crooked people feeding you information. If you can have a little
snitch who can kiss your butt, why not?’”  While three jurors initially talked about the mosaic theory
defense, none cited it after they finished the first few counts,
which involved tips from Goel, she said. By the sixth day, the
panel was nearly done with the fifth conspiracy count when a
juror became ill. She didn’t return on the next day, May 3.
Holwell replaced her on May 4, with an alternate, Wilson Thomas,
a 39-year-old parks department foreman.  Holwell ordered the group to start anew.  Start Again  “I thought, ‘Oh God,’” said Gorman. “I wanted to have my
life back. We were caught in this whole web. I wasn’t sleeping
at night, and I was bored. I couldn’t listen to the radio. I was
pretty stressed out.”  Jurors tore up their initial hand-written chart and began
to work more efficiently than before, Gorman said. They didn’t
signal their earlier viewpoints to Thomas, Gorman said. Jurors
began snapping at each other under the pressure, she said.  “There was more tension, more sensitivity, there was
crying at times,” she said. “It was very intense. They were
worried about making a mistake and sending someone to jail for a
long time. This is a human being. None of us had been in a
situation like that where we had to decide someone’s fate.”  Still, the panel worked well together, though sometimes
squabbling over bathroom breaks, she said.  “The best part is when we got upset with each other, we
didn’t hold it in,” Gorman said, adding that members joked
among themselves. “I remember one of them said ‘I’m going to
whip your butt.’ I said, ‘Really?’”  Final Count  By late afternoon on May 10, the panel had worked its way
through the first 13 counts, Gorman said. They were waiting for
Thomas to decide on the final count. After ending for the day,
Gorman and some other jurors laughed and snapped photos together
near the courthouse in lower  Manhattan .  The next morning, they reviewed the final count and voted.  “Everybody raised their hand for Count 14,” she said.
“Wilson said we should say a prayer for Raj’s family and
everyone’s family. Wilson said it out loud.”  The deliberations took its toll on the panel.  “This has been an exhausting event,” Carmen Gomez, a 55-
year-old teacher in the Bronx, said in an e-mail. She declined
to comment further on the deliberations, saying only that the
“evidence speaks for itself.”  Another juror, Freddy Vazquez, said: “The evidence was
there.” He declined further comment, saying: “I just want to
get on with my life.” Other jurors on the panel either declined
to comment or didn’t respond to requests for interviews.  ‘Lot of Tears’  “At the end, there were a lot of tears,” Gorman said.
“Everyone was crying. They felt bad for this guy. It was sad.
Even I shed a few tears. You feel bad for the families.”  Gorman said the trial cast a harsh light on  Wall Street ,
which she said is full of gamblers who need regulation.  “The whole plot seemed like an infiltration of Wall
Street,” she said. “They were like a bunch of parasites and
they were just sucking Wall Street. They were all in it
together. It was a big web.”  She was impressed with the prosecutors, including Assistant
U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , whom the panel nicknamed
“Napoleon.”  “He had a big spirit,” she said. “When he got up there,
he was full of life. He had a lot to say. They weren’t trying to
hide anything. He was clear, he was precise, he was
convincing.”  Rajaratnam attorney  John Dowd  and other members of the
defense team did their best, she said.  “All these guys worked really hard to defend him,” she
said. “They tried to come up with enough evidence to prove he
was innocent. I’m not saying he didn’t do a good job, but
sometimes the truth overrides the lie. The truth always
prevails. The government absolutely had the truth.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 vanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  and;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  