-- 
Travolta, Al Pacino to Play Mobsters; Lohan in Cast: Interview

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-05-15T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/travolta-al-pacino-to-play-mobsters-lohan-in-cast-interview.html
Barry Levinson, whose Oscar-winning
“Rain Man” showed a pair of sparring brothers, is soon to
focus on a father-son relationship.  And not just any: the bond between John Gotti Sr. -- the
New York Mafia boss who died in jail in 2002 -- and John Jr.
Playing the father in “Gotti: Three Generations” is John Travolta. The cast also has  Al Pacino  and  Lindsay Lohan  (her
part is confirmed but not yet written).  Levinson, 69, is at the  Cannes Film Festival  for a pre-
production media conversation. In these lean times, it’s a
roundtable with no table: just a small circle of chairs in the
publicists’ hotel suite. Levinson wears a black track suit and a
baseball cap labeled ‘F’ -- for “Fiercely,” the film he had
actor  Robert De Niro  promoting in “What Just Happened” (2008).  Q: How did you come up with the idea?  A: I was approached about coming into the project, and I
wasn’t sure, because I don’t necessarily respond to genre. I met
with John Gotti Jr. a couple of times.  He told me about his family, the Gotti family, things that
I didn’t know about.  I thought, “Maybe I could do something that would take us
to another step.” I mean, you’re not going to improve on, say,
“The Godfather.” It’s definitive. And so you say, well, maybe
this is another generation, another time, another way to look at
it.  I think it’s probably moved now into the age of
disorganized crime! (He laughs.)  Mob Escape  Q: Does John Gotti Jr. carry on the work of the family?  A: No, he’s out.  His father has become the last legendary mob chieftain. The
son, in a sense, inherits the Gambino family which the father
was the head of.  John Jr. has to basically say to his father, “I don’t want
this anymore,” before the old man dies. And that becomes the
break.  Q: What’s wrong with the existing script?  A: If you come in, you have to kind of write and define it
the way you see and hear it.  I’m always looking for the small moments that are
revealing, rather than just the big moments.  Having talked to Gotti Jr., I was hearing that, and that’s
what really intrigued me.  It’s all of those seemingly inconsequential things built
upon things, built upon moments, to get to a way to reveal a
family.  Mafia Movies  Q: Why is the  movie industry  attracted to the Mafia?  A: I don’t know what it is in the American DNA that we
gravitate to outlaws, in general. We mystify or make mythical
outlaws -- whether you go back to the West, Billy the Kid or
Jesse James, or if you get into taking the Mafia from the
original “Scarface” and other mob-related movies, up through
“The Godfather,” the Scorsese things.  Q: What sort of a movie will you make? Is it ha-ha comedy?  A: (He laughs). You’re not going to make a comedy. Is there
humor in it? Yeah, absolutely.  But it is a drama at its heart and soul, I think, without
question.  Q: What do you think of John Travolta playing Gotti Senior?  A: He’s certainly well equipped to do that. He’s got a
whole East Coast thing about him to begin with. He has the
natural rhythms to that. I think it’ll be a pretty challenging
role to John, something he could really sink his teeth into.  Q: Is it easy dealing with actors’ egos?  A: It’s part of the business. I’ve always had a great
relationship with actors. I’ve worked with Warren Beatty in
“Bugsy,” and we had a great time, and remain close to this
day. Pacino recently, and De Niro in three movies I think, and
Dustin (Hoffman) on four movies. So I’ve had, fortunately, very,
very good relationships with actors, and enjoy working with
them.  “Gotti: Three Generations” starts shooting at the end of
this year.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Cannes at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 