-- 
Red Sox Beat Yankees 6-0; Posada Takes Day Off After Demotion

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-05-15T04:27:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/red-sox-beats-yankees-6-0-posada-takes-day-off-after-demotion.html
The  Boston Red Sox  won 6-0 to hand
the Yankees their fourth straight loss after  New York  designated
hitter  Jorge Posada  asked to be scratched from the game.  Posada, a five-time All-Star catcher who’s batting .165 in
his first season as designated hitter, was demoted to the ninth
spot in the batting order yesterday from seventh. He approached
manager  Joe Girardi  at about 6 p.m. before the game at Yankee
Stadium, asking to be replaced in the lineup.  Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman spoke to Fox
television during the game, saying Posada’s decision wasn’t
because of injury. After the game, Posada said minor stiffness
in his back suffered during warm-ups led him to the decision.  “Jorge came into my office and said he needed a day, he
couldn’t DH today, and that was basically the extent of the
conversation,” Girardi said at a televised post-game news
conference. “I was not made aware of his back in our
conversation or today at any point.”  Posada said he didn’t tell Girardi why he asked out of the
game because the back issue wasn’t serious.  “I told him I couldn’t play today, that I needed time to
clear my head,” Posada said in a televised interview with
reporters. “My back stiffened up a little bit. I was taking a
lot of ground balls at first base, and I walked out and wasn’t
100 percent.”  ‘Little Bit’ Disrespected  Posada, 39, also expressed disappointment that Cashman made
a public statement during the game, and said he’s felt “a
little bit” disrespected by the team since losing his position
as catcher.  “I don’t know why he would make a statement during the
game, in the middle of the game,” Posada said of Cashman. “I
don’t understand that. That’s the way he works now.”  Asked if there was a problem between him and either Girardi
or Cashman, Posada said: “I don’t know. I hope not. I hope we
can go on and go out and play the season.”  Girardi said that he hasn’t decided on a lineup for the
team’s game tonight as New York (20-17) tries to avoid a sweep
by the  Red Sox . He also said he understands what Posada is going
through.  “This is a situation that we will take care of,” Girardi
said. “Players go through difficult times in this game, we all
do. Sometimes we need days to clear our head and to just take a
deep breath. I’ve been there, I’ve been through struggles and
this season has been a struggle for Jorge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 