-- 
Saudi Grand Mufti Warns Against Sectarian Strife in Middle East

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-05-15T15:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/saudi-grand-mufti-warns-against-sectarian-strife-in-middle-east.html
Saudi Arabia ’s grand mufti warned
against sectarian strife in the Middle East and called for
“peace and stability” among Muslims, the official Saudi Press
Agency said.  “All must pay attention to the schemes planned for our
region with the aim of stirring sectarian differences,” Sheikh
Abdulaziz bin Abdullah al-Sheikh was cited as saying by the
 Riyadh-based news service . These “exhaust the capabilities of
countries and their resources for the benefit of the enemy,” it
reported him as saying.  Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s biggest economy, sent troops
in March across a causeway connecting it with Bahrain to help
crush mainly Shiite protests for democracy and civil rights. The
Gulf Cooperation Council on May 10 expressed “deep concern over
 Iran ’s continuous interference in the internal affairs” of GCC
countries.  Clashes between Christians and Muslims in the Egyptian
capital of Cairo left 12 people dead and another 232 injured
this month, Justice Minister Mohamed El-Gendy told reporters in
Cairo on May 8. Christians make up an estimated 10 percent of
 Egypt ’s population.  “We are keen that Muslims unite and share the same
voice,” al-Sheikh was cited as saying by the news service.  GCC, Iran  Tensions between the GCC and Iran have escalated since
protests started in Bahrain in February. Members of Bahrain’s
ruling Al Khalifa family have accused some Shiite activists of
having links with Iran. Bahrain, like Iran, has a Shiite
majority population while its rulers are Sunni.  Saudi religious leaders have in the past accused Iran of
encouraging violence by Shiite minority groups in the region. In
November 2009, the Grand Mufti said the Iranians were
“cooperating in sin and aggression” by backing Shiite
insurgents in  Yemen  in a conflict that drew in the Saudi army.  Saudi Arabia’s royal family maintains a strict version of
Sunni Islam. It prohibits the public observance of other
religions and limits the practice of other branches of Islam.
Saudi Arabia vies for influence in the region with Shiite-led
Iran.  Shiite Muslims in the  eastern province  of Saudi Arabia, the
world’s largest oil exporter, have held demonstrations this year
calling for the release of prisoners. Most Shiites in Saudi
Arabia are in the Eastern Province, where state-owned Saudi oil
company  Saudi Aramco  is based.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 