-- 
Saudi Aramco Plans to Double Power Supply, Conserve Energy to Save Crude

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-05-15T13:04:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/saudi-aramco-plans-to-double-power-supply-conserve-energy-to-save-crude.html
Saudi Aramco , the world’s largest
state-owned oil company, plans to double its power-generating
capacity to 4,000 megawatts by 2015 to supply all the
electricity it expects to need to produce crude and natural gas.  The company is expanding power plants at existing oil and
gas sites and aims to build generators for refineries and other
facilities that are under development, Ziyad Al Shiha, the
executive director of Aramco Power Systems, told reporters today
at a conference in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.  Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf oil producers are
boosting power supplies to meet the demands of growing economies
and populations. They are also looking for ways to use less of
their valuable crude and gas as fuel for power stations.  Saudi Arabia  may need to burn as much as 3 million barrels
of oil a day by 2020 to generate power if it doesn’t improve
efficiency, Al Shiha said. This would far exceed the 800,000
barrels of oil equivalent that the Ministry of Petroleum and
 Mineral Resources  estimates the kingdom’s power plants use now.  “The growth in power and water demand is huge, and the
investments required are huge,” Abdullah al-Shehri, governor of
Saudi Arabia’s Electricity and Co-Generation Regulatory
Authority, said today at the Saudi Water, Electricity and Power
conference in Dhahran.  Targeting Self-Sufficiency  Aramco is targeting an increase in company-wide generating
capacity to as much as 4,700 megawatts from the current 2,000
megawatts, Al Shiha said, without giving a timeframe for the
expansion. The additional capacity wouldn’t be part of the
national  power grid  and would make Aramco independent in power
by 2015, he said.  Saudi Arabia has an overall generating capacity of about
45,000 megawatts, according to the state utility Saudi
Electricity Company. This is likely to almost double to 75,000
megawatts by 2018 and rise to more than 120,000 megawatts by
2030, according to the utility.  The country could save “hundreds of thousands” of barrels
and cut peak power demand by at least 10,000 megawatts over the
next 20 years if it takes steps to curb oil consumption and
conserve energy, the regulatory authority’s al-Shehri said. In
one such step, Aramco is developing more so-called co-generation
plants that gather heat from the burning of fuel to make steam,
which they then use to turn turbines and generate additional
electricity.  Better efficiency at  power plants  and industrial sites
could save as much as 1 billion cubic feet of gas that is
currently wasted, providing enough fuel to produce 60,000
megawatts, Aramco’s Al Shiha said.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, pumped
8.292 million barrels of crude a day in March after pumping over
9 million barrels a day in February, Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi
said on April 17. It exports what it does not use at home for
power generation or refining.  The kingdom will need investments of more than $100 billion
over the next decade to pay for power generation, transmission
and distribution, al-Shehri of the regulatory authority said in
 Abu Dhabi , the capital of the  United Arab Emirates , on March 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia at
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  