-- 
Shots From Syria Kill Woman Among Fleeing Refugees, Arabiya Says

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-05-15T10:11:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/shots-from-syria-kill-woman-among-fleeing-refugees-arabiya-says.html
A Syrian woman was killed and five
others injured when shots were fired on a border crossing in
northern Lebanon where hundreds are fleeing unrest in their
homeland,  Al Arabiya  television said.  Among the injured was a Lebanese soldier, according to the
Dubai-based television, which reported that the gunshots were
fired from inside Syria early today. The casualties were also
reported by the German and French news agencies, DPA and  Agence
France-Presse .  Footage on Al Arabiya showed refugees running for safety on
the Lebanese side as gunshots rang out. Dozens of people were
seen walking across rocks to ford a shallow river to reach
Lebanese territory. Relief workers in northern Lebanon
transported wounded refugees in ambulances.  Syrian security forces killed at least a dozen people over
the past two days as protesters defied mass arrests amid an
intensifying crackdown on dissent. The suppression of pro-
democracy protests in  Syria  began in mid-March after popular
revolts ousted longtime leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia .  Gunshots were still being heard at midday from the area of
Tal Kalakh, a Syrian town where army and security forces have
been engaging protesters for several days, an Al Arabiya
reporter at the border reported.  Lebanon’s caretaker Prime Minister  Saad Hariri  asked the
state-run Higher Relief Committee to coordinate aid with the
International Committee for the Red Cross for the Syrian
“refugees, especially as there were reports about the arrival
of a number of wounded people in Akkar” in northern Lebanon, a
statement from his office said late yesterday.  Initial Pledges  The uprising in Syria drew initial pledges of change from
President Bashar al-Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place
since 1963 and named a new government. He hasn’t repeated the
assurances in recent weeks as security forces stepped up their
assaults and initiated house-to-house searches.  More than 800 demonstrators have been killed since the
uprising began, according to Ammar Qurabi, the head of the
National Organization for Human Rights, and Mahmoud Merhi of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights, who have compiled a list of
victims’ names. As many as 10,000 people have been detained,
they said. Most foreign journalists have been banned from Syria
and the government has restricted media access.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  