-- 
Lee Kuan Yew Ends Five-Decade Role in Singapore Cabinet After Poll Setback

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-05-16T03:50:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/singapore-ruling-party-seeks-to-renew-image-with-lee-kuan-yew-resignation.html
The political party that has ruled
Singapore since independence in 1965 is seeking to overhaul its
image with voters after the narrowest election victory on record
signaled a shortfall in support among younger voters.  Lee Kuan Yew , 87, who led the island from U.K. rule and was
premier until 1990, resigned from the cabinet May 14, saying it
was time for a younger generation to “carry Singapore forward
in a more difficult and complex situation.” The move ended his
five-decade presence in government leadership, when he crafted a
legacy of encouraging foreign investment, averting corruption
and emphasizing discipline, efficiency and interracial harmony.  The decision may increase political dialogue in a nation
where opposition parties didn’t contest Lee’s constituency this
month, in a sign of his continued sway. Investors may next look
for signs of policy change after opposition leaders urged more
steps to rein in property-price inflation and temper immigration
they said damped wage gains among lower-skilled workers.  “They are making a tangible statement on how the
government will be going forward,” said Eugene Tan, assistant
professor of law at the  Singapore  Management University. “The
soul-searching and transformation that the prime minister was
talking about has begun,” he said.  ‘Soul-Searching’  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, Lee Kuan Yew’s son, pledged
after the election that the ruling  People’s Action Party  will
change the way it governs and will undergo “soul-searching” to
find better ways to serve the electorate. The PAP returned to
power with 81 parliamentary seats out of 87, while losing 39.9
percent of the popular vote.  Goh Chok Tong, 69, who succeeded Lee Kuan Yew in 1990 and
led Singapore until 2004, also stepped down from the cabinet
over the weekend, as senior minister. Lee Kuan Yew had served as
minister mentor.  “With Singapore’s founding father and second prime
minister stepping down at the same time, it’s a vote of
confidence in Prime Minister Lee and his team,” said Ong Keng Yong, director of the Institute of Policy Studies in Singapore
and a former press secretary to Goh. “They are signaling that
after this election, it isn’t business as usual for the PAP.”  Opposition politicians have described the PAP leadership as
out of touch with ordinary Singaporeans, with the  Singapore
Democratic Party  saying little room has been left for views of
citizens to shape policymaking.  Investors Unconcerned  Investors so far have signaled little concern at prospects
for a loosening in PAP political control over Singapore, with
the benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  rising 1.2 percent on May 9,
the first trading day after the elections. The  Singapore dollar 
is near a record high after gaining 11 percent against the U.S.
currency in the past year.  Even with the resignations, both the senior Lee and Goh
will remain in parliament, giving them a continued role in
policymaking.  “It may have finally dawned on the PAP that when they are
talking about renewal, the presence of two senior statesmen is
at odds with that call,” said Song Seng Wun, an economist at
CIMB Research Pte. in Singapore. “However, as long as they are
still around, they will always be asked for their valued
opinions and experience. They may not be part of the policy
formulation process, but their views will still be heard.”  Lee lost his wife of 63 years in October. Kwa Geok Choo,
who was 89, had suffered a stroke two years earlier.  Malaysia  Union  Lee co-founded the PAP in 1954 and ran the city state for
31 years from 1959. He was elected prime minister in May 1959,
four years after the British granted the island limited self-
government. After more than 140 years under British rule,
Singapore joined the Federation of Malaysia in September 1963 as
Lee and his colleagues sought a bigger common market to cut
unemployment and fight communism.  The merger survived less than two years amid ideological
differences and worsening relations between the United Malays
National Organisation, which dominated the ruling Barisan
Nasional coalition, and Lee’s People’s Action Party.  The PAP has overseen a 41-fold jump in gross domestic
product, combining a focus on education, homeownership, business
friendliness and strict laws to boost citizens’ wealth.
Singapore, once a low-cost manufacturing center for companies
such as Texas Instruments Inc., has become the world’s fourth-
largest foreign-exchange center and had a S$1.4 trillion asset-
management industry as of 2010.  “We laid the foundations for long-term stability and
growth,” Lee said in an editorial last month. “We set aside
short-term problems and undertook several unpopular policies.”  Export Investment  The Singapore government sought to boost growth by
investing in export-based industries. It built new container
terminals for Singapore’s port, reclaimed land offshore to
attract companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Royal
Dutch/Shell Group for an oil refining complex and moved into
high-tech industries such as electronics and drugs.  “This needs more than an autopilot -- you run into storms,
you run into air pockets and the pilot and his copilot and the
spare pilot must be on board and passengers must be alive and
awake and alert,” Lee said in an interview with “Charlie
Rose” program on PBS in March. “I’m worried because if the new
leaders, and the population as a whole, do not realize the small
base on which this is built and they take liberties with it we
could go down quickly, spiral down a vicious circle down.”  Voter Dissatisfaction  A further increase in Singapore voter dissatisfaction with
the ruling party may result in added pressure for social
policies that could erode competitiveness, Moody’s Investors
Service said May 12. Singapore is the only Asian country with
AAA ratings from Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  While the People’s Action Party won 60.1 of the popular
vote in the elections, it was the smallest percentage of victory.
Two ministers lost their seats in the May 7 polls.  The PAP says that it is preparing for the next generation
of leaders to take over, while signaling that transition will
still take time -- Prime Minister Lee has said a new team may be
ready to be at the helm by 2020. Among the new faces in this
month’s election is former central bank Managing Director Heng Swee Keat, and officials from the army and the national trade
union, where ministers have served before entering politics.  Lee said he may be ready to announce his new cabinet early
this week, the Sunday Times newspaper reported yesterday.  ‘Legendary’ Figure  President  Barack Obama , who met Lee Kuan Yew at the White
House in 2009, called him one of the “legendary figures of  Asia 
in the 20th and 21st centuries,” who helped trigger Asia’s
economic rise. Even after he had a pacemaker implanted in 2008,
Lee hasn’t stopped traveling overseas to meet global leaders and
promote the island that is ranked by the  World Bank  as the
easiest place to do business. He has visited  China  more than 30
times.  “I want to make sure this place always commands
confidence,” the elder Lee said on the “Charlie Rose” show.
“Confidence brings in investment and brings in talent. With
investment and talent we will prosper.”  Even so, younger voters are less attached to Lee’s legacy
and his role in the country’s early struggle, and the party
needs to rebrand itself to attract new voters,  Singapore
Management University ’s Tan said.  “Younger Singaporeans, especially those born after 1980,
don’t have the same respect and awe of Lee Kuan Yew as the older
generations of Singapore,” Tan said. “The party will have to
demonstrate that it remains a mass movement, and not Lee’s alter
ego.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  