-- 
Sony Network Breach Shows Amazon Cloud’s Appeal for Hackers

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e ,   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-05-16T20:45:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/sony-attack-shows-amazon-s-cloud-service-lures-hackers-at-pennies-an-hour.html
For three pennies an hour, hackers
can rent  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s servers to wage cyber attacks such as
the one that crippled  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation Network and led
to the second-largest online data breach in U.S. history.  A hacker used Amazon’s Elastic Computer Cloud, or EC2,
service to attack Sony’s online entertainment systems last
month, a person with knowledge of the matter said May 13. The
intruder, who used a bogus name to set up an account that’s now
disabled, didn’t hack into Amazon’s servers, the person said.  The incident helps illustrate the dilemma facing Chief
Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos : Amazon’s cloud-computing service
is as cheap and convenient for hackers as it is for customers
ranging from  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  to  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  Last month’s attack
on Sony compromised more than 100 million customer accounts, the
largest data breach in the U.S. since intruders stole credit and
debit card numbers from Heartland Payment Systems in 2009.  “Anyone can go get an Amazon account and use it
anonymously,” said Pete Malcolm, chief executive officer of
Abiquo Inc., a  Redwood City , California-based company that helps
customers manage data internally and through cloud computing.
“If they have computers in their back bedroom they are much
easier to trace than if they are on Amazon’s Web Services.”  Network Resumption  Sony on May 14 partially restarted its PlayStation Network
and Qriocity services, which had been shut since April 20
because of the intrusion. The company has hired three security
firms to investigate and is working with the law enforcement
officials. Sony has faced a backlash from regulators and
customers over the time it took to warn customers that their
data may have been stolen.  Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Seattle-based Amazon, the
world’s largest online retailer, declined to comment. Amazon
didn’t respond to a request to speak with Bezos. Patrick Seybold, a U.S. spokesman for Tokyo-based Sony, declined to
comment beyond public statements made on the matter.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  will likely subpoena
Amazon or seek a search warrant to access the history of
transactions, trace who had access to the specific Internet
address at the time and get details on payment data, said E.J.
Hilbert, president of the security company Online Intelligence
and a former FBI cyber-crime investigator.  FBI Probe  FBI Special Agent Darrell Foxworth, a spokesman for the
agency’s  San Diego  office, said he couldn’t comment on whether
the bureau served Amazon with a search warrant or subpoena and
that investigators are following up “each and every lead.”
Amazon’s Herdener declined to say whether his employer had been
subpoenaed or served with a search warrant.  Amazon Web Services leases computing space to companies so
they don’t have to buy their own servers to store data and
handle a surge in visitors.  Prices for EC2 range from 3 cents to $2.48 an hour for
users on the east coast of the U.S., according to its website.
Signing up to the service requires a name, e-mail address,
password, phone number, billing address and credit card
information. Users get an automated call from Amazon and are
asked to dial in a four-digit verification code to complete the
registration process.  That’s not enough to scare off hackers seeking to conduct
attacks anonymously, and Amazon doesn’t have the means to detect
illegal uses of its servers, Abiquo’s Malcolm said.  Good Versus Bad  “Realistically, Amazon can’t do anything to prevent it,”
Malcolm said. “There is no way of telling who’s a good guy and
who’s a bad guy.”  Web Services generated about $500 million in revenue for
Amazon in the past year, according to estimates at  Barclays
Capital . That’s about 1.5 percent of 2010 sales at Amazon, which
doesn’t disclose sales from the unit.  Amazon fell $10.05, or 5 percent, to $192.51 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Sony was little changed
today in Tokyo trading.  As companies from Amazon to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  build server
farms worldwide, the services can help hackers hide their
tracks, said Hilbert.  Cloud services are also attractive for hackers because the
use of multiple servers can facilitate tasks such as cracking
passwords, said Ray Valdes, an analyst at Gartner Inc. Amazon
could improve measures to weed out bogus accounts, he said.  Hijacked Servers  The use of hijacked or rented servers to launch attacks is
typical for sophisticated hackers, according to Hilbert. Chinese
hackers used the servers of a major U.S. Internet service
provider in 2008 to break into a government agency and several
defense contractors, according to a secret Nov. 3, 2008, cable
exposed by Wikileaks.  The hackers “used at least three separate systems at the
unnamed ISP in multiple network intrusions and have exfiltrated
data via these systems,” according to the cable.  In some cases, hackers hide their tracks beneath several
layers of proxy servers that can span the globe. A recent attack
against computers in  South Korea  was controlled from servers in
more than 20 different countries, according to Georg Wicherski,
a security analyst at  Santa Clara , California-based  McAfee Inc. (MFE) 
The identity of the offenders is unknown, he said.  Rethinking Cloud  Malicious attacks  in the U.S. are on the rise. They made up
31 percent of data breaches in 2010, up from 24 percent a year
earlier, with each event costing U.S. businesses an average of
$7.2 million, according to a March report by the Ponemon
Institute. The study found that about 85 percent of all U.S.
companies have experienced one or more attacks.  Last month’s incursion was “very carefully planned, very
professional, highly sophisticated criminal cyber attack,” Sony
has said.  The episode will cause individuals and companies to rethink
what data to put on the cloud and force companies to potentially
double what they spend on application security, said Murray
Jennex, an associate professor at  San Diego State University  who
specializes in computer systems security. In the long run, it
will be cheaper than being hacked, he said.  “This puts cloud computing into proper perspective,”
Jennex said. “Everybody’s been thinking it’s chic and ignoring
the security aspect. I think this reminds companies that things
that make them great need to stay under their control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  