-- 
Strauss-Kahn Rape-Attempt Charge May End Presidential Prospects

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-05-15T12:33:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/strauss-kahn-rape-attempt-charge-may-end-his-french-presidential-prospects.html
An attempted-rape charge against
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  may put an end to his prospects of
running in the French presidential election even as his party
called for calm and unity until the allegations are verified.  Strauss-Kahn, the head of the  International Monetary Fund ,
was charged with attempted rape and a criminal sex act in New
York, police there said today. A former French finance minister
and member of France’s opposition Socialist Party, Strauss-Kahn
has consistently led the list of possible candidates to contest
France’s 2012 presidential election, according to a series of
opinion polls over the past months.  “It’s a tsunami,”  Laurent Dubois  of the Paris Political
Studies Institute, said in a telephone interview. “There is no
way that he can recover from this and run for president now.”  President  Nicolas Sarkozy , Marine Le Pen, head of the
extreme right National Front party, and Francois Hollande, a
Strauss-Kahn rival in the Socialist party, may be among
potential candidates to benefit from the IMF head’s troubles.
The charges stem from a sexual attack and unlawful imprisonment
that allegedly occurred yesterday against a 32-year-old woman at
a Sofitel hotel in midtown  Manhattan , the police said. Strauss-
Kahn was arrested at John F. Kennedy airport while on an Air
France flight heading for Paris.  “This is good news for Sarkozy, and Marine Le Pen also
benefits from the situation,” Dubois said. “The most popular
candidate for the presidential elections is out of the way. This
reshuffles all the cards.”  Call for Unity  Franck Louvrier, a spokesman for Sarkozy, declined to
comment on the Strauss-Kahn charges.  “This affair is rocking France,” Le Pen said in interviews
with France’s LCI and i-Tele TV channels today. “It puts a
brutal end to his candidacy.”  Strauss-Kahn’s Socialist party was quick to call for calm
and unity, fearing Le Pen might gain from his candidacy-ending
incident.  “The news that comes to us from New York since last night
are like a thunder bolt,”  Martine Aubry , the secretary general
of the French Socialist Party, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “I am, like everyone else, stupefied. I am asking the
Socialists to remain united and responsible.”  Former Socialist party presidential candidate Segolene Royal called for respect for Strauss-Kahn and his family.  “The news is shocking but it all needs to be verified,”
she said in an interview on the radio channel Europe 1. “People
should remain calm, under control. Nobody should try to take
advantage of the situation, in France or abroad.”  Leading Contender  Hollande said it is “too early” to say Strauss-Kahn won’t
run in the 2012 French presidential race because of charges of
attempted rape in  New York .  “We must guard against premature conclusions,” he told
French TV channel Canal+ in an interview today.  Strauss-Kahn will plead not guilty, his lawyer Benjamin Brafman said.  Sarkozy would have trailed Strauss-Kahn by 5 percentage
points in the first round of the presidential voting if
elections had been held at the end of last month, a CSA poll for
20 Minutes newspaper, BFM TV and RMC radio showed April 28.  Strauss-Kahn, whose term at the IMF ends next year, over
the last several months has declined to say whether he was
planning to run for president. The vote will be held in April
and May 2012.  The IMF chief drew heat in  France  over the past two weeks
for his lifestyle that was dubbed luxurious and ostentatious. A
photo in Le Parisien newspaper at the beginning of the month
showed him and his wife getting into a Porsche in central Paris.  ‘Hypocritical’  The latest charges add to scandals that have hurt France’s
political class since Sarkozy’s election in 2007, according to
Dubois of the Paris Political Studies Institute.  “People are under the impression that all politicians care
about is money, personal interests, trivial events,” he said.
“They feel like politicians couldn’t care less about the
country and their problems.”  This is the second time since he took the helm of the IMF
in November 2007 that Strauss-Kahn has faced allegations of
misconduct. In 2008, a relationship with Piroska Nagy, a female
economist at the IMF, had led to an investigation by the IMF
board, which concluded that while he had made a “serious error
of judgment,” he shouldn’t be fired.  “I find all these reactions of surprise hypocritical,” Le
Pen said on LCI. “The truth that maybe the rest of France
doesn’t know, but all of Paris knows, is that Strauss-Kahn has a
problem with women, some say it’s an addiction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  