-- 
Strauss-Kahn’s Arrest May Help Hollande’s Odds in French Presidential Race

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-05-16T16:40:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/strauss-kahn-rape-attempt-charge-may-end-presidential-prospects.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s arrest on
attempted-rape charges may reset France’s presidential election
race, improving the odds for his Socialist Party challenger
Francois Hollande and eliminating President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
biggest rival.  Strauss-Kahn, who was charged yesterday with attempted rape
and a criminal sex act on a New York hotel maid, was ordered
held without bail by a judge in a  Manhattan  court today.
Strauss-Kahn has denied the charges and will plead not guilty,
his lawyer Benjamin Brafman has said.  The legal proceedings may force him to stay in the U.S. for
several months, while the deadline to participate in the
Socialist Party primaries is June 28. The International Monetary
Fund’s chief, who led in all the election opinion polls in the
past six months, may be scrapped off the candidates list.  “Whatever the investigation shows, Strauss-Kahn cannot
make it back to the race and maybe not to French politics all
together,” Gerard Grunberg, a professor at the Political
Sciences Institute in Paris, said in a telephone interview.
“The game is reset; Hollande may take the lead at the Socialist
primaries, Sarkozy will try to win over Strauss-Kahn supporters
at the center and National Front leader Marine Le Pen is banking
on the failure of  France ’s elite.”  The reshuffling of the cards may prompt efforts to grab the
left and center-left voters that Strauss-Kahn’s potential
candidacy attracted.  Poll Lead  The two-round French presidential elections will be held
April 29 and May 6, 2012.  The Socialist Party  plans to hold its
primaries in October. The ruling  Union for a Popular Movement 
has no primaries planned and Sarkozy, 56, has yet to declare his
candidacy.  Strauss-Kahn’s sexual attack on the 32-year-old maid
allegedly occurred on May 14 at a Sofitel hotel in midtown
Manhattan, according to the New York Police Department. Strauss-
Kahn, who was taken into custody aboard an Air France flight at
 John F. Kennedy International Airport , also was charged with
unlawful imprisonment.  The latest poll on the French presidential race, published
in yesterday’s  Journal du Dimanche  and conducted before Strauss-
Kahn was charged in  New York , put the IMF chief at the top of
the list of candidates for the Socialist Party.  ‘Thunder Bolt’  The Ifop poll also estimated that he would eliminate
Sarkozy in the first round with 26 percent against 21.5 percent.
He would have faced anti-immigration Le Pen in the run-off as
she gathered 22 percent of the votes, the Paris-based institute
Ifop estimated, without publishing a margin of error.  The Strauss-Kahn news is “like a thunder bolt,” Socialist
Party leader  Martine Aubry  said in a statement yesterday. “I am
asking the Socialists to remain united and responsible.”  Aubry, 60, who had indicated she wouldn’t run against
Strauss-Kahn, may now be forced to take the plunge, Grunberg
said. She would face Hollande, 56, and several other candidates
including Segolene Royal, 57, who lost to Sarkozy at the last
ballot in 2007. Former Prime Minister Laurent Fabius, 64, may
join the Socialist race as well, political analysts said.  Sarkozy, who declined to comment on Strauss-Kahn’s arrest,
may benefit from his main rival’s downfall if he manages to grab
the centrist voters Strauss-Kahn was attracting, Grunberg said.  ‘Blurs the Game’  This would force Sarkozy to strike a balance between
drawing National Front voters on the extreme right, while at the
same time not scaring centrist voters and maintaining his core
supporters.  “Maybe it will too much for one man,” Grunberg said.
“Losing your main rival is not always a good thing, it blurs
the game.”  Le Pen , who draws her support in opinion polls mostly from
French blue-collar workers, said Strauss-Kahn’s alleged sexual
crime “puts a brutal end to his candidacy.”  Grunberg said the scandal will be a “bonanza” for Le
Pen’s campaign against the “corrupt French Parisian elite.”  Strauss-Kahn’s popularity eroded in recent weeks with
criticism of his ”luxurious” lifestyle after he was
photographed with his wife in central Paris in early May with a
Porsche.  Hollande’s Gain  The same Ifop survey for the JDD showed Hollande’s rising
popularity. The man who dubbed himself as “normal,” gathered
23 percent of the votes for the first round, against 22 percent
for Sarkozy, and equal to Le Pen.  Asked about his increased chances yesterday, Hollande
responded that it was ”too early” to say if Strauss-Kahn would
renounce running.  “I won’t raise myself by depreciating others,” Hollande
told  Canal Plus  TV yesterday. “I have been campaigning for
several months, I do things simply, clearly, according what I
believe is the good order and the good way to talk to the French
people.”  Jean-Louis Borloo, the head of the center Radical Party and
a former Sarkozy government minister, may decide to run as
Strauss-Kahn’s elimination opens a political space for him.
Borloo is among France’s most popular politicians, according to
Ifop.  “French people will want to turn a new page in 2012,”
political analyst Stephane Rozes told BFM TV and cited Borloo,
Aubry and Hollande as potential winners. “They will want
someone who puts the job above their personal agendas, someone
who doesn’t get drunk with power.”  Tarnished France  For Strauss-Kahn, this is the second sex-related scandal
since he was named IMF’s managing director in 2007. In 2008 he
was found to be having an affair with an economist at the IMF.  The Washington-based fund’s investigation cleared him of
abuse of power. Strauss-Kahn wrote to the fund’s employees at
the time that “this incident constituted an error in judgment
on my part, for which I take full responsibility.” His wife,
the former television journalist Anne Sinclair, wrote on her
blog a few weeks later that “this affair is now behind us,”  Sinclair yesterday said she doesn’t believe the New York
hotel maid’s accusations. She had “no doubts his innocence will
be established,” according to a statement she sent to the
 Agence France-Presse .  Strauss-Kahn was expected to attend the Group of Eight
meeting in Deauville, Normandy on May 26 and 27, along with U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . He
was expected to announce his presidential candidacy shortly
thereafter.  “The poison has been injected,”  Edouard Lecerf  a pollster
at TNS-Sofres said on i-Tele yesterday. “It’s not good for
French politics in general, it tarnishes his image domestically
and abroad as well as France’s status.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 