-- 
Strauss-Kahn’s Arrest Won’t Deter Efforts to Bolster Aid for Greek Crisis

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-15T16:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/strauss-kahn-s-arrest-won-t-deter-efforts-to-bolster-aid-for-greek-crisis.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s arrest is an embarrassment
that won’t derail attempts to bolster aid for  Greece  as
officials head to Brussels for crisis talks, economists said.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, had been scheduled to meet German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  today and then attend discussions with
euro-area finance ministers in Brussels tomorrow as officials
consider further support to stave off a Greek default. He has
been charged with attempted rape and a criminal sex act on a
woman in a New York hotel. Strauss-Kahn denies the charges.  “Its incredibly embarrassing, and not the IMF’s or
Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s finest hour, but I don’t think this
ought to undermine what’s going on,” Peter Westaway, chief
European economist at Nomura International Plc in  London , said
in an interview. “I don’t think it will affect negotiations on
Greece. In the end, issues for Greece and policy making are more
important than that and they’ll carry on.”  European officials are working to prevent the region’s
first default as Greek ministers plead for terms to be relaxed
on 110 billion-euros ($155 billion) of aid from the IMF and
European Union in a debt crisis that has also engulfed Ireland
and Portugal. Economists said that talks to reconsider Greece’s
aid terms are taking place between institutions rather than
individuals and so can endure such turmoil.  “It’s not a fatal blow to the Greek situation,”  James Nixon , chief European economist at  Societe Generale  in London,
said in an interview. “Any of these negotiations are larger
than a single person.”  EU-Led Aid  The Greek government said in a statement that it “operates
institutionally and continues without interruption implementing
the program for the country to exit the crisis.” The EU has led
efforts to aid Greece and has contributed two-thirds of the
funds committed to the rescue of the nation’s economy.  The IMF will be represented at Monday's euro-area finance
ministers' meeting by Deputy Managing Director Nemat Shafik, 
who oversees the organization's work in a number of EU nations,
IMF spokesman  Bill Murray  said in an e-mailed statement today.   Seventeen nations use the euro.   Greece is seeking an extension to the loans and has argued
 Europe  should issue common bonds to stem the region’s fiscal
crisis. Eighty-five percent of those surveyed last week in a
Bloomberg Global Poll said the country won’t honor its debts,
with majorities predicting the same fate for Portugal and
Ireland.  Greek Position  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  on May 13 opposed a
debt restructuring, appealing to claims made by the IMF that the
country’s debt “is sustainable.”  Germany  opposes a common-bond
issue, saying such a move would weaken member states’ incentives
to cut their deficits.  It’s too early to say whether Greece needs more help with
its debt crisis, though “extra measures” may be needed if the
country can’t return to financial markets next year as planned
under the European-led aid program agreed last year, German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an interview with
ARD television in Berlin.  It’s “disappointing” that Strauss-Kahn’s meeting with
Merkel is cancelled because the IMF had been pressing for
stronger measures that may involve the possibility of a
restructuring of Greek debt, Societe General’s Nixon said.  “The meeting could have been quite important in injecting
some realism in the discussions and presumably now that voice
won’t be heard,” he said. “The IMF have been pushing for a
more realistic position, and presumably the gravity of that
voice has been lost.”  ‘Leadership Vacuum’  Eswar Prasad, a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution 
in  Washington , said that Strauss-Kahn’s arrest may still
unsettle investors at a time of tension because of the region’s
debt crisis.  “Just the perception that DSK’s departure could create a
leadership vacuum at the IMF and shift the institution’s
attitude towards Greece and other weak European countries may be
enough to roil markets and raise uncertainty at a vulnerable
time for the  euro zone ,” he said.  Hotel Incident  The charges against Strauss-Kahn stem from an incident that
allegedly occurred yesterday against a 32-year-old female at a
Sofitel hotel in midtown Manhattan, the New York Police
Department said in an e-mailed statement early today. He will
appear in a Manhattan court later today, police Deputy
Commissioner  Paul Browne  told BBC television in an interview.  Strauss-Kahn played a key role in efforts to stem the
European debt crisis which started last year in Greece, with a
pledge to contribute about a third of future bailouts in the
region by the EU. His term at the IMF is scheduled to expire
next year. Speculation in  France  had mounted that he would leave
early to stand for president.  The charges against him won’t affect moves to extend aid to
 Portugal , which is implementing austerity measures to qualify
for an international aid package of as much as 78 billion euros
from the EU and IMF, said  Gilles Moec , European economist at
Deutsche Bank AG.  “The progress can continue and there should not be a
change in its dynamics,” he said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  