-- 
U.K. House Prices Rise to Three-Year High as Holidays Curb Property Supply

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/u-k-property-asking-prices-rise-to-3-year-high-rightmove-says.html
U.K. home sellers raised asking
prices to the highest since June 2008 this month after public
holidays in April limited the supply of property for sale.  Average asking prices rose 1.3 percent from the previous
month to 238,874 pounds ($388,700), London-based Rightmove Plc,
the operator of the U.K.’s biggest property website, said in a
report today. From a year ago, prices are up 0.7 percent.  Britain’s property market is struggling to build momentum
as banks limit lending and it has limited scope to withstand
higher  interest rates , Rightmove said. Two consecutive four-day
weekends to mark the Easter holiday and the wedding of  Prince William  to  Kate Middleton  undermined potential sellers’
willingness to list their property with realtors.  “The market has failed to build up a head of steam due to
continuing red signals from mortgage lenders,”  Miles Shipside ,
commercial director of Rightmove, said in a statement. A drop in
new listings means “there seems to have been a knee-jerk
reaction pandering to sellers’ pricing aspirations rather than
accommodating the reality of low buyer numbers.”  The weekly rate of new listings in the two weeks around the
public holidays fell to about 20,000 from an average of 29,000,
Rightmove said. The average number of unsold properties per
real-estate agent rose to 76, the highest ever for May, from 74.  Regional Prices  Eight of 10 regions in England and  Wales  tracked by
Rightmove showed gains, led by a 5.9 percent increase in the
East Midlands. Average asking prices in  London  were unchanged on
the month, and the only area to show a decline was Yorkshire and
Humberside, which dropped 1.3 percent.  Recent property-market data have been mixed. The  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said May 10 its house-price
gauge rose to the highest level in nine months in April.  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax division said a day earlier prices
fell 1.4 percent, the most in seven months.  Bank of England  data this month showed lenders granted
47,775 home loans in March, less than half the levels seen
around the peak of the housing boom at the end of 2006. The
central bank left its benchmark interest rate on hold at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month.  “One interest-rate rise won’t immediately derail the
market but if we see several in quick succession it will quickly
hit the buffers,” Shipside said.  Households are already under pressure from the government’s
fiscal squeeze and inflation that’s twice the central bank’s 2
percent target. A report today by Ernst & Young’s ITEM Club
showed rising prices and slow wage growth will limit the
increase in  consumer spending  to 0.6 percent in 2011 and 1.3
percent in 2012. The pre-recession annual rate was 3.3 percent.  “The squeeze on household budgets is only going to
intensify this year,” said Andrew Goodwin, an economist at Item
Club. “It will be 2013 before consumers are really able to
start enjoying the recovery. However, even then consumers are
going to be much more cautious in their spending habits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  