-- 
Pakistani-American Tells Jury He Scouted Targets for Mumbai Terror Attack

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-24T03:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/mumbai-attack-trial-in-chicago-may-touch-on-pakistan-based-terror-groups.html
David Coleman Headley, a Pakistani-
American testifying at a trial over the 2008 Mumbai terrorist
attacks that killed more than 160 people, told jurors he scouted
targets in  India ’s largest city with the help of a  Chicago 
businessman.  Tahawwur Rana, accused of using his immigration services
agency to provide cover for Headley, is on trial in federal
court in Chicago for the attack, which killed six Americans. The
charges against Rana include a separate never-executed attack
planned on a newspaper in Denmark that in 2005 printed
caricatures of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.  “This is a case about the defendant’s support of two
terror plots,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Sarah Streicker told a
jury of four men and eight women in her opening statement
yesterday in federal court in Chicago. “One that sadly
happened, one that was stopped.”  The trial began about three weeks after President  Barack Obama  announced al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed by
U.S. forces raiding his compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan.  A Pakistani native and Canadian citizen, Rana, 50, is
charged with three counts of providing material support and
resources to terrorists and faces a possible life sentence if
convicted.  In his opening statement, Rana’s lawyer, Charlie Swift,
focused the jury’s attention on Headley, whom he called a
“master manipulator” who “made a fool” of Rana, his friend
since they were teenagers.  Lashkar-e-Taiba  Swift said Headley worked for the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration after being arrested for narcotics trafficking.
He also worked for Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani group which the
U.S. designated a terrorist organization in 2001, and for
 Pakistan ’s Inter-Services Intelligence Agency or ISI, which
taught him “how to be a spy,” Swift said.  The first witness for the prosecution, Headley in 2010
pleaded guilty to 12 criminal counts and admitted to acting as a
scout for those would carry out the Mumbai assault and those who
were to attack Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten, the Copenhagen
newspaper that printed the Muhammad cartoons.  He also agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. Headley had
faced a possible death sentence if convicted after a trial and
still may be sentenced to life in prison.  “The people who did this should be held accountable,”
Swift said of the terror plots at the end of his opening
statement. “The tragedy is we made a deal with them.”  Headley History  Headley testified for more than four hours yesterday,
recounting for the court his Washington birth as Daood Gilani,
his Pakistani education shared with Rana, his prior narcotics
trafficking convictions, and, ultimately, his association with
Lashkar and an ISI operative identified only as “Major Iqbal.”  Headley told jurors he and his Lashkar handler, a man he
called “Zaki” had discussed suing the U.S. to challenge its
designation of Lashkar as a terrorist group. Zaki responded by
saying “such a big move” would need to be approved by ISI,
Headley said.  Asked by prosecutor Dan Collins to describe the
relationship between Lashkar and the Pakistani intelligence
agency, Headley said, “They coordinated with each other.”  Those charged with Rana include Abdur Rehman Hashim Syed,
allegedly a retired Pakistani army officer; Ilyas Kashmiri, who
the U.S. said commands Harakat-ul Jihad Islami, a Pakistan-based
terrorist group with ties to al-Qaeda; and the man called
“Major Iqbal,” who allegedly helped plan the Mumbai assault
and used Rana to relay messages to Headley.  Only Rana and Headley are in U.S. custody.  ‘Indians Deserved It’  Rana knew the nature of Headley’s visits to Mumbai and
after the attacks allegedly told Headley that “the Indians
deserved it,” Streicker said.  Rana is accused of aiding Headley by providing him with
false documentation and identification to aid his target-
scouting missions to India and  Denmark , as well as helping
Lashkar-e-Taiba.  “The defendant did not carry a gun or throw a grenade,”
the prosecutor said yesterday, adding that in a complex
international terror plot, “not every player carries a
weapon.”  Headley told the jury of his visits to Pakistan, which
began a decade ago, his with jihad training with Lashkar and his
recruitment by Iqbal on behalf of ISI.  Rather than define jihad as a holy war, Headley told the
court it was “an obligation to help people who are needy or
helpless.”  Offensive Jihad  When he first approached Rana in 2006 with the notion of
opening a branch of his immigration services business in Mumbai,
the two debated whether only the leader of a nation could
sanction an offensive jihad, Headley said.  “The jihad going on in the world right now would be
considered defense,” Headley said he told Rana.  Headley testified about his recurrent meetings with his
Lashkar handlers and with Iqbal, as well as his missions to
Mumbai where said he helped identify a water-landing site for
the attackers and learned about their proposed targets, which
ultimately included the Oberoi and Taj Mahal hotels, a Jewish
 community center , a cafe and a railroad station.  Punctuating his travels were visits to the U.S. and attack
planning updates he said he delivered to Rana.  Trained Physician  Swift, in his opening statement, described his client as a
trained Pakistani physician who abandoned his military service
after developing altitude sickness and emigrated first to Canada
and then the U.S.  Unable to obtain proper accreditation to practice in the
U.S., Rana went into business with a Chicago-area immigration
attorney. Looking to expand his business without being able to
travel to Pakistan, where remains absent from the military
without leave, he agreed with Headley’s suggestion he open an
office in Mumbai, said Swift.  “The evidence is coming out as I expected,” Swift told
reporters after yesterday’s testimony. “Dr. Rana was duped.”  U.S. District Judge Harry Leinenweber in April rejected a
bid by Rana’s lawyers to raise the defense that their client
believed he was helping the Inter-Services Intelligence Agency
and not Lashkar when he aided Headley.  The judge, acknowledging jurors’ possible fear of reprisals
for returning a guilty verdict, ordered them empaneled
anonymously and said the court would feed them.  “After Sept. 11, 2011, residents of the U.S. have
heightened sensitivities and fears in regard to foreign
terrorism,” Leinenweber said. “Jurors cannot face a situation
in which they deliberate in fear that their verdict may subject
them or their family to any form of retaliation.”  The trial may last into mid-June, the judge has said.  The case is U.S. v. Kashmiri, 09-cr-00830, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  