-- 
Hungary Falling Debt Risk Beats West, Shows IMF Unneeded: Chart of the Day

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s ,   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-05-15T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/hungary-falling-debt-risk-beats-west-shows-imf-unneeded-chart-of-the-day.html
The cost of insuring Hungarian bonds
against default dropped to the lowest since at least 2009
relative to western  Europe  as planned budget cuts boosted
confidence the country will contain its debt without a bailout.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows Hungarian credit-default swaps
tumbled to 240 basis points last week from 378 on Dec. 31. That
compares with a 22 basis-point drop to 187 for the Markit iTraxx
SovX Western Europe Index, which tracks the contracts for 15
governments and falls as creditworthiness improves. The default
swaps rose to a record 681 last month for  Portugal  after it
joined  Greece  and Ireland in receiving rescue loans.  Hungarian bonds rallied and default swaps fell the most in
the world this year as the government pledged spending cuts that
would help shrink its fiscal deficit below the European Union’s
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product for the first time
since joining the bloc in 2004.  “I’m hugely encouraged by what I’ve seen in  Hungary  in the
past six months in terms of structural reforms,” Timothy Ash,
head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, said at a conference in Budapest last week. “I can’t
really think of another country in the region that has such
ambitious plans.”  In 2008, Hungary became the first EU member to get an
International Monetary Fund-led bailout when demand for its debt
dried up. Its default swaps soared to 410 basis points and bonds
slumped in June 2010 after a government official said the
country was facing a credit crisis like Greece.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s fiscal measures are “very
much welcome,” Iryna Ivaschenko, an IMF official in Budapest,
said last week. “This is an ambitious adjustment and it hits
the right points, but implementation will be key.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net 
-0- May/15/ :00 GMT 