-- 
Vodafone’s U.S. IPhone Subsidies to Inflate Costs as Revenue Growth Slows

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-05-16T13:05:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/vodafone-to-count-cost-of-iphone-in-u-s-as-sales-growth-slows.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  will give
investors a sign of whether the cost of selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone is outweighing the benefits when the world’s largest
mobile-phone company reports full-year earnings tomorrow.  Verizon Wireless , the U.S. venture in which Vodafone owns a
45 percent stake, may have paid as much as $880 million in
upfront subsidies from selling 2.2 million iPhones in February
and March, based on UBS AG analyst John Hodulik’s estimate for a
subsidy of $400 per device. That’s more than $15 million a day.  The cost of marketing the iPhone, which Vodafone will
quantify tomorrow, shows the balance phone companies have to
strike when selling the latest smartphone to drive up data
sales. The Newbury, England-based company said in February its
full-year operating profit forecast excludes the iPhone effect.  “To my mind the jury is out on whether these things create
extra value for the operators,” said  Steve Malcolm , an analyst
at Evolution Securities in London who has a “reduce” rating on
Vodafone shares. “There is no question they create extra value
for Apple.”  Vodafone shares dropped 0.3 percent to 167.05 pence in
London trading as of 1:56 p.m.  The company may also report slowing growth in service
revenue for the fourth quarter, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Service revenue for in the three months
through March may have slowed to 2.1 percent from 2.5 percent in
the previous period, the average estimate of 10 analysts showed.
Service sales include revenue from voice, data, messaging and
broadband offerings and exclude handsets and accessories.  Data Strategies  Total revenue may have risen 2 percent to 45.6 billion
pounds ($74 billion) for the full year, according to the survey,
slowing from 8.4 percent growth in the previous fiscal year.
Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization may have declined 1 percent to 14.6 billion pounds.  Operators are currently working out strategies to offer the
right data packages and prices. Royal KPN NV last month lowered
its full-year profit forecast and Investec Securities analyst
Morten Singleton said the largest Dutch phone company had been
“mispricing” its service packages as subscribers move away
from voice and text message services towards data offerings.  Under Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao,
annual sales from mobile data have climbed to about 5 billion
pounds since he took control of the company in 2008. Vodafone’s
cost of sales climbed 34 percent between 2008 and 2010,
according to Bloomberg data, as handset subsidies and license
and mobile frequency costs soared.  Smartphone Boom  The British operator has said it plans to increase the
percentage of sales from smartphones in  Europe  to about 70
percent in the fiscal year ending March 2013 from 30 percent
last year. The company is switching to tiered pricing plans
based on the amount of data used and quality of service. The
Netherlands was the first market in which Vodafone brought in
tiered pricing.  Wireless operators pay handset manufacturers such as Apple
for a phone and then sell them to consumers for less to
encourage people to sign up for longer-term contracts. Vodafone
said in September last year that the highest profitability came
from mid-tier smartphones rather than high-tier devices such as
the iPhone or the Nexus S from Samsung Electronics Co. and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)   Estimates for Verizon’s subsidy per single iPhone range
from Evolution Securities’ $300 to $400 to iSuppli Corp.’s $400.  Vodafone-Branded Smartphone  Vodafone today announced plans to sell its first own-brand
smartphone on Google’s Android operating system. The device will
be on sale by the early summer, the company said today.  Vodafone spokesman Simon Gordon declined to comment on the
level of subsidies and the company’s earnings.  The total subsidy will vary as the operator could have
subsidized other handsets instead of the iPhone, said Paul Marsch, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London . “It’s the
incremental impact not the absolute impact of each iPhone.”  Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. wireless provider, may
sell as many as 11 million iPhones in 2011, he said.  Verizon Wireless started selling the iPhone, which runs on
the company’s third-generation network, in February, ending
AT&T’s four-year U.S. exclusivity for the device. Verizon also
in March introduced its first fourth-generation handset, the HTC
Corp. ThunderBolt, and has been rolling out the faster network
to boost sales of data plans and draw new customers.  Scale and Reach  Subscriber costs may start to stabilize as Vodafone
benefits from its scale and global reach that allows it to get
better deals, according to  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein. Smartphone contracts help to lock in
customers for the long-term, she said.  Vodafone has retained its stake in Verizon Wireless even
after failing to receive a dividend from the company since 2005,
while partner  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  focuses on paying down
debt. Verizon said in January it may pay a “fair dividend” to
Vodafone.  Colao in April agreed to sell Vodafone’s 44 percent stake
in SFR for 7.95 billion euros ($11.2 billion) to Vivendi SA. The
sale brings the total value of Vodafone’s disposals to about
$22.8 billion since September.  As Vodafone bets on driving data revenue and smartphone
sales to make up for subsidy expenses, it’s still too early to
say whether it will pay off, Evolution’s Malcolm said.  “There’s no guarantee in a year’s time that those costs
will simply drop away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  