-- 
West Ham Fires Manager Grant After Loss Demotes Club From Premier League

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-05-16T00:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/west-ham-is-relegated-from-premier-league-after-3-2-defeat-at-wigan.html
West Ham’s six-year Premier League
stay came to an end as it squandered a two-goal lead to lose 3-2
at Wigan, which boosted its fight against relegation. The
Hammers are also looking for a new coach.  Less than 1 1/2 hours after demotion from English soccer’s
top league, West Ham said on its website that  Avram Grant  “is
no longer the manager.” It is Grant’s second straight
relegation after taking Portsmouth down last season.  West Ham owners  David Sullivan  and  David Gold  have said
dropping out of the elite 20-team division will cost the club 40
million pounds ($65 million). Gold has said that players will
have to be sold.  “This is undoubtedly the worst moment in all the years
I’ve been supporting West Ham and of course I wish I’d done
things differently,” Gold  said  on Twitter.  Charles N’Zogbia  got the winner in injury time to put 19th-
place Wigan onto 39 points along with Blackpool, in 18th, and
17th-place Birmingham City. Wolverhampton Wanderers and
Blackburn have 40 points. The bottom three teams are relegated
after the 38-match season.  Birmingham lost 2-0 at home to Fulham and is only out of
the relegation places on goal difference. West Ham has 33 points
with only one game remaining.  Elsewhere, Chelsea, which two days ago relinquished its
league title to  Manchester United , tied 2-2 against Newcastle,
 Aston Villa  won 2-1 at Arsenal and Tottenham beat Liverpool 2-0.  Needed a Win  West Ham, needing a win to have any chance of keeping its
Premier League status, absorbed early pressure from Wigan before
Demba Ba gave the Londoners a 12th-minute lead.  The striker, signed from  Germany ’s Hoffenheim in January,
headed a Thomas Hitzlsperger cross into the net after Wigan
struggled to clear from a corner.  The lead was doubled 14 minutes later, Ba finishing from
close range. A Frederic Piquionne shot was cleared off the line
by Wigan’s Ben Watson soon after and the score remained 2-0 at
halftime.  N’Zogbia started Wigan’s fightback with a free kick on 57
minutes, before Conor Sammon slotted a low shot into the net 11
minutes later for his first Wigan goal.  Both teams pushed forward for a winner and N’Zogbia
supplied it in injury time, firing a shot under West Ham
goalkeeper  Robert Green .  “We showed how much we wanted to win the game,” Wigan
manager Roberto Martinez told his team’s website. “It was an
example of how much the players feel about the club, their
careers and the pride they have in what they do.”  Birmingham Loses  Next weekend, Wigan is at Stoke City, Blackpool at
Manchester United and Birmingham at Tottenham. Wolves host
Blackburn.  Birmingham missed an opportunity to boost its survival
chances, suffering a home defeat at St. Andrew’s as Brede
Hangeland got both Fulham goals.  Chelsea is assured of taking second spot even after being
denied a win by Steven Taylor’s injury-time goal for Newcastle.
Branislav Ivanovic and Alex scored for the Blues, with Jonas Gutierrez getting Newcastle’s other goal.  Two Darren Bent goals lifted Villa to the win at Arsenal,
who scored late on through  Robin van Persie .  Tottenham moved ahead of Liverpool into fifth place with a
win at its rival.  Rafael van der Vaart  and  Luka Modric , from a
penalty kick, scored at Anfield.  Two days ago, Manchester United drew 1-1 at Blackburn to
secure its record 19th league championship, Blackpool beat
Bolton 4-3, Wolves won 3-1 at Sunderland, and West Bromwich
Albion defeated Everton 1-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  