-- 
Steve Wynn Says New Macau Casino to Open in Four Years, Double Revenue

-- B y   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-05-16T04:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/wynn-says-new-macau-casino-to-open-in-four-years-double-revenue.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , owner of the Wynn
and Encore casinos, will double Macau earnings when it opens a
new resort in the Chinese city in four years, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Wynn  said.  “I don’t know what measurements you use -- revenue,
profitability, total visitation, but we could be easily twice as
big,” Wynn, also the chairman of Hong Kong-listed unit  Wynn
Macau Ltd. (1128) , said in a May 14 interview with Bloomberg television.  Billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , chairman of  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. (LVS) , has said he plans to recreate the  Las Vegas Strip  on the
Cotai Strip, the 1.8-mile isthmus of reclaimed land linking the
Macau islands of Coloane and Taipa. Wynn, who doubled his
company’s presence in the Chinese city with last year’s opening
of Encore Macau, said April 14 he expected government permission
to start building the new  casino  “any day now.”  Wynn, whose Macau unit has more than doubled in market
value in the past year, said he expects to open the new resort
in 2015.  Casino gambling revenue  in the former Portuguese colony
soared 58 percent last year to 188.3 billion patacas ($23.5
billion), about four times that of the  Las Vegas  Strip.  Macau’s Outlook  Macau gambling revenue may gain more than 25 percent in
2011,  Standard & Poor’s  credit analyst Joe Poon said in a report,
as bettors from mainland China flock to the only place in the
country where casinos are legal. The city’s casino revenue will
probably grow 35 percent to about $32 billion this year,
according to estimates by CLSA Asia Pacific Markets.  “The Macau gambling market will only get bigger,” said
Victor Yip, an analyst at Uob-Kay Hian Ltd. “It’s a little bit
early to say how much the new casino will contribute to Wynn’s
earnings.”  Total  casino revenue  in Macau surged 45 percent to 20.5
billion patacas in April, according to data from the city’s
 Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau . More than 99 percent
of Macau’s gambling revenue last year came from casinos.  The city will continue to be the major source of growth for
Wynn Resorts even as Las Vegas recovers from a downturn, Wynn
said.  “We’re really a Chinese company now, rather than an
American company,” he said.  Hotel Rooms  The new resort will more than double the company’s hotel
rooms in the world’s biggest casino market, he said.  First-quarter profit rose more than sixfold to $173.8
million, beating analyst estimates as the second Macau location
and better-than-expected winnings in Las Vegas lifted results,
Wynn Resorts said on April 19.  The new project on Cotai may take longer than normal to
construct because it’s being built on reclaimed land, Wynn said.
The company has been ready to start “for a couple of months,”
he said.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , part-owned by Permira
Advisers LLP, opened its HK$14.9 billion ($1.9 billion) casino
resort on the Cotai Strip yesterday after an almost two-year
delay because of the credit crisis. Galaxy has almost quadrupled
in market value over the past year.  Wynn Macau fell 1.5 percent to HK$25.70 at the midday
trading break on the  Hong Kong  stock exchange. Wynn Resorts has
gained 41 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robyn Meredith in Hong Kong at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  