-- 
Yahoo’s China Toehold Threatened by Alibaba Rift

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-05-16T20:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/yahoo-s-china-toehold-threatened-by-deepening-rift-with-alibaba.html
Yahoo! Inc.’s toehold in  China  is
under threat by a widening rift with Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,
the e-commerce provider it partly owns and that analysts say may
account for three-fourths of its market value.  Yahoo tumbled 11 percent last week, the largest one-week
decline in almost two years, after it said the Chinese company
spun off its online payment business in August without informing
shareholders, fueling concern the stake would lose value. The
drop extended amid disputes with the Chinese company over
whether Alibaba Group was compensated for the loss of one of its
most valuable businesses.  The disagreement reflects a worsening of relations between
companies that have clashed over Chinese censorship rules and
Yahoo’s unwillingness to sell its stake. It also cast doubt on
Yahoo’s ability to benefit from its part ownership of Alibaba
Group, which includes e-commerce sites Alibaba.com and Taobao.  “It gives pause,” said Ryan Jacob, portfolio manager of
the Jacob Internet Fund in  Los Angeles . “Yahoo’s Asian assets
are really the main reason that we have it as a large position
in our fund.”  Other investors, including  David Einhorn ’s Greenlight
Capital Inc., have bought Yahoo because of its stake in Alibaba.
The holding helps it benefit from demand in China, the world’s
No. 1 Internet market with 457 million users.  The holding had been one of the few alluring assets for a
company struggling to take share from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in the U.S.
online-ad market, projected by EMarketer Inc. to swell to $28.5
billion this year. Yahoo is also vying for Web users and
advertisers against social media upstarts led by Facebook Inc.  Yahoo Tumbles  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , fell 74 cents to
$15.81 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading at 4 p.m. New York time.
It has lost 15 percent since May 10, when Yahoo said Alibaba
Group spun off its Alipay unit to a company mostly owned by Jack Ma, chief executive officer of Alibaba Group. Later in the week,
Yahoo said it wasn’t consulted about the transfer.  Ma defended the U.S. shareholder’s claims about the lack of
the disclosure on the transfer, saying May 14 that the move was
“lawful” and “transparent.  “For the management, there was only one option open to us,
and we have done the right thing,” Ma said at a shareholders
meeting held by Alibaba Group unit  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  The action
on Alipay helped the business obtain its online payment license
to continue service, supporting the development of other Alibaba
operations such as Taobao, Ma said.  Restore confidence  Alibaba Group and Yahoo said in a joint statement yesterday
that they and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , Alibaba Group’s second-largest
shareholder, are “engaged in and committed to productive
negotiations to resolve outstanding issues related to Alipay.”  Softbank fell 1.8 percent in Tokyo trading today, after
declining 6.8 percent last week.  Alipay’s transfer adds to challenges facing Yahoo CEO  Carol Bartz , who is attempting to revive growth and restore investors’
confidence three years after her predecessor, Jerry Yang,
rebuffed a takeover bid by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   “The value of the stake in Alibaba today is perceived to
be worth more than the value of Yahoo in the U.S. and everywhere
else that it consolidates operations,” said  Jordan Rohan , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York. “There’s a real
management credibility issue on at least one side of the table,
possibly both.”  Who Knew What, When  Yahoo said last week it learned of the spinoff in March and
that it began negotiations over Alipay with Alibaba Group and
Softbank. The payments business has a value of $5 billion, Brett Harriss, an analyst at Gabelli & Co., wrote in a report last
week.  Alibaba Group was compensated for the spinoff, a Hong Kong-
based Alibaba spokesman, John Spelich, said by phone May 13. He
declined to disclose the amount.  Yahoo disagrees with Alibaba Group’s assertion about
compensation, said a person who is familiar with the matter and
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  Alibaba Group was paid about 300 million yuan ($46 million)
for Alipay by a company controlled by Ma, Caing.com reported
last week, citing public company registry data. Alibaba’s
Spelich declined to comment on the report.  Disclosing Transaction  Another point of contention: when Alibaba Group informed
its board and shareholders about the spinoff. Yahoo says Alibaba
Group didn’t disclose the transaction until March 31, more than
half a year after the August transfer of ownership.  Alibaba Group said its board, which includes Yahoo co-
founderYang and Softbank President Masayoshi Son, was informed
of a transfer of Alipay equity in July 2009 -- well before the
spinoff. Yahoo learned of a temporary and provisional
restructuring of Alipay at that time, though Alibaba Group
maintained operational and financial control over Alipay, the
person said.  “It does look dubious for Alibaba to backdoor this without
at least floating the idea first,” Michael Clendenin,  managing
director  at research company RedTech Advisors in  Shanghai .
“Yahoo should not be happy about this. From a corporate
governance point of view, Alibaba should know better. It’s very
messy the way Alibaba went about this.”  ‘Productive negotiations’  Relations worsened last year as the companies failed to
reach an agreement to let Alibaba Group buy back shares. Yahoo
acquired the stake in 2005 in exchange for $1 billion and
ownership of Yahoo’s Chinese unit. Alibaba Group CFO Joseph Tsai
held at least two meetings with his counterpart at Yahoo, Tim Morse.  Ma said on May 14 that the breakdown in talks caused a
“loss of confidence” in Yahoo. Tsai said the same day that he
expects to have the opportunity to buy back shares again.  Fissures became public by January 2010 when Alibaba Group
described as “reckless“ Yahoo’s support for Google, which
tangled with Chinese authorities over the nation’s Web-
censorship rules.  Before the latest cooling of relations, Yahoo had received
a vote of confidence from Greenlight Capital, which said last
month it added shares in the company. Einhorn gained renown from
his bet against Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, before
its bankruptcy.  Alibaba Group may account for as much as 75 percent of
Yahoo’s valuation, according to Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst at
Caris & Co. in  San Francisco  who rates the stock a “buy” and
doesn’t own it. Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba Group ultimately may be
worth as much as the company’s entire market value, Greenlight
wrote in an April letter.  Investors now may think twice about using Yahoo as a
gateway to China, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners
LP in  New York .  “The risk may have been higher than they thought --that’s
your lesson,” Gillis said. “You’re dealing with a cross-border
situation, and the company may not have as much control at
determining its own fate as we previously thought.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  