-- 
Yemen Opposition Says Plan to Remove Saleh Collapses; Seven Dead in Syria

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-15T22:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-15/yemen-opposition-plan-dead-syria-attacks-protesters-correct-.html
Yemen’s Joint Meetings Party, a
coalition of six opposition groups, said a plan to end the
country’s political crisis is dead following a visit by the
chief envoy of Arab Gulf states seeking to broker a deal.  Elsewhere in the Middle East yesterday, Syrian security
forces attacked street protesters for a second day. Troops
entered Al Aridha, near the border with Lebanon, amid heavy
gunfire, the al-Jazeera television network reported. Twelve
protesters were were killed in Talkalakh, Aleppo and near Majdal
Shams, according to news outlets including the al-Arabiya
television network and the Syrian  news agency .  Syrian activists rejected the offer of a “national
dialogue” announced May 14 by Information Minister Adnan Mahmoud, saying forces must stop shooting protesters first, al-
Jazeera reported yesterday, citing activist groups.  Meeting in Cairo, the 22-member  Arab League  elected
Egyptian Foreign Minister Nabil el-Arabi as its new secretary-
general, Egyptian state television reported yesterday. He
succeeds  Amre Moussa , who has held the post for the last decade.
Moussa has said he is running for president of  Egypt  in
elections this year.  Libyan officials including Prime Minister Ali al-Mahmoudi Al Baghdadi met with Abdel Elah Al-Khatib, the United Nations
special envoy to the country, in Tripoli yesterday, and said
they were ready to cooperate with the UN. The government has yet
to meet the conditions for a cease-fire.  In the Streets  In Yemen, the opposition coalition is willing to meet again
with Abdel Latif al-Zayyani, the secretary-general of the Gulf
Cooperation Council, to explore new options, Mohammed Qahtan,
spokesman for the opposition, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. The current proposal was considered “dead,” he
said.  Thousands of protesters returned to the streets in Sana’a,
the capital, calling for an end to the 32-year rule of President
Ali Abdullah Saleh. Several people marched through the streets
carrying a makeshift coffin with the words “GCC Initiative”
written on the side.  Protests have persisted since the government and the Joint
Meetings Parties failed to sign a GCC-brokered plan last month.
Under the terms of the plan, Saleh would have ceded power within
a month of signing the deal and would be granted immunity from
prosecution. Al-Zayyani visited Sana’a on May 14 to revive the
group’s stalled peace initiative, the official Saba news service
said.  Protests in Yemen calling for an end to Saleh’s rule are in
their fourth month. At least 100 people have died as security
forces have repeatedly fired on demonstrations that began on
Feb. 11, according to the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human Rights
in Sana’a.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  