-- 
‘Big Short’ Author Lewis Sued, Accused of Defaming Wing Chau

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-02-28T22:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/-big-short-author-lewis-is-sued-for-defamation-by-harding-advisory-s-chau.html
Author  Michael Lewis  was sued by
Wing Chau, president and principal of Harding Advisory LLC, who
accused the writer of defaming him in his 2010 book “ The Big
Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine .”  Chau, a manager of collateralized debt obligations,
according to a complaint filed Feb. 25 in  Manhattan  federal
court, claims the book unfairly casts him as one of the
“villains” responsible for the 2008 financial collapse.  The book “depicts Mr. Chau as someone who ignored his
professional responsibilities, made misrepresentations to
investors, charged money for work that was not performed, had no
stake in the CDOs he managed, was incompetent or reckless in
carrying out his responsibilities, and violated his fiduciary
duties by putting the interests of ‘Wall Street bond trading
desks’ above those of his investors,” according to the
complaint.  Also named in the suit, which seeks unspecified damages,
are the book’s publisher,  W.W. Norton & Co. , and  Steven Eisman ,
managing director of FrontPoint Partners LLC, whom Chau
describes in the complaint as “one of the principal sources
Lewis relied on in writing ‘The Big Short.’”  The hardcover edition of the book spent six weeks atop The
New York Times’s list of nonfiction bestsellers, according to
the complaint. The lawsuit also states that Brad Pitt’s
production company has purchased the movie rights and plans to
release a film through  Paramount Pictures .  Colorful Characters  “As a master storyteller, Lewis recognizes that colorful
characters -- especially those depicted as heroes and villains -
- make for compelling reading,” the complaint states. “‘The
Big Short’ is structured accordingly.”  Among the alleged defamatory statements in the book is a
reference to Chau as “a man who had made it possible for tens
of thousands of actual human beings to be handed money they
could never afford to repay.”  Lewis, a columnist for Bloomberg News, had no comment on
the suit. His first book,   Liar’s Poker ,” was a best-seller
about the trading culture at  Salomon Brothers , where he had
worked.  Norton spokeswoman Elizabeth Riley had no immediate
comment.  Chau is described in the complaint as a native of  Hong Kong 
whose family escaped Mao Zedong’s  China  in 1953 and settled in
Rhode Island where his father opened a restaurant. He once
worked at Salomon Brothers as an analyst, the suit states.  In 2006 Chau formed Harding, which is also a plaintiff in
the suit. It has managed as much as $21 billion in assets, the
complaint states.  The case is Chau v. Lewis, 11-cv-1333, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York 
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at  djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  