-- 
`Fake Pot' Said to Give Marijuana-Like High to Be Banned by U.S. Tomorrow

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-02-28T21:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/-fake-pot-providing-marijuana-like-highs-to-be-banned-tomorrow.html
Certain types of “fake pot” that
can provide marijuana-like highs will be banned under U.S.  rules 
that take effect tomorrow, according to the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration.  Five chemicals commonly used in smokable herb blends sold
online, in smoke shops and  convenience stores  will be
temporarily restricted, said Rusty Payne, a spokesman for the
agency. The DEA proposed banning the chemicals in November.  There has been a “rapid and significant increase in abuse
of these substances in the  United States ,” according to a DEA
 notice  to be published tomorrow. The restrictions are aimed at
avoiding “an imminent hazard to the public safety,” the notice
said.  The chemicals, designed to mimic THC, the active ingredient
in marijuana, have gained popularity, especially among teens and
young adults, according to the DEA. Fake pot has been marketed
as legal because the active ingredients are different from those
in the real thing.  Use of the substances has prompted visits to emergency
rooms and more than 3,500  calls  to poison control centers since
2010, according to the  American Association  of Poison Control
Centers in Alexandria, Virginia.  The products are sold under such brand names as Spice, Red
X Dawn and K2 and are typically labeled as incense to mask their
intended purpose, according to the DEA.  Producers of some synthetic products are advertising online
that they have reformulated using chemicals that aren’t covered
by the DEA’s planned restrictions.  States’ Restrictions  At least 18 states have banned common chemicals in fake
pot, according to the DEA. Lawmakers in Washington have proposed
permanent federal restrictions.  Researchers who want to use the chemicals must get approval
from the DEA. Those who violate the rules may face civil and
criminal penalties, according to the  DEA  notice.  The five substances, known as synthetic cannabinoids, are
biologically similar to THC, the main active chemical in
marijuana. They were developed as research tools and aren’t
intended for human consumption, according to the DEA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in  Washington  at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  