-- 
‘King’s Speech’ Garners Four Top Oscars, Including Best Picture

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-02-28T06:19:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/-the-king-s-speech-wins-academy-award-for-best-picture.html
“The King’s Speech” reigned as
best picture and its leading man  Colin Firth  won the Oscar for
best actor as the Academy Awards honored smaller-budget films
that won over moviegoers.  The film’s director Tom Hooper and screenwriter David Seidler also captured Oscars last night at the 83rd Academy
Awards in Los Angeles.  Natalie Portman  won the best actress
Oscar for her portrayal of a disturbed ballerina in   Black
Swan ” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox film studio.  The top honors for 2010 films went to pictures made with
modest budgets that went on to produce considerable box-office
profits. “The King’s Speech” was made for $15 million and took
in $237 million in global ticket sales, according to researcher
Box Office Mojo. “Black Swan” cost $13 million and generated
$204 million in ticket sales worldwide.  “The movie shines a light on something that badly needed
it,” Firth, 50, said to reporters backstage. “The emotional
response seems to be quite personal. It has been very powerful
to be on the receiving end of that.”  “The King’s Speech,” distributed by Weinstein Co., tells
the story of King George VI’s relationship with a therapist,
played by  Geoffrey Rush , who helps him overcome a stammer. In
the role, Firth also struggles with doubts about his fitness
to be Britain’s monarch. Seidler was himself a stutterer as a 
youngster.  ‘The Film Should Stand’  Weinstein Co. won a PG-13 rating for an alternate version
of the movie from the  Motion Picture Association  of America on
Feb. 25. The New York-based studio plans to release the film
after advertising the difference between it and the R-rated
original, which included scenes with strong language, the MPAA
said.  Firth told reporters he doesn’t support the changes made to
the film.  “I don’t take this stuff lightly,” Firth said. “In the
context of this film it couldn’t be more edifying or less
malicious. It’s about a man trying to free himself through the
expression of forbidden words. I think the film should stand.”  Aaron Sorkin won the Oscar for best adapted screenplay for
“The Social Network,”  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s film about Facebook Inc.
and its founder  Mark Zuckerberg .  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
“Inception” won four Oscars, including best cinematography and
visual effects.  ‘Extraordinary Journey’  Disney’s “Toy Story 3” captured the Academy Award for
best animated feature, and its “Alice in Wonderland” won two
Oscars, including best art direction. The annual awards show,
hosted by James Franco and Anne Hathaway, was broadcast live on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC network from the Kodak Theatre.  “The Fighter,” based on the real-life story of boxer
Micky Ward’s climb to championship, brought best-supporting
actor Oscars for Christian Bale and Melissa Leo. Bale, 37, won
for his portrayal of Dicky Eklund, Ward’s junkie half-brother.
Leo, 50, took the honor for playing Ward’s mother in the film
distributed by  Paramount Pictures .  The film, which features Mark Wahlberg as Ward and Bale as
his troubled half-brother, has grossed $107.3 million worldwide
on a production budget of $25 million. Leo earlier won a Golden
Globe award for the role.  “This has been an extraordinary journey,” Leo said during
an acceptance speech that included a censor’s bleep for
profanity. “It’s about selling motion pictures and respecting
the work.”  Oscar-nominated films have fared better financially than
Hollywood as a whole. Sales for all 10 of this year’s best-
picture nominees have exceeded their production budgets,
according to Box Office Mojo. Box-office revenue in the U.S. and  Canada  fell slightly last year to $10.57 billion, propped up by
higher prices for 3-D films, while attendance declined 5.7
percent. In 2011, sales have fallen 21 percent and attendance is
down 22 percent, according to Hollywood.com Box-Office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 Mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  