-- 
Widow's $363,000 Tax Bill Led to Obama Shift on Marriage Act

-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/a-363-000-tax-bill-to-widow-led-to-obama-shift-in-defense-of-marriage-act.html
Edith Windsor  and Thea Spyer had a
40-year engagement and a two-year marriage, starting with a
wedding in Canada recognized under the laws of  New York , where
they lived, and ending when Spyer died two years ago.  Her death triggered a $363,053 federal tax bill from which
her widow would have been exempt had she been married to a man,
because the federal  Defense of Marriage Act  bars the U.S.
government from recognizing same-sex unions.  Windsor’s lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of the
act was one of two cited by the Obama administration to justify
its decision to stop defending the law. The decision may be a
turning point in the fight over putting same-sex marriages on
the same footing as heterosexual unions.  “I couldn’t believe that our government would charge me
$350,000 because I was married to a woman and not a man,”
Windsor, 81, said in a video statement from the  American Civil
Liberties Union , which is helping to  represent her .  Signed into law by President  Bill Clinton , the act by 2003
affected 1,138 federal programs in which marital status was a
factor in eligibility for benefits, according to the government.  Windsor’s suit to reclaim Spyer’s money from the U.S. is
one of two cited by Attorney General  Eric Holder  in a Feb. 23
announcement that President Barack Obama’s administration would
not defend the law in court.  The U.S. won’t argue the act is constitutional in Windsor’s
case in federal court in New York and in a Connecticut case
involving seven plaintiffs, Holder said in a press  statement  and
letter to House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican.
Notices went to the judges Feb. 25.  Connecticut Case  In the  Connecticut  case, the seven people -- each a
survivor or partner of a state-recognized gay spouse -- say the
act deprived them of the same federal benefits afforded
heterosexual couples.  Holder said the department will provide Congress “a full
and fair opportunity to participate in the litigation.”  A Boehner spokesman, Kevin Smith, declined in a phone
interview to say if, when or how Congress might enter the fray.  Both women in the New York case were professionals, with
homes in  Manhattan  and Long Island. The Amsterdam-born Spyer was
a clinical psychologist. Windsor, born in Philadelphia, earned a
master’s degree in mathematics from New York University and
built a career as a manager for International Business Machines
Corp., according to a complaint filed in her case.  Their relationship began in a Greenwich Village restaurant
in 1963 while both women were in their 30s. They “danced
together all night,” according to the document.  Two years later, they met again on  Long Island  and were
together from then until Spyer died.  Plan for Life  “I’d like to date for a year,” the document quotes
Windsor as telling Spyer. “And if that goes the way it is now,
I think I’d like to be engaged, say for a year. And if it still
feels this goofy joyous, I’d like us to spend the rest of our
lives together.”  An engagement that started in 1967, symbolized by a diamond
pin instead of a ring that would attract notice at IBM, lasted
40 years. In 2007, with same-sex marriage then legal in Canada,
they married in Toronto at ages 77 and 75.  New York, where a bill extending the right to marry to
same-sex couples was defeated in 2009, recognizes such marriages
that are legal in other jurisdictions, according to Windsor’s
complaint.  Most recently, a New York appeals court ruled last week
that the surviving husband of a same-sex couple married in  Canada  can inherit from the deceased man’s estate as any other
spouse would.  Long Fight  Spyer, at age 45, started a three-decade battle with
multiple sclerosis. Her last dances with Windsor were in an
electric wheelchair. Later she developed a narrowing of a heart
valve, according to the court document. She died in 2009.  Windsor paid the federal estate tax, giving her the right
to ask for a refund and sue when it was denied, which she did in
November.  She argues through her lawyers at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison and the ACLU that the government lacks both a
rational basis for the marriage act “much less a compelling
interest” -- the legal tests for treating members of one
particular group differently from others.  Four other challenges to the law are pending in federal
courts in  San Francisco  and in  Boston , where the government has
already appealed Judge Joseph L. Tauro’s July 8 decision that
federal regulation of marriage was an unconstitutional breach of
states’ rights. Same-sex marriage is lawful in  Massachusetts .  The marriage act, Tauro ruled, forced the state to “engage
in invidious discrimination against its own citizens in order to
receive and retain federal funds.”  Six Challenges  Only six challenges to the 15-year-old law are in federal
courts because nobody had standing to sue until same-sex
marriage became legal in some places, said Jennifer Pizer, an
attorney for the gay-rights group Lambda Legal.  Same-sex marriage is lawful in Massachusetts, Connecticut,  New Hampshire , Vermont, Iowa and the District of Columbia.  Holder, in his letter to Boehner and in his press
statement, said he will tell the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Boston
and the judges in two San Francisco cases who are also
considering the Defense of Marriage Act’s constitutionality that
the more rigorous standard of constitutional review is required.  The current standard under case law in those federal
circuits is that there merely be a rational basis for the law.
There is no  Supreme Court  ruling on the marriage act that would
resolve the difference.  Precedent Lacking  The appeals court that would hear the Windsor and
Connecticut cases has no such precedent to follow, Holder said.  The higher standard, whether the law is substantially
related to an important government objective, is used to assess
the constitutionality of laws targeting minority groups that
have historically suffered discrimination, the attorney general
wrote.  The Obama Administration’s abdication drew fire from the
marriage act’s supporters.    Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, said in an e-mail
he questions why President  Barack Obama  “thinks now is the
appropriate time to stir up a controversial issue that sharply
divides the nation” when “most Americans want  Washington  to
focus on creating jobs and cutting spending.”    Texas  Attorney General Greg Abbott said the law is
“undoubtedly constitutional.” He accused Obama of politicizing
the  Justice Department , trying to empower judges to ignore
democratically enacted legislation that conflicts with his
ideological preference.  Supreme Court Silence  No challenge to the law has gone to the Supreme Court, and
it has never said sexual orientation is cause for a heightened
standard of statutory review, said Harvard Law School Professor
Charles Fried, a U.S. solicitor general under Republican
President Ronald Reagan.  Fried said he thinks the law is unconstitutional because
marriage is an issue for states, not the federal government.  “If the states want to say this is a marriage, I don’t
think the feds should be interfering with it,” he said in a
Feb. 25 interview, referring to same-sex unions.  At the same time, he criticized the Obama administration
for abandoning the defense of the statute.  “They should have held their noses and defended it,”
Fried said. “That’s their job.”  The absence of administration support for the marriage act
doesn’t mean its challengers have won.  The Justice Department will continue to enforce the law,
Holder said, meaning that the administration’s abandonment of
the statute’s defense shouldn’t be construed as granting same-
sex couples the same federal benefits as heterosexuals.  Enforcement Requirement  The federal government is bound to enforce the law as it
applies to federal rules unless it is repealed by Congress or
“the judicial branch renders a definitive verdict against the
law’s constitutionality,” Holder said in the  letter  to Boehner.  “Much of the legal landscape has changed in the 15 years
since Congress passed DOMA,” Holder said.  “The Supreme Court has ruled that laws criminalizing
homosexual conduct are unconstitutional. Congress has repealed
the military’s Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell policy. Several lower
courts have ruled DOMA itself to be unconstitutional.”  Besides  the states  where gay marriage is legal, seven
others recognize civil unions, under which some of the same
protections afforded heterosexual couples are extended to same-
sex couples.  Hawaii Governor Neil Abercrombie signed a civil-union bill
into law on Feb. 23. A similar Illinois law takes effect June 1.  State Constitutions  Twenty-nine states including  Florida , Texas, Missouri,
Virginia and Utah have constitutional amendments barring same-
sex marriage, according to Lambda Legal, a proponent of equal
rights for gay, lesbian and transgender people.  The Supreme Court backed gay rights in 1996 when it
overturned a Colorado constitutional amendment that banned anti-
discrimination protection for homosexuals, and again in 2003,
when it struck down state laws criminalizing sodomy.  In both cases, Justice Anthony Kennedy’s majority opinion
suggested the government needed to show more than just a
rational basis for enacting the challenged law. Kennedy looms as
the potential swing vote should the court take up a gay marriage
case, according to Paul Smith, a Jenner & Block LLP lawyer who
argued on behalf of opponents of the sodomy laws and represents
some of the challengers to the federal marriage law.  “One could certainly predict that he’d be likely to apply
some form of heightened scrutiny even if he might still call it
rational basis,” Smith said.  Motions Due  Motions to dismiss in Windsor’s case and the Connecticut
matter are due March 11.  Congress could join the case by getting permission from the
court, Fried said. He said it’s unclear whether the houses of
Congress could act independently of each other.  Lambda’s Pizer said the appeals court in the Boston case
probably would give Congress permission to intervene so there
would be a complete set of arguments for Supreme Court review.  “There will be defenders,” James Esseks, an ACLU
attorney, predicted. “It just won’t be the Department of
Justice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  