-- 
Domino’s, Goldman Sachs, Las Vegas Sands: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-03-01T13:36:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/a123-systems-sotheby-s-verisk-analytics-warnaco-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 8:15 a.m. in New York.    Domino’s Pizza Inc . (DPZ US) declined 2.1 percent to
$16.60. The pizza-delivery chain reported earnings of 40 cents a
share on an adjusted basis, in line with the average analyst
estimate, Bloomberg data show.    Fifth Third Bancorp  (FITB US) dropped 2.9 percent to
$14.18. Ohio’s largest lender said it received a subpoena from
the Securities and Exchange Commission requesting information
regarding accounting on certain commercial loans.    Ford Motor Co . (F US) gained 0.7 percent to $15.16. The
U.S. automaker is using its “global scale” to limit carmaking
costs and is focusing on production flexibility to match demand
changes in Europe or consumers’ response to rising oil prices,
Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally said today in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track.”    Goldman Sachs Group Inc . (GS US): The fifth-biggest U.S.
bank by assets estimated that its “reasonably possible” losses
from legal cases against the firm may amount to as much as $3.4
billion, according to the firm’s annual 10-K filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.        Juniper Networks Inc . (JNPR US): The supplier of security
systems and routing equipment to Internet service providers
plans to issue $1 billion of debt in a debut offering, according
to a person familiar with the deal.    Las Vegas Sands Corp . (LVS US) fell 3.8 percent to $44.89.
The casino company said it received received a subpoena from the
Securities and Exchange Commission requesting that the company
produce documents relating to its compliance with the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. The information was disclosed in a
regulatory filing.    Lorillard Inc . (LO US) gained 4.5 percent to $80.20.
Menthol cigarettes haven’t been proven to put smokers more at
risk for tobacco-related diseases than unflavored cigarettes,
according to preliminary findings from a U.S. advisory panel.
Lorillard’s Newport is the top-selling menthol brand with $5
billion a year in revenue, followed by Marlboro Menthol from
Altria Group Inc. (MO US) and Reynolds American Inc.’s (RAI US)
Camel Menthol, Kool and Salem, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE US): The New York-based pharmaceutical
company signed a cooperation accord in the field of cancer-
target discovery with Philogen SpA, the Italy-based
biotechnology company said.    Sonus Networks Inc . (SONS US) soared 28 percent to $3.88.
The maker of voice infrastructure products forecast full-year
revenue of $265 million at least, topping the average analyst
estimate of $251 million in a Bloomberg survey.    Sotheby’s  (BID US): The auction house declined even after
it posted fourth-quarter earnings and revenue that exceeded the
average analyst estimate, according to Bloomberg data.    Verisk Analytics Inc . (VRSK US): The supplier of actuarial
data to insurers and mortgage lenders reported a fourth-quarter
profit that exceeded most analysts’ estimates as revenue
climbed.  Vivus Inc. (VVUS US): The drugmaker had a fourth-quarter
per-share loss excluding some items that was greater than
analysts projected, Bloomberg data show.  Warnaco Group Inc. (WRC US) declined 2.9 percent to $57.
The owner of swimsuit maker Speedo forecast 2011 earnings would
be no more than $4.05 and as low as $3.85. That fell short of
the average analyst estimate for $4.10 a share. Revenue
estimates also missed projections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Johnson in  New York  at 
 jjohnson156@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  