-- 
AB Foods Drops After Saying Demand Slowing at Primark

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-02-28T16:58:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/abf-says-primark-sees-u-k-consumer-slowdown-since-jan-1.html
  Associated British Foods Plc  dropped
the most since May after saying it’s seen a “noticeable slowing
down” of U.K. demand at its Primark clothing outlets this year
as people cut spending.  Still, first-half profit will meet estimates, as all
operations experienced sales growth, the London-based sugar
producer and clothing retailer said in a statement today. AB
Foods declined 5.9 percent.  Rising supermarket and gasoline costs are hurting U.K.
households, as world oil prices traded near a 29-month high in  New York  today. The London-based  Confederation of British
Industry  said its retail-sales index fell to an eight-month low
this month, while a quarterly index showed prices rising at the
fastest rate in almost two decades.  “The tone on Primark has changed; after Christmas the
company was saying growth was holding up well in a gloomy U.K.
backdrop,” said  Warren Ackerman , an analyst with Evolution
Securities who has a “neutral” recommendation on the shares.
“Now they’re talking about a U.K. consumer slowdown.”  AB Foods decreased 60.5 pence to 966.5 pence at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London . It has declined 18 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 7.65 billion pounds ($12.4
billion).  Sales Growth  Sales at Primark stores open at least a year grew 3 percent
over the year-earlier period, compared with an 8 percent
increase reported in February 2010, the company said.
Performance in continental  Europe  was “very encouraging,” it
added.  “Filling your tank costs an extra 10 to 15 pounds,” said
Finance Director John Bason in a telephone interview. “People
are thinking they want to be more careful now.”  Primark’s first-half operating profit margin will be lower
than last year, because of a Jan. 4 increase in value-added tax,
together with higher cotton prices, the company said.  Cotton costs are up as much as 75 percent over a year ago,
though prices for the commodity are locked in for the rest of
the year, Bason said. Primark has “no immediate plans” to
raise store prices in the second half, he said.  Primark has 214 outlets. Ten stores opened in the first
half and six more are expected in the second, the company said.  Adjusted operating profit will be ahead of last year, with
all divisions except cooking ingredients “making progress,”
the company said.  AB Foods, the world’s second-biggest sugar producer,
benefited from higher prices for that commodity; it said first-
half sugar profit will be ahead of last year, led by its
businesses in  China  and  Spain .  First-half grocery profit will be ahead of last year, with
AB Foods’ Twinings Ovaltine unit helping to offset disappointing
profit at George Weston Foods in  Australia , the company said.  In Australia, bread and meat results were hurt by
competitors’ discounting, and floods in Queensland damaged a
flour mill at Moorooka, AB Foods said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  