-- 
AES Considering Sale of Eastern Energy U.S. Power Unit

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-02-28T21:18:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/aes-considering-sale-of-eastern-energy-u-s-power-unit-1-.html
  AES Corp ., the U.S.-based power
producer with operations in 29 countries, is selling four coal-
fired plants in the state of  New York , Chief Executive Officer
Paul Hanrahan said.  The plants, which sell power under short-term contracts and
on the  spot market , would be better owned by a closely held
company, Hanrahan said today on an earnings call for investors
of Arlington, Virginia-based AES. The company has multiple-year
contracts for most of the output from its U.S. plants, according
to a filing.  AES wrote down the value of AES Eastern Energy, owner of
the New York plants, by $827 million, citing falling power
prices, prospects for lower prices and a credit-rating cut for
the unit by  Standard & Poor’s . The four can produce a total of
1,169 megawatts, according to AES. That’s enough for about
935,000 average American homes, according to Energy Department
statistics.  “I wouldn’t be surprised for them to get $500 million to
$600 million for those plants, based on comparable sales,” Jeff Bodington, Chief Executive Officer of Bodington & Co., a power-
plant sales consultant based in  San Francisco . Bodington has
consulted with AES on plant deals, although he said he’s not
familiar with the four New York plants.  Credit Ratings  Standard & Poor’s on Jan. 26 cut its rating on AES Eastern
Energy to B-, six levels below investment grade and five levels
lower than the S&P rating on July 8.  Profit from the New York plants narrowed after AES, wary of
potential cost of carbon-dioxide allowances that allow the
plants to operate, cut back on forward sales, S&P said in its
Jan. 26 report.  Writedown of the New York plants contributed to a net loss
of $169 million, 56 cents a share, compared with net income of
$283 million, or 7 cents, in the 2009 fourth quarter.  “It’s hard to pay market prices for coal and rail for
Appalachian coal and make it  work,” Seth Schwartz, an analyst
at Energy Ventures Analysis Inc. in Arlington,  Virginia , said
today in a telephone interview.  The largest of the four
plants, Somerset, “has some real value,” he said, declining to
estimate an amount. “They wrote it off, so they’ll take what
they can get.”  AES rose 11 cents to $12.37 at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Mark Chediak} in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
{Jim Polson} in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Resnick-Ault at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net  