-- 
African Rainbow’s CEO Wilkens Steps Down, Replacement Sought

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-02-28T16:18:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/african-rainbow-s-ceo-wilkens-to-become-director-for-strategic-development.html
  African Rainbow Minerals Ltd ., a
black-owned mining company in  South Africa , said Chief Executive
Officer Andre Wilkens, an Afrikaans speaker who began work as a
trainee miner in 1969, will resign after overseeing a sevenfold
increase in the producer’s value.  “Andre in particular has made a huge, huge contribution to
the development and growth of African Rainbow,” founder and
Chairman Patrice Motsepe told investors in Johannesburg today.  The CEO, 62, will become an executive director in the
office of Motsepe, who indirectly owns about 40 percent of the
company and appointed Wilkens in 2004 to lead the largest black-
owned mining company listed in the city. Wilkens will work with
a new CEO, who has yet to be appointed, Motsepe said.  Wilkens spent 13.5 billion rand ($1.9 billion) since 2005
and built at least seven mines in six years to meet the
Johannesburg-based company’s aim of doubling output of
commodities including  iron ore , manganese, platinum and nickel
by 2010. Employees doubled to 22,776 and the company’s market
value surged to 44.3 billion rand.  Black-owned mine operators benefited as South Africa pushed
producers to sell assets to black investors to help make good
for apartheid, the segregation policy that ended in 1994.  Exxaro
Resources Ltd ., now the largest black-owned mining company
traded in Johannesburg, has jumped 12-fold in value since 2005.  ‘Aggressive Growth’  African Rainbow will maintain its “aggressive growth,”
Motsepe said. The company plans to invest 9.5 billion rand in
expansion between this fiscal year and 2013. Contracts worth
$236 million have been placed with the Konkola North copper
project, developed with  Vale SA  in Zambia.  Fiscal first-half profit more than tripled as metal output
and prices climbed. Net income rose to 1.56 billion rand in the
six months to Dec. 31, from 452 million rand a year earlier, the
company said in a statement today.  The company’s ferrous unit made up the bulk of earnings
excluding one-time items at 1.26 billion rand. Chrome ore sales
volumes from Assmang Ltd., in which African Rainbow has a 50
percent stake, more than doubled, while iron ore production rose
10 percent and manganese output climbed 43 percent, it said.
Iron ore prices more than doubled from a year earlier, it added.  Wilkens invested in mine expansion to double 2005 output
even as a global recession hit, helping the company benefit from
rising metal prices over the past two years. The London Metals
Index, comprising six primary metals including copper, alumina
and nickel, increased 24 percent last year.  Wilkens, who was named a director of Harmony Gold Mining
Co. in 2003, also became CEO of African Rainbow Minerals Gold
and later African Rainbow Minerals Platinum. He was asked to
stay on as CEO of African Rainbow three years ago when he
reached  retirement age , Jongisa Klaas, a spokeswoman for the
company, said by mobile phone today.  African Rainbow was little changed at 211.20 rand by the 5
p.m. close of Johannesburg trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  