-- 
Thai Ruling Party Pledges to Boost Minimum Wage 25% in Two Years

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-02-28T04:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/thai-ruling-party-pledges-to-boost-minimum-wage-25-in-two-years.html
  Thailand ’s ruling Democrat Party
pledged to raise the minimum wage by 25 percent over two years
and offer more university scholarships to improve the country’s
competitiveness, spokesman Buranaj Smutharaks said.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said on Feb. 9 an election
would be held by the end of June, about six months before his
term is set to expire. His party is seeking to win the most
seats in an election for the first time since 1992.  “Wage rates in Thailand are among the lowest in the world
compared with similarly sized economies,” Buranaj said by phone
from Bangkok today. “We will benefit in terms of
competitiveness and innovation by moving to a more highly
skilled workforce.”  Abhisit took power in a 2008 parliamentary vote after a
court disbanded the ruling party linked to former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  for election fraud. Thaksin-affiliated
parties have won the most seats in the past four elections on
the back of strong support in poorer northern regions.  The Democrat Party also plans to give education loans to
250,000 university students and community land deeds that will
benefit 250,000 farmers, Buranaj said. Thailand’s economy, the
second-biggest in  Southeast Asia , strengthened in the fourth
quarter on exports and  consumer spending , capping the fastest
annual expansion in 15 years and adding to the central bank’s
case to raise borrowing costs further.  Thailand’s minimum wage in terms of purchasing power parity
is $295 a month, compared with $85 in Vietnam, $148 in Indonesia
and $379 in the  Philippines , International Labor Organization
statistics  show . The country’s average daily minimum wage
increased by 25 percent over the past decade to 206 baht ($6.73)
from 165 baht, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  