-- 
AIG Cuts Jobs as Bailed-Out Insurer’s Headcount Trails MetLife

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-02-28T18:53:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/aig-cuts-jobs-as-bailed-out-insurer-s-headcount-trails-metlife.html
  American International Group Inc .
cut its workforce by more than a third last year as the bailed-
out insurer sold profitable units, including one to rival  MetLife Inc ., which now has more employees.  AIG had about 63,000 workers as of Dec. 31, the New York-
based firm said in a regulatory filing last week, a 34 percent
drop from a year earlier. MetLife, the largest U.S. life
insurer, ended the year with 66,000 employees, a 22 percent
increase, as it bought American  Life Insurance  Co., or Alico,
from AIG.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, is reducing
AIG’s workforce as he dismantles a company that Maurice “Hank” Greenberg built with $50 billion in acquisitions in his four
decades leading the firm through 2005. AIG has announced more
than 30 asset sales including an initial public offering of AIA
Group Ltd., its main Asian life business, since taking a U.S.
bailout that has swelled to $182.3 billion.  “A large portion of that reduction in workforce is just
through those divestitures,” said Jonathan Hatcher, an analyst
at Jefferies Group Inc., in an interview today. AIG and the U.S.
government have sought to simplify the company “to remove it
from the too-big-to-fail category.”  In addition to asset sales, AIG also shuttered  Hong Kong 
and Tokyo offices of the derivatives unit that brought the
company to the brink of collapse with bets on mortgages.  ‘Better Opportunities’  AIG, which had as many as 116,000 employees at its peak in
2008, last week reported its first profit in three quarters on
gains from asset sales. AIG’s net income exceeded $11 billion
for the three months ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of
$8.87 billion in the same period a year earlier.  The reduction in AIG’s workforce is primarily due to the
sale of assets, including Alico and AIA, Mark Herr, a spokesman,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Not all the attrition at AIG was just AIG letting people
go,” Hatcher said. “A lot of employees left AIG for better
opportunities elsewhere.”  More than 70 managers departed, some bringing subordinates
with them, since the September 2008 rescue. In July,  Harvey Golub  resigned as chairman after clashing with Benmosche over
AIA’s sale. Rodney Martin, who led non-U.S. life operations,
joined MetLife in November to help with the Alico integration.
MetLife said it would keep “almost all” of Alico’s employees,
which totaled about 12,500 when the deal was announced in March.  Benmosche has been hiring risk managers as the company
prepares for a public offering that would reduce the U.S.
Treasury Department’s 92 percent stake.  AIG named Sid Sankaran on Nov. 8 as chief risk officer,
replacing  Robert Lewis , who said in June that the insurer
underestimated the risk of subprime home loans. Sankaran,
previously a partner at consulting firm  Oliver Wyman , last month
hired Brian Peters, formerly of the Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York , to help manage risk.  Principal, Berkshire  Rival insurer  Principal Financial Group Inc . also cut jobs
last year. The  Des Moines , Iowa-based seller of life insurance
and retirement products reduced its workforce to 13,627 from
14,487 in 2009, according to regulatory filings.  Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . joined MetLife in
adding employees. The Omaha, Nebraska-based firm increased its
workforce by 3,406 people last year as the company added staff
at railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe and car insurer Geico.
Berkshire had 260,519 employees at the end of 2010, according to
its  annual report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  