-- 
Alzheimer's Disease May Be Passed Down From Ailing Mothers, Study Suggests

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-02-28T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/alzheimer-s-disease-may-be-passed-down-from-mothers-study-says.html
Mothers may be more likely to pass
down Alzheimer’s disease to their children than fathers, a
finding that may help identify patients earlier, researchers
from the University of Kansas School of Medicine said.  Healthy older adults with no cognitive problems whose
mothers had Alzheimer’s disease had more brain shrinkage than
those who had a father or no parent with the disease, according
to research published today in the journal  Neurology .  About 5.3 million Americans have  Alzheimer’s  disease and
the number may increase to as much as 16 million by 2050,
according to the  Alzheimer’s Association . Age and family history
are the two biggest risk factors for developing the disease, the
researchers said. Today’s study provides more details on the
biology behind the disease, study author  Jeffrey Burns  said.  “Our data is another piece to this puzzle that suggests
that maternal inheritance is more important than paternal,”
said Burns, director of the Alzheimer and Memory Program at the
University of Kansas Medical Center in  Kansas City , in a Feb. 25
telephone interview. “It appears that maternal factors might be
imparting some risk that we don’t see coming from paternal or
lack of family history.”  Researchers analyzed 53 people ages 60 and older who had no
signs of dementia. Of those, 11 had mothers with the disease and
10 had fathers with the condition. They then were given brain
scans and cognitive tests over the two-year study.  Study Results  The brain’s  gray matter , which is part of nerve cells
responsible for processing signals, shrank twice as much over
the two years in study participants who reported their mothers
had Alzheimer’s compared with those who had a father with the
disease or no family history of the illness, the researchers
said. Those whose mothers had the condition also saw the size of
their brains decrease more than those whose fathers had the
disease, according to the researchers.  Brain atrophy, or shrinkage of the brain, occurs in
Alzheimer’s disease, the researchers said.  Whether those in the study will develop Alzheimer’s disease
remains to be seen, Burns said. The researchers are continuing
to follow the participants. Also, larger studies are needed to
replicate these findings, he said.  People whose mothers have Alzheimer’s shouldn’t panic after
reading these results, said Marc L. Gordon, a neurologist and
Alzheimer’s researcher at the  Feinstein Institute for Medical
Research  in Manhasset,  New York .  “It’s very important to recognize a risk factor is not the
same thing as being absolutely certain someone will get the
disease,” Gordon, who wasn’t an author on today’s paper, said
in a Feb. 25 telephone interview. “It’s an increased risk but
it doesn’t mean you will certainly get this.”  The study was funded by the U.S. National Institutes of
Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  