-- 
Americans Earn a `D' on Understanding How Credit Scores Work, Survey Finds

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-02-28T21:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/americans-earn-a-d-on-understanding-how-credit-scores-work.html
Americans don’t fully understand how
their credit scores are determined or how the scores may be
used, according to a survey by the  Consumer Federation of
America  and  VantageScore Solutions .  About 67 percent of those surveyed incorrectly said that
age is used in calculating credit scores, and a majority of
those surveyed didn’t know that a landlord or a cell-phone
company may consider applicants’ numbers in deciding whether to
offer housing or service and at what price. Almost half of
respondents correctly said a credit score is primarily used to
assess risk for lenders that a borrower won’t repay a loan,
according to the report released today.  “When we totaled up the scores Americans only scored a 60,
which if you’re in school is a low passing grade,” said Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Washington-based CFA, a
nonprofit that advocates for consumers.  Most of those surveyed correctly identified what actions
would help their score, including making all loan payments on
time and avoiding opening several credit card accounts at once.  “We’re having a breakdown in consumer education,” said
Linda Sherry, spokeswoman for advocacy group  Consumer Action .
Rather than getting “hung up” on the details of credit-scoring
models, “the main point of advice for keeping a good score is
to pay your bills on time and not to take out more credit than
you need,” said Sherry, who is based in  Washington .  The CFA and Stamford, Connecticut-based VantageScore hired
Opinion Research Corp., based in Princeton,  New Jersey , to
survey more than 1,000 Americans by phone in January.
VantageScore is a joint venture of three credit bureaus,
Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, and calculates credit scores
on a scale from 501 to 990. VantageScore was created in 2006 to
compete with the FICO credit score, developed by Minneapolis-
based FICO Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York at 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net  