-- 
AMR Briefs Eagle Pilots on Divestiture Amid Union Review

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-02-28T18:37:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/amr-briefs-eagle-pilots-on-divestiture-amid-union-review.html
  AMR Corp . executives and bankers are
briefing American Eagle pilot leaders about the regional
airline’s possible divestiture as the union steps up its own
review of the carrier’s future.  Union officials will meet this week with investment bankers
hired by AMR to evaluate whether Eagle might best be sold, spun
off to shareholders or divested in another form, Tony Gutierrez,
chairman of the  Air Line Pilots Association  unit at Eagle, told
members yesterday in an e-mail.  AMR, the parent of  American Airlines , has been studying
options for Eagle since June as a way to reduce the cost of
ferrying passengers to the larger carrier’s hubs from small
airports. Investment bank Evercore Partners Inc. and consultant
Bain & Co. are advising AMR.  “I have a tough time figuring out, other than spinning it
off to shareholders, what they could do,” said Robert W. Mann,
president of consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in  Port Washington ,  New
York . “I don’t see any interest from an outside party.”  AMR rose 9 cents, 1.3 percent, to $6.73 at 1:35 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company isn’t
commenting on its plans for Eagle, said Ed Martelle, a spokesman
for  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR.  Gerard Arpey, chief executive officer of AMR and American,
met with the regional airline’s pilots last week, along with
Eagle CEO Dan Garton, Gutierrez told union members yesterday.
Garton will brief the union’s leadership again at meetings
starting on March 9, Gutierrez said.  ‘Rapidly Changing’  “Please be patient as we work to get you accurate and
timely facts in a rapidly changing environment,” Gutierrez
wrote.  The union chief told Eagle pilots in a Feb. 4 message that
a spinoff, with AMR shares split between the parent company and
the new Eagle, seemed to be “the most likely scenario” for the
unit’s future.  Operating as an independent company would give Eagle the
opportunity to compete for flying contracts with other airlines.
American studied a divestiture on at least one other occasion
before pulling the business off the market in July 2008.  AMR doesn’t break out complete financial data on Eagle,
such as debt or whether the unit is profitable. Revenue from
regional operations rose 16 percent in 2010 to $2.33 billion.
That was more than 10 percent of AMR’s $22.2 billion total.
Eagle’s traffic, or miles flown by paying passengers, rose 6.7
percent last year.  Eagle operates more than 1,500 daily flights to more than
170 cities in the U.S.,  Canada ,  Mexico  and the Caribbean.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  