-- 
Land Rover, NFL, Citadel: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-02-28T18:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/land-rover-nfl-dollar-tree-citadel-intellectual-property.html
Land Rover sued  China ’s Trademark
Appeal Board as part of a dispute with the Chinese automaker  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd ., Xinhua Chinese news service 
reported .  The suit involves two Chinese characters that the British
carmaker has used in China for its Land Rover brand since 1990,
according to Xinhua.  Geely registered the same mark in 1999, and after an
unsuccessful appeal to the trademark board, Land Rover sued the
board, the Chinese news service reported.  The suit has been accepted by the Beijing Municipal No. 1
Intermediate People’s Court, according to Xinhua.  Clothier Ordered to Pay NFL Profits from Knock-Off Steelers Gear  Placing a disclaimer on knock-off apparel that they weren’t
officially sanctioned by the National Football League wasn’t
enough for a Pittsburgh clothing retailer to avoid a trademark
infringement verdict.  The league and its Pittsburgh Steelers team sued Turtle
Creek Sportswear for infringement in federal court in Pittsburgh
in January 2005. The league accused Turtle Creek of making and
selling unauthorized Steelers jerseys and other merchandise.  In an order filed Feb. 18, U.S. District Court Judge Terrence F. McVerry found that Turtle Creek had tried to step
around his 2005 order barring sale of unlicensed NFL
merchandise. He ordered it to recall all the infringing products
and said that disclaimers placed by Turtle Creek on the
unlicensed products didn’t “dispel the potential of consumer
confusion.”  He ruled that Turtle Creek had “engaged in gamesmanship
and ‘pushed the envelope’ in a deliberate effort to evade and
minimize the effect” of his 2005 order. The apparel company’s
conduct “was knowing, intentional, reckless and not in good
faith,” he said.  He ordered the company to recall all remaining unsold
inventory of the infringing merchandise, and, together with its
own unsold inventory, deliver it to the league. The court
encouraged the league to donate the items to a foreign charity
such as World Vision “for distribution to impoverished
communities worldwide” instead of destroying the infringing
items.  Additionally, he ordered Turtle Creek to pay all its
profits from the infringing items sold during the Steelers’
2010-2011 season to the league, and to be fined at least $200
for each day the company failed to comply with his order.  The case is NFL Properties LLC v. Nicholas Wohlfarth, 2:05-
cv-00067-TFM, U.S. District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  ChaCha Search Sues HTC for Infringement Over Smartphone  ChaCha Search Inc., the operator of a question-and-answer
website, sued  HTC Corp . for trademark infringement over the
planned introduction of a smartphone called the ChaCha.  ChaCha, based in Carmel,  Indiana , seeks a court order that
would prevent HTC from using the name or trademark, according to
a filing in federal court in Indianapolis on Feb. 22.  HTC, based in Taoyuan,  Taiwan , announced this month it
plans to release the HTC ChaCha phone in Europe and  Asia  during
the second quarter and in the U.S. later this year, according to
the complaint.  “HTC’s use of the entirety of the ChaCha mark in
connection with the infringing phone is likely to cause
consumers to mistakenly believe that there is an affiliation
between ChaCha and the infringing phone,” ChaCha said in its
complaint.  ChaCha, which registered its U.S. trademark in 2007, said
it contacted HTC by letter about its concerns and the Taiwanese
company “has yet to substantively respond.”  HTC officials didn’t immediately return messages seeking
comment.  According to the trademark database at the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, the only other “chacha” trademarks
registered belong to Hefei Huatai Food Co. of Anhui, China, and
are used for edible melon seeds, dried fruits, frozen yogurt and
distilled spirits.  The case is ChaCha Search Inc. v. HTC America Corp., 11-
0262, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  P&G Halts Competitor’s Use of ‘Total Effects’ Mark in  India     Procter & Gamble Co ., the Cincinnati-based consumer
products company, successfully challenged an Indian company’s
attempt to use “Total Effects” on its products, India’s
Business Standard  reported .  The Delhi High Court told Joy Creators of Calcutta it
couldn’t use the phrase on any product that was comparable to
any for which P&G uses the mark “Olay Total Effects,”
according to the newspaper.  Joy Creators had claimed it had used “total effects”
before P&G, and therefore had a right to use the phrase, the
newspaper reported.  The court said “total effects” was an essential component
of the P&G mark, according to the Business Standard.  Buffalo Traffic Stop Yields Trademark Infringement Arrest  A Buffalo,  New York , resident faces possible prosecution
for criminal trademark infringement after he was stopped on
suspicion of driving while intoxicated, the Buffalo News
 reported .  He was charged with trademark counterfeiting after police
found more than 200 illegally copied CDs, according to the
Buffalo News.  The man was also charged with misdemeanor possession of
marijuana, the newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Church & Dwight Sues Colgate Over Battery-Powered Toothbrushes  Church & Dwight Co., maker of Arm & Hammer baking soda,
sued  Colgate-Palmolive Co . for patent infringement.  The suit, filed Feb. 23 in federal court in Trenton,  New
Jersey , accused New York-based Colgate-Palmolive of infringing
three patents related to battery-powered toothbrushes.  The technology covered by the patent enables a potential
customer to test briefly the action of a packaged battery-
operated product without draining the battery.  Church & Dwight says it sells a number of such brushes
under its Arm & Hammer label. It accuses Colgate-Palmolive of
incorporating the patented technology into its products without
authorization.  Among the products Church & Dwight claims infringes is the
 Colgate 360-degree Actiflex SonicPower  toothbrush. The
Princeton, New Jersey-based company claims it sent letters to
Colgate in November 2010, warning of the infringement.  In dispute are parents 6,189,693, 6,311,837, 6,371,294, and
6,932,216.  Church & Dwight said it will be “substantially and
irreparably damaged and harmed” if the court doesn’t order
Colgate to stop its alleged infringement.  In addition to a court order barring further unauthorized
use of its patented technology, Church & Dwight asked the court
for awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.
The company requested that the damages be tripled to punish
Colgate for what Church & Dwight claims is willful infringement.  Colgate didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Church & Dwight is represented by  Ronald J. Levine  of
 Herrick Feinstein LLP  of Princeton, and  D. Michael Underhill ,
 Eric J. Maurer  and  John C. Brosky  of  Boies Schiller & Flexner
LLP  of Armonk, New York.  The case is Church & Dwight CO v. Colgate-Palmolive Co.,
3:11-cv-01037-MLC-LHG, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Trenton).  Dollar Tree, Lifetime Brands Sued for Patent Infringement  Dollar Tree Stores Inc. of Chesapeake,  Virginia , was sued
for infringement by the owner of a patent issued Feb. 1.  Dexas International Inc. , based in Coppell,  Texas , accused
Dollar Tree and  Lifetime Brands Inc ., of Westbury, New York, of
infringing patent 7,878,493. That patent is for a cutting board
scoop.  While the complaint doesn’t specifically name which
products infringe the patent, photos of the allegedly infringing
patents are included in the court filing.  Dexas claims it’s been damaged by the retailers’ actions,
and that the infringement is deliberate.  The company asked the court to bar the retailers from
selling any product that infringes the patent, and for awards of
money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. It asked that
the damages be tripled.  Dollar Tree and Lifetimes brands didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mailed request for comment.  Dexas is represented by Daniel V. Thompson of the  Law
Office of Daniel V. Thompson  of  Dallas .  The case is Dexas International Ltd. v. Lifetime Brands
Inc., 4:11-cv-00090-RAS, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Texas (Sherman).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Citadel Sued by Righthaven Over Posting of TSA Pat-Down Photo  Citadel Broadcasting Co., the Las Vegas-based radio
broadcast company that Atlanta’s  Cumulus Media Inc . is
negotiating to buy, was sued for infringement by the company
that enforces the copyrights to the content of the Las Vegas
Review-Journal and the Denver Post.  Righthaven LLC of Las Vegas accused Citadel of infringing
the copyright on a photo of a Transportation Safety
Administration airport pat-down search, according to the
complaint filed Feb. 24 in federal court in Las Vegas.  This is the same photo whose copyright Righthaven accused
the  Drudge Report  website of infringing in an earlier suit.  In the new case, Righthaven claims Citadel and employee
Matt Allen infringed the copyright by placing the photo on its
website Nov. 18.  Citadel didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Righthaven asked the court for an order barring future
infringement and for money damages, attorney fees and litigation
costs. Additionally, it seeks to be transferred control of the
Citadel website. The company made the same request when it sued
the Drudge Report, a conservatively oriented news-aggregation
website.  The Citadel case is Righthaven LLC v. Citadel Broadcasting
Co., 2:11-cv-00308, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las
Vegas). The Drudge Report case is Righthaven LLC v. Drudge,
2:10-cv-02135, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las
Vegas).  Seinfeld Didn’t Defame Cookbook Author, New York Judge Rules  Comedian Jerry Seinfeld didn’t defame a cookbook author
when he called her “wacko” and “a nut job” on television, a
New York state judge ruled.  Judge Marcy Friedman in  Manhattan  dismissed a lawsuit by
Missy Chase Lapine, author of “ The Sneaky Chef:  Simple
Strategies for Hiding Healthy Foods in Kids’ Favorite Meals,”
against Seinfeld and  News Corp .’s HarperCollins Publishers unit,
which she claims stole her ideas when it published a cookbook by
Seinfeld’s wife, Jessica.  “Seinfeld’s statements disparage Lapine’s claim of
plagiarism as false or baseless or, more colloquially, as
wacky,” Friedman wrote in a decision made public Feb. 25. “As
statements of opinion about the lack of merit of plaintiff’s
claims, they are not actionable.”  A federal judge in 2009 dismissed Lapine’s trademark and
copyright infringement claims against Jessica Seinfeld’s book,
“Deceptively Delicious: Simple Secrets to Get Your Kids Eating
Good Food.” That ruling was upheld last year by the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in New York.  The decision “is a complete victory for Jerry -- and also
a victory for the First Amendment and the right of comedians to
tell jokes,” Orin Snyder, a Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher partner who
represented the defendants, said in a statement. Snyder said the
ruling also confirms that Jessica Seinfeld created her book on
her own.  Chris Seeger, a lawyer for Lapine, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is Lapine v. Seinfeld, 150051/2010, New York State
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  