-- 
Arsenal Posts First-Half Loss as Sales From Property, Player Trading Fall

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-28T13:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/arsenal-posts-first-half-loss-as-sales-from-property-player-trading-fall.html
  Arsenal Holdings Plc  said a decline
in property income and player sales resulted in a loss for the
first half of the fiscal year at the 13-time English soccer
champion.  Arsenal, which failed to snap a six-year trophy drought
when it was beaten in yesterday’s League Cup final, posted a
loss of 2.5 million pounds ($4.1 million) for the six months to
Nov. 30, the north London-based club said in a statement
distributed by PRNewswire today. That compares with a profit of
29.2 million pounds for the year-earlier period.  Revenue fell to 120 million pounds, from 196.8 million
pounds a year earlier, on the reduced sales of homes built on
the site of its former stadium, the Premier League club said.  “Last year we had some tremendous numbers pushed by
property sales, and also the sale of a couple of big players,”
the Gunners’ Chief Executive Officer Ivan Gazidis said in a
recorded interview on the team’s website. “This year we don’t
have those one-offs. Rather than seeing players leave we’ve
actually invested in the squad.”  Arsenal announced a record 61 million-pound full-year
profit in September. That was after selling the majority of
apartments at its former Highbury Stadium, which it occupied for
93 years before moving to the nearby Emirates Stadium in 2006.
It also boosted revenue by offloading striker Emmanuel Adebayor
and defender Kolo Toure to  Manchester City  for a combined 33.9
million pounds.  The half-year figures show property sales declined by 74.1
million pounds after the sale of 50 units, compared with 261 the
year before. The club has 35 of 655 apartments left to sell.  The only major player sold was Eduardo, who joined Shakhtar
Donetsk for 4 million pounds.  ‘Disappointed’  Gazidis said the club was “desperately disappointed” by
yesterday’s 2-1 defeat to Birmingham City, which means the
Gunners haven’t won a major title since the 2005 F.A. Cup. He
said the club’s focus wasn’t on profit but creating a winning
team. He said profit from property had paid for a 4.5 million-
pound increase in player salaries. The club has 110 million
pounds in cash reserves, while net debt at Nov. 30 was 147.4
million pounds, mainly related to costs for the new stadium.  Arsenal is second in the Premier League behind  Manchester
United , holds a 2-1 lead in the Champions League round-of-16
matchup against Barcelona and plays Leyton Orient in an F.A. Cup
fifth-round replay in two days.  “We’ve got a very young team, the average against
Barcelona was just 23 years old, and what we’re focused on is
making sure that we keep the key talents in that team together
and signing them to long-term contracts,” Gazidis said.  Arsenal Chairman Peter Hill-Wood said the club’s financial
basis was “robust” and meant it could carry on adopting its
self-sustaining model at a time when rivals such as Manchester
City and Chelsea are bankrolled by billionaire owners.  Commercial Income  While Arsenal’s matchday and broadcast income is similar to
that of United -- which makes more money from soccer-related
activity than any other team in the U.K. -- the club’s
commercial income of 30 million pounds for the year is far
lower. United last week announced it was close to breaking the
100 million-pound mark for the first time.  “Commercial is going to be a big focus for us,
particularly globally,” Gazidis said. “We’ve made a
significant investment in our commercial partnerships team and I
think the fans will begin to see some of the result of that over
the next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 