-- 
Asian Currencies Advance, Led by Peso, as Regional Stocks Reverse Losses

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-02-28T09:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/asian-currencies-weaken-led-by-won-as-rising-oil-threatens-global-growth.html
The Philippine peso led gains among
Asian currencies as regional stocks reversed losses and on
speculation exporters are converting overseas earnings for
month-end bookkeeping.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index added to its 0.4
percent advance this month on a Wall Street Journal report that
oil shipments from  Libya ’s rebel controlled eastern territory
may have resumed even as political unrest spread to Oman. The
MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares rose 0.6 percent
after declining as much as 0.5 percent.  “The Middle East tension has been priced in,” said Albert Leung, a Hong Kong-based currency and rates strategist at
Citigroup Inc. “Exporters tend to sell a little bit more
dollars going into month-end.”  The peso climbed 0.3 percent to 43.580 per dollar at the 4
p.m. close in  Manila , rebounding from a 0.3 percent decline,
according to prices from inter-dealer broker Tullett Prebon Plc.
The Indonesian rupiah appreciated 0.3 percent to 8,811 and the
Singapore dollar rose 0.2 percent to S$1.2714.  The Wall Street Journal report cited Hassan Bulifa, a
member of Arabian Gulf Oil Co.’s management committee as saying
a tanker carrying 700,000 barrels of crude was expected to
depart Feb. 27 from Tobruk in northeast Libya. The tanker may be
bound for  China , he said.  Oil Shipment  Libya pumped 1.6 million barrels of oil a day in January,
making it the ninth-largest producer among the 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, before the start
of an uprising which threatens to topple leader Muammar Qaddafi.
Crude production has been cut by more than 1 million barrels a
day, according to a Feb. 23 estimate from  Barclays Capital . The  International Energy Agency  said last week output was down by at
least 850,000 barrels a day.  Oil rose 0.8 percent to $98.62 per barrel, near the 29-
month high of $103.41 reached on Feb. 24.  The rupiah strengthened to more than a three-year high on
speculation the central bank will tolerate gains before official
data tomorrow that economists predict will show inflation
accelerated.  Consumer prices in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy climbed
7.13 percent in February from a year earlier after having
increased 7.02 percent the previous month, according to
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Indonesia will allow the
rupiah to appreciate to help keep imported inflation in check,
Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said last week. The currency
reached 8,805 today, the strongest level since June 2007.  “The rupiah will be steady before the inflation data,”
said Lindawati Susanto, head of foreign-exchange trading at PT
Bank Resona Perdania in Jakarta. “The central bank may be
tolerating gains as they want to control inflation. I don’t
expect the central bank will raise  interest rates  next month.”  Still Under Pressure  Bank  Indonesia  will review its monetary policy next on
March 4. Policy makers may refrain from adding to this month’s
interest-rate increase for now as previous efforts to curb
inflation are sufficient, Sarwono said on Feb. 24.  The central bank raised its reference rate to 6.75 percent
from a record-low 6.50 percent on Feb. 4 after consumer prices
climbed to a 21-month high in January.  The won extended its monthly decline to 0.7 percent as
overseas investors sold more Korean shares than they bought for
a fifth day after  North Korea  threatened military action if the
South continues to drop leaflets encouraging revolt. The
currency fell 0.2 percent to 1,128.90 per dollar today.  “Asian currencies are still under pressure due to
uncertainty in the Middle East,” said Brian Jackson, a Hong
Kong-based senior strategist at Royal Bank of  Canada . “The won
is underperforming too due to some comments out of North Korea,
although that’s nothing unusual.”  Elsewhere,  India ’s rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 45.2400
per dollar and the Thai baht gained 0.1 percent to 30.60.
Malaysia’s ringgit was little changed at 3.0488. Financial
markets in  Taiwan  are shut for a holiday.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 