-- 
Stocks Rise as Buffett Eyes M&A; Oil Falls, Dollar Index Drops

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-02-28T21:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/asia-stocks-fall-as-oil-gains-china-cuts-outlook-euro-drops-on-ireland.html
U.S. stocks rallied, extending a
third monthly gain, as billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said
he’s looking to make acquisitions and reports signaled a
strengthening American economy. Oil retreated as  Saudi Arabia 
offered to make up for lost output in  Libya . The dollar slid.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.6 percent to 1,327.22 at 4 p.m. in
New York and rose 3.2 percent in February. The Stoxx  Europe  600
Index rose 0.8 percent. The Dollar Index lost 0.5 percent to
76.898, the lowest level since Nov. 5, while the yield on 10-
year Treasuries rose less than one basis point to 3.42 percent.
Crude fell 0.9 percent to $96.97 a barrel. Oman shares sank the
most in 25 months as political unrest spread to the Sultanate.
Dubai’s index slid to the lowest level since 2004.  The  S&P 500  rebounded after last week’s 1.7 percent drop
after Buffett told shareholders his “trigger finger is itchy”
for deals, spurring speculation that an upswing in takeovers
will accelerate. Blackstone Group LP agreed to buy Centro
Properties Group’s U.S. shopping centers for $9.4 billion, two
people familiar with the matter said, while Ventas Inc. plans to
buy Nationwide Health Properties Inc. for about $5.7 billion in
a record takeover for health-care real-estate investment trusts.  “It’s a constructive environment,” said  Mike Ryan , the
New York-based head of wealth management research for the
Americas at UBS Financial Services Inc., which oversees about
$741 billion. “Whenever Warren Buffett’s talking about putting
money to work, that’s going to have a positive impact on
people’s views and on the market.”  Consumer Spending  Buffett isn’t the only investor with an itchy trigger
finger. Announced takeovers of U.S. companies have totaled
$161.9 billion so far in 2011, 66 percent more than the $97.4
billion through this date last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Class B shares of Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. climbed
2.8 percent as the company also reported a 43 percent gain in
quarterly profit to the highest since 2007 on derivative gains
and earnings from the acquisition of Burlington Northern  Santa
Fe , the railroad purchased last year.  “Our elephant gun has been reloaded, and my trigger finger
is itchy,” Buffett said of the outlook for deals in his annual
 letter  to shareholders on Feb. 26. The company’s cash holdings
rose to $38.2 billion at year-end, the highest in three years,
compared with $34.5 billion as of Sept. 30.  Nationwide Health Properties rallied 9.7 percent, the most
since May 2009, while Ventas slipped 3.1 percent. Trading in
Centro Properties was halted in  Australia .  Economic Data  Stocks also gained as the Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago Inc. said today its business barometer rose to 71.2 this
month, the highest level since July 1988, from 68.8 in January.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. The gauge, which was
projected to fall, exceeded every estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Separate government data showed
personal incomes climbed 1 percent and inflation remained below
the Fed’s long-term forecast.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley 
said in a speech in  New York  that the “considerably brighter”
economic outlook isn’t yet reason for the central bank to
withdraw its record monetary stimulus. Fed Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said in a CNBC interview that  oil prices 
would have to go “substantially higher” to be a concern to
U.S. economic and a weaker dollar can help growth temporarily.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will testify to the Senate
Banking Committee tomorrow.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
dropped for a third day. The Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.2
basis points to a mid-price of 81.89 basis points, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  European Stocks  About five shares gained for every two that fell in
Europe’s Stoxx 600. Syngenta AG jumped 2.6 percent after the
Indian government announced tax breaks for investments in
fertilizer projects and a rival announced an increase in sales
of agricultural chemicals. Siemens AG climbed 3.6 percent after
the company was said to be weighing an initial public offering
of its Osram lighting business.  HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s
biggest bank, slid 4.7 percent after earnings missed analysts’
estimates.  The dollar depreciated against all but three of its most-
traded counterparts, slipping 0.4 percent per euro. Europe’s
single currency appreciated 0.5 percent versus the yen and 0.4
percent against the Swiss franc before the  European Central Bank 
meets to discuss  interest rates  this week.  Krona Jumps  Sweden’s krona jumped 1.5 percent against the dollar to the
strongest since August 2008, after central bank Governor Stefan Ingves said in  minutes  of the Feb. 14 meeting published today
that the chances of monetary tightening at every meeting this
year have risen and signaled individual interest-rate increases
may be bigger than those executed thus far.  The Bloomberg GCC 200 index fell 0.8 percent to the lowest
level on a closing basis since Sept. 4. Oman’s MSM 30 Index sank
4.9 percent and the Dubai Financial Market General Index slid
3.8 percent  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.7 percent. The
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index climbed 0.7 percent as  India ’s government pledged to trim its budget shortfall while
boosting spending on projects needed to sustain economic growth.  Oil erased gains after climbing as much as 2.1 percent to
$99.96. Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al-Falih said the Saudi
Arabian Oil Co. is ready to compensate for any shortfall in
crude supply. Most ships picking up Libyan oil cargoes have done
so successfully in the past week, said Bob Knight, head of
tankers at Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker.    Brent crude  also fluctuated between gains and losses,
recently trading down 0.2 percent at $111.08. The average price
for U.S. regular gasoline at the pump gained 2.1 cents to $3.354
a gallon on Feb. 26, AAA, the country’s largest motor club, said
on its  website . The record pump price, reached in July 2008, was
$4.114.  Cotton jumped the daily limit of 7 cents, or 3.8 percent,
after  China , the world’s largest producer and consumer, reported
lower production last year. Copper climbed 0.9 percent to
$4.4965 a pound in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  