-- 
Massey's West Virginia Mine Security Chief Indicted for Obstruction

-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-02-28T19:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/massey-s-west-virginia-mine-security-chief-indicted-for-obstruction.html
The chief of security at the  Massey
Energy Co . West  Virginia  coal mine where an explosion killed 29
workers last year was charged with obstructing justice and
making false statements to U.S. agents.  A federal grand jury’s two-count indictment against Hughie
Elbert Stover, returned on Feb. 25, was unsealed today as he
made his initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge R.
Clarke VanDervort in Beckley, West Virginia. He will be
arraigned on March 15.  Stover, 60, of Clear Fork, West Virginia, is accused of
lying to an FBI agent and a U.S. Mine Safety and Health
Administration investigator about whether he instructed security
guards at the Upper Big Branch mine to announce the arrival of
safety inspectors. He also allegedly ordered the disposal of
security-related documents last month.  “The conduct charged by the grand jury -- obstruction of
justice and false statements to federal investigators --
threatens our effort to find out what happened at Upper Big
Branch,” U.S. Attorney  Booth Goodwin  in Charleston, West
Virginia, said today in a statement announcing the charges.  Stover’s lawyer,  William Wilmoth  of Steptoe & Johnson,
declined to comment on the charges against his client.  “The company takes this matter very seriously and is
committed to cooperating with the U.S. Attorney’s office,” Shane Harvey, Massey’s general counsel, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The company notified the U.S. Attorney’s office within hours of
learning that documents had been disposed of and took immediate
steps to recover documents and turn them over to the U.S.
Attorney’s office. The matter remains under review and the
company has no further comment at this time.”  Massey, based in Richmond, Virginia, dropped $1.70, or 2.7
percent, to $62.29 at 1:45 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Alpha Natural Resources Inc. agreed last
month to buy Massey for about $7.1 billion in cash and stock.  The case is U.S. v. Stover, 11-cr-38, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  West Virginia  (Beckley).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  