-- 
ASX Seeks Solution to Computer Glitch That Cut Stock Trading by $2 Billion

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-01T05:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/asx-says-australia-stock-market-to-resume-trading-as-normal-after-glitch.html
  Australia ’s stock exchange said it’s
seeking a permanent solution to a computer glitch that halted
trading yesterday and cut turnover by more than A$2 billion ($2
billion) from the daily average.  A software issue was responsible for preventing brokers
from receiving confirmation messages on executed trades for some
stocks,  ASX Ltd . said in a statement. Trading resumed today,
with no problems reported.  “That was a genuine disaster yesterday and only forgiven
because the market did nothing dramatic overnight,” said
Sydney-based Angus Gluskie, who manages about $350 million at
White Funds Management Pty. “Many investors would have been
halfway through the implementation of positions when the system
failed.”  ASX, the subject of a A$7.6 billion takeover bid from  Singapore Exchange  Ltd., halted trading of the entire market at
2:48 p.m. after a problem was discovered in the messaging
component of its ASX Trade system. Closing prices were taken
from the time operations were suspended.  Technicians have since disabled the so-called Tailor Made
Combinations functionality, known as TMC, and are now working on
a “permanent resolution,” according to a  statement .  ‘Not Unique’  “TMC is not unique to this trading system,” ASX spokesman
Matthew Gibbs said in a telephone interview today. “It’s just
specialized functionality that allows simultaneous trading
between two instruments. It doesn’t stop brokers doing anything,
they can find alternative means to do the same thing.”  About A$3.27 billion of shares were traded on the ASX
yesterday, 43 percent less than the daily average of the past 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. ASX Trade,
which went into operation on the Australian bourse late last
year, is powered by Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s Genium INET platform.  Nasdaq OMX also has deals to supply Genium-based trading
technology to Singapore Exchange and Osaka Securities Exchange
Co.  Shares of ASX dropped 1.3 percent to A$35.95 at the 4:10
p.m. close of trading in Sydney, the lowest price since before
Singapore Exchange announced its takeover offer on Oct. 25. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 