-- 
Hatch Seeks to Separate Tax Changes, Debt Reduction Efforts

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-02-28T20:10:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/hatch-seeks-to-separate-tax-changes-debt-reduction-efforts-1-.html
Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of
Utah called for an overhaul of the U.S.  tax code  that wouldn’t
generate additional revenue for the government.  “We must reduce deficits and debt through spending
reductions,” he said in a speech today in  Washington  to the
American Action Forum, a group whose website says it supports
smaller government. “Separately, we must promote  tax reform . If
we try to mix the two, we risk walking down the road to a back-
door tax increase.”  Hatch, the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee,
said Congress should base any tax changes on the assumption that
the 2001 and 2003 income-tax cuts will be extended indefinitely
instead of expiring as scheduled at the end of 2012.  The Senate’s 47-seat Republican minority, which has the
ability to block most legislation in the 100-member chamber,
will have significant input in shaping any tax bill that moves
through Congress. Senate Republicans eyeing potential gains in
the 2012 elections also have an incentive to wait until the next
Congress, when they might have a majority capable of pushing
through spending and tax reductions.  The two parties’ differences over taxes are “not
intractable,” Hatch told reporters after the speech, although
he also said, “It’s going to take a few years to do it if we
can do it at all.”  Obama, Baucus  President  Barack Obama  and Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, have said they want to pursue tax
code changes, as has the House’s top tax writer, Michigan
Republican David Camp. Obama has said he wants a revenue-neutral
overhaul of the corporate tax code.  Hatch, who faces re-election in 2012, said disputes over
what is fair in overhauling the system may be the most
“politically charged” obstacle to an agreement between
Republicans and Democrats.  “I honestly don’t know if there is a limit to how much
income they feel should be distributed from higher-income
taxpayers to lower-income taxpayers,” he said. “Maybe there
isn’t a limit.”  Almost half of Americans don’t pay income taxes, he said.
Many of those people still pay taxes to fund Social Security and
other programs.  “Does it make any sense to have millions and millions of
Americans desiring more  government spending  without the
corresponding discipline that comes with the obligation to pay
for this spending through income taxes?” he said.  Hatch also told reporters he believes a temporary holiday
allowing companies to repatriate offshore profits at a reduced  tax rate  is probably “not a good way to go.” Companies such as  Cisco Systems Inc . have been calling for such a policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  