-- 
Australian Commodity Exports to Expand to Record in Fiscal 2012 on Prices

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-02-28T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/australia-commodity-exports-to-rise-to-record-as-metals-food-prices-climb.html
Commodity exports from Australia,
the largest shipper of coal,  iron ore  and wool, may gain 14
percent to a record next financial year, driven by rising
prices, according to the federal government’s forecaster.  Sales may expand to A$251.3 billion ($255 billion) in the
12 months to June 30, 2012, the Canberra-based Australian Bureau
of Agricultural & Resource Economics & Sciences said today in a
report. The agency revised its forecast for the current year to
A$220.6 billion, from A$211.1 billion in December.  Growth from  China  to Brazil is powering demand for metals,
energy and farm products, boosting prices of copper and cotton
to records and elevating food costs to an all-time high. The
world economy will grow 4.4 percent this year, according to the  International Monetary Fund , more than expected last October.  “On the minerals and energy side we are seeing very good
prices for iron ore, coal, oil, gold and that is providing a
very good basis for export value growth,” Paul Morris, deputy
executive director at the bureau, said in an interview. Rising
agricultural prices also drove the forecast higher, he said.  Global commodity prices are likely to remain elevated for
an extended period, and tighter monetary policy in  Asia  may be
necessary to contain inflation,  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Assistant Governor Philip Lowe said last month. In the past
year, prices of grains surged, while copper, gold and cotton
jumped to records.  Tight Supplies    BHP Billiton Ltd ., the largest mining company, and Rio
Tinto Group are boosting output of iron ore as growth in China
fuels demand. Rio de Janeiro-based Vale SA, the world’s biggest
iron-ore producer, last month forecast supplies of the
steelmaking material will be tight for as many as four years.  The value of Australia’s mineral resource exports may
increase to A$214.6 billion in 2011-2012 from A$185.6 billion
this fiscal year, according to Abares, as the Australian state
forecaster is known.  Agricultural shipments are forecast at A$32.5 billion next
year. This year’s forecast was revised higher by about A$1
billion to A$31.2 billion as gains in international prices
outweighed the damage to crops from floods in eastern Australia
and Cyclone Yasi in Queensland.  Wheat futures in  Chicago  climbed 62 percent in the past
year, while raw sugar in  New York  advanced 29 percent. Australia
is the world’s third-largest exporter of sugar and fourth-
largest shipper of wheat after the U.S., European Union and  Canada , according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  “Food prices generally are a lot higher than we were
expecting,” Morris said. Prices of wheat, cotton, sugar and
wool had all been better than anticipated, he said.  Loss of agricultural production because of adverse weather
was estimated at A$2.3 billion this fiscal year, including a
loss of about A$300 million caused by Cyclone Yasi, the bureau
said. Flooding and damage to infrastructure may cost about 15
million metric tons of coal exports worth A$2 billion to A$2.5
billion this fiscal year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 