-- 
Australia Towns and Lehman to Go to Trial Over CDO Collapse, IMF Says

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-02-28T08:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/australia-towns-and-lehman-to-go-to-trial-over-cdo-collapse-1-.html
The Australian unit of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc . will defend itself at trial over the sale
of collateralized debt obligations in a lawsuit filed by towns
and councils in the country.  Efforts to resolve the dispute at mediation last week
failed, IMF (Australia) Ltd., the litigation funder that is
paying for the lawsuit, said in a statement to the Australian
Stock Exchange today. The trial is scheduled to begin March 2 in
Sydney Federal Court.  “It’s the first one to go to trial internationally,” John Walker, executive director of IMF (Australia), the country’s
largest litigation funder, said in a telephone interview.
Similar lawsuits have been filed in the U.S. and  Europe ,
although none have reached the trial stage, he said.  Stephen Parbery, a partner at  PPB Advisory , the
administrator of Lehman’s Australian unit, wasn’t immediately
available to comment, an assistant said.  Wingecarribee Shire Council , the City of Swan and Parkes
Shire Council sued in 2009 on behalf of 35 municipalities that
invested A$25 million ($25 million) in Federation CDOs, a
packaged security backed by U.S. subprime mortgages, which
collapsed, making some of the securities worthless.  Wingecarribee lost money selling the Federation CDOs in
January 2008 for A$450,000 after having acquired them for A$3
million less than two years earlier, according to the  Sydney
Morning Herald.  Some other municipalities, which had held onto
the notes, were able to recover their investments in full, the
Herald reported.  Lehman Brothers’ $613 billion bankruptcy in September 2008
triggered a contraction in global credit markets.  The case is Between Wingecarribee Shire Council and Lehman
Brothers Australia Ltd. NSD 2492/2007. Federal Court of  Australia  (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  