-- 
Hays Posts Profit on ‘Excellent’ Asia-Pacific Sales

-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-02-28T17:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/hays-posts-first-half-profit-on-excellent-asia-pacific-sales.html
  Hays Plc , the U.K.’s largest
recruitment agency, posted a first-half profit after an
“excellent performance” in the Asia-Pacific region. The stock
gained the most in more than seven weeks.  Net income for the six months ended Dec. 31 was 32.3
million pounds ($52.1 million), compared with a loss of 8
million pounds a year earlier, the London, England-based company
said in a statement today. Revenue rose 22 percent to 1.58
billion pounds. Net fees climbed 23 percent to 326.1 million
pounds, with comparable growth of 20 percent.  “18 countries around the world grew net fees by more than
25 percent, showing the depth and breadth of momentum across the
business,” Chief Executive Officer Alistair Cox said in the
statement, “Our outlook remains positive across nearly all of
the markets in which we operate.”  Hays, which opened businesses in  Mexico  and the U.S. during
the period, said 62 percent of net fees were generated from
outside the U.K, up from 54 percent in the same period last
year. Asia-Pacific net fees increased 38 percent, with record
performances in  Singapore ,  China  and Japan, Hays said. The
recruitment company may expand its operations further.  “We are doing our homework on two or three potential
opportunities in Latin America, like Chile and  Colombia ,” Cox
said in a conference call today.  ‘Net Fees’  In the U.K., net fees in industry grew 27 percent, offset
by a 36 percent drop in net fees in the public sector which
faces government spending cuts. The mixed performance in the
U.K. “will run its course,” Cox said.  “We expect to see a profit rebound in the U.K. from July,
in our new financial year,” Cox said.  “Hays has a strong, well-financed and well-managed
business with strong overseas growth,” Henry Carver, an analyst
with Peel Hunt LLP said in a note to investors, “We think the
shares offer good value.” Carver recommends buying the stock.  The stock rose 4.8 pence, or 4 percent, to 124.8 pence at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the company’s biggest gain since
Jan. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  