-- 
Bahrain Crown Prince Says Opposition Harming Economy by Declining Dialogue

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-02-28T14:43:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/bahrain-crown-prince-says-opposition-harming-economy-by-declining-dialogue.html
Bahrain’s crown prince accused some
opposition groups of hurting the country’s economy by declining
to engage in a national dialogue, the official  Bahrain News
Agency  reported.  “There are some who do not want to reform or work to
obstruct it by unacceptable means,” Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa was quoted as saying by the news service. That is
hurting “the interests of the citizens,” the financial
industry and the economy, he said.  The crown prince called for a national dialogue on Feb. 18
to help end political turmoil and mainly Shiite protests. Seven
people have been killed in the demonstrations, which began on
Feb. 14, and eased almost a week later after the government
removed tanks and armored personal carriers from the streets.  Bahrain’s al-Wefaq group, the kingdom’s largest Shiite
Muslim opposition bloc, wants “significant steps” from the
government before heeding its call for national dialogue,
Abduljalil Khalil, head of al-Wefaq’s bloc in parliament, said
in an interview on Feb. 22. Shiites make up between 60 and 70
percent of the population, while the royal family is Sunni.  Thousands of demonstrators are still camped in the central
Pearl Roundabout in Manama pressing their demands for democracy,
free elections and more job opportunities. Protesters rallied
outside the parliament today and marched to the state
broadcaster’s building, the  Associated Press  said.  Seeking to assuage opposition demands, King Hamad Bin Isa al Khalifa changed five ministers, including those overseeing
housing, labor and health, the government said on Feb. 26.  The country’s General Federation for Trade Unions said
yesterday that the new appointments don’t reflect “the
ambitions and popular voices” of Bahrainis. A transitional
government must be formed that will meet the “demands of the
people” and bring about “real political change,” it said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Manama, Bahrain, at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  