-- 
Balance-Sheet Powerhouses Deserve Our Admiration: John Dorfman

-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 
2011-02-28T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/balance-sheet-powerhouses-deserve-admiration-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
  Bill Gates ,  Warren Buffett , the
multimillionaire on the hill in your hometown: They are all
figures of admiration.  Accumulating great wealth often speaks to a person’s
persistence and career-management skill. Yet when a company
achieves the same feat, it often goes unnoticed.  I like to spotlight such companies from time to time by
compiling a list of U.S. companies that are balance-sheet
powerhouses.  To make the list, a company must have:  -- Stock-market value of $1 billion or more;  -- Cash or near-cash of $300 million or more;  -- Long-term debt of $200 million or less;  -- Total debt no more than 10 percent of stockholders’
equity;  -- A current ratio (current assets divided by current
liabilities) of 2.0 or more;  -- Fully diluted earnings of at least 10 cents a share in
the latest fiscal year.  This year, 28 companies made my Balance Sheet Powerhouse
list. That’s pretty good considering the economy is recovering
from a dreadful recession. In 2006, 42 companies passed these
tests while 38 were on the list in 2005.  Strength in Numbers  I compiled this list for six years from 2001 through 2006,
and then abandoned it for a while. I am bringing it back because
I believe investors pay too much attention to short-term
fluctuations in earnings, and not enough attention to longer-
term qualities such as balance-sheet strength.  To make this list is an honor. Yet it’s not equivalent to a
stock recommendation.  That’s because companies that make the list are often so
outstanding their excellence is already recognized with a high
stock price. To make money in the stock market, you need to find
either a great company at a good price, or a good company at a
great price.  A few companies have graced the Balance Sheet Powerhouse
list several times.    Forest Laboratories Inc . is the only company that has made
the list all seven years I have compiled it. The  drug company 
has been an uninspired investment for the past decade. It trades
at about $32, little changed from its level 10 years ago.  Going forward, I believe New York-based Forest Labs will be
an excellent investment. The drugmaker is debt free and its
shares trade at seven times earnings. The company has just
enhanced its pipeline by agreeing to acquire Clinical Data Inc.
of Newton Massachusetts for $1.2 billion.  Next Best-Seller  That will give Forest Labs the rights to Clinical Data’s
new antidepressant Viibryd, which was approved by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration in January. Viibryd could be a possible
successor to Lexapro, which loses patent protection in 2012.
Lexapro has been Forest’s best-selling drug, accounting for more
than half of sales.  Forest Labs was formerly tied with Microsoft Corp. at six
appearances on this list. Microsoft missed the debt-to-equity
ratio cutoff this year. Its debt is about 20 percent of equity.  San Diego-based  Qualcomm Inc ., the communications-
technology company, is back for a sixth appearance. One of its
latest ventures involves interactive graphics, a project it dubs
augmented reality. One example is a virtual-reality basketball
game in which players can move their mobile phones around to
shoot from various angles.  EBay Inc., which had previously tied with Qualcomm at five,
missed the cut this time, tripping on the same hurdle as
Microsoft. (Ebay’s debt is 12 percent of equity.)  Not Good Enough  Both Microsoft and EBay still have strong balance sheets in
my opinion, just not quite excellent enough to meet the
Powerhouse criteria.    Google Inc ., the largest company on this year’s list in
terms of market value, has made the list each year it was
eligible. Google went public in 2004.  In addition to Forest Labs, I think  AVX Corp . looks
attractive as a purchase. Based in Fountain Inn,  South Carolina ,
AVX makes components that store and regulate electrical energy.  AVX shares trade at 12 times earnings and 1.4 times book
value (corporate net worth per share). Those are attractive
valuations, especially for a company that stayed profitable
during the recent recession. Analysts expect it to post a 67
percent earnings increase this fiscal year.  I also like Dallas-based  Texas Instruments Inc ., which is
making the roster for the first time this year, and which I
recommended in a column last month. However, I consider it less
of a bargain than Forest Labs and AVX.  Below is the list of 28 stocks that are Balance Sheet
Powerhouses.  Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions in the
stocks discussed in this week’s column, personally or for
clients.    John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston ,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  