-- 
Barbecued Buttocks? Cannibals Inspire Contemporary Artists

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-02-28T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/barbecued-buttocks-cannibals-inspire-contemporary-art-jorg-von-uthmann.html
The tastiest parts of the human
body are the breasts and the buttocks.  So says St. Jerome, the church father, in his treatise
“Against Jovianus,” in which he describes the dietary
preferences of the Attacots, a tribe living in Roman Britain.  They were, of course, not alone in eating their fellow
humans. “All Cannibals,” an exhibition at the  Maison Rouge 
in Paris, starts with a 1593 print depicting Brazilian women
and children sitting around the severed head of a man, happily
munching the rest of his body.  Whether this edifying scene is a case of exo- or
endocannibalism, the consumption of an enemy or a deceased
relative, isn’t clear.  The title of the show, which displays works by about 30
mostly contemporary artists, is a quote from anthropologist
Claude Levi-Strauss: “We are all cannibals. After all, the
simplest way to identify with someone is to eat him.”  From  Brazil  the show jumps forward to Francisco de Goya
and the morbid symbolists Odilon Redon, Felicien Rops and
James Ensor. Goya appears in different guises: Next to his
“Caprichos,” there are prints from his “Disasters of War,”
altered by the Chapman brothers.  “Saturn Devouring His Son,” one of Goya’s most gruesome
canvases, has morphed into two photographs: One shows an
assemblage by Vik Muniz, who recreated the painting out of
junk. The other is a self-portrait by the Japanese
“appropriation artist” Yasumasa Morimura, who specializes in
substituting faces and bodies in famous pictures with his own.  Cannibal Gourmet  Cannibalism, we are told, is a popular theme in
contemporary Japanese art. Issei Sagawa, a mentally disturbed
student who killed and ate a Dutch girl in 1981, became a
celebrity after he had been found legally insane and even
became a food critic.  Jeanette Zwingenberger, the curator, says in the press
material that she turned down works that smacked too much of
gore. In fact, even the fainthearted aren’t in danger of being
overcome by twinges of nausea.  Michel Journiac’s “Mass for a Body,” a sacrilegious
performance during which he distributed sausages made with his
blood, is only visible on a video. Adriana Varejao’s painting
of guts spilling out of a tiled wall looks almost abstract.  Dark Comedy  Gilles Barbier’s photomontage displaying six clones of
himself butchering each other or Renato Garza Cervera’s
“Genuine Contemporary Beast,” the skin of a tattooed man
splayed on the floor like a bearskin rug, are nice examples of
black humor. (Cervera has said that he was inspired by gang
wars in  Los Angeles .)  Much is made of the female breast and the feeding of
babies. That seems farfetched. On the other hand, the rich
world of vampires is only mentioned in passing.  If you expect a systematic and thorough examination of a
fascinating subject, you’ll be disappointed. As an
introduction, the show is worth a visit.  “Tous Cannibales” is at Maison Rouge through May 15.
Information:  http://www.lamaisonrouge.org  or +33-1-4001-0881.
The exhibition then travels to Me Collectors Room Berlin (May
28-Sept. 11), see  http://www.me-berlin.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 