-- 
Bayer Reports Unexpected Fourth-Quarter Loss on Schering Brand Writedown

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-02-28T16:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/bayer-posts-unexpected-fourth-quarter-loss-on-schering-brand-writedown.html
  Bayer AG  posted its first quarterly
loss in seven years on a writedown of the Schering drug brand
and said pharmaceutical sales growth isn’t likely to match the
market this year.  The net loss totaled 145 million euros ($199.5 million),
compared with a 153 million-euro profit a year earlier, the
Leverkusen, Germany-based company said today in a statement. The
result missed the average estimate of a 160.6 million-euro
profit of 7 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Bayer said it’s
targeting sales growth of 4 percent to 6 percent this year.  Bayer took a 405 million-euro impairment charge on the
Schering brand, which it no longer plans to use. Bayer’s
forecast shows drug sales growth hinges on a potential new best-
seller, the blood-thinner Xarelto, said Karl Heinz Koch, a
Zurich-based analyst for Helvea SA.  “It’s dependent on timing and growth rate for Xarelto,”
Koch said in a telephone interview today. He rates Bayer’s
shares “buy.” “What they’re saying is that 2011 will remain
slowish.”  Bayer rose 1.38 euros, or 2.5 percent, to 56.18 euros in
Frankfurt trading, the biggest gain in six weeks. The stock
returned 14 percent including reinvested dividends in the past
year before today, compared with a 34 percent return for the
Bloomberg  Europe  Chemicals Index.  Three Divisions  The drugs and chemicals conglomerate is still happy with
its three divisions selling medicines, plastics and crop
chemicals, Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said in a
press conference today.  Divesting a unit to raise cash for an acquisition would be
an “extreme option,” Dekkers said.  “Looking is a big word,” the executive said in answer to
a question about whether Bayer is seeking a deal big enough to
require the sale of a unit. “You don’t have to look far,
because there are only 20 companies that qualify as a big
acquisition. We are at the moment happy with the three subgroups
we have.”  Bayer estimates the market for new blood thinners including
Xarelto may exceed 10 billion euros annually. The pill’s sales
may peak at more than 2 billion euros, Dekkers said.  Bayer has said it expects U.S. regulators to decide this
year whether Xarelto may be used in irregular heartbeat
patients. Patients with an irregular heartbeat, or atrial
fibrillation, make up the biggest market for the new blood
thinners, according to Bayer. The company filed for approval to
sell the drug for the same patient group in Europe in January.  ‘Uncertainty’  “The uncertainty is large,” with investors expecting
trial results this year for a rival product by  Pfizer Inc . and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co .,  Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst
for Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., wrote in a note to investors
before the results. Scannell rates Bayer’s shares “outperform”
mostly because of the promise of the chemicals unit, he wrote.  Xarelto will face competition from a rival approved last
year in the U.S., privately held German drugmaker Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH’s blood-thinner Pradaxa.  Revenue Forecast  Revenue rose 14 percent to 9.01 billion euros, exceeding
the average estimate of 8.52 billion euros. Sales this year will
be between 35 billion euros and 36 billion euros, the company
said, less than the 36.1 billion-euro average estimate compiled
by Bloomberg.  Sales at Bayer’s drug unit rose 7.3 percent to 4.47 billion
euros. Bayer expects sales for the unit to increase by a low to
mid-single-digit percentage this year, with earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization showing a “small
improvement” before special items.  Government reforms of health systems cut sales and earnings
by 160 million euros last year. The cost will likely climb to
between 270 million euros and 300 million euros this year, with
more than 100 million euros of the impact coming from the U.S.,
Dekkers said.  Bayer booked the first 62 million euros of the estimated 1
billion-euro cost of a reorganization announced last year to
shift resources to product development and emerging markets. The
reshuffle will cost 500 million euros this year, Dekkers said.  The company also said last year it would unify its health
operations under the name Bayer, eliminating the Schering brand
acquired in its 2006 purchase of German rival Schering AG.  Revenue from plastics and other chemicals at the
MaterialScience division rose 28 percent to 2.58 billion euros.  Sales of pesticides and other crop chemicals increased 18
percent to 1.65 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  