-- 
Belarus Warned by UN About Supplying Helicopters to Ivory Coast's Gbagbo

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-02-28T11:31:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/belarus-delivers-attack-helicopters-to-ivory-coast-united-nations-says.html
Belarus’s reported delivery of three
attack helicopters to the forces of  Ivory Coast ’s incumbent
leader,  Laurent Gbagbo , would violate an arms embargo that has
been in place since 2004, the  United Nations  said.  The first delivery reportedly arrived last night and others
are expected today, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  “The violation has been immediately brought to the
attention of the Security Council’s committee charged with the
responsibility for sanctions against Ivory Coast,” he said.  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa producer, has been
divided between a government-controlled south and a rebel-held
north since a 2002 uprising of army soldiers. The insurgents
back  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner of
the Nov. 28 election. Gbagbo, who has led the West African
nation for the past decade, refuses to cede power, alleging
voter fraud in parts of the north.  Ban did not provide details about the origin of the reports
about the helicopter deliveries. Alexander Timoshenko, a
spokesman for Belarus Prime Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich, did
not immediately answer calls today seeking comment.  Ahoua Don Mello, a spokesman for Gbagbo, said he was
unaware of the UN statement when contacted by phone in Abidjan.  Ban demanded “full compliance” with the arms embargo and
warned both the supplier of the military equipment and Gbagbo
that “appropriate action” would be taken if it were violated.  U.N. forces based in  Ivory Coast  have been instructed to
monitor the situation closely and take all necessary action,
within their mandate, to ensure that any delivered helicopters
are not put into use, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 