-- 
Berkshire Hathaway's List of Potential Buffett Successors Expands to Four

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-02-28T18:26:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/berkshire-hathaway-s-list-of-potential-buffett-successors-expands-to-four.html
  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc . said the number of company managers identified as possible
successors to the billionaire chief executive officer has
climbed to four.  Berkshire has four managers “who are capable of being
CEO,” the Omaha, Nebraska-based company said today in its
annual report to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
without listing names. A year ago, the company said there were
three candidates to replace Buffett.  “He’s trying desperately to avoid the consequences of a
runoff” by withholding the names, said  Thomas Russo , a partner
at Gardner Russo & Gardner, who has about 10 percent of his $4
billion under management invested in Berkshire. The secrecy is
designed “to try to ensure that the best people that are with
him stay with him, even though one alone will likely be anointed
the CEO.”  Berkshire is preparing for the eventual departure of
Buffett, 80, by hiring investment manager Todd Combs to help run
the company’s portfolio and by seeking to simplify the ownership
of its Wesco Financial Corp. subsidiary. The board has agreed on
a successor “should a replacement be needed currently,”
according to the filing.  “The board’s succession plan, together with the
outstanding managers running our numerous and highly diversified
operating units,” help prepare the company for Buffett’s
eventual departure, according to the filing.  Sokol, Jain, Rose  Buffett, in his annual letter on Feb. 26, praised Berkshire
managers including energy executives  David Sokol  and Greg Abel,
reinsurance lieutenant Ajit Jain, Geico car insurer CEO Tony Nicely, and Matt Rose, who leads the railroad that Buffett
acquired last year in his biggest takeover. Buffett also cited
Grady Rosier, who heads the McLane food distribution business,
and Vic Mancinelli who leads CTB Inc., a farm-products business.  Buffett, who also leads the board, has said his son Howard,
a farmer and author, would safeguard Berkshire as non-executive
chairman.  “Investors can be “sure that the principles we have
employed to date in running Berkshire will continue to guide the
managers who succeed me and that our unusually strong and well-
defined culture will remain intact,” Buffett said in the
letter. “Lest we end on a morbid note, I also want to assure
you that I have never felt better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  