-- 
Berkshire Posts $1 Billion Writedown as Bonds Fail to Recover

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/berkshire-has-1-billion-writedown-as-buffett-bond-bets-fail-to-recover.html
  Warren Buffett , who said in October
that buying bonds amid low yields was a mistake, reported a
 $1.02 billion impairment  in the fourth quarter for fixed-income
holdings at his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .  The impairment is equal to about 3 percent of the company’s
bond portfolio, according to the  annual statement  released by
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire on Feb. 26. With the writedown,
the amortized cost of Berkshire’s fixed-maturity holdings, or
the value assigned by the firm to the securities, fell to $31.8
billion on Dec. 31 from  $33.6 billion  on Sept. 30.  The impairments were taken on “certain fixed-maturity
securities where we concluded that we were unlikely to receive
all remaining contractual principal and interest amounts when
due,” Berkshire said. “These securities had been in an
unrealized loss position for more than two years.”  Buffett, 80, oversees  $136 billion  at Berkshire insurance
units including car-coverage specialist Geico and reinsurer
General Re. He keeps most of the portfolio in cash and stocks,
and has used the assets to negotiate deals for preferred stakes
in firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . The fixed-maturity
investments include more than $11 billion in both corporate
bonds non-U.S. government holdings.  “A 3 percent default rate is certainly a rather big
default rate,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief investment
strategist at Berkshire shareholder YCMNet Advisors. “Berkshire
has been impacted, like a number of insurance companies have
been impacted, by chasing higher yield.”  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment e-mailed to
his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Equity Impairments  Impairment losses jumped to $1.96 billion, including  $938
million  in equity writedowns, from $4 million in the fourth
quarter of 2009. Berkshire’s net income in the last three months
of 2010 rose 43 percent to $4.38 billion, the company’s highest
quarterly profit since 2007, as the firm booked gains from
derivative bets and reported earnings from Burlington Northern  Santa Fe , the railroad that Buffett bought last year.  Berkshire’s corporate-bond holdings dropped to $11.8
billion on Dec. 31 from $13.1 billion three months earlier on an
amortized cost basis, the company said. The market value of the
portfolio slipped to $14.1 billion from $14.9 billion in the
same period. Some results were calculated by subtracting figures
for the first nine months of 2010 from the full-year data
provided Feb. 26.  Berkshire’s cash holdings rose to $38.2 billion in 2010 as
earnings advanced and Buffett, the firm’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said returns in fixed-income markets
discouraged bond purchases. Investors buying bonds after a slide
in yields were “making a mistake,” Buffett said in October.  Lower Yields  The yield on two-year  U.S. Treasuries  fell to a record low
of 31 basis points on Nov. 4 before rising to 71 basis points on
Feb. 25. Investment-grade company bonds paid an average yield of
9.3 percent on Oct. 30, 2008, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. That plummeted to 4.04 percent as of
Feb. 25, the data show.  Buffett transformed Berkshire through four decades of stock
picks and acquisitions from a failing textile mill into a $210
billion insurance, energy and consumer goods firm. He has
recorded multibillion dollar gains for Berkshire on investments
in Capital Cities/ABC Inc. and PetroChina Co.  Berkshire reported $3.1 billion of impairments in the first
quarter of 2009 after Buffett said he made a mistake by paying
too much for shares of ConocoPhillips. In 2008, Buffett wrote
down an investment in two Irish banks to $27 million from $244
million. In his most recent annual letter, Buffett said he keeps
Berkshire’s cash holdings in Treasuries and avoids riskier
short-term investments that yield “a few more basis points.”  “We agree with investment writer Ray DeVoe’s observation,
‘More money has been lost reaching for yield than at the point
of a gun,’” Buffett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  