-- 
MBIA Shareholder Lawsuit Over 1998 Transaction Reinstated by Appeals Court

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-02-28T19:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/mbia-shareholder-lawsuit-over-1998-transaction-reinstated-by-appeals-court.html
  MBIA Inc . must face a shareholder
lawsuit that accuses the bond insurer of misleading investors
about a 1998 transaction, an appeals court ruled in reinstating
the case.  The U.S. Appeals Court in  New York  today reversed a 2007
ruling by U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton, who had dismissed
the lawsuit, saying that the plaintiffs waited too long to file
it. The statute of limitations expired because investors had
notice of alleged wrongdoing in 2002, Stanton ruled.  Under the district court’s analysis, “the statute of
limitations period began to run more than six months before the
first stock purchase giving rise to the class’s claims,” the
appeals court said. “That cannot be.”  Investors led by Southwest Carpenters Pension Trust sued
MBIA in 2005, saying the company improperly accounted for
proceeds of the 1998 deal as income from reinsurance rather than
as a loan. The accounting enabled Armonk, New York-based MBIA to
overstate reported income from 1998 to 2003, according to the
complaint in  Manhattan  federal court.  “The statute of limitations for securities fraud cannot
begin to run before a reasonably diligent plaintiff would have
uncovered enough information about the defendant’s intent to
satisfy the heightened pleading standard on fraud,” the appeals
panel said in today’s ruling.  Another Case Cited  The appeals judges cited a 2010 U.S. Supreme Court decision
that relaxed the deadlines for shareholder fraud lawsuits. In
that decision, the nation’s highest court said a two-year window
for shareholders’ suits under federal law hadn’t been closed by
the first time they sued Merck & Co. for misleading the public
about the risks posed by its now-withdrawn Vioxx painkiller.  Today’s ruling “remands the case back to the lower court
and directs it to apply recent Supreme Court precedent when
reconsidering our motion to dismiss,”  Kevin Brown , a spokesman
for MBIA, said in an e-mailed statement.  “It also directs the lower court to consider other
multiple grounds on which we contended that the case should be
dismissed. We remain confident that on reconsideration, the
district court will once again dismiss this litigation,” Brown
said.    Samuel Rudman , a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at his office
seeking comment.  The case is In re MBIA Inc. Securities Litigation, 05-cv-
3514, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 