-- 
U.K. Banks Cut European Property Loans by $29 Billion

-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-02-28T17:52:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/biggest-u-k-banks-cut-european-commercial-property-loans-by-28-billion.html
(Corrects loan figures in headline and first two
paragraphs.)  The U.K.’s four biggest banks
reduced European commercial real estate lending by about 17.9
billion pounds ($29 billion) last year, as the slump in property
values caused lenders to rein in credit.    Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc , the two largest European commercial property lenders, cut
loans by a combined 14.5 billion pounds.  HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Barclays Plc  reported a total drop of 3.4 billion pounds. The
Barclays figure doesn’t include loans it plans to trade.  Banks have become more reluctant to provide property debt
as a result of the global credit crisis. The Property Industry
Alliance group told the  Bank of England  last month that a 34.4
billion pound shortfall in financing for debt due in the next
four years could trigger a second slump in the value of property
outside of the U.K.’s most attractive locations.  “These numbers show that banks have been far more active
than people think in reducing their loan exposure to real
estate,” Phil Clark, head of property at Edinburgh-based Aegon
Asset Management and co-author of the Property Industry
Alliance’s report, said by telephone.  Annual real estate lending in the U.K. may fall to 100
billion pounds over the next three to five years from 300
billion pounds now, Clark said. “People understand there will a
reduction. The big question is: who are the new lenders and how
much they will lend,” he said.  Out of 107 lenders to commercial real estate in the second
half of last year, 69 were generating new loans, according to,
according to a report today by Los Angeles-based broker  CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc .  Closing Shop  “Since the onset of the downturn, 38 lenders with U.K.
exposure have closed to new lending, of which 70 percent were
European banks, building societies and investment banks, the
traditional providers of debt to the industry,” CBRE said.  German Pfandbrief banks and U.K. banks accounted for 46
percent of lending to commercial real estate in the second half
of 2010, the report said.  Insurance companies may increase their contribution from
the current 13 percent of lending if European regulations known
as Solvency II encourage insurers to take on less risky
investments, CBRE said. The new rules are scheduled for
introduction in 2013.  “We expect insurance companies to continue to exploit the
retreat of traditional lenders and further establish themselves
in the U.K. in 2011,” said Natale Giostra, head of the U.K. and
EMEA debt advisory teams at CBRE Real Estate Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Bill in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  