-- 
Blackstone Said to Acquire Centro's U.S. Shopping Centers for $9.4 Billion

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-02-28T08:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/blackstone-to-buy-centro-s-u-s-assets-for-9-4-bln-wsj-says.html
  Blackstone Group LP , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, agreed to buy  Centro Properties
Group ’s U.S. shopping centers for $9.4 billion, two people 
familiar with the matter said.  The purchase of 588 malls, at the price they were valued
at as of Dec. 31, may allow Centro’s Australian operations to
continue as an independent company, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified before an official statement. The deal
may be announced as early as today, the person said.  Blackstone’s biggest deal since 2007 signals the firm is
betting on a recovery in U.S. commercial property after the
subprime crisis that derailed Melbourne-based Centro’s U.S.
acquisition spree as debt costs soared. Defaults on U.S.
commercial real estate mortgages held by U.S. banks fell in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months, the first decline
in almost five years, according to New York-based real estate
research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  “We’re cautiously optimistic about U.S. retail sales, so
this is probably a good bet on the part of Blackstone,” said
Michael Wood, who helps oversee $5.1 billion at Quadrant Real
Estate Advisors in Sydney. “If the price Centro is getting is
close to net tangible assets, that’s a good sign.”  Miche Paterson, a spokeswoman for Centro at communications
firm Kreab Gavin Anderson, didn’t respond to a voicemail message.  Peter Rose , a Blackstone spokesman in  New York , didn’t respond
to an e-mail seeking comment outside business hours.  The Wall Street Journal reported the sale earlier today.  U.S. Malls  The purchase would be Blackstone’s biggest since the
acquisition of Hilton Worldwide Inc., completed in October 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., Centro and the funds it manages own 556
community and neighborhood shopping centers, seven malls and
lifestyle centers, 11 “miscellaneous” properties and nine land
parcels, according to company statements. It also owns five
redevelopment properties. The shopping centers and redevelopment
sites were 88 percent leased as of Dec. 31, according to the
company.  Centro’s U.S. shopping malls are located in 39 of the 50
states.  U.S. commercial property values are back to where they were
five years ago and are up more than 30 percent from their 2009
low, according to an index by Green Street Advisors, a U.S. real
estate research company.  The default rate on loans for office buildings, malls and
other commercial properties in the U.S. dropped to 4.28 percent
of loan balances in the three months to Dec. 31 from 4.36
percent in the previous quarter, according to Real Capital in a
Feb. 24 statement.  Scrapping Sale  Centro, which manages A$16.5 billion ($17 billion) of
shopping malls in  Australia ,  New Zealand  and the U.S., put its
assets up for sale two years ago. The company had A$16 billion
of debt across all its businesses as of Dec. 31, with A$3.1
billion of loans due by the end of this year.  Centro’s shares have fallen 6.3 percent this year and
closed at 15 Australian cents on Feb. 25 before they were halted
from trading.  The company has negative net equity of A$1.6 billion.  Centro is considering scrapping the planned sale of its
Australian assets and using the proceeds from the U.S. deal to
reduce debt, one of the people said.  While the sale of its Australian assets “isn’t off the
table,” Centro is weighing such a move against other options,
Chief Executive Officer Robert Tsenin said when the company
announced earnings on Feb. 24.  Return to Profit  Centro first announced a restructure in 2009 after its U.S.
buying spree backfired as the world’s largest economy contracted
and debt costs soared. Since then, property and financial
markets have improved, and a recapitalization, rather than the
sale of all its assets, looks more likely, Tsenin said last week.  The S&P/ASX 200 Index has climbed 54 percent since its
trough in March 2009 during the global financial crisis.  The  hedge funds  that bought most of the company’s debt from
its original lenders are willing to engage in recapitalization
efforts, including taking equity positions and injecting new
capital, according to Tsenin.  Centro returned to profit, posting net income of A$553.4
million in the fiscal first half, as the value of its properties
rose and the Australian dollar strengthened. Centro Retail Trust,
its listed property unit, reported a A$292 million profit for
the period.  “This is a step in the right direction,” said Winston Sammut, managing director of Maxim Asset Management. “They were
in a position where they had to sell, so to get book value is a
bit of a positive. But this is only one step in the process.”  Backfiring Strategy  Former Chief Executive Officer Andrew Scott borrowed to
accumulate malls, which he spun off into 34 syndicates, three
wholesale funds, two unlisted funds of funds and one listed
property fund, and managing them for fees.  The strategy, aimed at raising management income and
accelerating profit growth, backfired when the global financial
crisis hit, causing property values to plummet and borrowing
costs to soar, leaving Centro unable to refinance its ballooning
debt. Attempts since then to raise enough capital to repay the
debt have been largely unsuccessful, and Glenn Rufrano, who took
over from Scott in January 2008, stepped down two years later to
be replaced by Tsenin.  Centro’s lenders, including BNP Paribas SA and  National
Australia Bank Ltd ., which took stakes in Centro in December
2008 to cancel some debt and keep the company out of bankruptcy,
recently sold their holdings at losses to hedge funds.  Cromwell Properties Group, which was examining Centro’s
assets for a possible partnership in its syndicates unit, ended
talks without an agreement on Feb. 15, saying Centro’s lenders
hadn’t approved a deal.  A partnership between Morgan Stanley’s global real estate
fund and  Barry Sternlicht ’s Starwood Capital Group LLC, and a
group led by NRDC Equity Partners and AREA Property Partners
were the other two final bidders, people familiar with the
matter said on Feb. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  