-- 
BLOOMBERG LINK TO CONVENE STATE & MUNICIPAL DEBT CONFERENCE

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-28T19:19:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/bloomberg-link-to-convene-state-municipal-debt-conference.html

Press Release  U.S. Comptroller General Gene Dodaro, Fmr. Gov. Ed Rendell,
Comeback America Founder David Walker and More, to Examine the
Implications of the Municipal Financial Crisis    NEW YORK  -- As deficits grow and federal stimulus programs
supporting the municipal  bond market  dry up, Bloomberg LINK will
gather market experts, public sector leaders and top investors
for the Bloomberg State & Municipal Finance Conference.  The Conference, to be held on Tuesday, March 22, 2011 at
Lighthouse International in  New York City , will address whether
there will be a rash of municipal bond defaults this year, the
debate around allowing states to file for bankruptcy, solutions
for stabilizing state deficits and the legacy of the Build
America Bonds. Predictions of mass defaults have led investors
to withdraw billions from U.S. municipal bond mutual funds this
year and have prompted Congress to take a closer look at
potential repercussions for the  U.S. economy , making this a
timely issue.  “Municipal bond investors are interested to know how state and
municipal governments will meet their obligations, while closing
the deficit gap,” said Robert Bierman, head of Bloomberg LINK.
“Participants at the Bloomberg State & Municipal Finance
conference will gain insight from the smartest minds on the
topic.”  To debate these topics, Bloomberg will convene leading experts
on the crisis, including:  - Gene L. Dodaro, Comptroller General of the United States; Head,
U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO)  - Dominic Frederico, CEO, Assured Guaranty Ltd.  - Peter J. Hayes, Managing Director and Head of Municipal Bonds
Group, BlackRock Inc.  - Stanton Hazelroth, Executive Director, California
Infrastructure and Economic  Development Bank  (I-Bank)  - Patrick McCoy, Finance Director,  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority   - Michael T. McRaith, Director, Illinois Department of Insurance  - Ed Rendell, Former Pennsylvania Governor  - David Walker, Founder and CEO, Comeback America Initiative;
Former United States Comptroller General  The conference is being sponsored by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.BloombergLINK.com/smf . Follow us on  Facebook ,
 LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The hashtag for this event is
#BBGMunis.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms, including Bloomberg Businessweek and
Bloomberg Markets magazines. Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations. Headquartered in  New York ,
the company employs more than 12,900 people in 166 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, +1 212-617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net 
