-- 
Harry Potter Publisher Bloomsbury Reorganizes to Focus on Electronic Books

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-02-28T12:56:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/bloomsbury-reorganizes-units-to-benefit-from-e-book-sales-boom.html
  Bloomsbury Publishing Plc , publisher
of the Harry Potter novels, is reorganizing to better focus on
electronic books, sales of which grew 18-fold last year.  Sales of e-books are currently running at almost 10 percent
of print revenue for non-textbooks, the London-based company
said in a statement today. Full-year profit dropped 32 percent
due to charges including impairment of goodwill at its German-
language Berlin Verlag unit.  Electronic book sales are growing, with fiction e-books
making up almost 15 percent of total revenue in the U.S.,
Bloomsbury said. The company is restructuring to benefit from
the boom in e-reader sales such as  Amazon.com Inc .’s Kindle
device  and  Apple Inc .’s iPad, and to meet homogenizing global
tastes, Chief Executive Officer Nigel Newton said.  “Taste itself is globalizing,” Newton said in a telephone
interview. “E-books are essentially international by
definition.”  Bloomsbury’s e-book sales grew 18-fold to $2.3 million last
year, and should show a “dramatic uplift” this year, Newton
said. The company, which published nearly 1,800 e-books in 2010,
is dividing itself into four units: Adult, Children’s &
Educational; Academic & Professional, and Bloomsbury Information
& Business Development.  The changes are to help secure world rights to books and
market them globally, Newton said. Bloomsbury’s biggest customer
in the U.K. is the worldwide seller, Amazon, he said.  Net income last year was 3.4 million pounds, or 4.61 pence,
compared with 4.98 million pounds, or 6.74 pence, a year
earlier. Revenue gained 4 percent to 90.7 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  