-- 
BofA's Steven Baronoff Succeeds Kaplan as Chief of Mergers & Acquisitions

-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e f f   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-02-28T20:14:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/bofa-s-kaplan-leaves-for-appaloosa-baronoff-named-m-a-chief.html
  Bank of America Corp ., the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, said Steven Baronoff will return to his
role as head of mergers and acquisitions because Jeff Kaplan is
leaving to join a hedge fund.  Kaplan, 49, will join Appaloosa Management LP, the bank
said today in a memo obtained by Bloomberg. He’ll stay at  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America another couple
of weeks and then join Appaloosa in April, according to a person
with knowledge of his plans. The person declined to be
identified because the matter is private.  Baronoff, 50, chairman of global mergers and acquisitions,
advised on more than $1 trillion of transactions, including
Procter & Gamble Co.’s $61 billion purchase of Gillette in 2005,
according to the memo from  Thomas Montag , 54, president of
global banking and markets, and Michael Rubinoff, 48, and Purna Saggurti, 52, co-heads of global  investment banking .  Baronoff “will continue to serve as our most senior
adviser to deal teams and clients globally,” according to the
memo. “We thank Jeff for his dedication and leadership and look
forward to working with him in the future.”  Kaplan joins Appaloosa, a Bank of America client based in
Short Hills,  New Jersey , as chief operating officer reporting to  David Tepper , according to the memo. He joined Merrill Lynch &
Co. in 1987, the memo said. He will assume day-to-day management
of the business and Wall Street and investor relationships,
allowing Tepper to concentrate on investments, according to the
person. Tepper didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment.  Merrill Purchase  Kaplan was named to oversee the global M&A business after
Bank of America announced plans to buy Merrill Lynch in 2008,
taking on part of the role held by Baronoff, who was head of M&A
for the New York-based securities firm. As M&A chief, Kaplan
worked on deals including advising Marvel Entertainment Inc.,
led by Isaac Perlmutter, on its $4 billion sale to Walt Disney
Co. in 2009.  Bank of America is the fourth-biggest merger adviser in the
world by dollar value of transactions this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, and was ranked ninth in 2010. The
bank earned about $1 billion of advisory fees last year,
including for merger advice, according to its fourth-quarter
 earnings supplement .  John Yiannacopoulos, a Bank of America spokesman, confirmed
the contents of the memo. The change was reported earlier today
by the  Wall Street  Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  