-- 
BofA’s Laughlin Squeezed by Mortgage Investors, Regulators

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-02-28T16:58:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/bofa-s-laughlin-squeezed-by-a-number-of-masters-as-mortgage-costs-mount.html
  Bank of America Corp .’s Terry Laughlin, head of a new unit managing foreclosures and soured
loans, faces increasing pressure from bond buyers and regulators
seeking payback for the firm’s role in the housing collapse.  The bank may face “material fines” from government probes
into possible irregularities in foreclosure processes,  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America said late Feb.
25 in its annual report. The firm also said that a bondholder
group including Pacific Investment Management Co. has almost
doubled the number of mortgage deals on which it’s challenging
the bank. Legal costs may be as much as $1.5 billion higher than
what the bank had set aside, according to the filing.  “He’s certainly not in an enviable position,” said
Michael Nix, who helps manage about $950 million at Greenwood,
South Carolina-based Greenwood Capital Inc., which sold its Bank
of America stake last month. “There are a number of masters to
serve here. It will take years to resolve, and any investment
pool,  pension plan , or insurer with exposure” is considering
making claims against the bank.  Laughlin was promoted this month by Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  to manage the costs of resolving disputes
stemming from the bank’s 2008 purchase of Countrywide Financial
Corp. After setting aside about $3 billion late last year to
settle demands from U.S.-owned mortgage buyers Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, the bank said other claims could cost an additional
$7 billion to $10 billion.  Moynihan’s Pick  Laughlin left his previous post as CEO of Pasadena-based
OneWest Bank last year to join Moynihan, a former FleetBoston
Financial Inc. colleague. Before being named head of the firm’s
Legacy Asset Servicing unit on Feb. 4, he helped negotiate the
company’s settlements with Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .  Assigning the clean-up job to Laughlin, while keeping  Barbara Desoer  in charge of building the home-lending business,
provides “greater focus on resolving legacy mortgage issues,”
Moynihan said in a Feb. 4 statement. Moynihan had reassigned
sales people to modify mortgages, crimping revenue.  Bond purchasers including the two government-owned firms
have demanded that Bank of America buy back loans that the
investors say were based on faulty data. The firm faced  $10.7
billion  in unresolved claims through the end of 2010 as demands
from bond insurers and other investors rose.  “I’d be absolutely shocked if more investors didn’t come
out of the woodwork” to seek loan repurchases, said Thomas Lawler, a former  Fannie Mae  economist who is now a Virginia-
based housing consultant. “The potential return of someone
aggregating the investors and representing them looks like it
could be pretty significant.”  Stock Decline    Dan Frahm , a spokesman for the bank, had no immediate
comment yesterday. The company said Laughlin was unavailable to
be interviewed.  The bank, led by Moynihan since January 2010, posted a $2.2
billion net loss last year driven by housing-related expenses.
Bank of America’s shares have declined about 15 percent in the
past 12 months of  New York  trading through Feb. 25.  Lawyers for borrowers said in court papers that firms
including Bank of America also mishandled the servicing of
loans, using flawed paperwork in hundreds of thousands of
foreclosures. U.S. regulators may try to extract $20 billion in
penalties from the largest servicers, two people briefed on the
potential resolution said last week. Bank of America temporarily
halted U.S. foreclosures last year to review its practices, and
subsequently resumed the process in most states after
implementing “control enhancements,” according to the filing.  Fannie, Freddie Fees  Bank of America said last week that delayed foreclosures
may require the company to pay $230 million in “compensatory
fees” to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The bank’s agreements with
the mortgage buyers provide timelines to resolve late loans,
according to the annual filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The bank also said federal regulators issued a “number of
subpoenas” over its creation of mortgage-backed securities.  When banks sell mortgages to investors or bundle them into
securities, they typically offer “representations and
warranties” in which they guarantee the accuracy of data
backing the loans. Examples include borrowers’ income and the
appraised worth of the home. If the information is proven wrong,
the bank can be forced to buy back the loan or reimburse
investors for the lost value.  The company is in talks with a bondholder group that
includes Pimco,  BlackRock Inc . and the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York , people with knowledge of the matter said last year.
The group, which in October pressured the firm to repurchase
loans, within 115 deals, amounting to about $46 billion, is now
questioning 225 securitizations, Bank of America said last week.  ‘Number of Questions’  The investor group said in an Oct. 18 letter that the
lender failed in its role as a loan servicer to provide required
notice of faults in the underlying mortgages.  Kathy Patrick , a
lawyer for the investors, didn’t immediately return messages.  Bank of America has a “number of questions about the
validity of the assertions” in the letter, including whether
the investors were qualified to bring claims, the lender said in
the filing.  Lawsuits from other investors are piling up.  Allstate
Corp ., the biggest publicly traded U.S. home and auto insurer,
in December sued over mortgage-backed securities. Bond insurers
including  MBIA Inc . and  Ambac Financial Group Inc . have said
Countrywide fraudulently induced the carriers to guarantee
securities filled with defective mortgages.  Bank of America booked $2.6 billion in litigation expenses
last year, compared with $1 billion in 2009, the company said
last week. The lender estimated losses of $145 million to $1.5
billion beyond the amount already set aside for legal expenses.
The figures include instances where the firm had “sufficient
appropriate information” to make an estimate, the bank said.    Wells Fargo & Co ., the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, said
last week that there may be $1.2 billion in litigation losses
beyond the reserve already set by the San Francisco-based
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 