-- 
Brazil Faces Skepticism in Fight Against Inflation, Azevedo Says

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-02-28T16:22:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/brazil-faces-skepticism-in-fight-against-inflation-azevedo-says.html
The Brazilian government’s strategy
of combating high inflation using a mixture of high  interest
rates , macro-prudential measures to contain credit and fiscal
adjustments is causing “skepticism” in the market, said
Rodrigo Azevedo, director and founding partner at asset
management fund Ibiuna Investimentos Ltda.  Those driving the fiscal adjustments, “in particular the  finance ministry , were responsible in the recent past for
implementing a policy that was too expansionist,” Azevedo said
today in an interview at the Bloomberg Sao Paulo office. It’s
natural for market players “to ask if in fact things have
changed, and they want to adopt a see-it-to-believe-it
posture.”  To try to meet its fiscal target of a primary surplus of
3.1 percent this year, Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  said
it will cut 50 billion reais ($30.1 billion) from the budget in
2011. Inflation accelerated to 6.08 percent in the 12 months
through mid-February, the fastest pace in more than two years.  Azevedo, who was central bank director during ex-President
Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s leadership, said the bank should
raise the basic interest rate by at least 1.50 percentage points
this year to bring inflation to the midpoint of the target. He
estimates an increase of 0.50 to 0.75 percentage points at a
meeting of the monetary policy committee this week.  Economists raised their forecast for 2011 inflation for a
twelfth straight week in a central bank survey of about 100
economists published today. Consumer prices will rise 5.80
percent this year, up from a week earlier forecast of 5.79
percent, the survey showed. Inflation will end 2012 at 4.78
percent, unchanged from a week-earlier forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  