-- 
Brewer's Arizona Medicaid Cuts May Slam Hospitals as Patients Lose Funding

-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/brewer-s-arizona-medicaid-cuts-may-slam-hospitals-as-patients-lose-funding.html
When 62-year-old John Schoenhoft’s
abnormal heartbeat landed him in a Cottonwood,  Arizona , hospital
for three days in August, he had no insurance, his hours as a
home health caregiver had been cut and his wife was out of work.  Taxpayers picked up his $30,000 bill under Arizona’s
Medicaid system. Whether it would cover a future occurrence will
depend on Governor Jan Brewer’s plan to strike as many as
280,000 adults from Medicaid, the health-care program for the
poor funded by the state and federal governments, to help bridge
a $1.2 billion  budget gap  for the year that begins July 1.  “There are no more options,” said Schoenhoft, who said he
couldn’t afford insurance even if he could qualify with his
condition.  “It’s just a business decision to them,” he said of his
potential Medicaid loss. “They don’t see the humanitarian side.
They don’t see that it will cause more problems down the line.”  The Medicaid program that covers 48 million Americans is
the single biggest expense for states, consuming 22 percent of
their total $1.6 trillion in expenditures, according to a
National Governors Association  report . That makes it a primary
target of governors grappling with budget deficits of as much as
$125 billion in the coming fiscal year, from Republicans like
Brewer and  Florida ’s  Rick Scott , to Democrats including  New
York ’s  Andrew Cuomo  and  California ’s  Jerry Brown .  Nowhere has the national Medicaid crisis come under a
harsher glare than in Arizona, where Brewer, 66, drew
international condemnation for being the only governor to stop
paying for certain organ transplants, including hearts and
livers. Cutting Medicaid for about one in five Arizonans now on
the rolls, as she proposes, would help save $541.5 million in
the coming year.  ‘Pushing the Cost’  “It’s not like the care will stop,” said Vernon Smith, a
health-policy consultant in Lansing,  Michigan , and former
director of that state’s Medicaid program. “The state is
essentially pushing the cost burden of this population onto the
public hospitals.”  That prospect may cost Banner Health System, Arizona’s
largest health-care provider and second-largest private
 employer , which wrote off $80.2 million in charity care in 2009,
according to company filings. Charity would balloon to
“hundreds of millions” of dollars a year if Brewer’s plan is
adopted, said Bill Byron, a spokesman for closely held Banner.  Banner, a secular, nonprofit company created in 1999 by the
merger of Methodist and Lutheran church-founded hospital chains,
has sold about $2.24 billion in outstanding municipal bonds.  Bond Spread  A 2035 revenue bond sold in 2008 by Banner through the
Arizona Health Facilities Authority rated A+ traded at an
average yield of 6 percent on Feb. 24, according to Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board Data. That’s 132 basis points over
top-rated 24-year debt, according to a Bloomberg Valuation
index.  The same securities traded at a so-called spread of 106
basis points to a 25-year index on Oct. 1, when Brewer
eliminated state-paid transplants. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  In Arizona, where 13 of  Banner ’s 23 hospitals are located,
about one-fourth of its patients are covered by Medicaid, Byron
said. Brewer’s cuts may force the company to fire staff, reduce
service and negotiate “far, far higher rates for private
insurers,” Byron said.  Boosting insurance costs could force businesses to shrink
payrolls or reduce employee benefits, said Suzanne Taylor,
senior vice president of public policy for the  Arizona Chamber
of Commerce and Industry , which opposes Brewer’s plan. An
Arizona State University study last year estimated that slashing
Medicaid like Brewer proposes would cost 30,000 jobs, including
13,600 in health-care and others in construction and retailing.  ‘Don’t Disappear’  “The costs just don’t disappear from the system,” Taylor
said. Former Medicaid recipients “will still be seeking care in
the emergency rooms and those costs will be passed on.”  Matthew Benson, a spokesman for the governor, said
reductions are needed to fix the state budget and preserve care
for those who would remain on Medicaid, including children,
pregnant women and the disabled.  “I don’t think she has illusions that cutting a population
this significant from health care can be done without
significant ramifications,” Benson said, referring to Brewer.
“But there are significant ramifications for having a billion-
dollar deficit, too.”  Expanded Medicaid  The governor’s proposal would roll back a Medicaid
expansion  approved by voters  in 2000 for poor adults without
dependent children.  Delaware ,  Hawaii ,  Massachusetts , New York
and  Vermont  have similar programs.  Even with the increase, about 20 percent of Arizonans were
left uninsured, according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a
nonprofit health-care research organization in  Menlo Park ,
California. Arizona ranks fourth in the rate of uninsured,
behind  Texas ,  New Mexico  and Florida, and tied with  Nevada ,
Kaiser said. Brewer’s cuts may bump the rate to 22.6 percent,
estimated  St. Luke’s Health Initiatives , a Phoenix-based health
policy group.  When Brewer first announced the cuts in January, the
proposal seemed likely to run afoul of federal health-care
reform rules that require states to maintain existing benefit
levels. That changed Feb. 15 when the  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services said Brewer could allow a federal waiver to
expire without consequences, dropping coverage for 250,000 of
the 280,000 recipients she targeted.  Federal Match  Trimming the Medicaid program, known as the  Arizona Health
Care Cost Containment System , would save $541 million in the
first year and almost $1 billion in the following fiscal year,
according to the governor’s office. Because the federal
government matches state dollars at a rate of 2-to-1 or more,
the governor’s office estimated health-care providers may see a
drop of  $1.6 billion  in the first year.  To avert such a loss, the  Arizona Hospital and Healthcare
Association  proposed a tax on its members. The one-year
assessment on hospital revenue would generate $300 million --
$200 million to help pay for people who would otherwise be cut
from the Medicaid program and $100 million that would go back to
hospitals to attract matching federal funds and make the
hospitals whole.  Legislative leaders have been cool to the proposal. It’s
“too little, too late,” said House Appropriations Chairman
John Kavanagh, a Republican from Fountain Hills.  Services Dwindle  Some Republican lawmakers have pressed for cuts in Medicaid
for years, even during boom times. Services have dwindled since
Brewer replaced Democrat Janet Napolitano as governor two years
ago. Enrollment in a program for low-income children has been
frozen. Medicaid benefits, from primary care visits to
prosthetics coverage, have been cut.  For some lawmakers, Brewer’s plan doesn’t go far enough.
Several bills propose to chip away more at Medicaid, including
one that would eliminate it altogether. Shutting Medicaid would
trim $1 billion from general-fund spending and cost almost $7
billion in federal matching funds, according to Tom Betlach, the
state Medicaid  director .  Kavanagh said he supports the governor’s effort to scale
back Medicaid and would encourage it even without the current
fiscal crisis.  “I think that government has to provide a safety net,”
Kavanagh said, “but has to be careful it doesn’t turn into a
comfortable hammock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at  amandajanecrawford@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  