-- 
Buffett Says Buying His Home for $31,500 Was Third-Best Investment He Made

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-02-28T22:05:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/buffett-says-buying-his-home-for-31-500-was-third-best-investment-he-made.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said
buying a home was the third-best investment he ever made, after
the rings he bought for his first wife, Susan Thompson, and,
after her death, his second wife, Astrid Menks.  “For the $31,500 I paid for our house, my family and I
gained 52 years of terrific memories with more to come,”
Buffett wrote to shareholders of his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., in
a  letter  released Feb. 26.  Buffett, the world’s third-richest man, still lives in the
house he bought in Omaha,  Nebraska , more than five decades ago.
He said home ownership makes sense for most people, especially
after a slide in prices and record-low  interest rates .  The U.S. home ownership rate has fallen to the lowest level
in a decade amid record foreclosures and a plunge in property
values after a five-year boom. The S&P/Case-Shiller Index of
prices in 20 cities is down 31 percent from its July 2006 peak.  “A housing recovery will probably begin within a year or
so,” Buffett, 80, wrote in the letter. “In any event, it is
certain to occur at some point.”  Berkshire, based in Omaha, owns manufactured housing maker
Clayton Homes Inc. of Maryville,  Tennessee . It also owns
Minneapolis-based real estate company HomeServices of America
Inc., the second-largest brokerage in the U.S. after Parsippany,
New Jersey-based NRT LLC.  Clayton Model  Berkshire’s experience in financing the manufactured
housing it builds and sells through Clayton Homes should serve
as a model for Washington policy makers planning a reform of the
nation’s housing system, Buffett said. The regulatory changes
target  Freddie Mac  and  Fannie Mae , the mortgage-finance
companies under U.S. conservatorship.  “A house can be a nightmare if the buyer’s eyes are bigger
than his wallet and if a lender -- often protected by a
government guarantee -- facilitates his fantasy,” Buffett
wrote. “Our country’s social goal should not be to put families
into the house of their dreams, but rather to put them into a
house they can afford.”  Buffett’s annual letters to shareholders have won him the
nickname “the Oracle of Omaha,” because he muses about topics
such as how investing is like baseball and how Wall Street
bankers are like Pied Pipers.  Buffett built Berkshire, once a failing textile mill, into
a $215.6 billion company through investing in firms he says have
superior management and the ability to create long-term value.
Units of the company makes candy, produce power and sell flight
time on private jets.  The shares were worth about $15 each when he took control
of the company in 1965. The Class A stock rose 2.9 percent to
$131,300 at 4:15 p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, the highest closing price since October 2008. It has
gained 6.9 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 