-- 
Buffett’s ‘Trigger Finger Is Itchy’ for Takeovers at Berkshire

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/buffett-s-trigger-finger-is-itchy-for-takeovers-at-berkshire.html
--  Warren Buffett  said he’s looking
for “more major acquisitions” after the economic recovery and
the purchase of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad helped
increase fourth-quarter profit at his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .  “Our elephant gun has been reloaded, and my trigger finger
is itchy,” Buffett said of the outlook for deals in his  annual
letter  to shareholders on Feb. 26. Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire reported a 43 percent gain in profit in the three
months ended Dec. 31. The company’s cash holdings rose to $38.2
billion at year-end, the highest in three years, compared with
$34.5 billion as of Sept. 30.  Buffett, 80, is seeking takeovers as economic expansion
boosts results at Berkshire’s subsidiaries and near record-low  interest rates  limit the returns available in fixed-income
markets. Net income in the three months ended Dec. 31 surged to
$4.38 billion, Berkshire’s highest quarterly profit since 2007.  “He’s saying that the economy is turning and he’s not as
concerned about having the extra capital available for his own
operating companies,” said Gerald Martin, a finance professor
at American University’s Kogod School of Business in  Washington .
“That’s a good sign.”  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer,
completed his biggest takeover, the $26.5 billion Burlington
Northern purchase, last February. The unit contributed $1.03
billion to earnings in the fourth quarter.  Stock Rebound  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose in
the last three months of 2010 to $157.3 billion from $149.7
billion on Sept. 30 as earnings and stock advances boosted
capital. Berkshire, whose operating units span power production
and freight hauling as well as consumer goods and insurance,
said full-year earnings were boosted by gains at toolmaker Iscar
Metalworking Cos. and NetJets, the luxury flight unit.  The profit increase halts Berkshire’s streak of quarterly
earnings declines at two. Net income fell in the second and
third quarters of 2010 as derivative bets soured. In the fourth
quarter, Berkshire booked a $2.49 billion gain on Buffett’s
derivative wager on an advance in global stock indexes. Some
results were calculated by subtracting figures for the first
nine months of 2010 from the full-year data provided Feb. 26.  Acquisitions may help boost earnings as investment returns
at Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries slide. Investment income
produced by units including reinsurer  General Re  and car
coverage specialist Geico fell 5.9 percent in 2010 to $5.19
billion. Buffett said that may decline further in 2011 as
investments he made during the credit crisis mature.  The yield on two-year U.S. Treasuries fell to a record low
of 0.31 percent on Nov. 4 before rising to 0.71 percent on Feb.
25. The two-year note’s average yield over the last 10 years was
more than 2.5 percent.  Updating Aesop  “We could get lucky and find an opportunity to use some of
our cash hoard at decent returns,” Buffett said. “That day
can’t come too soon for me: To update Aesop, a girl in a
convertible is worth five in the phone book.”    Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  General Electric Co . will
probably return the $8 billion that Buffett invested in 2008 for
preferred securities paying 10 percent, Buffett said.  “The GE and the Goldman preferreds are going to get
redeemed, Berkshire is taking in $1 billion of cash per month”
in earnings and the company’s insurance units provide investable
funds, said Glenn Tongue, a partner at T2 Partners LLC, which
invests in Buffett’s firm. “You put all those together and
they’re going to have $60 billion in a year from now” in cash,
Tongue said.  Terrible Behavior  Todd Combs, whom Berkshire hired to help with investments,
will start by managing $1 billion to $3 billion, Buffett said.
The company may add one or two more fund managers, while Buffett
continues to oversee “the great majority” of the portfolio,
according to the letter. Combs, a former hedge fund manager,
will get a salary and a contingent payment based on performance
relative to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, Buffett said.  “The hedge-fund world has witnessed some terrible behavior
by general partners who have received huge payouts on the upside
and who then, when bad results occurred, have walked away
rich,” Buffett said. “We have arrangements in place for
deferrals and carryforwards that will prevent see-saw
performance being met by undeserved payments.”  Berkshire reported a count of 260,519 employees, up about
1.3 percent from the 257,113 workers in the previous annual
report, which included the Burlington Northern staff. The
railroad’s employee count rose 8.6 percent to 38,000. Clayton
Homes, Berkshire’s prefabricated-housing unit, cut about 1,700
jobs to 10,439 employees. Berkshire’s corporate office employed
21 people, unchanged from the previous year.  Housing Rebound  Berkshire’s units tied to  home construction  “continue to
struggle,” Buffett said. “A housing recovery will probably
begin within a year or so. In any event, it is certain to occur
at some point.”  Berkshire has climbed 5.9 percent this year on the New York
Stock Exchange through Feb. 25, beating the 4.9 percent advance
of the  S&P 500 .  Buffett, who refers to Berkshire’s stockholders as
“owners,” shuns quarterly conference calls with analysts and
institutional investors, preferring to communicate by sending
the letter and taking questions at the company’s annual meeting.  “Commentators today often talk of ‘great uncertainty,’
Buffett wrote. “Don’t let that reality spook you. Throughout my
lifetime, politicians and pundits have constantly moaned about
terrifying problems facing America. Yet our citizens now live an
astonishing six times better than when I was born.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 