-- 
Bulbous Bodies, Ornate Design Intrigue in Gossaert Show: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-02-28T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/bulbous-bodies-ornate-design-intrigue-in-gossaert-show-review.html
Sexual freedom, bizarre fashions, new
media, an obsession with nudity, wild architectural excess: Some
things never change.  In lots of ways, the early 16th century sounds much like the
early 21st. That’s one of the lessons of a new exhibition at the
 National Gallery  in  London , “Jan Gossaert’s Renaissance.”  This is a show with an intriguing theme: how the Italian
Renaissance traveled to northern Europe. There are some splendid
paintings on show as well as some strange and even hideous ones.
Their oddness and occasional ugliness is part of the story.  Gossaert (c. 1478-1532) was an artist who straddled the
division between northern and southern art. In the 15th century,
the painters of Flanders had invented something revolutionary --
an absolutely naturalistic way of looking at the world around us.
Gossaert inherited that.  He was best when painting something specific in front of
him. There are terrific portraits on display, such as “Anna van
Bergen” (c. 1526-30), or the “Portrait of a Man” (c. 1530),
who is surrounded by the latest in Renaissance office equipment
-- paper. It was suddenly cheap enough to use freely.  The best things about Gossaert’s great altarpiece, the
“Adoration of the Kings” (c. 1510-15) are the heads, which
actually look like real people. Among them is a noble black king,
evidence that there was already an African presence in  Europe .  Excellent too are the rich fabrics, preposterously trendy
outfits and the ruined building in which the scene takes place.
Ornate architecture was another Gossaert specialty. Also nice are
the dogs: The one on the right is borrowed from a Durer engraving
(prints being the 16th-century mode of image sharing).  Lusty Bishop  It was different when Gossaert painted people with no
clothes. This was a popular subject, then as now. Nudes were
fashionable in Italy where popes and cardinals held bunga-bunga
parties (and ordered murders like Mafia godfathers). Pictures of
naked men and, particularly, women went down well with Gossaert’s
patron, a lascivious Netherlandish nobleman who eventually became
bishop of Utrecht (without altering his playboy habits).  For him, and others, Gossaert painted plenty of bodies,
several of which are on show. Vasari, historian of the
Renaissance, credited him with being “the first who took from  Italy  into Flanders the true method of making scenes full of nude
figures.”  Among these are pictures of Adam and Eve, Venus and a
drawing -- for a lost painting -- of a roomful of women in a
bathhouse (in 16th-century Flanders, these functioned much as
some saunas do today). Gossaert’s naked people, though obviously
intended to be sexy, are strange -- bulky, bulbous, a bit gross.  Nude as Fiction  Kenneth Clark, the art historian, once made a distinction
between naked and nude. Naked is a person without clothes, a
subject northern artists such as Jan van Eyck could do well. The
nude is different. It’s a fiction -- a combination of anatomy,
geometry and ancient sculpture. No real person ever looked like
a classical nude.  The Renaissance nude was an Italian invention. Even great
northern artists struggled to get it right. Durer, Gossaert’s
contemporary, had trouble -- as several exhibits by him show.
Michelangelo’s nude men look like supermen; Gossaert’s look as if
they’ve spent too long in the gym. His women suffer from excess
weight in unusual places. And his naked child angels, or
“putti,” are pudgy toddlers with faces like Henry VIII’s.  Gossaert’s may be a more accurate view of undressed
humanity.  “Jan Gossaert’s Renaissance,” supported by the Flemish
government, is at the National Gallery, London, through May 30.
The show previously was at the  Metropolitan Museum ,  New York .
Information:  http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk/ .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 