-- 
Burundi Government Signs Accord on Use of Nile River Water

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-02-28T15:30:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/burundi-signs-accord-on-water-usage-from-nile-that-may-strip-egypt-of-veto.html
Burundi became the sixth nation to
sign an agreement on water usage from the Nile River, enabling
ratification of an accord that may strip  Egypt  of its veto power
over rights to the flow from the world’s longest river.  “The government of Burundi sent an e-mail to technical
advisory committee members confirming they have signed and asked
us to join them in congratulating them upon this landmark
achievement,” Shillingi Mugisha, a member of the Nile Technical
Advisory Committee, said in a phone interview today from
Kampala, the Ugandan capital.  A 1929 treaty brokered by the former colonial power,
Britain, granted Egypt a veto over projects that may alter the
flow of the Nile. A 1959 accord between Egypt and Sudan claimed
90 percent of the Nile’s flow for the two countries. The so-
called Cooperative Framework Agreement, signed by Ethiopia,  Rwanda , Tanzania,  Uganda  and  Kenya  in May, will establish a
commission to oversee dam building and irrigation development,
effectively stripping Egypt of the veto. Almost all of Egypt’s
water supply comes from the Nile.  “We are happy to join our colleagues in East Africa in
signing this agreement,” Burundian Water and Environment
Minister Jean-Marie Nibirantije said in a phone interview today
from Bujumbura, the Burundian capital.  Egypt Withdrawal  Egypt warned in April, before the five countries signed the
accord, that it would withdraw from the  Nile Basin Initiative , a
nine-member convention on cooperation in the Nile basin known as
the NBI, if the seven upstream states signed the accord.  A sixth signatory was needed for the CFA to come into force
and once it has been ratified by the six national legislatures,
a Nile Basin Commission will be created. The remaining upstream
nation, Eritrea, wasn’t involved in talks leading to the accord.
The CFA states that the commission will resolve the issue of
water security in its first six months of operations.  Abdel Fattah Metawie, head of the unit responsible for Nile
water in the Egyptian Ministry of Water Resources and
Irrigation, didn’t respond to e-mailed questions sent today
seeking comment. Egypt and  Sudan  in January asked Nile basin
countries to meet to discuss the legal implications of not all
riparian states signing the agreement.  “The meeting was postponed because of the political problem
in Egypt, but could take place next month,” Ethiopian Water and
Energy Minister Alemayehu Tegenu said in a Feb. 22 interview
from Goma, in eastern Congo.  Congo Signature  The Democratic Republic of Congo, which led a campaign for
countries to sign the agreement in 2009, plans to sign the
accord at an unspecified future date, Environment Minister Jose Endundo said in an interview on Feb. 22.  Some projects being considered on the Nile include a 60 to
80-megawatt hydropower plant at Rusumo Falls to serve Rwanda,  Tanzania  and Burundi, according to information from NBI.
Building the power-generation plant and cross-border
transmission lines over the next four years may cost $350
million, it said.  “For the actual investment projects like irrigation
schemes, watershed management, electricity generation and
transmission, we estimated the cost at $784 million in 2010,”
Khairy Wael, executive director of the NBI, said in a Feb. 22
interview from Goma. “We forecast investment to be $2.4 billion
by 2014.”  The Nile River’s average discharge is about 300 million
cubic meters per day, according to the website of the  Nile Basin
Initiative . Ethiopia is the source of about 85 percent of the
water that flows to Sudan and Egypt.  “It’s big news for us,” Ethiopian Foreign Ministry
spokesman Dina Mufti said by phone today from Debre Zeit,  Ethiopia . “We think this is in the interests of Burundi and all
riparian countries. We believe it’s even in the interests of
Egypt, as this is the only way we can be in a win-win
situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Kigali via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  