-- 
Cameron Plans to Call World Leaders to Discuss Creating Libyan No-Fly Zone

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-02-28T17:40:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/cameron-plans-to-call-world-leaders-to-discuss-creating-libyan-no-fly-zone.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
ordered military chiefs to draw up plans for a air-exclusion
zone over  Libya  if diplomatic pressure fails to prevent  Muammar Qaddafi  using military force against his people.  “We do not in any way rule out the use of military
assets,” Cameron told lawmakers in the House of Commons in
London today. “I have asked the Ministry of Defense and the
chief of the defense staff to work with our allies on plans for
a military no-fly zone.”  The U.K. has already used British forces to evacuate its
nationals from Libya, with fewer than 150 U.K. citizens
remaining in the country. Now those Britons are safely out,
Cameron is considering using the military to police a ban on
flights to protect Libyan opposition groups from attacks by
helicopter gunships and fighter jets.  “We will look at each and every way of stepping up
pressure on this regime,” Cameron said. “Further isolation of
the regime by expelling it from international organizations and
further use of asset freezes and travel bans to give the
clearest possible message to those on the fringes of the regime
that now is the time to desert it.”  British officials said a no-fly zone could not be
implemented unilaterally.  Legal Advice  “It is something that requires international allies to
line up behind,” Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told
reporters in  London  today following the premier’s statement. The
government is taking legal advice about the mechanism through
which an exclusion zone would be imposed, he said.  Field declined to comment on whether this would require a
resolution by the  United Nations  or whether the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization would take the lead.  Asked if the premier is considering using British troops as
a ground force in Libya, Field said: “We are not at that
point.”  The no-fly zone “would be if we are concerned about that
regime bombing its own civilians,” Field said, also declining
to comment on questions about whether Qaddafi should be granted
safe passage out of Libya.  “We must not tolerate this regime using military force
against its own people,” Cameron said. A no-fly zone “is one
thing we need to look at urgently and plan for.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration also said it was
looking at setting up an air-exclusion zone.  A “no-fly zone is an option we are actively considering,
discussing with allies and partners,” White House Press
Secretary Jay Carney said in  Washington .  French Prime Minister Francois Fillon said in an interview
today on RTL radio that a move to ban flights “can only be
based on a UN Security council decision and it’s far from being
decided yet.”  Fillon was wary of possible NATO involvement, saying “We
must consider here: should NATO be involved in a civil war on
the southern shore of the  Mediterranean Sea ?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  