-- 
Canada Economic Growth Rate Accelerates to 3.3% in 4th Quarter on Exports

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-02-28T21:51:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/canada-economic-growth-rate-accelerates-to-3-3-in-4th-quarter-on-exports.html
  Canada ’s economy accelerated more
than forecast from October to December on the biggest jump in
exports since 2004 and faster consumer spending.  Gross domestic product in the world’s 10th-largest economy
expanded at a 3.3 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter
following a 1.8 percent expansion in the previous three months
that was higher than initially estimated, Statistics Canada said
today in Ottawa. Economists predicted a 3 percent fourth-quarter
gain, according to the median of 23 estimates gathered by
Bloomberg News.  The country’s dollar reached the highest in more than three
years as the report boosted confidence that  Bank of Canada 
Governor  Mark Carney  will raise  interest rates  later this year.
Economists predict the key rate will remain 1 percent at
tomorrow’s announcement and rise in the second quarter according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “There is pretty nice momentum going into the first
quarter,” said  Jacqui Douglas , a senior economics and currency
strategist at TD Securities in Toronto. “It looks like global
growth is starting to help Canada,” said Douglas, who predicts
a July rate increase.  Canada’s dollar appreciated 0.6 percent to 97.18 cents per
U.S. dollar at 4:43 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.74 on Feb. 25. It
touched 97.10 cents, the strongest level since Nov. 19, 2007.
One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0291.  Faster Growth  The June bankers’ acceptance contract yield, which is tied
to forecasts about the central  bank rate , rose to 1.49 percent
today from 1.45 percent on Feb. 25. Government 10-year bonds
fell for the first time in seven days.  Carney told reporters at a G-20 meeting in Paris Feb. 19
that fourth-quarter growth could be faster than the 2.3 percent
rate the bank had forecast in January.    Statistics Canada  also reported today that the country’s
fourth-quarter current account deficit narrowed to C$11 billion
from a revised record C$17 billion shortfall. Economists
predicted a C$9.7 billion deficit the measure of trade in goods,
investment and services. The  trade balance  swung to a C$523
million surplus from a record deficit of C$6.42 billion in the
third quarter, as exports rose and imports fell.  On a monthly basis, gross domestic product rose 0.5 percent
in December, the fastest pace in nine months, as oil and gas
companies boosted production. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent
gain based on the median of 21 responses to a Bloomberg survey.  Clock Ticking  “The clock is beginning to tick down on the bank’s ability
to hold off interest-rate hikes,” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief
economist at  CIBC World Markets  in Toronto. “Another strong
quarter and the Bank of Canada has to start moving,” said
Shenfeld, who said the January-to-March expansion will match the
fourth quarter increase.  Companies such as  Suncor Energy Inc . and Canadian National
Railway Co. are boosting investment as the recovery takes hold.
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company,
approved a $277 million expansion at its Iron Ore Co. of Canada
unit on Feb. 8, to increase output as prices rise.  Exports, which equaled 32 percent of Canada’s economy in
2009, rose 4 percent in the fourth quarter -- the biggest
percentage gain since the second quarter of 2004. Crude oil
shipments rose 30 percent to a record.  Imports of goods and services advanced 0.1 percent, slowing
from the third-quarter pace of 1.9 percent, today’s report said.  The gains in trade helped Canada exceed the U.S. fourth-
quarter growth rate of 2.8 percent that was reported by the
Commerce Department in  Washington  Feb. 25. The increase also
comes as the Canadian currency traded close to parity with the  U.S. dollar .  Regain Competitiveness  Carney has said companies must boost investment to regain
lost competitiveness and predicts Canada’s recovery will be led
by exports and business investment over the next two years as
government stimulus spending wanes and consumer spending slows.  Business investment in plant and equipment rose 2.5 percent
between October and December, the fourth straight increase.
Inventories fell by C$5.34 billion in the fourth quarter, versus
a C$18.7 billion increase in the third quarter.  Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s government is
scheduled to present a budget next month, and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said Feb. 25 he will avoid major new spending
measures and focus on keeping taxes low as a two-year stimulus
package expires. The Conservatives  lack a majority  of seats in
the House of Commons and need support of at least one opposition
party to pass the budget and avoid an early election.  Gaining Momentum  The report shows Canada’s recovery is gaining momentum,
Industry Minister Tony Clement told reporters in Ottawa today,
adding the economy remains fragile given “international
factors.”    Consumer spending  rose 1.2 percent in the fourth quarter,
the fastest in three years and up from the third-quarter pace of
0.7 percent. Purchases of new and used cars rose 3.8 percent and
furniture spending rose 0.9 percent after two prior declines.  Housing investment fell 0.2 between October and December,
the second straight decline.  Government spending  rose 0.8
percent.  Canada’s output grew 3.1 percent last year, versus a
decline of 2.5 percent in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  