-- 
Canada Fourth Quarter Current Account Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-02-28T13:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/canada-fourth-quarter-current-account-report-text-.html
Following is the text of
Canada's
current account report for the fourth quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  Canada's overall current account deficit (on a
seasonally adjusted basis) narrowed $5.9 billion to reach
$11.0 billion in the fourth quarter, mainly on higher
exports of goods as well as lower imports of goods.  In the capital and financial account (unadjusted for
seasonal variation), non-residents continued to supply
significant funds through the purchase of Canadian
securities, largely corporate bonds and equities, in the
fourth quarter. Strong Canadian direct investment abroad
provided an offsetting outflow of funds in the quarter.  Current account    Trade balance  returns to surplus  The balance on international trade in goods returned to
a small surplus of $0.5 billion in the fourth quarter,
following the largest recorded quarterly deficit. The $6.9
billion swing in the trade balance reflected reduced
imports as well as increased exports.  The  trade surplus  on goods with the United States
expanded in the fourth quarter after a 16-year low in the
third quarter, largely on lower imports. Improved trade
balances with countries other than the United States were
mainly the result of higher exports.  Exports were up $5.8 billion in the fourth quarter.
Increases in the export of goods were widespread and led
again by industrial goods and energy products. These gains
were partly offset by lower exports of automotive
products.  Exports of industrial goods advanced $3.5 billion, as
volumes and prices rose sharply. Metallic ores and
precious metals recorded the largest growth, mainly on
volumes. Higher volumes of crude petroleum exports
accounted for the bulk of the $2.8 billion increase in
energy products. Exports of natural gas were down in
value, despite higher volumes. A drop in exports of cars
of $1.2 billion reflected both lower volumes and prices.  Imports of goods fell $1.1 billion during the fourth
quarter, after advancing in each of the last five
quarters. This was accounted for by reduced imports of
automotive products, as volumes dropped for cars, trucks
and parts. Changes were relatively minor for most of the
other major import commodities.  Services deficit edges up  The overall deficit on trade in services expanded
slightly in the fourth quarter, led by travel. The travel
deficit moved to a new high, as payments continued to
advance. Spending by Canadians in the  United States  was up
3.0%, in line with higher numbers of travellers. Canadian
spending overseas increased at a slower pace while
receipts from foreign travellers were largely unchanged.  The larger transportation deficit mainly reflected
higher payments of passenger fares to foreign airlines.
For commercial services, the surplus narrowed slightly as
payments outpaced receipts.  Deficit for investment income up  In the fourth quarter, the investment income deficit
increased by $1.1 billion, as payments advanced by more
than receipts.  Profits earned by foreign direct investors in Canada
advanced by $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter, mainly
from higher undistributed earnings accruing from Canadian
affiliates. The largest increase was in the energy sector
as both distributed and non-distributed profits recorded
significant gains in the fourth quarter. In addition,
payments of interest on Canadian bonds continued to grow
in line with the significant acquisitions of Canadian
bonds by foreign investors since the beginning of 2009.  On the receipt side, profits earned by Canadians on
their direct investments abroad were up $1.2 billion in
the fourth quarter. This comprised both higher dividends
received and undistributed earnings accruing from foreign
affiliates.  Capital and financial account  Foreign investment in Canadian securities remains strong  Foreign investors added a further $27.3 billion of
Canadian securities to their portfolios in the fourth
quarter, again favouring debt instruments over stocks.
This marked the eighth consecutive quarter of strong
foreign investment in Canadian securities, resulting in an
unprecedented foreign inflow of $116.2 billion in
portfolio investment in 2010.  Foreign purchases of Canadian bonds slowed to $17.9
billion in the fourth quarter. More than half of this
investment was directed to private corporate bonds, mainly
new issues. Non-residents also continued to invest in
federal and provincial bonds in the fourth quarter but at
a slower pace. On an annual basis, federal and provincial
government bonds attracted record funds from abroad.  Foreign investment in Canadian stocks strengthened to
$7.0 billion in the fourth quarter, almost equally split
between secondary market purchases and new issues of
shares. New issues activity was mainly related to the
financing of Canadian cross-border merger and acquisition
transactions reflected in direct investment flows.
Canadian stock prices were up 8.7% in the fourth quarter
to reach their highest level since August 2008.  Non-residents also added $2.4 billion of Canadian money
market instruments to their holdings in the quarter. Most
of the foreign investment was directed to US dollar-
denominated instruments issued by provincial governments,
while foreign holdings of federal paper were down in the
quarter for the first time in 2010.  Canadians add foreign bonds to their holdings  Canadian investors purchased $708 million of foreign
securities in the fourth quarter, the lowest level of
investment in 2010. Lower activity was primarily due to
the first reduction in holdings of foreign equities in
2010, led by the sales of non-US foreign stocks. However,
on an annual basis, Canadian investors added foreign
shares to their portfolios for a 29th consecutive year.  Canadian investment in foreign bonds amounted to $4.0
billion in the fourth quarter. US corporate bonds and non-
US foreign bonds drew most of the Canadian funds in the
quarter, led by increased issues of maple bonds. For 2010
as a whole, Canadian investors further reduced their
holdings of foreign bonds, but by lower amounts in
comparison to 2008 and 2009.  Activity in cross-border direct investment picks up  Canadian direct investment abroad rebounded to reach
$29.0 billion in the fourth quarter, the most such
activity in almost three years. A significant portion of
the funds injected into foreign enterprises in the quarter
was related to cross-border merger and acquisition
activities involving Australian firms. The remainder of
the investment was directed mainly to other non-US
countries. Despite this increased activity in the fourth
quarter, Canadian direct investment in foreign economies
in 2010 was the lowest since 2005.  Foreign direct investment in Canada was $11.9 billion
in the fourth quarter, following a large divestment
recorded in the previous quarter. Funds came predominantly
from US and European foreign direct investors and targeted
the Canadian resource sector. The fourth quarter closed
the year with the least amount of foreign mergers and
acquisitions activity in  Canada  since 2004.  Note to readers  The balance of international payments covers all
economic transactions between Canadian residents and non-
residents in two accounts, the current account and the
capital and financial account.  The current account covers transactions in goods,
services, investment income and current transfers.  The capital and financial account is mainly comprised
of transactions in financial assets and liabilities.  In principle, a current account surplus/deficit
corresponds to an equivalent net outflow/inflow in the
capital and financial account. In practice, as
international transactions data are compiled from multiple
sources, this is rarely the case and gives rise to
measurement error. The statistical discrepancy is the
unobserved net inflow or outflow.  For more information about the balance of payments,
consult the "Frequently asked questions" section in the
National economic accounts module of our website. The
module also presents the most recent balance of payments
statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  