-- 
Canada Retired Central Bankers Swap Suits for Bicycle Helmets at Carleton

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/canada-retired-central-bankers-swap-suits-for-bicycle-helmets-at-carleton.html
Trading suits for bicycle helmets,
retired  Bank of Canada  deputy governors are choosing to share  office space , and their expertise, at Carleton University in the
country’s capital.  Charles Freedman has recruited two other former deputy
governors to the  Centre for Monetary and Financial Economics 
since it  opened  in June 2009, and two of the central bank’s
current deputies are serving as advisers to the Ottawa school,
which more often leads the country in athletics, not academics.  The contingent of central bankers is almost as large as the
six-member Governing Council that sets  interest rates  in the
world’s 10th largest economy, and the center’s influence has
brought Governor  Mark Carney  and then-U.S. Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman  Donald Kohn  to Carleton as speakers.  Former Senior Deputy Governor Paul Jenkins, 62, and former
deputy David Longworth are research associates, while current
Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem, 49, and Deputy Governor  John Murray  are on the advisory committee. “Hopefully over time
we will develop a reputation that can attract some more
people,” Freedman, 69, said in a telephone interview.  The university hasn’t always been the first stop for
Canadian economic thinkers -- Carleton ranked seventh out of 12
similar schools in annual  rankings  by Maclean’s magazine last
year, and was dead last in the comprehensive category in  2006 .
In contrast, Carleton’s men’s  basketball team  has won six of the
last eight national championships and hasn’t lost this season.  ‘Quite a Coup’  Collecting the central bankers is “quite a coup for the
university,” said Craig Alexander, chief economist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank, and President of the Canadian Association for
Business Economics. “I am going to be interested to see what
comes out of  Carleton University  in terms of research -- you are
talking about a lot of intellectual capital.”  Some of the center’s members met over sandwiches last month
to share potential research topics, said Steve Ferris, an
economics professor and co-director of the center with Freedman.  The school allows the former policy makers to “look back
on things with a little more insight,” Ferris said. One of the
institute’s advantages is that the former colleagues know they
can “speak more freely” in pursuing ideas that pique their
interest, he added. This contrasts with a career at the central
bank where convention required deputies to hold to a  consensus .  Among the topics the group is looking at is a link between
declines in stock prices and  consumer confidence  that may have
worsened the global credit crisis, Ferris said.  Longworth, 59, said the school fit his plans for retirement
by allowing him to “participate in academic life through
participating in seminars, advising Ph.D. students, and
continuing to do some research,” he wrote in an e-mail message.
“I don’t feel constrained in the conclusions that I come to.”  Speaking Their Mind  The school “allows for a wider range of ideas, wider range
of possible opinions,” said  Jonathan Basile , an economist with
Credit Suisse in  New York , and the third most accurate
forecaster of Canadian data in a Bloomberg News survey covering
the last two years. The Bank of Canada “is not the same as the
Fed where all officials can speak their mind.”  Helping to bring the officials together were “a lot of
small-world coincidences,” Ferris said. Freedman’s wife taught
at Carleton, he said, and another school official lived on the
same street as Jenkins, who sometimes rides his bicycle to the
campus.  “One of the advantages of a place like Ottawa is you have
retired central bank officials, you have retired treasury
officials,” Freedman said. Such expertise may be harder to find
in  Montreal , home of  McGill University , or Kingston, Ontario,
home of Queen’s University.  Global Recession  Prior to retiring, Longworth and Jenkins helped  Canada  exit
a global recession linked to the 2008 credit crisis before other
Group of Seven countries. Inflation also remained close to the 2
percent target; consumer price inflation averaged 1.9 percent
between 2003 and 2010, the term Jenkins and Longworth served in
their top roles.  Freedman said he is looking to start a training program for
employees of central banks and treasuries from Latin America,  Africa  and  Asia .  For the Bank of Canada, the participation of its officials
adds to its  efforts  to sharpen monetary policy research, said
spokesman Jeremy Harrison.  “The board is informal and is very much in the spirit of
fostering discussion within the academic community,” Harrison
wrote in an e-mail message.  Expanding Links  The Carleton group expands the links the bank already has
with the  C.D. Howe Institute  of Toronto. Former Governor  David Dodge  is on the board of directors, and former Governors John
Crow and Gordon Thiessen are senior research fellows along with
Jenkins.  “You have a geographic influence there at Carleton because
I think many of them still live in Ottawa,” said Finn Poschmann, vice president of research at C.D. Howe. “They are
people that I am going to want to tap.”  What the ex-officials haven’t received so far at Carleton
are perks, such as separate offices, or even a phone with
voicemail. “There are always space constraints at universities
so we share an office,” Freedman said. “We all show up without
suits, which is very nice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 