-- 
Canada Fourth-Quarter Gross Domestic Product (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-02-28T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/canada-fourth-quarter-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of
Canada's National Economic and Financial Accounts for
the fourth quarter as released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product (GDP) rose 0.8% in the
fourth quarter, led by exports, following a 0.4% gain in
the previous quarter. Final domestic demand advanced 1.2%.
On a monthly basis, real GDP by industry increased 0.5% in
December.  Higher demand for exports (+4.0%) contributed the most
to the fourth-quarter growth in GDP.  Final domestic demand expanded as consumer spending
increased 1.2%. In particular, purchases of durable goods
grew 2.9%, far outpacing the third-quarter growth of 0.6%.  Businesses reduced inventories by $5 billion in the
fourth quarter, after strong build-ups in the two previous
quarters.  Business investment in plant and equipment expanded for
the fourth consecutive quarter, while investment in
housing fell for the second time in a row.  All major industrial sectors, with the exception of
manufacturing, increased their output in the fourth
quarter. Service-producing industries increased 0.9% while
goods production increased 0.5%. The largest contributing
sector was mining and oil and gas extraction. The public
sector (education,  health services  and public
administration combined), wholesale and retail trade, real
estate and construction also contributed to the overall
increase. Manufacturing declined following five
consecutive quarterly increases.  Expressed at an annualized rate, real GDP in the fourth
quarter grew 3.3%, after expanding 1.8% in the third
quarter. By comparison, real GDP in the US grew 2.8% in
the fourth quarter.  For the year 2010 as a whole, real GDP grew 3.1%,
following a 2.5% decline in 2009.  Exports rebound  After a slight drop (-0.4%) in the third quarter, the
volume of exports of goods and services resumed the upward
trend that began in the third quarter of 2009, increasing
4.0% in the fourth quarter.  Goods exports rose 4.9% and contributed the most to the
gain in exports, with energy products (+17%) leading the
way. Export volumes of crude petroleum rose 30% in the
fourth quarter to a record high.  Exports of industrial goods and materials grew 8.1%,
while exports of machinery and equipment increased for a
third consecutive quarter.  Automotive exports declined 5.8%, dampening growth of
total exports.  Imports slow  Growth in the volume of imports of goods and services
slowed to 0.1%, the slowest rate of growth in six
quarters, as automotive imports fell 5.2%.  Similarly, the growth of imports of machinery and
equipment slowed to 0.2%, which was well off the pace of
the previous three quarters.  Imports of services increased 2.6% as all major
categories recorded gains.  Business investment in plant and equipment up  Business investment in plant and equipment increased
2.5% in the fourth quarter, its fourth consecutive gain.
The main contributor was a 4.9% increase in investment in
non-residential structures.  Growth in investment in machinery and equipment slowed
to 0.2%, after three quarterly increases averaging 5.3%.
The main contributors to the fourth quarter slowdown were
lower investment in industrial machinery (-1.8%) and
automobiles (-9.8%).  Inventories drawdown  Manufacturers' inventories, especially inventories of
non-durable goods, fell markedly in the fourth quarter as
did retail trade inventories. A large drawdown in motor
vehicle inventories followed a build-up of motor vehicles
in the first three quarters of 2010.    Consumer spending  up  Consumer spending on goods and services rose 1.2% in
the fourth quarter, up from 0.7% in the third quarter.
Consumers increased their purchases of durable goods
(+2.9%) and services (+1.3%).  Expenditures on new and used motor vehicles grew 3.8%,
up from 1.4% in the previous quarter.  Spending on furniture, furnishings, and household
equipment and maintenance increased 0.9%, after two
quarters of decline.  Housing investment down again  Investment in housing edged down 0.2% in the fourth
quarter, the second decline in a row. The value of new
housing construction fell 5.7%, the first drop since the
third quarter of 2009.  Renovation activity also fell, down 0.9% in the fourth
quarter. Renovation activity has been weakening since the
second quarter of 2010 after a string of quarterly
increases of 3% or more that began in the second quarter
of 2009.  In contrast, expenditure on ownership transfer costs
related to housing resale activity was up 18%. This
followed steep declines in the first three quarters of
2010.  Prices rise  The price of goods and services produced in  Canada  rose
0.9% in the fourth quarter.  Overall, the price of final domestic demand was up
0.5%, the same rate of increase as in the previous
quarter.  Purchasing power expands  Canada's real gross domestic income, a measure of
purchasing power, advanced 1.3% in the fourth quarter.
Canada's terms of trade, which measures export prices
relative to import prices, rose sharply in the fourth
quarter, increasing 1.6% following a 0.8% decline in the
third quarter.  Economy-wide incomes rise  Nominal GDP rose 1.7% in the fourth quarter. Labour
income grew 1.4% as wages and salaries increased in both
the goods-producing and services industries. Corporate
profits increased 9.0%, up from 0.1% in the third quarter.
Personal disposable income was up 1.8%.  The national saving rate was 4.8%, up from the third-
quarter rate of 4.6%, as a result of increased saving in
the persons and unincorporated business sector and in the
corporate sector. Government saving has been negative
since the fourth quarter of 2008.  Financial flows: Financing activity increases  Total funds raised by domestic non-financial sectors
reached $243 billion (seasonally adjusted at annual rates)
in the fourth quarter; this is up from $188 billion in the
third quarter.  Borrowing by the government sector as a whole was up
sharply, led by an increase in borrowing through short-
term paper, despite the fact that the federal government
reduced its borrowing.  Funds raised by non-financial private corporations
amounted to $54 billion. Bonds were the major source of
financing.  Household borrowing through mortgages advanced in the
fourth quarter after slowing in the third quarter. This
reflected increased housing resale activity.  The non-resident sector continued to be a net lender to
the domestic economy in the fourth quarter. Non-resident
investors continued to supply large inflows of funds to
the economy primarily through investment in Canadian
securities, especially corporate bonds and equities.  Gross domestic product by industry, December 2010  Real gross domestic product increased 0.5% in December
after growing by 0.4% in November and 0.3% in October. As
was the case in November, production increased in most
major industrial sectors in December. Significant
increases were recorded in oil and gas extraction, which
accounted for nearly 40% of the overall increase, and in
wholesale trade. Manufacturing, transportation, the public
sector and the finance and insurance sector also grew.
However, retail trade and construction contracted.  Primarily on the strength of oil and gas extraction,
the mining sector increased 2.0% in December. Natural gas
production rose significantly as demand south of the
border increased. Oil extraction also went up on the
strength of synthetic crude petroleum production. Metal
ore mining declined partly as a result of unfavourable
weather conditions and a return to more normal production
levels in the nickel, copper, lead and zinc mines.  Wholesale trade grew 1.3% in December, partly
reflecting the strength in exports. This marked a third
consecutive monthly increase in wholesale trade. The
majority of the subsectors reported growth in December,
with the largest contribution coming from petroleum
products. Conversely, retail trade fell 0.4% as activity
declined at new and used car dealers and at food and
beverage stores.  Manufacturing grew 0.6% in December, after three
consecutive monthly declines. The production of both
durable and non-durable goods increased. Motor vehicles
production rose 6.2% following a decline in November.
Manufacturers of paper, beverages and tobacco, machinery
and chemicals also reported gains. Fabricated metal
products manufacturing was down.  Construction activities decreased 0.3% as residential
construction (-1.5%) continued to retreat. The output of
real estate agents and brokers rose for a fifth
consecutive month, reflecting a rise in sales of existing
homes.  Products, services and contact information  Detailed analysis and tables  The National economic accounts module, accessible from
the Key resource module of our website, features an up-to-
date portrait of national and provincial economies and
their structure.  Additional tables and links to other releases from the
national accounts can be found in the fourth quarter 2010
issue of Canadian Economic Accounts Quarterly Review, Vol.
9, no. 4 (13-010-X, free). This publication is now
available from the Key resource module of our website
under Publications. This publication will be updated on
March 15, at the time of the release of Labour
productivity, hourly compensation and unit labour cost.
Revised estimates of the Income and expenditure accounts
for the first, second and third quarters of 2010 have been
released, along with those for the fourth quarter of 2010.
These estimates incorporate new and revised source data
and updated estimates of seasonal patterns.  Note to readers  Percentage changes for expenditure-based and industry-
based statistics (such as personal expenditures,
investment, exports, imports, and output) are calculated
from volume measures that are adjusted for price
variations. Percentage changes for income-based and flow-
of-funds statistics (such as labour income, corporate
profits, mortgage borrowing, and total funds raised) are
calculated from nominal values; that is, they are not
adjusted for price variations.  There are four ways of expressing growth rates for
gross domestic product (GDP) and other time series found
in this release.  Unless otherwise stated, the growth rates of all
quarterly data in this article represent the percentage
change in the series from one quarter to the next, such as
from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of 2010.  The quarterly growth can be expressed at an annual rate
by using a compound growth formula, similar to the way in
which a monthly interest rate can be expressed at an
annual rate. Expressing growth at an annual rate
facilitates comparisons to official GDP statistics from
the  United States . Both the quarterly growth rate and the
annualized quarterly growth rate should be interpreted as
an indication of the latest trend in GDP.  The year-over-year growth rate is the percentage change
in GDP from a given quarter in one year to the same
quarter one year later, such as from the fourth quarter of
2009 to the fourth of 2010.  The growth rates of all monthly data in this article
represent the percentage change in the series from one
month to the next, such as from November to December 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  