-- 
Canadian Dollar Rallies to Highest Since 2007 as GDP Growth Beats Forecast

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-02-28T22:11:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/canadian-dollar-rises-to-highest-in-3-years-as-gdp-growth-exceeds-forecast.html
  Canada ’s dollar rose to its highest
level since November 2007 versus the greenback after a report
showed the nation’s economy grew in the fourth quarter more than
economists forecast as exports surged.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the aquatic bird
on the C$1 coin, climbed for a fourth day in its longest stretch
of gains since January. The Canadian dollar had a 3 percent
rally this month, its biggest monthly gain since September,
before tomorrow’s meeting of the central bank, which is expected
to boost borrowing costs in the second quarter.  “When you start talking about the Canadian dollar, you’ve
got to start talking about some pretty strong fundamentals,”
said  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading at Bank
of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit in Toronto. “It’s just one
more piece of the puzzle that is putting pressure on the  Bank of
Canada  to at least face up to reality that, at some point or
another, they’re going to have to give us another rate hike.”  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 97.16 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.74 on Feb. 25. It
touched 97.10 cents, the strongest level since Nov. 19, 2007.
One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0292.  The loonie gained this month as crude oil, Canada’s biggest
export, advanced on political turmoil in  Libya , which reduced
supplies. Crude for April delivery in New York dropped 1 percent
to $96.89 a barrel after touching $103.41 a barrel on Feb. 24,
the highest level since Sept. 29, 2008.  BOC Rate Outlook  The Bank of Canada, which led the Group of Seven nations
with three interest-rate increases last year, is expected to
boost its benchmark by a quarter-percentage point in the second
quarter, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 19 economists.  “The data today supports the fact that the Bank of Canada
needs to turn the ship and raise rates,” said  Greg Anderson , a
currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York . “We expect
them to use tomorrow to prep the market for a rate hike in
April.”  The central bank will hold its target rate tomorrow at 1
percent, where it has been since September, according to all 29
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Future increases in borrowing costs would be “carefully
considered” because the recovery is threatened by a strong
currency and  Europe ’s fiscal crisis, the Bank of Canada said in
its Jan. 18 statement.  Government Bonds  Government 10-year bonds were little changed after rising
for the previous six days. The yield increased less than one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.30 percent. The
price of the 3.50 percent security maturing in June 2020 dropped
7 cents to C$101.61.  Canada’s gross domestic product expanded at a 3.3 percent
annual rate in the fourth quarter,  Statistics Canada  reported
today. The median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 3 percent pace.  Exports, which equaled 32 percent of Canada’s economy in
2009, rose 4 percent in the fourth quarter -- the biggest
percentage gain since the second quarter of 2004. Crude oil
shipments rose 30 percent to a record.  “The concern was the strong Canadian dollar was going to
crush our export economy, and what you’re seeing is the biggest
component of GDP was exports,” said Firas Askari, head currency
trader at Bank of Montreal in Toronto.  Statistics Canada also reported today that the country’s
fourth-quarter current account deficit narrowed to C$11 billion
($11 billion) from a revised record C$17 billion shortfall.
Economists predicted a C$9.7 billion deficit in the account, a
broad measure of trade in goods, investment and services.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  