-- 
Capitulating Bears Push Short Sales to Lowest in Three Years

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-02-28T21:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/capitulating-bears-send-short-sales-to-three-year-low-in-aging-bull-market.html
The biggest Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rally in more than five decades is forcing stock market
bears to abandon short sales, cutting them to the lowest level
since 2007 last month.  Shares borrowed and sold to profit from declines dropped
four straight months and represented 3.3 percent of all stock in
January, according to data compiled by NYSE Euronext. Pessimists
are giving up after missing the 95 percent rally in the  S&P 500 
spurred by the fastest earnings growth since 1994. The monthly
decrease comes as individuals added $17.6 billion to U.S. mutual
funds this year after withdrawing money since April.  While short sales rose 2.8 percent in the two weeks ended
Feb. 15, January’s low may foreshadow slower gains in equities
as the pool of new investors shrinks, according to Doug Burtnick
of Aberdeen, Scotland-based Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. To
Laszlo Birinyi of Birinyi Associates Inc. in Westport,  Connecticut , levels haven’t fallen enough to reverse gains or
stop equities from climbing as the economy expands.  “When everybody is leaning on the same side of the boat,
then there’s a risk things may go in the other direction,” said
Philadelphia-based Burtnick, the senior investment manager of a
fund that seeks to profit from both rising and falling stocks at
Aberdeen, which oversees about $287 billion. “The market’s
liquidity-driven tailwind has made people very careful on how
they want to position themselves.”  Building Bulls  There are about 12 times as many investors speculating on
gains in U.S. shares as there are on declines, a three-year
high, according to New York-based Data Explorers, which provides
research on short sales and stock lending. The firm’s long-short
ratio for U.S. equities rose to 12.4 on Feb. 1 from 6.5 in
September 2008 when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed at
the height of the financial crisis.  “The appetite to short has waned as the market has
risen,” said Will Duff Gordon, a senior researcher at Data
Explorers. Individual companies and industries may be
overvalued, “but with most companies in robust health it is not
a target-rich environment,” he said.  The S&P 500 slid 1.7 percent to 1,319.88 last week.
Violence that left more than 1,000 people dead in  Libya  sent oil
above $100 a barrel, spurring the S&P 500’s first weekly loss in
a month. The slump cut the U.S. equity benchmark’s advance for
2011 to 5 percent, still the best start to a year since 1997.  Stocks Climb  Stocks rose today as billionaire investor  Warren Buffett 
said he’s looking to make acquisitions and reports signaled a
strengthening American economy. The S&P 500 climbed 0.6 percent
to 1,327.22 at 4 p.m. in New York.  The 46 most-shorted companies in the S&P 500 have risen 32
percent since Aug. 26, the day before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he was willing to buy Treasuries to
stimulate the economy, data compiled by Citigroup Inc. in New
York show. That compares with 26 percent for the index.    Netflix Inc . has rallied 69 percent since Aug. 26 to
$212.44 while bearish bets climbed to 25 percent of shares
available for trading, making the  Los Gatos , California-based
movie-rental service the third most-shorted stock in the S&P
500.  AutoNation Inc ., the largest U.S. car retailer, has the
highest level in the index at 31 percent. The  Fort Lauderdale ,
Florida-based company jumped 46 percent to $33.51 since Aug. 26.  ‘No More Gasoline’  “When short interest hits an all-time low, you always get
concerned that a momentum rally is nearing exhaustion,” said
Andrew Baehr, head of  North America  structured sales at BNP
Paribas SA in New York. “Capitulation of shorts helped fuel
this rally from the start, and now there’s no more gasoline.”  Bears aren’t giving up fast enough to halt the  bull market ,
according to Birinyi. His research and money-management firm was
one of the first to tell investors to buy stocks before the S&P
500 rallied from a 12-year low of 676.53 on March 9, 2009.  “I don’t see a wholesale capitulation of the short
sellers,” Birinyi said. “We’re still far from the 1 or 2
percent short interest which characterized most of the 1990s and
the previous decade. The bears haven’t thrown in the towel.”  Shares sold short have made up 2.3 percent of the U.S.
stock market on average since 1995, according to data compiled
by NYSE. The level was 1.9 percent from 1995 to December 2007.
The world’s largest economy shrank 4.1 percent from the fourth
quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2009, the most during
any recession since the 1930s, according to the U.S. Department
of Commerce. Short interest peaked at 4.9 percent in July 2008.  Positive Impact  Bearish bets have held steady when adjusted for lower  stock
trading . They amount to 2.9 times the average daily volume on
U.S. exchanges this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
level compares with a median of 2.8 in the past three years.  “If the equity rally continues, we expect the positive
impact of short covering to be the same,” said  Pierre Lapointe ,
a strategist with Brockhouse & Cooper Inc. in  Montreal .  Short selling started to decrease as stock gains
accelerated at the end of August. Increased banking regulation
and stricter collateral requirements also reduced bearish bets,
said Michael Gordon, who oversees about $65 billion as chief
investment officer of equities at BNP Paribas Investment
Partners in  London .    Goldman Sachs Group Inc . shut its Principal Strategies unit
that made bets with the New York-based bank’s own capital to
meet U.S. regulations curbing risk-taking, the company said Oct.
19. New York-based  Morgan Stanley  said last month that it plans
to break off its largest proprietary-trading group as an
independent advisory firm by the end of 2012.  ‘Prop Trading’  “The fourth quarter effectively seemed to be the end of
prop trading for the investment banks,” said Gordon, who was
previously Fidelity International Ltd.’s global head of
institutional investment.  Individuals have added $17.6 billion to U.S. mutual funds
this year, following $94.7 billion in withdrawals during the
last eight months of 2010, according to the Washington-based
 Investment Company Institute . The inflows this year are the
first since April, when the S&P 500 began a 16 percent decline
through July.  The S&P 500 has fallen 0.7 percent on average in the 60
days after mutual fund inflows were at least January’s level of
$6.1 billion, based on 10 years of ICI data tracked by
Bloomberg. The figures compare with a 0.9 percent advance in the
two months following withdrawals of that much.  “Most short sellers are professional money managers and
the trend right now is don’t be short, so they’re going to ride
that trend,” said Michael Gibbs, the Memphis, Tennessee-based
chief equity strategist at Morgan Keegan Inc. “It’s verifying
what all the other sentiment indicators are saying, which is
that retail investors are becoming more bullish. But these
indicators only tell you that the seeds may have been sown for a
pullback. They don’t tell you when.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  