-- 
CEZ, E.ON, EVN Seek Higher Bulgarian Power Rates to Improve Grid

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-02-28T14:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/cez-e-on-evn-seek-higher-bulgarian-power-rates-to-improve-grid.html
Germany’s biggest utility  E.ON AG ,  CEZ AS , the Czech Republic’s biggest power company, and
Austria’s  EVN AG  will ask Bulgaria’s energy regulator to raise
power prices to fund investment in the country.  CEZ seeks a 13.1 percent increase to cover investment of
152 million lev ($108 million) in Bulgaria’s ageing power grid
by July 2012, while EVN plans a 5 percent increase that also
reflects annual inflation of 4.5 percent last year, the two
companies said in e-mailed statements. E.ON wants a 14.3 percent
increase to match costs, it said on its  website .  The proposed increases would take effect July 1 and have
not been approved by the Sofia-based State Energy & Water
Regulation Commission.  “I don’t expect significant price changes,” the
commission’s president Angel Semerdjiev said in an interview
with public radio Horizont in Sofia today. “Three-to-four,
maximum five-percent increases in end-user prices are possible
for the second half year.”  CEZ controls the power companies serving the capital Sofia
and the northern city of Pleven, which together account for 41
percent of  Bulgaria ’s electricity consumers or more than 2
million clients.  EVN has 1.5 million customers in Plovdiv and Stara Zagora
in southern Bulgaria. The company invested 720 million lev in
the six years since it bought the Bulgarian power distributors.
E.ON controls 59 percent of the power-distribution companies in
Varna and Gorna Oriahovitsa, which serve 1.2 million customers
in northeastern Bulgaria.  Bulgaria sold seven power distributors in 2005 to CEZ,
central  Europe ’s largest power company, EVN and E.ON for 680
million euros ($940 million), before joining the European Union
on Jan. 1, 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  