-- 
Warner Bros. Fires Charlie Sheen, Weighs Future of TV Show

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-03-08T00:22:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/charlie-sheen-s-publicist-quits-as-actor-says-on-morning-tv-he-s-drug-free.html
  Warner Bros. Television  fired  Charlie Sheen , star of CBS’s top-rated comedy “Two and a Half
Men,” after a series of interviews critical of the show’s
producer.  The  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  unit is weighing the future of the
program without Sheen, according to  Paul McGuire , a spokesman
for the Burbank, California-based studio. Sheen’s firing is
effective immediately, Warner Bros. said today in a statement.    CBS Corp. (CBS)  and Warner Bros. on Feb. 24 stopped work on the
season’s last four episodes “based on the totality of Charlie
Sheen’s statements, conduct and condition,” after the actor
denounced show creator Chuck Lorre in a series of interviews.  “It’s a delicate situation,” Howard T. Owens, whose
company produces “The Office” and “Biggest Loser,” said in
an interview.  “The actor is potentially a danger to himself
and others.”  The producers had few choices other than to move ahead
without Sheen, said Owens, managing director of Reveille
Productions, a Los Angeles-based unit of Elisabeth Murdoch’s
Shine Group Ltd. The company isn’t involved with Sheen or “Two
and a Half Men.”  Sheen, 45, hired Hollywood lawyer Martin Singer and said he
is contemplating legal action against Warner Bros. and New York-
based CBS. Sheen asked for his estimated $2 million per episode
payment for eight shows, including four earlier episodes that
were canceled when he entered rehab.  Shares Rise  The actor, whose substance-abuse problems caused a hiatus
of taping on Jan. 28, told TMZ that he was “100 percent sober”
and that “I fixed myself. It’s possible. Decide what you’re
going to do and just do it.”  CBS, owner of the most-watched television network, fell 34
cents to $23.62 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have risen 23 percent since the
show was put on hold on Jan. 28 for Sheen’s rehab. Time Warner,
based in New York, declined 47 cents to $36.78 and has climbed
16 percent since then.  “Two and a Half Men” is the most-watched comedy on
broadcast television, according to data from Nielsen Co. Phil
Gonzales, a CBS spokesman in  Los Angeles , declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  