-- 
Ashley Cole, Rooney Set to Play Tonight After Air-Rifle, Elbow Incidents

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-28T17:47:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/chelsea-s-ashley-cole-will-face-manchester-utd-after-air-rifle-incident.html
Chelsea and England defender  Ashley Cole  will play against Premier League leader Manchester United
tomorrow, even amid the controversy surrounding him after an
air-rifle incident at his soccer club’s training ground.  He allegedly accidentally wounded a work-placement student
with a pellet shot from the rifle, according to yesterday’s News
of the World. United’s  Wayne Rooney  has also been cleared to
play, as he won’t face disciplinary action following a clash
with an opponent at the weekend.  Chelsea coach Carlo Ancelotti today confirmed Cole will be
in the starting line-up at Stamford Bridge as he fielded
questions about the air-rifle incident.  “Obviously, we are not happy with what happened,”
Ancelotti said at a televised press conference today. “It was
an accident. We have taken proper action but tomorrow he will
play.”  The News of the World reported that Chelsea’s medical staff
treated the 21-year-old student at the team’s training ground in
Cobham, south of  London , and that he wasn’t taken to hospital.
Ancelotti said Cole has apologized for his “mistake” to the
student, his own teammates and the club.  “The mistake was that the gun was here in Cobham,” the
Italian said. “We didn’t know the gun was here.”  Rooney has also been cleared to play in the game after the
Football Association said it wouldn’t review a clash with Wigan
midfielder James McCarthy two days ago.  Video replays suggested Rooney struck McCarthy in the face
with his elbow as the two challenged for a ball in United’s 4-0
win at the DW Stadium. Referee Mark Clattenburg awarded Wigan a
foul at the time and took no further action. Rooney could have
faced an F.A. suspension from tomorrow’s match if the referee
hadn’t seen the incident.  Police Contact  Surrey Police have said they will contact Chelsea about the
air-rifle incident, which comes amid a run of poor form for the
Premier League champion. Chelsea is fifth in the league and
trails leader United by 15 points. Failure to finish in the top
four would mean the Blues would miss out on a place in the
Champions League for the first time since Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich  bought the team in 2003.  Abramovich spent 75 million pounds ($122 million) last
month on Spanish World Cup-winning striker Fernando Torres and
Brazil national team defender David Luiz in an attempt to
reverse a slump that has seen four wins and five defeats in the
last 14 league matches. Torres hasn’t scored for Chelsea in the
three matches he’s played in.  Ancelotti rejected claims made in the U.K. media that the
rifle incident was part of a wider problem with ill-discipline
at Chelsea.  “Cobham is not out of control, at Cobham there is
discipline,” he said. “If a player steps over the line, we
will take a decision. Nobody can say here it is out of
control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  