-- 
Businesses in U.S. Expand at Fastest Pace in Two Decades

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-02-28T15:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/chicago-purchasing-managers-index-unexpectedly-climbed-to-71-2-in-february.html
Businesses in the U.S. unexpectedly
grew in February at the fastest pace in two decades, indicating
manufacturing remains at the forefront of the recovery.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer rose to 71.2 this month, the highest
level since July 1988, from 68.8 in January. Figures greater
than 50 signal expansion. The gauge, which was projected to
fall, exceeded every estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Manufacturers like  Deere & Co . are raising profit forecasts
as business investment in new equipment accelerates and exports
climb as the global economy recovers. A slowdown in purchases by
U.S. households indicates consumers are taking a breather this
quarter, a sign the expansion will become more dependent on
gains in factory production.  “Given where inventory ratios are right now, manufacturing
has at least several more months of very rapid growth in front
of it,” said Robert Stein, a senior economist at First Trust
Portfolios in Wheaton,  Illinois , who forecast the gauge would
rise to 70.3. Businesses “are just going to see a lot of demand
for the kind of stuff you put on shelves.”  Other reports showed  consumer spending  rose less than
forecast in January as increasing food and fuel prices caused
Americans to cut back on other goods and services, and fewer
Americans signed contracts to buy previously owned houses.  Spending Cools  Household purchases increased 0.2 percent, the smallest
gain since June and half the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington. Incomes climbed more than projected,
reflecting the tax-cut compromise reached by President  Barack
Obama  and Congressional Republicans in December, and inflation
remained below the  Federal Reserve ’s long-term forecast.  The index of pending home resales fell 2.8 percent after a
revised 3.2 percent decrease the prior month that was initially
reported as a gain, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists called for a 2.3 percent
drop.  The median estimates of 52 economists surveyed for the
Chicago purchasers’ index projected a drop to 67.5. Forecasts
ranged from 60 to 70.9.  Chicago Breakdown  The Chicago group’s production gauge rose to 78.2 from
January’s reading of 73.7. The gauge of new orders climbed to
75.9 from 75.7. The employment measure fell to 59.8 from 64.1
the prior month.  Factories boosted payrolls by 49,000 workers in January,
the most since August 1998, according to Labor Department data.  The Fed Bank of  New York  on Feb. 15 said manufacturing
expanded in that region this month, and the Philadelphia Fed
said two days later that factories grew at the fastest rate in
seven years.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge a measure
of overall growth. Its members have operations across the U.S.
and abroad.  The ISM’s monthly national factory index, due tomorrow,
climbed 61 in February from 60.8 the prior month when factories
expanded the most since 2004, according to the median projection
in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading above 50 signals
expansion.  More Exports  Overseas demand for American goods is helping support
manufacturers. Exports rose 1.8 percent in December to the
highest level since July 2008, according to Commerce Department
data released Feb. 11. For all of last year, exports increased
17 percent, the biggest one-year gain since 1988.  Deere, the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, this month
raised its full-year profit forecast and reported first-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as higher crop prices
boosted North American sales of tractors and combines.  Net income will be about $2.5 billion in the year ending
Oct. 31, more than the $2.1 billion forecast in November, the
Moline, Illinois-based company said Feb. 16 in a statement.
Equipment sales will rise 18 to 20 percent in fiscal 2011,
equivalent to $27.8 billion to $28.3 billion.  Agricultural and turf equipment sales will rise 16 percent
in fiscal 2011 as tight stocks of a variety of crops boost
prices, Deere said. Farm-machinery sales in the U.S. and  Canada 
are forecast to gain about 5 percent while  Europe  will increase
10 percent and  South America  will be comparable to 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 