-- 
China’s Drought-Hit Wheat Has Widespread Rain; Prices Drop

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-28T11:24:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/china-s-drought-hit-wheat-gets-rain-more-needed-forecaster-ministry-say.html
  China , the biggest wheat grower, had
widespread rain in drought-hit crop areas in the past three days,
according to the weather bureau and a state ministry, which said
more precipitation is needed. Grain futures fell.  Soil moisture has improved in the northern region after as
much as 30 millimeters of rain from Feb. 25 to 27, the  China
Meteorological Administration  said on its website yesterday.
About 37.82 million mu (2.5 million hectares) of crops are
suffering from drought compared with the peak of 111.5 million
mu on Feb. 8, the Ministry of Water Resources said today. The
drought will continue to be severe if there’s no widespread rain
in the future, the ministry said on its website.  Wheat climbed to a record in China and gained to the
highest level since 2008 in  Chicago  this month on concern the
worst drought in at least 50 years may reduce supplies. It may
take three months for the dry spell to end, forecaster Weather
Trends International said last week. The increase in wheat has
helped push global food prices to an all-time high.  “We remain cautious over the precipitation outlook in
March, without which the wheat crop will remain under stress,”
Ding Sunya, an analyst at Wanda Futures Co., said by phone from
Beijing today. “The rainfall over the weekend definitely helped
relieve the drought condition in the winter-wheat areas.”  Wheat declined 0.8 percent to $8.045 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade, reversing a 1.5 percent advance. The
most active contract climbed to a high of $9.1675 per bushel Feb.
14 as harvests trailed demand, draining inventories.  Harvest Forecasts  Drought in China may cause significant losses to grain
supplies this year, prompting increased imports, according to
Weather Trends last week.  The dry weather may cut 1 percent to 1.5 percent from the
national average wheat yield, said Michael Ferrari, vice
president for technology and research. It may take at least a
month before the weather pattern shifts to normal rain, he said
in an interview.  China, the world’s biggest user, represented 17 percent of
wheat demand in the year to June 30, the International Grains
Council has said. The country’s output may have dropped to 114.5
million tons at the last harvest from 115.1 million tons a year
earlier, the USDA estimates. Macquarie Group Ltd. expects
production to drop a further 4 million tons this year.  “We will need more rainfall and irrigation in March and
beyond,” Ding at Wanda Futures said. “The current forecast for
March seems to be in the dry trend, but we need to watch closely
because long-term  weather forecasts  aren’t reliable.”  Cloud-Seeding  Cloud-seeding has been used across 530,000 square
kilometers (204,633 square miles), the meteorological
administration’s statement said. About 5 millimeters to 20
millimeters of rain fell in south Shaanxi and Henan and north
Jiangsu and Anhui, with most winter-wheat areas receiving about
5 millimeters, it said. Rain and snow will aid the crop’s
greening and growing in south Shanxi, north and east Henan, most
of Shandong, and north Anhui, it said.  China’s grain supply is balanced with demand and stockpiles
are ample, Nie Zhenbang, director of the State Administration of
Grain, said in an interview with a Chinese Communist Party
magazine this month. Wheat in drought-hit Shandong may escape
serious damage if irrigation and rains replenish moisture, Yin
Changwen, director of Shandong’s drought-relief office, has said.  --Feiwen Rong. Editors: Jake Lloyd-Smith, James Poole  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  