-- 
China Swaps Fall to Two-Week Low as Central Bank Injects Cash

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-28T03:33:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/china-swaps-fall-to-two-week-low-as-central-bank-injects-cash.html
  China ’s interest-rate swaps declined
to the lowest level in more than two weeks on speculation the
availability of cash will improve as the central bank injects
money into the financial system.  The benchmark seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of
liqudity, dropped 539 basis points in the last four weeks, as
the People’s Bank of China added a net 257 billion yuan ($39
billion) through open-market operations. Pin Ru Tan, a
Singapore-based strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.,
said 350 billion yuan of central bank bills and  repurchase
agreements  will mature in the coming two weeks.  Swaps are dropping because of “expectations of looser
liquidity conditions,” said Singapore-based Tan. “There are a
lot of maturing PBOC bills over the next two weeks.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, slid one basis
point to 3.71 percent as of 11:14 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 3.69 percent, the lowest
level since Feb. 9.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged yesterday to curb
inflation by controlling liquidity and boosting agricultural
production. The annual National People’s Congress, a meeting of
the legislature, will convene on March 5.  “The liquidity condition may stay around this level till
the end of the annual congress meeting,” said Huang Yanhong, a
bond analyst in Nanjing at Bank of Nanjing Co., a Chinese lender
partly owned by BNP Paribas SA. “New tightening measures,
especially quantitative measures, may come after the meeting
because there are no other ways to drain liquidity.”  The seven-day repo rate dropped eight basis points to 3.03
percent, the lowest level in more than a week, according to a
daily fixing rate by the Interbank Funding Center.  -  Judy Chen . Editors: James Regan, Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 