-- 
Christie's Pension Proposals Spur New Jersey Government Worker Retirements

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-02-28T21:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/christie-s-pension-proposals-spur-new-jersey-government-worker-retirements.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s
proposals to cut pension benefits and raise government workers’
health-insurance payments contributed to a 60 percent jump in
retirements in 2010 as more than 20,000 people filed to leave.  The number of applications is the most in at least a
decade, according to data from the state  Treasury Department .
Teacher retirements surged 95 percent, the largest increase of
any public-sector group, as 7,132 educators submitted papers
last year, up from 3,663 in 2009.  Christie, 48, a first-term Republican, urged legislators in
September to roll back a 9 percent benefit increase enacted in
2001, raise the minimum  retirement age  to 65 from 62, increase
worker contributions and freeze cost-of-living raises to help
reduce a $53.9 billion deficit in the state’s pension system.  “Government doesn’t seem to want us anymore,” said Rae Roeder, president of  Communications Workers of America  Local
1033, which has about 7,000 members in the divisions of
treasury, education and law and public safety. “People are
saying it’s time to get out -- ‘I’m going to take what I can and
see if I can survive this mess.’”  Union Battles  During his first year in office, Christie tangled with the  New Jersey  Education Association, the union representing 200,000
current and retired educators, over pay, benefits and tenure.
Last April, voters overturned a record 59 percent of school
budgets after Christie urged them to do so in districts where
teachers didn’t accept wage freezes.  “People don’t even want to admit that they’re teachers
anymore,” said Steve Wollmer, a spokesman for the teachers’
union. “People got spooked, and a lot of them jumped.”  Police and firefighters are scheduled to rally March 3 at
the state Capitol to protest Christie’s cuts, according to an
announcement by the New Jersey State Policemen’s Benevolent
Association on its website.  Jim Ryan , a spokesman for the police
union, said the current year and next will be “some of the
toughest in 20 years.”  “There’s been so much uncertainty that those who had
enough credits retired,” he said in an interview. “The average
officer doesn’t understand how this came about. They’re just
doing their jobs.”  More than 3,000 union members rallied Feb. 25 in Trenton
against the governor’s plans and those of Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , who has asked lawmakers to pass a bill limiting
collective-bargaining rights.  Retirement Moves  William Quinn, a spokesman for Treasurer Andrew Sidamon- Eristoff, said the retirement rush may also have been caused by
people delaying such plans over the past few years because of
the longest U.S. recession since the 1930s. The increase won’t
widen the pension system’s so-called unfunded liability, he
said.  Moody’s Investors Service said today that the current 62
percent funding level of New Jersey’s pension system would drop
for several years as the state phases in contributions, and it
won’t return to its current level for a decade. A new state law
requires the state to make one-seventh of its pension
contribution in the next fiscal year, and then increase the
payment gradually each year until it is making the full amount.  Christie’s budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1
includes a $506 million pension contribution, the minimum
required. The proposal, which requires passage from the
Democratic-led Senate and Assembly, would be a “credit
positive” for the state in the long term, Baye Larsen, a
Moody’s analyst, wrote in a report.  Credit Rating  Moody’s in September lowered its outlook to negative on
$31.6 billion in bonds sold by New Jersey, citing underfunded
pensions, budget gaps and a slow economic recovery.  The pension gap “was a key piece of that negative
outlook,” Larsen said in an interview. “Their ability in the
near-term and long-term to manage that unfunded liability will
be a critical component as we continue to look at their ratings
going forward.”  New Jersey’s bonds are rated Aa2 by Moody’s, the third-
highest investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating on
the state’s debt to AA-, its fourth-highest rank, on Feb. 9,
citing the state’s growing pension and health-care obligations.  U.S. governors are looking to cut the expense of their
workforces as 44 states face as much as $125 billion in budget
deficits next fiscal year, according to the Washington-based
 Center on Budget & Policy Priorities .  Lawsuits Filed  Government workers in  Colorado ,  South Dakota  and  Minnesota 
have already filed legal challenges to attempts by politicians
to pare back pensions as 18 states look to reduce benefits.
Christie, a former federal prosecutor, has said he doesn’t mind
breaking promises to pensioners.  More than 10,700 state and local government workers filed
retirement papers last year, up from 7,370 in 2009, the Treasury
data show. Police and firefighter retirements surged 45 percent
as 2,317 applied for pensions in 2010.  “It tells you how rich the benefits had become,”  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, said in an e-mail, referring to
the rush of retirements. “Someone had to do something to stop
the escalation, and it had to start sometime.”  Christie’s administration will conduct negotiations with
unions representing about 51,000 government workers whose
contracts expire this year, including the  Communications Workers
of America , the  American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees  and the  International Federation of
Professional & Technical Engineers , Drewniak said.  The governor is seeking to make all public employees pay 30
percent of their health-insurance premiums, up from the current
1.5 percent of their salaries, to help close a $66.8 billion gap
in the cost of providing medical care to retirees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 