-- 
Christie Spurs U.S. Governors to Adopt Confrontational Statehouse Politics

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/christie-spurs-u-s-governors-to-try-a-confrontational-statehouse-politics.html
Barely 400 days into a tenure that
began with his squeaking into office with 49 percent of the
vote,  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  is emboldening other
Republican chief executives to challenge the compact between
governments and their workers.  The 48-year-old former U.S. attorney once was a singular
voice of pugnacity. Now the Christie style is gaining disciples.
Wisconsin, Indiana and Ohio have seen protests as Republican
governors take on public-sector unions for cutbacks or
restrictions on collective bargaining. They chose the same
target at which Christie took aim last year.  “I’ve never been a wallflower,” Christie told reporters
Feb. 26 at the  National Governors Association  winter meeting in
Washington. “I talk about the things I want to talk about.”  Christie is a provocative presence on YouTube, where he has
his own channel, often seen attacking teacher unions in public
forums. He has visited  Washington  three times in the past month.
In a Feb. 16 speech to the  American Enterprise Institute , he
threatened to campaign against House Republicans who he said
need to “put up or shut up” on fighting the cost of government
entitlements such as Social Security and Medicare.  Christie filled the cover of this week’s New York Times
Magazine. At the weekend governors’ meeting he was a magnet for
reporters seeking his opinion on the Wisconsin labor battle. His
high profile among the governors has fed speculation he will run
for president in 2012, though he has denied such ambitions.  No Romance Here  He mixes it up with other governors, such as Maryland
Democrat  Martin O’Malley , who said Christie is “abusive toward
public employees” and that he is a budget hypocrite for
skipping the state’s $3 billion pension bill payment.  “If he doesn’t like my style then we don’t have to date,”
Christie said in Washington. “It’s OK by me.”  After taking office Christie identified government unions -
- especially the New Jersey Education Association -- as an
element driving up taxes. When a teacher complained to Christie
about her salary at a public event last May, Christie told her,
“Well, you know what? You don’t have to do it.”  Overflowing Bitterness  The exchange drew national attention.  “I think this represents the heightened political rhetoric
that is spilling out of Washington, and I also would warn you
that there are a number of politicians, some of whom are
governors, who may be running for president,”  Connecticut ’s
Democratic Governor Dan Malloy said in an interview in
Washington.  Partisan gridlock hasn’t been good for Congress, “so I
can’t imagine that it’s good anywhere else,” Malloy said.  Christie dismisses such talk. States are under financial
stress and need tough measures fast, he said. Confronting unions
on pension and health-care costs is part of that strategy,
Christie said.  New Jersey had the highest state and local tax burden for
fiscal 2009, according to the  Tax Foundation . On Feb. 22, he
proposed a $29.4 billion budget that would give residents
property-tax credits if lawmakers pass his plan for all public
workers to pay 30 percent of the cost of their health benefits.  “We’ve been taking on the unions in New Jersey for the
last year and that’s gotten a lot of attention, too. So
everybody is doing it their own way,” Christie said yesterday
on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  ‘About Time’  In  Wisconsin , Governor  Scott Walker  has gone further than
Christie by pushing the elimination of most collective-
bargaining rights for public sector workers, an idea that caused
protesters to occupy the Capitol in Madison. Walker, who didn’t
attend the governors’ meeting because of the standoff, said he
has consulted with Christie on budget issues. And like Christie,
Walker talks bluntly.  “It’s about time somebody stood up and told the truth in
this state and said ‘Here’s our problem, here’s the solution,’
and act about it,” Walker, 43, said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet
the Press.”  “I need to do what no other governor is doing across this
country,” Walker said.  The Christie approach appears to draw from the anti-
government, anti-union line of conservative talk radio, said
Michael Harrison, publisher of Talkers magazine, which covers
the industry.  Voices Carry  Amid budget deficits, the appeal of that message has grown,
Harrison said in a telephone interview from Springfield,  Massachusetts .  “These governors have found out that it resonates with
their constituencies,” Harrison said.  Newly elected  Ohio  Republican Governor John Kasich, 58,
served 18 years in Congress. After he left in 2001 he became a
talk-show host for six years on Fox News with a program called
“The Heartland with John Kasich.”    John Green , a political scientist at the University of
Akron in Ohio, said in a telephone interview the aggressiveness
of some Republican governors reminds him of President  Barack
Obama  and congressional Democrats after the 2008 election. They,
too, believed they had a mandate, he said.  Fights with unions “did start with the defiant tone of
Governor Christie,” Green said. “He made a real point of
standing up to people on one side and it resonated with people
on the other side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  