-- 
Citibank Agrees to Withdraw From MBIA Restructuring Suits

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   S h a n n o n   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-02-28T22:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/citibank-agrees-to-withdraw-from-mbia-restructuring-suits-document-says.html
Citibank NA agreed to withdraw from
lawsuits against  MBIA Inc . challenging the bond insurer’s
restructuring, according to a stipulation filed today in New
York state Supreme Court.  Eleven other institutions including  UBS AG  and  Bank of
America Corp . will continue legal action against MBIA. The banks
are set to go before New York’s highest court on May 31 to argue
why a lower court erred in throwing out a lawsuit in response to
the restructuring. A second lawsuit by the banks, brought under
New York’s Article 78 statute, also is pending in state court.  “Eleven global financial institutions remain committed to
undoing MBIA’s illegal restructuring,” Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
lawyer Robert Giuffra Jr., who represents the banks, said in an
interview.  Citibank, a unit of  Citigroup Inc ., discontinued the
proceedings with prejudice, according to the stipulation.
Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the bank, declined to
comment. Kevin Brown, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based
MBIA, also declined to comment.  The banks claim the restructuring, approved by New York’s
insurance department in 2009, transferred $5 billion in cash and
securities out of MBIA’s primary operating unit, MBIA Insurance
Corp., to another entity now known as National Public Finance
Guarantee Corp., according to court papers.  The banks claim the move left MBIA Insurance
undercapitalized and possibly unable to pay out future claims.  The cases are ABN Amro Bank NV v. MBIA Inc., 601475-2009,
and ABN Amro Bank NV v. Eric Dinallo, 601846-2009, New York
state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  