-- 
Clinton Says U.S. Exploring All Options on Libya, Warns Qaddafi on `Thugs'

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-02-28T16:47:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/clinton-says-u-s-exploring-all-options-on-libya-warns-qaddafi-on-thugs-.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said that the U.S. is exploring all possible options regarding
Libya and that nothing is “off the table.”  “Mercenaries and thugs have been turned loose to attack
demonstrators,” Clinton said in a speech today in Geneva. “As
we move forward on these fronts, we will continue to explore all
possible options for action -- as we have said, nothing is off
the table so long as the Libyan government continues to threaten
and kill Libyan citizens.”  Clinton spoke at a meeting of the United Nations Human
Rights Council attended by ministers of European and other
allied states. German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  earlier
called for a 60-day freeze on all payments for oil to  Libya .  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says more than 1,000
people have died in the Libyan unrest, in which the regime of
Muammar Qaddafi has used air power and mercenaries in a failed
attempt to quash a rebellion that has seized much of the
country. Libya is Africa’s third-biggest oil producer after
Nigeria and  Angola  and holds the continent’s largest reserves,
according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  Qaddafi Must ‘Go’  “Colonel Qaddafi and those around him must be held
accountable for these acts, which violate international legal
obligations and common decency,” Clinton said. “It is time for
Qaddafi to go -- now, without further violence or delay.”  White House press secretary Jay Carney said in Washington
that exile for Qaddafi is “certainly one option” and the U.S.
is in touch with Libyan opposition groups and consulting with
allies on the next steps toward forcing Qaddafi to from power.  A “no-fly zone is an option we are actively considering,
discussing with allies and partners,” he said, adding it was
“premature” to discuss an embargo on Libyan oil.  In  London , U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  told
parliament he doesn’t rule out the use of military assets in
Libya and has asked military leaders to draw up plans for a no-
fly zone.  Australian Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd , who attended the
Geneva meeting, was quoted by  Australia ’s ABC television as
saying his country wants a no-fly zone imposed on Libya.  “We believe that is necessary given that Qaddafi’s
regime has already used its  air force  to strafe the civilian
population,” Rudd said.  Change from Within  Clinton said that while the U.S. is working closely with
its allies on Libya, democratic change would have to come from
within each country in the Middle East and North  Africa .  “Ultimately, the people of Libya will be the ones to chart
their own destiny and shape a new Libyan government,” Clinton
said. “They are braving the dictator’s bullets and putting
their lives on the line.”  Clinton criticized  Iran  for pursuing “policies of violence
abroad and tyranny at home.”  “Why do people have the right to live free from fear in
Tripoli but not in Tehran?” Clinton said. “The denial of human
dignity in Iran is an outrage that deserves the condemnation of
all who speak out for freedom and justice.”  ‘Inspired Millions’  Clinton said that protests by young people in the Middle
East have “inspired millions around the world” and that “we
celebrate what some are rightly calling the Arab Spring.”  “So for leaders on every continent, the choice becomes
clearer every day: Embrace your people’s aspirations, have
confidence in their potential and help them seize it,” she
said. “Or they will lose confidence in you.”  Clinton called for the  UN Human Rights Council  to be
revamped and end its “structural bias against  Israel .”  She said the Council needed to have the capacity to respond
to emergencies “in real time” and “abandon tired rhetorical
debates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Geneva at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  