-- 
Secretary Clinton Urges Treaty to Halt Production of Nuclear Bomb Material

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-02-28T23:41:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/clinton-urges-treaty-to-halt-production-of-nuclear-bomb-material.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called for an international treaty to bar production of
plutonium and uranium for use in nuclear bombs, saying it was a
crucial step to fulfilling President  Barack Obama ’s vision of a
world without nuclear weapons.  “Nearly 20 years after the end of the  Cold War , the world
has more than 20,000 nuclear weapons. As I speak to you today,
centrifuges around the world are spinning out more enriched
uranium,” Clinton told a meeting of the United Nations
 Conference on Disarmament  yesterday in Geneva, where she also
held separate talks on the political turmoil in  Libya  and across
the Middle East.  Halting production of bomb-grade materials “is in the
interest of every country,” Clinton said, urging the UN to open
negotiations on a Fissile Material Cutoff Treaty “without
further delay.”  The Obama administration says a successful treaty would
halt production of material for nuclear weapons worldwide and
would reduce the risk that plutonium or bomb-grade uranium would
fall into the hands of terrorists. Though Clinton did not
mention any country by name, opposition from Pakistan has been
an obstacle to the so-called FMCT.  Pakistan  has used procedural
maneuvers for months to block the start of negotiations on the
treaty.  Pakistan’s leaders say they need to produce more nuclear
material to keep pace with India. Pakistan has enough plutonium
and highly enriched uranium for about 100 bombs or more, while  India  has a sufficient supply for 140 bombs, according to the
 Arms Control Association , a Washington-based non-partisan
advocacy and research group.  ‘No Justification’  “Our patience is not infinite. There is no justification
for a single nation to abuse the consensus principle and forever
thwart the legitimate desire of the 64 other states to get
negotiations under way on an agreement that would strengthen our
common security,” Clinton said.  If the stalemate continues, “then the  United States  is
determined to pursue other options,” she said.  Alternatives may include separate talks outside the UN’s
Conference on Disarmament to negotiate a verifiable fissile
material production halt, according to Daryl Kimball, executive
director of the Arms Control Association.  The delay in treaty talks reflects traditional tensions
between India and Pakistan, which each tested nuclear weapons in
May 1998. The U.S. has embraced India’s pursuit of nuclear
energy for civilian use while tussling with Pakistan over its
weapons program and threats from militants on its soil.  Nuclear Security  India and Pakistan have “more than enough nuclear weaponry
to deter attack by the other,” Kimball said. “More plutonium
and highly enriched uranium will not make Pakistan any safer,
and it will only deepen nuclear security problems in  South Asia 
and the world.”  If the world is “serious about reducing the possibility
that fissile material could fall into terrorists’ hands, then we
must reduce the amount of such material that is available,”
Clinton said in Geneva.  The U.S. also supports “reducing stocks of separated
plutonium and highly enriched uranium and minimizing the future
use of highly enriched uranium for civilian purposes,” Clinton
said, adding that the Obama administration has made significant
progress toward those goals with Russia and other countries.  Clinton referred to last year’s Nuclear Security Summit in  Washington , where 47 countries agreed to lock down vulnerable
nuclear materials within four years, and completion of a new
Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with  Russia  that will cut
deployed strategic warheads to the lowest numbers since the
1950s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Geneva at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 