-- 
CME’s Donohue Says Exchange Will Stick With ‘What We Do Well’

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-02-28T20:40:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/cme-will-stick-with-what-we-do-well-as-speculation-mounts-on-nyse-offer.html
  CME Group Inc . will expand by
concentrating on futures and over-the-counter derivatives,
“doing what we do well,” Chief Executive Officer Craig Donohue
said.  The announced $9.5 billion takeover bid by  Deutsche Boerse
AG  of NYSE Euronext that would create the world’s largest
exchange operator has led to speculation of other potential
mergers, including between CME Group rivals Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. and Intercontinental Exchange Inc. Donohue said in a
telephone interview today that his company’s focus on
derivatives has paid off as competitors try to emulate it.  While a merged Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext would list
equities with about $15 trillion in value, more than any other
exchange, what may prove more lucrative is ownership of growing
venues for trading futures and options, Rich Repetto, a New
York-based analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said
earlier this month. Chicago-based CME Group is the world’s
largest futures exchange, controlling 98 percent of U.S.
trading.  “During the course of the last decade a lot of exchanges
were moving in the multi-asset-class direction, meaning
equities, equity options and futures, and we sort of eschewed
that in favor of focusing on our core strengths,” Donohue said.  “We like our strategy,” he said. “We have an amazing
global platform that spans all of the major asset classes, which
are represented by futures and OTC in our case.”  Donohue declined to comment on any plans by CME Group to
make a bid for either company in the Deutsche Boerse  NYSE
Euronext  deal.  “We’ve consistently said that we’d like to stay within
areas where we’re the market leader,” Donohue said. “We’ve
been the innovator in derivatives, we’ve been the leading
platform, we’ve been the leading clearinghouse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 