-- 
Conoco, Origin Likely to Seek PTT as LNG Buyer, Analyst Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-02-28T07:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/conoco-origin-may-seek-pttep-as-lng-customer-citigroup-says.html
ConocoPhillips and  Origin Energy
Ltd ., partners in a proposed $21 billion natural gas development
in Australia’s Queensland state, are likely in fuel-supply talks
with Thailand’s  PTT Pcl , Citigroup Inc said.  The Australia Pacific liquefied natural gas venture may be
in negotiations to sell as much as 2 million metric tons of the
fuel a year to Bangkok-based PTT, Marie Miyashiro, Sydney-based
analyst at Citigroup, wrote in a report dated Feb. 25. It may
also be in discussions with  India ’s  Petronet LNG Ltd ., which is
seeking as much as 4 million tons of LNG a year, she said.  Origin doesn’t comment on “market rumor or speculation”
about customers, spokeswoman Michelle Zahra said in an e-mail.  The company may need to sell about A$2 billion ($2 billion)
of shares to fund the venture, Miyashiro said by phone today.  “They’ll need to raise a sufficient amount of equity to
maintain their BBB+ credit rating,” she said. Cost is another
risk, she said. “There are three LNG projects being developed
in the same area. There will be some labor constraints and the
potential for capex blowouts.”  The company may also raise A$1.75 billion selling shares to
help fund its acquisition of state power assets in New South
Wales, Miyashiro said.    ConocoPhillips  and Origin plan to liquefy gas extracted
from coal deposits for export to  Asia , following BG Group Plc
and Santos Ltd., which have already committed to building more
than $30 billion of LNG developments on the Queensland coast.  The two companies last week signed a preliminary agreement
to supply 4.3 million tons of LNG a year to China Petrochemical
Corp., or Sinopec Group.  Sinopec also agreed to acquire 15 percent of the Australia
Pacific venture, reducing the partners’ stakes to 42.5 percent
each, the companies said in Feb. 25 statements. Origin may
reduce its stake in the development to 35 percent, Managing
Director Grant King told reporters last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 