-- 
ConocoPhillips Sees Australia LNG Plant Decision as Early as May

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-02-28T04:14:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/conocophillips-sees-final-australian-lng-project-decision-as-early-as-may.html
ConocoPhillips and  Origin Energy
Ltd . may announce a decision to proceed with their proposed $18
billion Australian liquefied natural gas venture as early as
May, a company executive said.  The partners will make a call on the Queensland project
“in the May to July area -- sooner rather than later,”
ConocoPhillips Australia President Todd Creeger said in an
interview today. The companies will likely sign up as many as
three additional customers after China Petrochemical Corp.
agreed to buy 4.3 metric tons of LNG a year for two decades.  That initial pact, announced Feb. 25, “is the largest
contract ever in Australia, so the other announcements will be
smaller volumes with those partners -- so expect to see two or
three more announcements in coming months,” Creeger said in
Canberra.  ConocoPhillips  may raise debt to help fund development
of Australia Pacific LNG at the city of Gladstone.  The supply contract with Sinopec Group, as Beijing-based
China Petrochemical is known, may be worth about A$70 billion
($71 billion),  David Leitch , an analyst at UBS AG in Sydney,
wrote in a report dated Feb. 25. The Chinese company’s stake in
the project may be worth A$1.13 billion, Leitch has estimated.
The companies haven’t disclosed financial terms.  ConocoPhillips and Origin propose one of four coal-seam
gas-to-LNG ventures in Queensland state targeting Asian demand.
BG Group Plc has committed to a $15 billion LNG venture and  Santos Ltd . has approved a $16 billion development, while Arrow
Energy Ltd., owned by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and PetroChina Co.,
plans another development on the central Queensland coast.  Funding Plans  The LNG venture won environmental approval from the federal
government Feb. 22 and is due to begin production in 2015,
Origin has said. ConocoPhillips may sell bonds as part of its
long-term financing requirements, with total  capital investment 
in the venture as much as $18 billion, Creeger said.  “We are looking at all kinds of financing alternatives,”
Creeger said. “We may project finance, it is likely we will
look at internal funding sources. It will be a combination of
sources. It could include some debt.”  ConocoPhillips and Origin are among companies planning as
much as A$200 billion of Australian LNG ventures aimed at Asian
markets. LNG is natural gas chilled to liquid form, reducing it
to one-six-hundredth of its original volume for shipment by
tankers to destinations not connected by pipeline.    Australia ’s gas industry deserves special treatment under
government plans to introduce a fixed carbon price in July next
year, before introducing an emissions trading system as early as
2015, Creeger said.  “Developing LNG, you are going to emit more, but you are
displacing four equivalent units in a higher intensity market
and we think we should be recognized for that as an industry,”
he said. “You’d like to have some certainty. We believe the
government understands that and will work with industry to make
sure we come up with a policy that doesn’t hurt its growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  