-- 
Consumer Spending in U.S. Probably Cooled in January as Gas Prices Climbed

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-02-28T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/consumer-spending-in-u-s-probably-cooled-as-prices-climbed.html
  Consumer spending  in the U.S.
probably rose at a slower pace in January as food and fuel
prices climbed, economists said before a report today.  Americans’ purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose 0.4 percent after a 0.7 percent gain in
December, according to the median estimate of 59 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other figures may show manufacturing
continued to expand and home sales dropped.  While tax cuts and rising confidence in the recovery
indicate households will keep shopping, purchases may be
tempered by higher gasoline costs and 9 percent unemployment.
After adjusting for changes in prices, the data may indicate the
economy will get less of a boost from Americans’ spending in the
first quarter than the prior three months.  “We’ll see modest gains in spending this quarter,” said  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “Rising prices imparted a strong
bite on real consumer spending. Acceleration in consumption and
in the economy may become more of a challenge.”  The Commerce Department’s spending report is due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from gains of
0.2 percent to 1.1 percent.  The report may also show a fourth-straight gain in incomes
and that inflation held below the Federal Reserve’s long-term
forecast. Personal income rose 0.4 percent in January for a
third month, according to the Bloomberg survey. The central
bank’s preferred price index, which is tied to spending patterns
and excludes food and fuel, increased 0.8 percent from January
2010, according to the survey.  Chicago Purchasers  At 9:45 a.m., data from the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. may show businesses expanded in February
at close to the fastest pace in two decades. The group’s
business barometer fell to 67.5 this month from 68.8 in January,
the highest level since July 1988, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. Readings greater than 50 signal expansion.  Fewer Americans signed contracts to buy previously owned
homes in January, the National Association of Realtors may
report at 10 a.m. The index of pending home resales fell 2.3
percent, according to the Bloomberg survey median, indicating
the industry that triggered the worst recession since the 1930s
will take time to recover.  The economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter, slower than previously calculated, as state and local
governments made deeper cuts in spending, Commerce Department
figures showed on Feb. 25. Consumer purchases rose at a 4.1
percent pace, the most since the same three months in 2006,
compared with a 4.4 percent rate originally estimated.  Food and Fuel  Rising food and fuel costs may strain household budgets, at
the same time higher commodity costs risk prompting companies to
raise prices to protect profits. Oil topped $100 a barrel last
week amid unrest in the Middle East. Regular fuel, which in
January was higher than the December average, jumped to $3.29 a
gallon last week, the costliest since 2008, according to AAA,
the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  Price gains are masking the lack of momentum in real
consumer spending, some reports show. Retail sales dropped last
month after adjusting for inflation, according to figures from
the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  St. Louis . The hit to retail sales,
which account for about 40 percent of household purchases,
signals American consumers may be scaling back early this year.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
gained 0.7 percent so far this year, while the broader  S&P 500 
advanced 5 percent through Feb. 25.  Tax Benefits  Households may find some relief due to tax benefits
including a reduction in payroll taxes of 2 percentage points,
the extension in December of President  George W. Bush ’s tax
cuts, and renewal of emergency jobless benefits for the long-
term unemployed. Stock market gains have also helped repair
consumer finances.  Americans’ confidence increased in February to the highest
level in three years, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final index of sentiment showed last week. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, formerly the ABC News U.S. Weekly
Consumer Comfort Index, climbed in the week ended Feb. 18 to the
highest level since April 2008 as Americans grew less
pessimistic about their finances.    Target Corp ., the second-largest U.S. discount retailer,
projected sales at stores open at least a year may rise as much
as 5 percent this year, after a 2.1 percent gain the prior
period. In the fourth quarter ended Jan. 29, sales showed
surprising strength at times, followed by unexpected weakness,
executives said.  “Consumer optimism is once again increasing,” Kathryn Tesija, executive vice president of merchandising, said on a
conference call with investors on Feb. 24. Even so, customers
are “focused on controlling household budgets, leading to
increased coupon use and a focus on promotions.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  