-- 
Consumer Spending in U.S. Climbed Less Than Economists Forecast in January

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-02-28T21:32:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/consumer-spending-in-u-s-rose-less-than-forecast-in-january.html
  Consumer spending  cooled more than
forecast in January as rising food and fuel prices caused
Americans to cut back on post-holiday visits to malls and
restaurants.  Purchases rose 0.2 percent, the smallest gain since June,
as winter storms may have also discouraged shoppers, according
to figures from the Commerce Department today in Washington. A
report from Chicago-area purchasing managers showed businesses
expanded in February at the fastest pace in two decades.  Economists at Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc. cut forecasts as the data showed households may have used
some of the extra cash from the payroll tax cuts to boost
savings. At the same time, the world’s largest economy is
getting a lift from manufacturers like  Deere & Co . as business
investment in new equipment accelerates and exports climb.  “The consumer has become slightly more cautious,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , who correctly projected the gain in
purchases. “The extra money for gas prices is coming out of
consumers’ pocket. Spending will be positive, but modest.”  Stocks advanced, extending a third consecutive monthly
gain, after billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said he’s
looking to make more acquisitions. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.6 percent to 1,327.22 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York. The S&P Retailing Supercomposite advanced 0.1 percent.  Less Than Forecast  The median estimate of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 0.4 percent advance in spending. Projections
ranged from increases of 0.2 percent to 0.5 percent. The
Commerce Department revised the December spending figure down to
0.5 percent from a previously reported 0.7 percent gain.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer rose to 71.2 this month, the highest
level since July 1988, from 68.8 in January. Figures greater
than 50 signal expansion. The gauge, which was projected to
fall, exceeded every estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  “Manufacturing has at least several more months of very
rapid growth in front of it,” said Robert Stein, a senior
economist at First Trust Portfolios in Wheaton,  Illinois , who
forecast the gauge would rise to 70.3. Businesses “are just
going to see a lot of demand for the kind of stuff you put on
shelves” because inventories are lean, he said.  Tax Cuts  The spending report showed incomes climbed 1 percent in
January, exceeding the median forecast of economists surveyed
and the most since May 2009. The jump reflected the tax-cut
compromise reached by President  Barack Obama  and Congressional
Republicans in December that reduced the social security payroll
tax by 2 percentage points this year.  Disposable incomes, or the money left after taxes, rose 0.7
percent in January, the most since April. Excluding the benefits
of the tax changes, the increase would have been 0.1 percent,
the Commerce Department said.  The savings rate increased to 5.8 percent from 5.4 percent
in December. It has been dropping since reaching a 2010 high of
6.3 percent in June as households started gaining confidence to
spend.  Today’s report also showed inflation stabilized. The gauge
tied to spending patterns increased 1.2 percent from January
2010, the same as in the 12 months to December.  The  Federal Reserve ’s preferred price measure, which
excludes food and fuel, rose 0.1 percent from the prior month
and was up 0.8 percent from a year earlier, matching December’s
year-over-year gain.  Adjusted for Prices  Adjusted for inflation, which are the figures used to
calculate gross domestic product, consumer spending fell 0.1
percent in January, the first decline in a year.  Restaurants were among the categories taking the biggest
hit in sales last month, indicating bad weather may have also
played a role. Winter storms spread from the Midwest and the
South to  New England , covering 71 percent of the country with
snow on Jan. 12, according to the National Climatic Data Center.  Fed policy makers are awaiting further proof of a durable
pickup in the labor market that will spur growth, one reason why
they plan to complete a second round of monetary stimulus worth
$600 billion by June. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in testimony
before Congress over the next two days may reiterate that he is
dissatisfied with the pace of expansion and the amount of time
it’s taking to bring down unemployment.  Last Quarter  The economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter, slower than previously calculated, as state and local
governments made deeper cuts in spending, Commerce Department
figures showed on Feb. 25. Consumer purchases rose at a 4.1
percent pace, the most since the same three months in 2006,
compared with a 4.4 percent rate originally estimated.  Economists at Morgan Stanley in  New York  cut their tracking
estimate for consumer spending this quarter to 1.9 percent from
a prior estimate of 2.4 percent. Deutsche Bank’s Joe LaVorgna
reduced it by a percentage point to 2.5 percent.  The slowdown in household purchases indicates the expansion
will become more dependent on gains in factory production as
housing hovers near depressed levels.  Another report today showed the index of pending home
resales fell 2.8 percent after a revised 3.2 percent decrease
the prior month that was initially reported as a gain, according
to figures from the National Association of Realtors.  Deere, the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, this month
raised its full-year profit forecast and reported first-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as higher crop prices
boosted North American sales of tractors and combines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  