-- 
Copper Futures Advance as U.S. Economic Data, Equity Gains Boost Demand

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-02-28T19:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/copper-futures-advance-as-u-s-economic-data-equity-gains-boost-demand.html
Copper climbed for a third straight
session as improving economic data and gains in equity markets
buoyed demand expectations.  U.S. stocks advanced, heading for the third straight
monthly gain. Businesses in the U.S., the world’s second-largest
copper user, grew in February at the fastest pace in two
decades. An index of U.S. manufacturing this month will show
expansion, and U.S. vehicle sales probably gained, economists
said before industry reports tomorrow.  “The market is once again driven by economic optimism,”
said  Matthew Zeman , a metal trader at LaSalle Futures Group in
Chicago. “People are a bit calmer and focusing on the future.”  Copper futures for May delivery advanced 4.15 cents, or 0.9
percent, to close at $4.4965 a pound at 1:27 p.m. on the Comex
in  New York , bringing the gain in three sessions to 4.8 percent.
The metal was up 0.9 percent in February, the eighth straight
increase.  Copper may top $4.6575, the record on Feb. 15, in a few
weeks unless the unrest in the Middle East escalates, causing
another surge in  oil prices , Zeman said.  In Chile, the world’s biggest copper producer, a 5.8
magnitude earthquake struck 37 kilometers (23 miles) south of
Conception yesterday, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said. The
temblor is about 100 miles from “any significant copper
operations,”  Standard Bank  said.  Copper prices have climbed 37 percent in the past year as
mining companies struggled to keep pace with rising consumption
in emerging markets.  China  is the largest buyer.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months jumped $125, or 1.3 percent, to $9,885 a metric ton
($4.48 a pound).  Aluminum, tin, zinc, lead and nickel also gained in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  