-- 
Crude Oil Declines Most in Two Weeks as Saudis Offer Additional Supplies

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-02-28T20:31:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/crude-oil-falls-as-saudi-arabia-offers-to-offset-missing-libyan-supplies.html
Oil fell the most in two weeks as  Saudi Arabia  offered to make up for supplies lost because of
unrest in Libya and on reports the North African country is
exporting crude.  Futures slid 0.9 percent in New York after Khalid Al-Falih,
the Saudi Arabian Oil Co.’s chief executive officer, said the
kingdom is ready to compensate for any shortfall in crude
supply. Most ships picking up Libyan oil cargoes have done so
successfully in the past week, said Bob Knight, head of tankers
at Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker.  “The threat to supply overall doesn’t look as dangerous as
it did last week,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York. “Events in  Libya  seem to be
moving steadily in one direction, with oil production apparently
not dropping further and some exports being loaded.”  Crude oil for April delivery declined 91 cents to settle at
$96.97 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest
daily drop since Feb. 11. Futures reached $103.41 a barrel on
Feb. 24, the highest intraday price since Sept. 29, 2008. They
gained 8.8 percent during February and have advanced 22 percent
in the past year.  Armed opponents to Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi control
much of Libya’s east and have deployed tanks and anti-aircraft
weapons to defend Zawiyah near the capital, Tripoli, according
to the  Associated Press . The U.S. blocked $30 billion in assets,
the biggest sanction ever, and indicated it will assist the
Libyan rebels trying to Qaddafi from power.  Market Volatility  Saudi Arabia wants to avoid “harmful” volatility in the
oil market because of a decline in Libyan output, the state-run
Saudi Press Agency reported today after a cabinet meeting. Oil
options volatility jumped to an eight-month high last week on
the Nymex.  “We’re ready to supply incremental change in demand from
our customers,” Al-Falih told reporters in the eastern Saudi
city of Khobar, when asked if Saudi Arabian Oil Co., also known
as Aramco, would increase its production. He declined to specify
the amount of additional oil Aramco would provide. “The
customer demand varies from day to day, so it’s hard to tell by
how much we will raise the output.”    Brent crude  for April settlement slipped 34 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $111.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract reached $119.79 on Feb. 24, the
highest price since Aug. 22, 2008. Brent gained almost 13 
percent during February.  The price difference between New York and London-traded
futures widened to $15.10 a barrel today. The spread averaged 76
cents last year. It had narrowed to $10.36 from a record $16.03
a barrel last week.  Libyan Output  Libya’s oil chief told AP that output is down 50 percent
because of the exodus of foreign oil workers from the country.
Shokri Ghanem, head of the National Oil Co., said it was safe
for foreign workers to return. All refineries, installations and
oil fields in the country are “safe and protected,” he said.  “The Saudi offer to make up for any missing barrels has
calmed things a bit,” said  Michael Lynch , president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts .  The  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ’ crude-
oil output fell in February as Libya’s production dropped to an
eight-year low, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Total OPEC production slipped 285,000 barrels, or 1
percent, to an average 29.11 million barrels a day, according to
the survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts. Daily
output by members with quotas, all except  Iraq , decreased
335,000 barrels to 26.515 million, 1.67 million above their
target.  Libyan output fell 200,000 barrels a day to 1.385 million
this month, the lowest level since January 2003.  Omani Unrest  In  Oman , the largest Middle Eastern producer outside the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, two demonstrators
were killed and several wounded in clashes with police
yesterday, according to hospital and government officials.  “All eyes are on the Middle East,” said  Tom Bentz , a
broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures in  New York . “There’s
now an uprising in Oman, which produces about 800,000 barrels.”    Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased net-long
positions, or wagers on rising prices, by 30 percent in the
seven days ended Feb. 22 to 240,572 futures and options
combined, the highest in records dating back to June 2006,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly
Commitments of Traders report.    Oil prices  could rise to $120 to $150 a barrel on tensions
in the Middle East, T. Boone Pickens, the billionaire energy
investor, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 503,685
contracts as of 3:25 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 672,386
contracts Feb. 25, 13 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 