-- 
Currency Wars Lose to Inflation, Emerging Markets to Win

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-02-28T16:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/currency-wars-retreat-as-fighting-inflation-makes-emerging-markets-winners.html
As recently as last month,
governments of emerging economies from South  Africa  to  Brazil 
warned that competitive devaluations might be needed to keep
their strengthening currencies from stifling economic growth.  Now, talk of currency controls is being abandoned and
interest rates are rising as record food prices and oil at $100
a barrel make inflation the bigger threat. That means developing
nations will keep outperforming in the foreign-exchange market,
according to Morgan Stanley.  South Africa’s finance minister and  Indonesia ’s deputy
central bank governor said last week that stronger currencies
may quell rising prices.  Russia ’s finance minister said Feb. 21
the central bank will favor a “very flexible” exchange rate.
Brazil Finance Minister Guido Mantega, who spoke of a “currency
war” in September when he pledged to buy dollars to curb the
real, declared a “truce” two months later. Peru,  China ,
Colombia, Indonesia and Russia raised interest rates this month.  “If your main macroeconomic problem shifts from one of too
weak growth to one of too high inflation, then that is going to
lead you to look at tightening monetary policy,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York. “The quickest way to put a cap on
inflation is to look at ways that would strengthen your
currency.”  Turmoil, Commodities  Protests in  Egypt , Bahrain, Libya and Tunisia drove oil
above $100 a barrel in New York for the first time since October
2008, raising concern that energy prices will spark inflation.
An  index of 55 food commodities  climbed 3.5 percent in January
from a month earlier to a record 231 points, the United Nations’
Food and Agriculture Organization said Feb. 3.  Economists at Barclays Capital estimated in a report dated
Feb. 25 that inflation is accelerating at a 6 percent rate in
emerging economies, compared with less than 2 percent in
developed nations.  After noting in October the rand was “overvalued,” South
Africa’s Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said Feb. 23 that a
“rapid” weakening may fuel inflation. His comments were echoed
a day later by the Indonesian central bank’s Deputy Governor
 Hartadi Sarwono , who said policy makers will let the rupiah
strengthen to help keep prices in check.  Brazil Rates  Brazil raised its main interest rate on Jan. 19 for the
first time since July, just two months after Mantega said the
real had reached a “reasonable” level. Bank of Thailand
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said Jan. 26 that rates will
need to rise to damp inflation even after policy makers boosted
them for a fourth time in seven months on Jan. 12.  “Emerging economies, especially in Asia, are facing
significant domestic inflationary pressures, which you see in
wages and prices,” said Gabriel de Kock, head of foreign-
exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in New York. Food and energy
costs are also experiencing “significant upward shocks” as
international commodity prices surge, he said.  Morgan Stanley favors the ruble, Mexican peso and the
ringgit as investors speculate that central banks in commodity-
producing countries such as Russia, Mexico and  Malaysia  will
boost rates, according to a Feb. 4 report from a team of
strategists led by Rashique Rahman in  London .  The ringgit will appreciate 9 percent this year to 2.8 per
dollar, while the Colombian peso will gain about 11 percent, the
New York bank forecasts. The Malaysian currency will end the
year at 2.97 per dollar, from 3.0510 today, according to the
median estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Colombia’s
peso will be at 1,850 by the fourth quarter, from 1,907.15 last
week, a separate survey showed.  Demand for Safety  Most emerging-market currencies fell last week as turmoil
in Africa and the Middle East led investors to seek safer
assets. The ringgit lost 0.6 percent, with the peso weakening
1.2 percent to 1,898.75. South Korea’s won depreciated 1.3
percent to 1,126.45 and the real declined 0.4 percent to 1.6684.  Developing-nation currencies rallied in the past two years
as interest rates at about zero in the U.S. and  Japan  encouraged
investors to seek higher-yielding alternatives. The gains were
led by the rand’s 44 percent surge versus the dollar.  Pacific Investment Management Co. prefers the currencies of
emerging economies and commodity exporters over the dollar and
the euro, according to Andrew Balls, a London-based managing
director at firm.  ‘Expression’ of Growth  “Our investment view is one of wanting to be underweight
both the euro and the dollar and to be overweight sources of
what we would see as an expression of stronger growth,” Balls
told reporters at a media briefing in London today.  Emerging nations may still balk at abandoning capital
controls, even as they boost rates to combat inflation, said  Jan Loeys , chief market strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York. Colombia’s Banco de la Republica said Feb. 25 it will
extend daily dollar purchases in the local market for at least
three more months to limit the peso’s gains after it
unexpectedly raised  interest rates  for the first time in 10
meetings.  “Countries are worried that if they let their currencies
appreciate, that would just be like waving a red flag in front
of the bull, which is the global capital investor,” he said.
“They are trying to tighten domestically while trying to avoid
that they have massive capital inflows.”  Outlook for Sweden  Sweden  shows that growing economies can withstand stronger
currencies if their exports are competitive. The economy may
expand 4.05 percent this year, according to the median estimate
of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, even after the krona
appreciated 7.5 percent in the past six months, the most in a
basket of 10 developed-nation currencies as measured by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Soaring energy prices threaten to slow the global recovery
and stoke inflation. In the U.S., an extended $10 increase in
oil cuts 0.5 percentage point off growth over two years,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. Crude soared to $112.14 a barrel
in London last week, the highest close since August 2008.  “When you have the potential for a big supply-side shock,
which has the potential to compromise economic growth, then
allowing your currency to appreciate isn’t necessarily a good
thing,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank in New York.  Investors pulled $1.9 billion from developing-nation
stock mutual funds in the week to Feb. 23, the fifth week of
outflows, according to EPFR Global data cited by Citigroup Inc.
on Feb. 25.  Goldman Sachs View  “You don’t need to worry about stopping inflows when
they’re not there anymore,” said Fiona Lake, an economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Hong Kong.  While emerging-market leaders blame foreign-exchange
appreciation on the Federal Reserve’s policy of printing money
to buy bonds and keeping rates at almost zero, Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said at the Group of 20 meeting
this month in Paris that trade imbalances have kept currencies
of nations such as China “substantially undervalued.”  China’s  yuan  has strengthened 4.3 percent since mid-2008 to
6.5719 per dollar even as gross domestic product expanded 10.3
percent last year, 9.2 percent in 2009 and 9.6 percent a year
earlier and has now surpassed the economy of Japan to become the
world’s second-largest.  Developing countries most reliant on imported oil will be
among the first to increase rates, said Luis Costa, an emerging-
markets strategist in London at Citigroup. These nations are
susceptible to sudden commodity price jumps, with fuel and
mining products accounting for about 36 percent of South Korea’s
imports, 25 percent in China, 27 percent for  Turkey  and 24
percent for Indonesia, the New York-based bank estimates.  Inflation ‘Importers’  “Countries like Turkey that are big importers of inflation
can’t afford to keep pursuing loose monetary policy and
exchange-rate depreciation,” Costa said. Turkey’s central bank
left its main rate unchanged on Feb. 15 after two months of cuts
to assess whether curbs on lending are reducing consumer demand.  Russia’s Bank Rossii won’t seek to stem ruble gains and
will favor a “very flexible” exchange-rate policy to help
contain inflation, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said Feb. 21.
The Finance Ministry and the central bank may keep inflation
from exceeding the government’s goal of 7 to 8 percent, he said.  “ Emerging markets  are scared of inflation, especially food
and energy inflation, so there’s merit in allowing their
currencies to appreciate,” said Werner Gey van Pittius, part of
a team overseeing about $70 billion in assets at Investec Asset
Management in London. “Your oil exporters will be fine, but
those that are big energy importers need to worry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  