-- 
Deutsche Telekom to Work With Utilities, Rivals for German Fiber Network

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-02-28T10:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/deutsche-telekom-seeks-partners-for-german-fiber-network.html
  Deutsche Telekom AG ,  Europe ’s
largest telecommunications operator, needs to join with rivals
and energy companies so it can afford to expand fiber-optic
connections to more German households.  The company also wants content deals with media companies
to encourage customers to sign up for faster and more expensive
Internet connections, Niek Jan van Damme, board member and head
of German operations, told reporters at the  CeBIT  technology
fair in Hanover,  Germany  today.  “Unless we offer new services, the willingness to pay more
will be relatively low,” van Damme said. “We are talking with
media companies,” he added, without giving details.  According to an investor presentation in March last year,
the Bonn-based company plans to roll out fiber so it passes as
many as 10 percent of households, or about 4 million, in Germany
by the end of 2012. Van Damme said today that Deutsche Telekom
will start building the fiber network now, and plans to reach
160,000 households in 10 German cities by the end of the year.  To reach the 4 million target, the company will need
cooperation agreements with telecommunications rivals and with  utility companies , which also have to lay cables to homes to
build a smart energy network.  The industry will have to spend about 50 billion euros ($69
billion) if it wants to cover all of Germany with a fiber-optic
network, van Damme estimated.  Web Television Demand  “By 2014, 90 percent of all data volume on the Internet
will be video,” requiring faster Internet connections, van
Damme said. “With the higher bandwidth we can service Internet
television and that presents a growth opportunity.”  On a fiber-optic connection, it will be possible to reach
Internet download speeds of up to 1 gigabit per second. That
compares with the 16 megabits per second that 47 percent of
German households get today, van Damme said.  Deutsche Telekom last week confirmed plans announced  in May 
to invest about 10 billion euros from 2010 to 2012 in wireless
and wireline projects. That’s part of its strategy to increase
revenue from mobile Internet services to about 10 billion euros
in 2015 from 4 billion euros in 2009 and to increase content and
services sales over the Internet by improving access to
broadband.  Deutsche Telekom’s German operations make up 38 percent of
the group’s sales and 49 percent of the group’s adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to  annual results  released Feb. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  