-- 
Dollar Declines to Lowest Since November on Wagers Fed Will Lag Behind ECB

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-02-28T22:03:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/dollar-touches-lowest-since-november-on-wagers-fed-will-maintain-stimulus.html
The dollar fell to its lowest level
since November against the currencies of six U.S. trade partners
on bets the  European Central Bank  will be more aggressive than
the  Federal Reserve  about controlling inflation.  The euro rose against the dollar on speculation ECB
President Jean-Claude Trichet may indicate this week a readiness
to increase borrowing costs while Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
may signal economic stimulus will continue. Sweden’s krona
climbed to a 30-month high after Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves
said interest rates may be raised at every meeting this year.  “The big driver for the euro has been short-term interest-
rate differentials, which had moved against the dollar,” said
Paresh Upadhyaya, head of Americas G-10 currency strategy at
Bank of America Corp. in New York. “Since the beginning of the
year it’s been pretty much a one-way trend.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against six currencies, decreased as much as 0.7
percent to 76.756, the lowest level since Nov. 9, before trading
at 76.893 at 5 p.m. in  New York , down 0.5 percent. The gauge,
which is weighted 57.6 percent on euro movements, fell 1.1
percent in February.  The shared currency strengthened 0.4 percent to $1.3806,
from $1.3754 on Feb. 25, after earlier gaining as much as 0.7
percent. The 17-nation currency pared gains against the dollar
after the close of London trading.  Euro’s 2011 Gain  The euro has risen 1.3 percent this year, while the dollar
has lost 2.2 percent, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes, which track the currencies of 10
developed nations. The dollar dropped today to the lowest level
since August 2008 versus the other nine.  The ECB, which has kept its key interest rate at 1 percent
since May 2009, will hold its next policy meeting on March 3. An
ECB governing council member,  Mario Draghi , said on Feb. 26 that
inflation pressures are forcing policy makers to focus more
closely on the timing of future interest-rate increases.  “Inflation seems to be the No. 1 concern on everybody’s
mind,” said  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading
in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit.  Bernanke is scheduled to deliver the Fed’s semiannual
report on monetary policy tomorrow to the Senate Banking
Committee and is due to testify to the House Financial Services
Committee the following day. The Fed has kept its benchmark rate
at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and is buying $600
billion in Treasuries through June to help spur the economy.  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said today the
“considerably brighter” economic outlook isn’t yet reason for
the central bank to withdraw its record monetary stimulus. He
spoke in a speech in New York.  Preferred Measure  U.S. consumer spending rose less than forecast in January,
0.2 percent, Commerce Department data showed. The Fed’s
preferred measure of prices, which excludes food and fuel,
increased 0.1 percent from December and was up 0.8 percent from
a year earlier.  Another report showed European inflation stayed above the
ECB’s 2 percent target for a second month in January.  “The latest inflation numbers coming out of  Europe ,
coupled with potentially hawkish comments from Trichet, have
supported the euro,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.
“Currencies will be volatile this week trading off rhetoric.”  The euro was up for the first time in three days against
the Swiss franc, gaining 0.4 percent to 1.2823, and rose 0.5
percent to 112.91 yen. Japan’s currency slipped 0.1 percent to
81.78 per dollar.  Krona Climbs  The Swedish krona appreciated as much as 2.1 percent to
6.2916 versus the dollar, the strongest level since August 2008,
on the outlook for higher interest rates. It traded at 6.3271.  There’s “an increased probability that the repo rate will
be raised at all of the monetary policy meetings held this
year,” Ingves said in the  minutes  of the central bank’s Feb. 14
meeting, published today. The Riksbank raised its benchmark repo
rate this month for a fifth time since July, to 1.5 percent.  “The Riksbank comments are pretty critical and if you
think that’s reflective of what the ECB and Bank of England
would say and do, you’ve got to be pricing in more hawkishness
on that side of the Atlantic than this side,” said  Greg Anderson , a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  The Swedish currency has climbed 4.5 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg’s correlation-weighted indexes.  39-Month High    Canada ’s dollar reached its strongest level against its
U.S. counterpart since November 2007 after a government report
showed the nation’s economy grew at a 3.3 percent annual pace in
the fourth quarter, more than economists forecast.  The currency rallied 3 percent for the month. The  Bank of
Canada , which has expressed concern that its strength may stall
growth, meets tomorrow.  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.6 percent to 97.18 cents
per  U.S. dollar , from 97.74 on Feb. 25. It touched 97.10 cents.    South Africa ’s rand rose against most major currencies,
reaching its strongest level in six weeks versus the greenback.
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Feb. 23
“rapid” weakening may fuel inflation in  Africa ’s largest
economy. In October he said the currency was “overvalued.”  The rand advanced 0.8 percent to 6.9665 per dollar,
extending its advance this month to 3.1 percent. It reached
6.9352, the strongest level since Jan. 19  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  