-- 
Duane Morris Looks for U.K. Takeover Target or Merger Partner, Soroko Says

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-02-28T08:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/duane-morris-looks-for-u-k-takeover-target-or-merger-partner-soroko-says.html
Duane Morris LLP, the Philadelphia-
based law firm with 700 lawyers in 24 offices, wants to buy or
merge with a firm in the U.K., Chairman John Soroko said.  “We’re actively considering and identifying the people we
should have discussions with,” Soroko said in an interview in
Singapore today. “We’ve a real desire to grow in  London  as this
will help leverage us into other international markets.” Duane
Morris has  9 lawyers  in its London office in the U.K., which has
a $37 billion legal market.  The firm may also open offices in Latin America, including
Brazil and  Mexico , and in Southeast and  South Asia  this year,
said Eduardo Ramos-Gomez, a Singapore-based partner and former
Mexican ambassador to the city-state. Those markets are “major
hubs of growth,” he said. Duane Morris expects to boost the
number of lawyers in  Asia  to about 40 from 30 by the end of the
year, Gomez said.  Law firms are expanding again as corporate finance work
recovers after the credit crisis. Duane Morris formed a joint
venture with  Singapore  law firm Arfat Selvam Alliance LLC this
year, targeting the increase in initial public offerings and  wealth management , said Krishna Ramachandra, managing director
of the alliance.  Investors have bought $54 billion of debt and equity on
Singapore’s capital market last year, the most since Bloomberg
started compiling the data in 1999.  While some of the previous tie-ups in Singapore by foreign
firms have ended, including Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP’s
alliance with Drew & Napier LLC and Clifford Chance LLP with
Wong Partnership, Duane Morris is optimistic that its venture
won’t face the same fate, Soroko said.  “Some of the previous ventures were simply glorified
marketing arrangements,” said Ramachandra, adding that Duane
Morris Arfat Selvam has full economic integration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  