-- 
Dudley Says `Considerably Brighter' Outlook No Reason to Withdraw Stimulus

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-02-28T16:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/dudley-says-considerably-brighter-outlook-no-reason-to-withdraw-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President  William Dudley  said the “considerably brighter”
economic outlook isn’t yet reason for the central bank to
withdraw its record monetary stimulus.  “We provided additional monetary policy stimulus via the
asset purchase program in order to help ensure the recovery did
regain momentum,” Dudley said today in a speech in New York.
“A stronger recovery with more rapid progress toward our dual
mandate objectives is what we have been seeking. This is welcome
and not a reason to reverse course.”  Dudley, who is also the vice chairman of the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee , said the economy is “finally
showing more signs of life” because household and financial-
company balance sheets are improving, monetary and fiscal policy
have “provided support” and growth overseas has led to
increased demand for U.S. goods and services.  The Fed in November announced a plan to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June in a second round of so-called
quantitative easing aimed at combating too-low inflation,
stimulating economic growth and creating jobs. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  plans to deliver a semiannual report on monetary policy
to the Senate Banking Committee tomorrow and intends to testify
before the House Financial Services Committee on March 2.  While there are “signs that  core inflation  is now
stabilizing,” the  U.S. economy  needs “sustained strong
employment growth in order to be certain that this virtuous
circle has become firmly established,” Dudley said.  Unemployment Declines  The  unemployment rate  fell to 9 percent in January, its
biggest two-month drop since 1958. Joblessness rose above 9
percent in May 2009, beginning the longest period of
unemployment at that level or higher since monthly records began
in 1948.  “We also have to be careful not to be overly optimistic
about the growth outlook,” Dudley said. “The coast is not
completely clear -- the healing process in the aftermath of the
crisis takes time and there are still several areas of
vulnerability and weakness.”  The housing industry is still “unusually weak,” state and
local governments are “under stress,” and the U.S. may face
“further shocks from abroad,” such as from sovereign debt
markets or political events in the Middle East, Dudley said.    Boston  Fed President  Eric Rosengren  also addressed threats
to steady growth, saying today that regular “stress tests” may
help financial institutions prepare for unexpected risks, such
as fallout from a sovereign debt crisis or a disruption to the
economy from state and local governments.  ‘Better Job’  “We need to do a much better job of using so-called stress
tests to challenge commonly held views, so that boards of
directors and regulators of firms better understand the
fundamental drivers of risks in organizations and in the
financial system,” Rosengren said in a speech in Boston.  The Fed has ordered the 19 largest U.S. banks to test their
capital levels against a scenario of renewed recession. Such
stress-testing is mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, signed into
law by President  Barack Obama  in July, overhauling regulation of
the financial system with the goal of reducing the risks of
future financial crises.  Dudley affirmed in his speech a stance on borrowing costs
that the FOMC has held since March 2009.  “Barring a sustained period of economic growth so strong
that the economy’s substantial excess slack is quickly exhausted
or a noteworthy rise in inflation expectations, the outlook
implies that short-term  interest rates  are likely to remain
unusually low for ‘an extended period,’” he said.  Near Zero  The FOMC has kept its benchmark interest rate near zero
since December 2008.  U.S. stocks rose on improving economic data, and the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note reached the highest level in
almost a month as unrest in  Libya  drove investors to the safety
of  U.S. debt . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks climbed
0.6 percent to 1,328.38 at 11:04 a.m. in  New York .  “The economy can be allowed to grow rapidly for quite some
time before there is a real risk that shrinking slack will
result in a rise in underlying inflation,” Dudley said.  The core inflation gauge watched by the Fed, which excludes
food and energy prices, increased 0.8 percent in the 12 months
through December, the smallest advance since records began in
1959.  Still, oil exceeded $100 a barrel last week amid unrest in
the Middle East. Regular fuel, which in January was higher than
the December average, jumped to $3.29 a gallon last week, the
costliest since 2008, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
motoring organization.  Political Unrest  It’s important not to “over-react” to Middle East
political unrest and its impact on commodity prices, Dudley said
in response to audience questions.  The extent and duration of the surge in  oil prices  are
unclear, and if they don’t “feed through” to inflation
expectations and wages, then policy makers can be “more
relaxed” about their impact on the economy, he said.  Dudley said that 9 percent unemployment and industrial
capacity use that’s lower than the long-term average point to
“considerable” economic “slack.”  The main risk to inflation is that expectations climb,
which could happen if there was a “loss of confidence” in the
U.S. central bank’s ability to withdraw its record stimulus in
time to ward off a surge in prices, he said.  Will to Exit  In order to address this risk, the Fed needs to
“communicate effectively about its objectives” and its ability
and will to exit, Dudley said.  “If inflation expectations were to become unanchored
because  Federal Reserve policy makers  failed to communicate
clearly, this would be a self-inflicted wound that would make
our pursuit of the dual mandate of full employment and price
stability more difficult,” Dudley said.  When the slack in the economy diminishes, the U.S. central
bank will take action to “keep the economy from overheating,”
Dudley said in response to audience questions.  “Once we get to the point where we can see that as likely
happening,” we “will raise the interest on excess reserve
rate,” he said. “This new tool is a viable tool for keeping
the economy from overheating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  