-- 
Dutch Government’s Future at Stake in Provincial Elections

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-02-28T10:56:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/dutch-government-s-future-is-at-stake-in-this-week-s-provincial-elections.html
The future of Dutch Prime Minister
 Mark Rutte ’s minority coalition may be in doubt if he and his
Freedom Party supporters fail to win a majority in the upper
house of parliament through provincial elections this week.  Rutte’s government of Liberals and Christian Democrats
relies on an agreement with Geert Wilders’s anti-Islam Freedom
Party for its majority in the lower chamber. The coalition has
lacked one in the  upper house  in  The Hague  since taking office
in October and needs to gain control to ensure it can push
through planned legislation including budget cuts.  The March 2 elections in the 12 Dutch provinces, the
youngest reclaimed from the waters of the IJsselmeer only in
1968, are to choose regional councilors. They will in turn vote
in May to select members of the upper house, which has to
approve all new laws passed by the lower chamber. The make-up of
the upper house can be extrapolated from the provincial results,
and polls suggest the vote will be close.  “Key points laid out in the parliamentary support
agreement, from limiting immigration and tougher prison
sentences to extra health-care funding, will be more difficult
to implement if we don’t have a majority,” Wilders said in a
telephone interview Feb. 25.  Rutte’s Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Freedom
Party are set to take 37 seats, one short of a majority in the
75-member chamber, according to a forecast based on a Feb. 24
 Synovate  poll. The coalition parties currently have 35 seats,
while the  Freedom Party  has none because it didn’t contest the
last provincial elections in 2007. The survey of at least 1,000
people by Internet and telephone had an average margin of error
of 1.5 percentage points.  ‘Paralyzed’  “This Cabinet is ideologically finished if it doesn’t get
a majority in the upper house,”  Andre Krouwel , who teaches
political science at VU University in Amsterdam, said in a
telephone interview. “Although it can depend on its lower-house
majority, it will be paralyzed, and that makes it uninteresting
for the Freedom Party to back it.”  The government, the first since World War II not to have a
lower-house majority, has vowed to cut spending by 18 billion
euros ($25 billion) by 2015 and raise the pension age to keep
state finances sustainable.  “The upper house that’s being chosen through the March 2
provincial elections can make life very difficult and, on some
subjects, impossible for us” if the opposition retains its
majority, Rutte, 44, told  WNL  public television last week.  ‘Systematically Rejecting’  “The opposition has smelled blood; the possibility is very
real that the coalition won’t get a majority and then the
opposition will want to get rid of it,”  Kees Aarts , a professor
of political science at the University of Twente in the eastern
city of Enschede, said in a telephone interview. “Opposition
parties may start systematically rejecting government
proposals.”  Without an upper-house majority, the government would have
to turn to small opposition parties for support. The Reformed
Political Party, known as the SGP in Dutch, which appeals to
devout Protestants, is set to retain its two seats, according to
Synovate. The OSF regional-party grouping and the new  50PLUS 
party, aimed at older voters, are other possibilities.  “I don’t say we need new elections if we don’t get a
majority, I think we need to keep trying,”  Wilders , 47, said.
“We’ll try to continue and get our proposals approved with
support from the  SGP .”  Even as the  Freedom Party  is set to make its debut in the
upper house, it’s seeking to abolish the institution, arguing
that it’s outdated to have lawmakers who aren’t chosen directly
by the Dutch people.  ‘Rest Home’  “I don’t see the point of the upper house,” Wilders said.
“I see it as a subsidized rest home.”  The upper house isn’t likely to become a political
battleground if the government fails to get a majority there,
its chairman,  Rene van der Linden , told Dutch public television
program “ Buitenhof ” yesterday. “A number of upper-house party
leaders, including some of the opposition, have said they’ll
judge proposals on their merits, not on deals made elsewhere,”
van der Linden said.  The head of the main opposition  Labor Party , Job Cohen,
suggested that new elections to the lower chamber might be the
consequence if Rutte and Wilders aren’t successful this week.  “I would assume that the Cabinet would then say: ‘Time to
roll over, we’re going,’” Cohen said in a television debate
Feb. 16, the national news agency ANP reported.  New national elections might not help the stable image of
the Netherlands, one of the six euro-area countries with an AAA
credit rating. The government must narrow its  budget deficit  to
3 percent of gross domestic product by 2013 from 5.2 percent
last year to meet European Union rules.  “The  Christian Democrats , which are forecast to lose 11
upper-house seats, and the Liberals will do everything to
prevent new elections if they don’t get an upper-house majority,
but then you’ll have a Cabinet unable to govern,” said Krouwel,
the co-founder of online voting adviser  Electoral Compass .
“Luckily this country is run by civil servants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  