-- 
Health Care REIT to Buy Genesis Real Estate Assets in $2.4 Billion Deal

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-02-28T22:42:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/health-care-reit-to-buy-genesis-real-estate-assets-in-2-4-billion-deal.html
  Health Care REIT Inc ., the third-
largest U.S. health-care real estate investment trust, agreed to
buy substantially all the property assets of closely held
Genesis HealthCare for $2.4 billion.  Health Care REIT will buy 147 post-acute, skilled nursing
and assisted living properties in 11 states, the Toledo, Ohio-
based company said in a statement. Genesis, of Kennett Square,  Pennsylvania , will rent the properties from Health Care REIT and
operate them, according to the statement.  The deal is the second announced in the industry today as
demand for real estate climbs.  Ventas Inc . agreed to buy  Nationwide Health Properties Inc . for about $5.7 billion in the
biggest transaction ever among health-care REITs.  “We expect Health Care REIT’s acquisition and leaseback of
Genesis HealthCare’s assets will be highly accretive to HCN’s
earnings,” George Chapman, Health Care REIT’s chairman and
chief executive officer, said in the statement. “Genesis has
built a robust pipeline of potential acquisition and development
opportunities as it expands its footprint along the Eastern
Seaboard.”  JER Partners  Genesis is owned by private-equity firms JER Partners and
and Formation Capital LLC, which bought the company in 2007. The
property owner has had 9 percent annual average revenue growth
since the acquisition, McLean, Virginia-based JER said in a
separate statement today.  The purchase will add 39 cents a share to Health Care
REIT’s annual funds from operations, the company said. FFO is a
measure of  cash flow  used by REITs.  Health Care REIT plans to offer 25 million common shares
and about 12.5 million shares of convertible preferred stock to
help finance the deal. It expects the transaction to be
completed in the second quarter.  The deal was announced after the close of U.S. exchanges.
Health Care REIT rose $1.36, or 2.7 percent, to $52.22 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  