-- 
Gasoline Falls as Concern Eases Libya Unrest Reduced Supplies

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-02-28T21:15:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/heating-oil-futures-fluctuate-following-brent-crude-moves.html
Gasoline fell in  New York  for the
first time in six days as concern eased that global oil
shipments will be affected by the unrest in North Africa and
the Middle East that has spread to Oman.  Futures slipped as Bob Knight, head of tankers at Clarkson
Plc, the world's largest shipbroker, said most ships dispatched
to pick up Libyan oil cargoes were successful in the past week.  Saudi Aramco , the world’s largest state oil company, is
ready to compensate for any shortfall in crude supply, Chief
Executive Officer Khalid Al-Falih said. Two demonstrators were
killed yesterday in Oman.    Saudi Arabia  is saying it will make up shortfalls and
some tankers have been loading,” said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  “There’s still concern
the unrest will spread.”  Gasoline for March delivery lost 0.99 cent, or 0.4 percent,
to expire at $2.7296 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Gasoline rose 9.6 percent in February, the biggest
monthly gain since March 2010. The more actively traded April
contract dropped 1.59 cents to $2.8927 a gallon.  March futures advanced 7.4 percent last week on concern
that reduced exports from Libya to  Europe  would lower European
gasoline exports to the U.S.  Libya ’s normal daily output of 1.6
million barrels of oil has been cut by more than 1 million
barrels,  Barclays Capital  said.  Today’s drop in futures prices is the first since Feb. 17.  No ’Burning Headline’  “There hasn’t been a burning headline for the market to do
anything,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and
supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas . “We’re
hanging our hat on what comes out of Saudi Arabia and just
waiting for another headline out of the Middle East.”  Heating oil for March delivery fell 0.51 cent to settle at
$2.9258 a gallon. The contract, which expired today, added 6.5
percent this month. The April contract, which becomes the front-
month contract tomorrow, dropped 0.66 cent to $2.9389.  Futures gained 8 percent last week, the most since Oct. 16,
2009, on concern deadly government crackdowns on protesters
against Libyan Muammar Qaddafi would spread to the Persian Gulf,
home of the world’s biggest oil reserves.  Heating oil, traded as a substitute for diesel, was up
earlier as the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said
its business barometer grew to 71.2, the highest level since
July 1988, from 68.8 in January.  Fear of Disruption  “Economic indicators are pretty good and the level of
uncertainty and the fear of a supply disruption are still the
main driver,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the
Energy Management Institute in New York. “We’re in the eye of
the storm right now and it’s unclear if the magnitude of the
storm accelerates or it breaks up.”  The U.S. said it will assist Libyan rebels trying to force
Qaddafi from power. Now, the regional unrest that ousted
Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  has reached Oman, which produces about
800,000 barrels a day and lies at the entrance to the Strait of
Hormuz, through which a fifth of the world’s oil passes.  Crude products have gained this month as North Sea Brent
crude in  London  reached as high as $119.79 a barrel. Heating oil
and gasoline are vulnerable to changes in Brent because
refineries supplying fuel to New York Harbor, the delivery point
for heating oil and gasoline futures, use crude oil grades
priced relative to the European oil.  April-delivery Brent on London’s ICE Futures exchange
dropped 36 cents to settle at $111.80 a barrel. Brent gained 11
percent this month, the largest monthly increase since May 2009.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, advanced
1.4 cents to $3.368 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  