-- 
Monks’ Bitter Brew Becomes Trendy Amaro Cocktails: John Mariani

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/medieval-monks-bitter-brew-becomes-trendy-amaro-cocktails-john-mariani.html
I had just sat down at a restaurant
named Caval d’Brons, set above Turin’s Piazza San Carlo, and
ordered Piedmontese specialties like tiny meat-stuffed ravioli
called plin, with a butter and sage sauce, and vitello tonnato,
made with slices of veal in a creamy tuna sauce.  But first I was presented with a little appetite starter --
a rosy slice of culatello ham, a taste of Castelmagno cheese
drizzled with balsamic vinegar, and a small glass of the Italian
cordial called amaro.  It was no more than a sip or two, syrupy, herbaceous and
bittersweet, a perfect spur to the palate. Now, since arriving
home from  Italy , I’ve been serving it before dinner to friends.  Italy produces scores of amaros, whose name means bitter
but whose sweet flavors are a complexity of herbs, spices and
citrus rinds, including gentian, angelica, lemon verbena,
ginger, mint, thyme, licorice, cinnamon and menthol.  Made between 16 to 35 percent alcohol, amaros are drunk
either as an aperitif on the rocks or in cocktails. More
commonly in Italy, amaros are taken as a digestive after a meal.  In fact, their origins lie in the medicine cabinets of
medieval monasteries, concocted by monks as aids to digestion
and good health.  If you want to know what those early medicines tasted like,
buy a bottle of  Fernet Branca , a commercial Milan-based brand of
amaro. It is a dark and potent brew -- with up to 45 percent
alcohol. Made from 27 herbs and spices, including Iranian
saffron, South African aloe and French gentian, then aged for a
year, Fernet Branca’s ad motto is “It is worth the
bitterness.”  Bitter Price  It is indeed very acrid, so some use it as cocktail
bitters. Still, even many of its advocates grimace upon knocking
it back after a huge meal to settle a queasy stomach. I am one
of those reluctant advocates, so that is the price I pay for
being raised a Catholic taught to believe the sin of gluttony
must be punished with bitterness.  The best known, sweeter, amaro is  Campari , the garnet red
spirit usually drunk on the rocks with a twist of lemon or as a
component in the classic Italian cocktails, the americano and
negroni.  Vermouth too is an amaro (the word comes from the German
wermut for wormwood), first produced by Turin-based Antonio
Benedetto Carpano in 1786. In fact, the amaro I was served at
Caval d’Brons was Carpano’s “Antica Formula,” which can be
found in the U.S. for about $25-$35.  Bitter Sweet  The Carpano firm (now owned by Fratelli Branca) also makes
the popular Punt e Mes, which means, in Piedmontese dialect,
“point and a half,” said to refer to a point-and-a-half rise
in the stock market that once greatly benefited the company.  Other fairly well known amaro brands available in  Europe ,  South America , and the U.S. include  Averna ,  Ramazzotti , and
Cynar, all at least as sweet as they are bitter.  I set out to find some more unusual amaros in the market,
heading to  Mt. Carmel Wine & Spirits  on Arthur Avenue in the
Bronx, a superb repository of Italian wine and spirits. Here are
some amaros I particularly liked.  Amaro Lucano  ($24.99)  This minty, liqueur-like amaro has been made in the
province of Madera in Basilicata since 1894. Roasted hazelnuts,
orange notes and a lingering bittersweetness make for a
delicious way to begin or end an evening.  S. Maria al Monte Amaro Naturale ($26.99)  Hefty, at 40 percent alcohol, this Ligurian amaro has a
deep mahogany color, is of medium body and is quite bitter, with
an aroma that is instantly evocative of incense used at Sunday
mass. A good Catholic could sniff it and fall to his knees.
Best after dinner.  Ditta Bortolo Nardini  ($44.99)  Claiming to be Italy’s oldest distillery (1779), Nardini,
in the Veneto, is best known for its grappas. Its premium-priced
amaro pours like maple syrup into the glass and delivers a
beautifully nuanced bouquet and what tastes like scores of
carefully blended herbs and spices. You could have this on
pancakes.  Nonino Amaro  ($36.99)  This Friulian distillery almost singlehandedly changed
grappa’s image from moonshine to connoisseur’s brandy twenty
years ago. There’s no mistaking the refined hand of the family
in this exquisitely crafted amaro, with an impeccable balance of
bitterness, sweetness, fruit, and spice that would be every bit
as welcome after dinner as a vintage Port.    John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 