-- 
Melissa Leo, Christian Bale Win Best-Supporting Actor Oscars for `Fighter'

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-02-28T02:59:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/melissa-leo-wins-supporting-actress-oscar-for-role-in-fighter-.html
“The Fighter” won best-supporting
actor Oscars for Melissa Leo and Christian Bale as the film
about boxer Micky Ward captured early honors at the 83rd Academy
Awards ceremony.  Bale, 37, won for his portrayal of Dicky Eklund, Ward’s
junkie half-brother. Leo took the honor for playing Ward’s
mother in the film distributed by  Paramount Pictures . The show
from the Kodak Theatre in Los Angeles is being telecast live on  Walt Disney Co .’s ABC network.  “The Fighter” is based on the real life story of Ward’s
climb to the championship. The film, featuring  Mark Wahlberg  as
Ward and Bale as his troubled half-brother, has grossed $107.3
million worldwide on a production budget of $25 million. Leo,
50, earlier won a Golden Globe award for the role.  “This has been an extraordinary journey,” Leo said during
her acceptance speech. “It’s about selling motion pictures and
respecting the work.”  The Academy is recognizing smaller-budget films that went
on to box-office success. “The King’s Speech,” nominated for
best film, was made for $15 million and took in $237 million in
global sales.   Black Swan ” cost $13 million and generated $204
million in sales, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  Aaron Sorkin won the Oscar for best adapted screenplay for
  Social Network ,” the film about the founding of Facebook Inc.
from  Sony Corp .’s Columbia Pictures. David Seidler won for best
original screenplay for “The King’s Speech.”  ‘Terrifying’  “The writer’s speech -- this is terrifying,” said
Seidler, 73. “My father said to me I would always be a late
bloomer. I believe I’m the oldest person to win this award, and
I hope that record is broken early and often.”  “The King’s Speech,” distributed by Weinstein Co., tells
the story of England’s King George VI’s relationship with a
therapist who helps him overcome a stammer. The film stars Colin Firth, 40, as George and Geoffrey Rush, 59, as his unorthodox
therapist.  Weinstein Co. won a PG-13 rating for an alternate version
of the movie from  Motion Picture Association  of America on Feb.
25. The New York-based studio plans to release the film after
advertising the difference in the film and the R-rated original,
which included scenes with strong language, the MPAA said.  Oscar-nominated films have fared better financially than
Hollywood as a whole. Sales for all 10 of this year’s best-
picture nominees have exceeded their production budgets,
according to Box Office Mojo. Box-office revenue in the U.S. and  Canada  fell slightly last year to $10.57 billion, propped up by
higher prices for 3-D films, while attendance declined 5.7
percent. In 2011, sales have fallen 21 percent and attendance is
down 22 percent, according to Hollywood.com Box-Office.  “Disney’s ‘‘Toy Story 3’’ won the Oscar for best animated
feature and its ‘‘Alice in Wonderland’’ won for art direction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;  Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 Mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  