-- 
Hellenic Telecom Cuts Overtime, Allowances to Trim Costs

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-02-28T15:35:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/hellenic-telecom-cuts-overtime-allowances-to-trim-costs-1-.html
  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA , Greece’s biggest phone company, will cut
overtime and allowances for managers to save 32 million euros
($44.3 million) as profit and sales fall.  The Athens-based former monopoly, in which  Deutsche Telekom
AG  has a 30 percent stake, will introduce a 40-hour working week
as of May 1, in line with that valid for the private sector, and
will cut monthly allowances for managers by 15 percent as of
tomorrow, according to an e-mailed statement from the company,
known as OTE.  “OTE is a at critical juncture,” Chief Executive Officer
Michael Tsamaz said in the statement. “We need to reduce
operating costs at OTE, which far exceed those of our
competitors in  Greece  and other telecommunications companies in  Europe .”  Hellenic Telecom, which is 20 percent owned by the Greek
state, reported on Feb. 25 that its fourth-quarter loss more
than tripled to 91.7 million euros on a higher charge for an
early retirement program. Sales fell 12 percent in the period
and the company said at the time it planned to announce
incentives to immediately shore up revenue.  Shares in the company gained as much as 5 percent after the
news, and traded 3.6 percent higher at 7.47 euros at 4:45 p.m.
in Athens.  The company will also cut non-essential overtime as of
tomorrow, and a monthly allowance for driving company cars as
well as bus service for employees for the OTE headquarters.
Savings will amount to about 32 million euros, the company said.  Personnel costs account for 46 percent of OTE’s costs,
according to today’s statement, or about 35 percent of revenue.
The company has been prevented from scaling back on payroll
costs in part due to laws that protect employees from being
fired, dating back to when the company was fully owned by the
Greek state.  Earlier, the federation of trade unions at the company said
120 jobs at Cosmote, Hellenic’s mobile-phone unit, would be cut,
and called on OTE employees “to be ready to react.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 