-- 
Menthol Not Shown to Raise Health Risks of Smoking, U.S. Draft Report Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/menthol-cigarettes-not-proven-to-raise-health-risks-panel-says.html
Smokers don’t face more risks of
tobacco-related disease from menthol cigarettes than unflavored
cigarettes, a U.S. advisory panel says in a preliminary report.  “The evidence is insufficient” to conclude that menthol
smokers face a different disease risk than people who use
regular cigarettes, said advisers to the  Food and Drug
Administration . Still, menthol may make smoking more addictive,
the panelists said. The comments were posted yesterday on the
FDA website in two draft chapters of a report the panel must
submit by March 23.  The FDA advisers’ non-binding report is required by a  2009
law  that restricts tobacco marketing and bars cigarette makers
from adding flavors such as clove or strawberry. An FDA
conclusion that menthol cigarettes are more dangerous than
unflavored versions may lead to a ban.  Menthol products account for about  30 percent  of the
$85 billion in annual U.S. cigarette sales.  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ’s
Newport is the top-selling menthol brand with $5 billion a year
in revenue, followed by Marlboro Menthol from  Altria Group Inc. (MO) 
and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s Camel Menthol, Kool and Salem,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spokesmen for Altria, Reynolds and Lorillard weren’t
immediately available after business hours yesterday for comment
on the panel’s preliminary findings.  Lorillard Shares Rise  Lorillard, based in Greensboro,  North Carolina , rose $4.23,
or 5.5 percent, to $81 at 7:53 p.m. in extended trading after
declining less than 1 percent to close at $76.77 on the New York
Stock Exchange. Reynolds, of Winston-Salem, North Carolina,
gained 1.9 percent to $34.97, while shares of Richmond,
Virginia-based Altria were unchanged at $25.37.  There isn’t enough evidence to conclude that menthol
smokers inhale more smoke or are exposed to higher nicotine
levels than non-menthol smokers, according to a draft chapter
titled  “Effects Of Menthol on the Disease Risks of Smoking.”   Still, it is “biologically plausible” that menthol
flavoring makes cigarettes more addictive, the panel said in a
separate draft chapter, titled  “The Physiological Effects of
Menthol Cigarettes.”   “Menthol provides an unmistakable sensory experience --
the minty taste, cooling sensation and throat irritation or
impact,” the panelists said. “The taste and odor are
pleasurable for menthol cigarette smokers and may reinforce
smoking behavior.”  Broader Effect  Disease risks also aren’t the only indicator of menthol
cigarettes’ impact on public health, panel members said in a
draft of the report’s first chapter.  “The availability of menthol cigarettes could have no
significant effect on risk for disease outcomes, yet have a
significant effect on increasing initiation or reducing the
success of cessation,” the panel said in its draft. “The
resultant increase in the prevalence of smoking would represent
a negative public health impact.”  The FDA’s Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee
reviewed decades of published studies and FDA research, along
with marketing data submitted by Altria Philip Morris USA unit,
Reynolds American and Lorillard, the three biggest U.S. tobacco
companies,  Advisory panel members are scheduled tomorrow to discuss
the draft chapters at a meeting.  Lorillard and Reynolds have sued the FDA to block the
agency from “receiving or relying on” the advisory panel’s
recommendations. Three of the eight panel members have conflicts
of interest, according to the complaint filed Feb. 25 in federal
court in  Washington .  The three panelists have served as paid witnesses in
lawsuits against the tobacco industry and take money from drug
companies that make smoking-cessation aids, Lorillard and
Reynolds said in the complaint. Altria isn’t part of the suit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  