-- 
Lundin Mining Considering Equinox's $4.9 Billion Bid to Trump Inmet Offer

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-02-28T22:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/equinox-minerals-offers-4-9-billion-for-lundin-mining-rivaling-inmet-bid.html
  Lundin Mining Corp ., a Canadian
copper and zinc producer, said it’s considering a C$4.8 billion
($4.9 billion) unsolicited cash-and-stock takeover bid from  Equinox Minerals Ltd ., which trumps an earlier offer from  Inmet
Mining Corp .  Lundin’s board is evaluating today’s C$8.10-a-share offer
with its advisers and will make a recommendation to its
shareholders “as soon as possible,” the Toronto-based company
said in a statement. Inmet agreed Jan. 12 to acquire Lundin in a
friendly all-stock deal currently valued at C$3.58 billion.
Lundin rose the most in more than two years in Toronto trading.  Buying Lundin would give Perth, Australia-based Equinox
zinc, copper and lead mines in Sweden and Ireland, as well as a
stake in a copper and cobalt venture in the Democratic Republic
of Congo. A lack of new projects is forcing miners to expand
through acquisitions. Equinox, operator of Zambia’s Lumwana
mine, bought the biggest Saudi copper deposit this year.  Equinox’s bid is 14 percent more than Lundin’s average
share price over 20 days. That compares with an average 27
percent premium among base-metals deals globally announced in
the past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is no substitute for cash,” Peter Arden, a mining
analyst at Ord Minnett Ltd., said by telephone from  Melbourne .
“Equinox is a good company but it’s high-risk and not everyone
would want to have Zambian copper as their underlying asset. A
bit of cash is very smart.”  Shares Gain  Lundin rose C$1.20, or 19 percent, to C$7.65 at 4:38 p.m.
in Toronto Stock Exchange trading, the biggest gain since
November 2008. Equinox fell 54 cents, or 8.6 percent, to C$5.73.
Inmet, based in Toronto, dropped 49 cents to C$66.81.  Lorito Holdings Srl and Zebra Holdings & Investments,
Lundin’s largest shareholders according to Bloomberg data,
couldn’t be reached for comment. Both companies are owned by a
Lundin family trust, according to the  website  of Lundin
Petroleum AB, in which Lorito holds a 24 percent stake.  Flora Wood, Inmet’s director of  investor relations , didn’t
immediately return a telephone call to her Toronto office
seeking comment.  Inmet agreed to pay 0.0954 of a share for every Lundin
share, which would give it about 53 percent of a new company to
be called Symterra Corp. Equinox is offering to pay 9.5 times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
according to Bloomberg data. That compares with Inmet’s bid,
which prices Lundin at 8.3 times.  Cash or Stock  Equinox said it will offer C$8.10 in cash, or 1.2903 shares
and 1 cent, for every Lundin share, prorated based on a maximum
cash consideration of C$2.4 billion.  “This offer is clearly superior to the nil-premium merger
proposed between Lundin and Inmet,” Equinox Chief Executive
Officer  Craig Williams  said in a statement.  Equinox will finance the cash component of its offer
through a $3.2 billion bridging loan arranged through Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG, Equinox said in the
statement. Goldman Sachs is also lead financial adviser to
Equinox.  “Anything that’s got a market capitalization of A$5
billion ($5.1 billion) or less, with good-quality mine life, in
the right strategic place, then there’s every chance you’re
going to see further consolidation,”  Chris Weston , an
institutional dealer at IG Markets in Melbourne, said by phone.  Copper Prices  The average copper price will climb 22 percent this year,
Standard Bank Plc said last month. A combination of Equinox and
Lundin would create a global top 10 copper producer, based on
2011 production forecasts, Equinox said in a presentation.  Equinox, with a market value of C$4.8 billion, completed
the purchase of Citadel Resource Group Ltd. last month for
A$970.5 million, its first acquisition in six years. Citadel
owns the $305 million Jabal Sayid copper and gold project in  Saudi Arabia . Equinox’s $841 million Lumwana project is Zambia’s
biggest foreign investment.  Lumwana produced 109,413 metric tons of copper in 2009 and
was forecast to yield 135,000 tons in 2010, Equinox said on its
 website . Lundin last year produced 93,450 tons of copper. Copper
output at the Tenke Fungurume project in Congo, in which Lundin
owns a 25 percent stake, is forecast to rise to 130,000 tons
this year.  ‘World-Class’  “The two key assets are the 24 percent interest in Tenke
Fungurume, which is a world-class operation, and the Neves-Corvo
mine in  Portugal ,” Equinox’s Williams said in a phone
interview. Tenke “is a very significant mine,” he said.  Equinox is targeting production from the combined company
of about 500,000 tons a year by 2016, it said in the statement.
The deal would boost earnings and cash flow immediately and the
company sees no need to sell shares to refinance the bridging
loan, it said in the presentation. Equinox’s production will
almost double on the acquisition, based on 2013 output
forecasts, it said.  Inmet, with operations in  Turkey ,  Spain  and  Finland , is
developing the Cobre Panama copper mine in the Central American
country. Canadian companies were involved in $16.4 billion of
announced deals in January, second only to the $21.2 billion
recorded in the same month in 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 