-- 
Terremark Settles Suits Over $1.4 Billion Verizon Purchase

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-03-01T00:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/terremark-reports-settlement-of-lawsuits-over-verizon-deal.html
  Terremark Worldwide Inc . settled
investor lawsuits claiming  Verizon Communications Inc .’s $1.4
billion cash offer for the computer company doesn’t provide
enough to shareholders.  Terremark, which provides computing services to U.S.
government agencies, agreed to give stockholders more time to
consider Verizon’s $19-a-share offer and remove terms of the
deal that could dissuade other potential bidders from making an
offer, according to court filings in  Delaware .  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone carrier, offered to
buy Terremark in January for $1.4 billion and said it plans to
operate Terremark as one of its units, seeking to expand its
business of helping companies store their data via cloud
computing. That process involves moving information to server
computers maintained by other companies that provide access to
the data.  Terremark’s business could help New York-based Verizon add
customers such as the U.S. Defense Department, which must store
large amounts of data securely, and consumers willing to pay a
fee to access their music collections across different devices,
Jonathan Chaplin, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG said in
January.  Xavier Gonzalez, a Terremark spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on the settlement late today.  11-Day Extension  Terremark investors alleged that company officials, led by
Chief Executive Officer Manuel Medina, didn’t shop the company
around properly to get the highest bid and loaded up the Verizon
agreement with terms designed to discourage other bidders.  Under the terms of the settlement, announced today,
Terremark agreed to push back a shareholder vote on Verizon’s
bid until March 21. Investors had been scheduled to vote March
10, according to court papers.  The computing firm also agreed to cut more than $12 million
from the $52.5 million breakup fee Verizon would have received
if it was outbid, the filing shows. Terremark directors also
dropped a provision that required the board to vote on Verizon’s
offer ahead of any other.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge John Noble still must give
final approval to the settlement, which resolves eight investor
suits. Noble had been scheduled to hear investors’ request to
stop the buyout on March. 3.  Data Centers  Terremark, based in Miami, operates 13 data centers in the
U.S.,  Europe  and Latin America that provide security and
recovery services for electronic information as well as storage
and cloud computing.    Goldman Sachs Group Inc . advised Verizon in the acquisition
deal and Terremark was represented by Credit Suisse Securities
LLC.  Terremark rose 4 cents to $18.98 in Nasdaq Stock Exchange
trading today. The shares have risen more than 46 percent this
year. Verizon rose 95 cents, or more than 2.6 percent, to $36.92
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is In re Minneapolis Firefighters’ Relief
Association v. Guillermo Amore, CA6175, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 