-- 
Tesco Cuts Prices, Offers Vouchers if Goods Are Cheaper at Asda

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-02-28T10:07:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/tesco-cuts-prices-offers-vouchers-if-goods-are-cheaper-at-asda.html
  Tesco Plc , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket chain, said it’s cutting the price of 1,000 every-
day items and shoppers who find that goods they bought were
cheaper at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .’s Asda stores will get vouchers
equal to twice the difference.  Tesco is launching a 200 million-pound ($324 million)
campaign today with reductions on products such as PG Tips
teabags, Persil washing detergent, bread, fruit and vegetables,
it said in an e-mailed statement. Customers will be able to
check the price of their purchases compared with Asda on its
 website , the Cheshunt, England-based grocer said.  Tesco’s invigorated price promotions follows Asda, which
last month promised to be 10 percent cheaper than rivals or it
would refund the difference. An earlier campaign by Asda
promising to be cheaper than competitors was labelled misleading
by the Advertising Standards Authority and ordered withdrawn
after complaints by Tesco and William Morrison Supermarkets Plc.  “This is our way of doing what we can to keep household
spending manageable," Richard Brasher, who starts this week as
Tesco’s U.K. chief executive officer, said in the statement.
"Tesco will lower prices on more than 1,000 everyday products
across our stores - from rice and tea to bleach and washing
powder.”  Grocers are working to lure consumers facing higher fuel
prices, inflation at the fastest pace in more than two years and
the government’s planned 330,000 job cuts. U.K. consumer
confidence in February stayed close to the lowest since March
2009 as Britons became more pessimistic about the sustainability
of the economic recovery, a report by GfK NOP Ltd. showed on
Feb. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 