-- 
EU Says Carbon Price Isn’t Encouraging Clean-Energy Systems

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-02-28T17:42:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/eu-says-carbon-price-isn-t-encouraging-clean-energy-systems-1-.html
Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said holding back some European Union emission permits
starting in 2013 would help produce a carbon price that
encourages cleaner-energy technologies.  The European Commission, the bloc’s regulator, will propose
setting aside from 500 million to 800 million carbon allowances
in the eight-year period through 2020, according to a draft
document to be published next week. The reserve would amount to
around 5 percent of the greenhouse-gas limits the EU set for
energy and manufacturing companies in the next phase of its cap-
and-trade program, the world’s largest.  “The emissions-trading system at present doesn’t give
sufficient incentive for innovation,” Hedegaard told a
committee hearing in the European Parliament in Brussels today.
“The commission already suggested last year this could be
addressed by setting aside a number of allowances.”  The worst recession since World War II is hampering the
EU’s plan to use its cap-and-trade program, valued at $110
billion last year, to cut emissions linked to  climate change .
Lower-than-projected demand for permits created a surplus that
threatens to depress prices and discourage investment in low-
carbon energy for the rest of the decade, according to the EU.  Benchmark allowances for December 2011 rose 0.7 percent to
15.54 euros ($21.45) a ton at 5 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . That compares with the record 34.20 euros
set in April 2006.  Leftovers  The set-aside provision in the EU draft corresponds to the
number of unused permits that may be left over in 2012,
according to commission’s estimates. That is the last year of
what the EU defines as the second phase of the program that
started in 2008. Under the bloc’s rules, those allowances can be
carried into the third phase, which begins in 2013.  The EU could eliminate excess supply over time by
withholding permits from auctions starting in 2013, Hedegaard
said. The bloc, which has given away the majority of allowances
since it started the program, will require most emitters to
purchase their pollution rights in the next phase.  “This would not affect the number of allowances given for
free to trade-exposed energy-intensive sectors,” Hedegaard
said. “It would send stronger prices signal and increase
auctioning revenues for member states that can be re-invested in
the economy.”  Penalizing Polluters  The EU started its cap-and-trade system six years ago to
put a price on carbon, penalizing polluters and encouraging
cleaner energy. The program, known as the ETS, imposes limits on
more than 11,000 utilities and manufacturing companies and sets
a 2020 cap on discharges that would be 21 percent below 2005
levels. One EU permit carries the right to emit 1 metric ton of
carbon dioxide.  The commission’s plans to withhold some permits in the next
phase of the carbon system have already sparked criticism from
energy-intensive industries, including the association of the
European steel producers Eurofer. The group said last week the
set-aside would effectively mean tighter emission caps and
higher costs for companies in the EU emissions program.  The ETS is the EU main tool to meet its internal target of
cutting emissions by 20 percent in 2020 compared with 1990
levels from 80 to 95 percent in 2050. The so-called 2050 carbon
roadmap to be published next week will show that the EU can cut  greenhouse gases  by 25 percent in 2020 if it steps up efforts to
boost  energy efficiency , Hedegaard said.  “If we keep other plans and increase the focus on energy
efficiency that would add an extra five percent to emissions
reductions,” she told the committee. “ If we only address
energy efficiency without addressing the set-aside, then we
would depress carbon prices and industry knows that would be the
opposite of what we need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  