-- 
Eurasia to Buy Slavneft Assets for $150 Million in Expansion

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-28T12:24:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/eurasia-drilling-plans-to-buy-slavneft-assets-for-150-million.html
Eurasia Drilling Co., a London-
listed oilfield services company, agreed to buy drilling assets
from TNK-BP and OAO Gazprom Neft’s OAO Slavneft unit for $150
million to increase its share of the Russian market.  Eurasia plans to close the transaction with Moscow-based
Slavneft by the middle of the year, the drilling company said
today in a regulatory filing. It has also begun talks on a
contract to provide Slavneft with five years of services,
according to the statement.  Investment spending may reach $1 billion this year,
according to Kim Kruschwitz, Eurasia’s head of  investor
relations . The company started the year with about $600 million
on its balance sheet, including a $250 million loan from  Russia ’s Alfa Bank, Kruschwitz said by telephone.  The price was attractive for Eurasia when compared with
Weatherford International Ltd.’s $489 million purchase of TNK-
BP’s drilling assets in 2009, Olga Danilenko, an oil and gas
analyst at VTB Capital, said by telephone today. TNK-BP’s
drilling arm was about twice the size of that belonging to
Slavneft, she said.  Eurasia, formed from the drilling assets of OAO Lukoil,
aims to diversify its customer base away from Russia’s second-
largest oil producer. The company claimed a 24 percent share of
Russia’s drilling market in terms of meters drilled last year.  Eurasia also concluded a deal to buy the Trident XX jack-up
rig for $260 million from Transocean Ltd., the company said
today. The rig is currently under contract to Petroliam Nasional
Bhd.’s Turkmen unit, Petronas Carigali, for  Caspian Sea  drilling
through 2012, according to a regulatory statement.  Plans to acquire Schlumberger Ltd.’s Russian drilling
assets, Slavneft’s assets and the Transocean rig will result in
total investment of about $600 million, Kruschwitz said. The
company has earmarked an additional $250 million on its own
fleet and another $80 million on a jack-up rig for the Caspian
Sea that’s currently under construction in Sharjah, he said.  The acquisitions of Slavneft and Schlumberger assets will
lift Eurasia’s market share in Russia to the mid-30 percent
range, Kruschwitz said. Slavneft will add about 6 percent and
Schlumberger 4 percent, he said.  The company may borrow more money this year, potentially
tapping the  bond market , Kruschwitz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  