-- 
Europe Inflation Accelerates Less Than Estimated on Food Costs

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-02-28T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/europe-inflation-accelerates-less-than-estimated-on-food-costs.html
European inflation accelerated less
than initially estimated in January, as increases in food and
transport prices eased from the previous month.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.3
percent from 2.2 percent in December, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. While that’s below
the initial estimate of 2.4 percent published on Jan. 31, the
January reading is still the fastest since October 2008.  Crude-oil prices have surged 40 percent over the past six
months, adding to the  European Central Bank ’s concerns about
rising price pressures. ECB council member Yves Mersch said on
Feb. 21 that officials may toughen their tone on inflation at
this week’s rate meeting, signaling a readiness to raise
borrowing costs over coming months.  “Mersch has become the latest official to strike a hawkish
tone,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macroeconomic research at ABN
Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The central bank will raise rates
for the first time in September of this year, but recent data
and hawkish comments from officials suggest that the balance of
risks to our view is tilted towards an earlier rate increase.”  Energy prices have been pushed higher as  Libya ’s uprising
reduced shipments from  Africa ’s third-largest oil producer. The
cuts create a “significant upside risk” to prices by reducing
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ ability to
offset any escalation of supply disruptions in the Middle East,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said last week.  Gathering Strength  Euro-area  core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy prices, quickened to 1.1 percent in January from
1 percent in the previous month, the statistics office said.
Overall consumer prices declined 0.7 percent from December and
January’s core rate was minus 1.6 percent in the month.  The euro-region economy is showing signs of gathering
strength after expanding less than economists forecast in the
fourth quarter. European economic confidence jumped to the
highest in 3 1/2 years in February, German business confidence
surged to a record and the region’s services and manufacturing
growth accelerated. Consumers also grew more optimistic.  That’s making it easier for companies to raise prices as
labor unions push through more pay increase. Volkswagen AG,  Germany ’s largest automotive employer, earlier this month agreed
to boost compensation for 100,000 workers in the western part of
the country by 3.2 percent to avert strikes.    Danone , the world’s largest yogurt maker, on Feb. 15
forecast improved profitability in 2011 as emerging-market sales
and cost cuts offset the impact of higher commodity prices.
Expenses from raw materials and packaging will rise 6 percent to
9 percent on average this year, the Paris-based company said.  Rising Costs  With rising costs threatening to hurt earnings, companies
have been reluctant to boost their workforce. Euro-region
unemployment held at 10 percent in December. That’s close to the
highest in more than a decade.  Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer goods
company, plans to offset higher input prices this year through
price increases and cost savings, Chief Financial Officer Jean- Marc Huet said on Feb. 3. He also forecast commodity costs to
accelerate “sharply,” hurting earnings in 2011.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has already signaled
concern about faster prices feeding into wage demands and
leading to more protracted inflation. ECB Executive Board member
Juergen Stark said on Feb. 21 that the central bank is prepared
“to act decisively and immediately” if needed to maintain  price stability .  Economic Projections  The Frankfurt-based central bank, which aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent, will publish its latest economic
projections when council members meet on March 3. Mersch said in
an interview on Feb. 21 that he expects the bank’s economists to
lift their 2011 inflation forecast to more than 2 percent from
1.8 percent predicted in December.  “The ECB could raise  interest rates  well before the end of
the year,” said  Howard Archer , chief economist at IHS Global
Insight in  London . “However, much will depend on whether or not
these heightened inflation expectations feed through to
significantly increased wage growth.”  The ECB’s main lending rate is currently at a record low of
1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  