-- 
European Ministers Cool on Libya No-Fly Zone; Rudd in Favor

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-02-28T13:49:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/european-ministers-cool-on-libya-no-fly-zone-rudd-in-favor.html
European foreign ministers indicated
that imposing a no-fly zone over Libya might be impractical
after Australian Foreign Affairs Minister  Kevin Rudd  broached
the idea.  A possible no-fly zone will be discussed by ministers today
at a meeting of the United Nations Human Right Council in
Geneva, German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said after
talks with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and other
ministers.  “We should discuss the consequences and implications of
such a decision,” Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said
in an interview, adding that it was crucial to be “aware of the
impact and the implications” of any such move.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says more than 1,000
people have died in Libyan unrest, in which the regime of
Muammar Qaddafi has used air power and mercenaries in a failed
attempt to quash a rebellion that has seized much of the
country.  Libya  is Africa’s third-biggest oil producer after
Nigeria and Angola, and holds the continent’s largest reserves,
according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  In an interview en route to Geneva with Australian
television, Rudd said a no-fly zone was needed to protect Libyan
citizens.  “We argue for the imposition of a no-fly zone over
Libya,” Rudd said in the interview with  Australia ’s ABC
television. “We believe that is necessary given that Qaddafi’s
regime has already used its air force to strafe the civilian
population.”  Signal to Arabs  The questions to be addressed regarding a no-fly zone are
what signal it would send to the Arab world and whether it could
be enforced effectively, France’s European Affairs Minister
Laurent Wauquiez said.  British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said the priority
should be to implement the arms embargo and asset freeze agreed
by the UN  Security Council  last week.  The Security Council, which voted 15-0 to impose the arms
embargo on Libya, said violence by Qaddafi’s regime “may amount
to crimes against humanity.” The measure refers Libya to the
International Criminal Court in The Hague for investigation and
possible prosecution.  The UN body also froze the foreign assets of Qaddafi and
four aides and has barred them from travelling.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Viola Gienger in Geneva at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Geneva at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  