-- 
European ‘Battery’ at Risk With Swiss Nuclear Vote

-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-03-03T12:51:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/european-battery-at-risk-with-swiss-preparing-to-vote-on-nuclear-power.html
(Corrects tender details in 17th paragraph of story
published March 1.)  Switzerland, the transmission hub
for 25 percent of  Europe ’s electricity, has four nuclear
reactors approaching the end of their life. A nationwide
referendum now threatens the industry’s future.  Utility bills for households and companies will rise and
Switzerland’s role as a “battery” for the region may be at
risk if voters decide in 2013 to ban reactors that provide 39
percent of the country’s power supply, according to analysts,
including Ralph Schlaepfer of PricewaterhouseCoopers. A non-
binding vote in the canton of Bern last month backed a
replacement of a nuclear plant by 51 percent.  “It will certainly be very tight,” said Thomas Bernauer,
a professor of political science at the Swiss Federal Institute
of Technology in Zurich. “The population is almost evenly split
and opinion is bound to swing in both directions in the run-up
to a referendum.”  The current flow of nuclear energy means  Switzerland  can
make profits by trading electricity from its hydro sources with
neighbors, including Germany. Without reactors, the Swiss may
have to keep their hydroelectric resources all to themselves.
That would wipe out 1 billion francs ($1.08 billion) a year of
cross-border energy trading earnings and deprive nations such as
Italy of ways to balance their power flows.  ‘Giant Battery’  “Switzerland functions as a giant battery for Europe,”
said Schlaepfer, the chief energy consultant at
PricewaterhouseCoopers Switzerland AG. Hydro sources currently
provide 56 percent of the country’s power needs. When demand is
low, power prices fall and Switzerland imports electricity to
pump water into Alpine reservoirs. As consumption peaks, water
is released to generate hydropower that’s exported at a profit.  “With the development of big European wind farms around
the  North Sea , electricity flow has become more erratic,”
making Europe more dependent on Switzerland’s pumped storage to
help even out supplies, Schlaepfer said in a phone interview.  About 40 percent of Switzerland’s power from hydro sources
was sold abroad in 2007 for a profit, according to the Swiss
Energy Foundation, a Zurich-based research institute.  Such gains would vanish unless Switzerland builds new
nuclear plants, said Manfred Thumann, chief executive officer of
Axpo AG, which has holdings in three Swiss nuclear plants.  “Switzerland faces a power supply gap,” he said in an
interview at his office in Baden. “So far, we’ve been
successful in making sure it hasn’t been felt. But in terms of
planning tomorrow’s production, that gap needs to be filled.”  Higher Prices?  Beznau and Muehleberg, the two oldest of Switzerland’s four
nuclear plants, were completed in 1969 and 1972 and are reaching
the end of their lifespan, while long-term electricity import
contracts with  France  are due to be phased out from 2016,
according to Axpo.  “When you are forced to go to the market for something you
urgently need, you are in the worst position imaginable to pay a
reasonable price,” Thumann said.  Axpo teamed up with Swiss competitors Alpiq AG and  BKW FMB
Energie AG (BKWN)  in December to make a joint tender for two new atomic
plants. BKW estimates they will cost 7 billion francs to 9
billion francs each. There’s no guarantee they’ll be built.  “A ‘yes’ vote is crucial because nuclear plants are so
important for the country as an Alpine transit nation,” Alpiq
CEO Giovanni Leonardi said.  Switzerland isn’t alone in pondering its nuclear future.
Finland is building Europe’s first atomic facility in 15 years,
while Spain and  Germany  have extended the so-called runtimes of
their plants.  Germany began phasing out nuclear power in 2000 and in
November saw protests against the transport of nuclear fuel turn
violent at Gorleben when as many as 50,000 people clashed with
about 17,000 police. European Union Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger has said the disputes in Germany may affect the Swiss
referendum.  ‘Emotional Debate’  “Unfortunately, we have a very emotional debate in
Germany,” he said on Jan. 10 at an energy conference in Bern.
“There will be new nuclear  power plants  in Europe if there are
investors here and I welcome that.”  For now, Axpo, Alpiq and BKW FMB are focusing on technical
aspects of the project and have invited bids from reactor
suppliers.  “We are moving in parallel and waiting for the political
decision,” Leonardi said. Kurt Rohrbach, chief executive of BKW
FMB, said in a January phone interview that the partners’ joint
project company, Resun AG, held talks with potential builders of
two 1,450-megawatt plants including Paris-based  Areva SA (CEI) , the
biggest maker of nuclear reactors. He declined to elaborate.  “The scarcest resource for atomic energy in Switzerland is
locations,” Leonardi said. “No one wants to give up a valuable
site.”  A “no-vote” in 2013 isn’t something Axpo’s Thumann wants
to think about. “There’s no plan B,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net 
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  