-- 
Ex-British Airways Worker Found Guilty of Plot to Bomb Plane

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-02-28T17:07:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/ex-british-airways-worker-found-guilty-of-plot-to-destroy-plane.html
A former British Airways Plc
software engineer was found guilty of plotting with Anwar al-
Awlaki, a Yemeni-American cleric who supports violence against
U.S. targets, to blow up a passenger plane.  Rajib Karim, 31, was found guilty of preparing to commit
terrorism by a  jury trial  in London, the  Crown Prosecution
Service  said in an e-mailed statement today. Karim joined
British Airways in its information-technology department in
Newcastle,  England , a year after arriving in the U.K. from  Bangladesh  in 2006. He started with the intent to plan attacks,
prosecutors said.  Karim contacted Al-Awlaki in late 2009, and the two began
plotting “to kill hundreds of innocent people,” said Colin
Gibbs, a CPS prosecutor. “They also discussed his potential to
sabotage BA servers to cause disruption to flights, which would
have resulted in a major financial loss.”  At British Airways, Karim “kept a low-profile,” while at
home he was making violent propaganda videos for a terrorist
group in Bangladesh,  London ’s Metropolitan Police said. He
worked with his younger brother, Tehzeeb Karim, and two others
to raise money for al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations
involved in Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan and Yemen, police said.  Karim, who used software encryption to conceal
correspondence with al-Awlaki, had a “deep determination to
plan terror attacks whatever the cost,” prosecutors said. He
pleaded guilty before the trial began to fundraising for the
purposes of terrorism.  Cabin Crew  The two men “contemplated how they could exploit Rajib’s
position within the airline company to launch a terrorist
attack,” police said. Al-Awlaki encouraged Karim to take up a
position as a cabin crew member, which he thought may have been
available to him because of a strike by other British Airways
employees. Karim also offered to recruit other people.  “We treat all security issues extremely seriously, and
have given our full cooperation to the authorities,” British
Airways said in an e-mailed statement. “Karim was not eligible
to train as volunteer cabin crew and at no stage was in
possession of an airside pass.”  According to police, Al-Awlaki wrote to Karim to be
patient, and that their “highest priority is the U.S.”  “Anything there, even on a smaller scale compared to what
we may do in the U.K., would be our choice,” the cleric wrote.
He asked if it was “possible to get a package, or a person with
a package on board a flight to the U.S.”  Police said they spent nine months breaking the encryption
on 300 coded messages found on Karim’s computer. Karim is
scheduled to be sentenced on March 18.  British Airways merged with  Spain ’s Iberia to form
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  