-- 
SocGen Ex-Trader Agrawal Sentenced for Software Theft

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-01T11:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/ex-societe-generale-trader-gets-3-years-in-prison-for-theft-1-.html
(Corrects spelling of company name in seventh paragraph.)  Former  Societe Generale  SA trader
Samarth Agrawal was sentenced to three years in  prison  for
stealing the bank’s high-speed trading software.  A federal jury in Manhattan in November found Agrawal, 27,
guilty of theft of  trade secrets  and of transporting stolen
property in interstate commerce after a two-week trial. U.S.
District Judge  Jed S. Rakoff  sentenced him yesterday.  “In the case of this defendant, we have an essentially
good guy who did something very bad,” Rakoff said in ordering a
prison term of less than the 63-month to 78-month sentence
called for under federal guidelines.  Rakoff said he gave Agrawal credit for accepting
responsibility for his crime and for having led an honest life
before the theft. In addition to the prison term, Rakoff
sentenced Agrawal to two years of supervised release. Agrawal
may be deported to his native  India  after his release from
prison, Rakoff said.  At trial, Agrawal testified under questioning by his own
lawyer that he shared information about Societe Generale’s
trading software with a Manhattan hedge fund,  Tower Research
Capital LLC , where he hoped to create a similar system. Rakoff
said at the time that he was “puzzled” by Agrawal’s testimony
and that he assumed it was part of a “sympathy defense.”  Admitted Crime  “He was essentially admitting all of the elements of the
charge as the court interpreted the indictment,” Rakoff said
yesterday.  Agrawal also testified that his superiors at Societe
Generale encouraged him to work at home because spending too
many nights and weekends in the office would raise “red flags”
for company security. He said that was why he printed copies of
the computer codes in June 2009 to study at home.  Agrawal was hired in 2007 in  New York  by the Paris-based
bank to be a quantitative analyst. He was promoted to trader and
given access to the company’s high-frequency trading software in
April 2009, according to prosecutors.  Later, during 10 to 12 meetings with Tower executives, he
shared some aspects of a Societe Generale trading program called
DQS, for “distributed quotation system,” Agrawal said. He said
he used Societe Generale’s codes because he wanted the job at
Tower and because he would have had to build a similar system
once hired by the hedge fund.  “That is SocGen’s trade secret and I stole it,” Agrawal
said in a statement to Rakoff before he was sentenced. “And I
should not have.”  The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-cr-00417, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 