-- 
Facebook Plans to Proceed With Phone-Number Sharing Feature

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-02-28T19:48:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/facebook-plans-to-proceed-with-phone-number-sharing-feature.html
Facebook Inc. is moving forward with
plans to let outside websites and applications request addresses
and mobile-phone numbers from users, a feature that had prompted
privacy questions from U.S. lawmakers.  The social-networking site has not determined when it will
reintroduce the feature but is evaluating ways to “enhance user
control,” including “potential additions to the permissions
screen,” Marne Levine, Facebook vice president of global public
policy, wrote in a Feb. 23  letter  to U.S. representatives Edward Markey and  Joe Barton .  Facebook also is “actively considering” whether to allow
applications to request contact information from minors, Levine
said in the letter.  Introduced on Jan. 14, the feature allowed application
developers to request contact information from Facebook users
who gave their consent. The company disabled it a few days
later, saying in a Jan. 17  blog post  that it had received
feedback from users who wanted to “be more clearly aware of
when they are granting access” to their data.  Markey, a Democrat from  Massachusetts , and Barton, a
Republican from  Texas , sent a  letter  Feb. 2 to Facebook Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  asking about the company’s
plans for the feature.  “Mobile phone numbers and personal addresses, particularly
those that can identify teenagers using Facebook, require
special protection,” Markey said in a statement today.  “I’m pleased that Facebook’s response indicated that it’s
looking to enhance its process for highlighting for users when
they are being asked for permission to share their contact
information,” he said.  Andrew Noyes, a Washington-based spokesman for Facebook,
said the company’s letter speaks for itself and had no
additional comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  