-- 
Boston Fed's Rosengren Says Bank Stress Tests Are Needed to Mitigate Risks

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-02-28T13:46:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/feds-rosengren-says-regular-bank-stress-tests-necessary-to-mitigate-risks.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said regular “stress tests” may help
financial institutions prepare for unexpected risks, such as
fallout from a sovereign debt crisis or a disruption to the  U.S.
economy  from state and local governments.  “We need to do a much better job of using so-called stress
tests to challenge commonly held views, so that boards of
directors and regulators of firms better understand the
fundamental drivers of risks in organizations and in the
financial system,” Rosengren said today in prepared remarks for
a speech in Boston.  The Fed has ordered the 19 largest U.S. banks to test their
capital levels against a scenario of renewed recession. Such
stress-testing is mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, signed into
law by President Barack Obama in July, overhauling regulation of
the financial system with the goal of reducing the risks of
future financial crises.  Banks’ risk managers, chief financial officers, boards of
directors, and regulators all have a role to play in ensuring
“regular, thoughtful stress testing,” Rosengren said.  “Regulators should be able to compare and contrast the
quality of stress tests across organizations and hold
accountable those organizations that are not keeping up with
their peers,” Rosengren said.  He didn’t discuss his views on the economic outlook or
monetary policy in the speech.  Economic Outcomes  Under the Fed’s review, the largest U.S. banks stress-
tested the performance of their loans, securities, earnings, and
capital against at least three possible economic outcomes as
part of a broader capital-planning exercise.  The central bank’s adverse economic scenario included a 1.5
percent decline in gross domestic product from the fourth
quarter of last year through the end of 2011 and has
unemployment peaking at more than 11 percent by the first
quarter of 2012. The Fed will finish its review in March.  Rosengren’s speech focused on the difficulty of debunking
“financial myths” that can cause bank risk models to fail. One
such myth was the belief before the crisis that  home prices  were
unlikely to fall across the country, he said.  “Debunking a myth requires individuals to go against
strongly and widely held beliefs,” said Rosengren. “For this
to happen we may need significant changes in the governance of
risk management at banks and other parties in the financial
system.”  Rosengren mentioned two potential risks -- spillover from a
sovereign debt crisis and the strained budgets of local and
state governments in the U.S. While he said it’s likely both
situations will be resolved, participants should be prepared for
more “disruptive” outcomes.  Rosengren, 53, joined the Boston Fed as an economist in
1985, and became the bank’s president in 2007. Fed presidents
rotate voting on monetary policy, with Rosengren next voting in
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Boston  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  