-- 
Noble Energy Wins First U.S. Deep-Water Oil-Drilling Permit

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-02-28T22:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/first-gulf-of-mexico-deepwater-drilling-since-bp-spill-is-approved-by-u-s-.html
  Noble Energy Inc . won the first U.S.
deep-water drilling permit in the  Gulf of Mexico  since  BP Plc ’s
oil spill 10 months ago, and regulators said they expect to
approve more applications.  The Obama administration halted deep-water exploration
after BP Plc’s Macondo well exploded in the Gulf of Mexico in
April, causing the biggest U.S. offshore oil spill. The top U.S.
drilling regulator said today that Houston-based  Noble Energy 
was the first company to meet new requirements for safety and
spill control.  “The application has met our new standards for well
design, casing and cementing,’” Michael R. Bromwich, director
of the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement , said on a conference call with reporters today.
More permit approvals are expected in “coming weeks or
months,” the bureau said in a statement.  Oil industry executives, lawmakers and officials from Gulf
states had criticized the administration’s drilling delay,
saying thousands of jobs in the region were at stake.  “Today’s action sends a calming signal to operators,
producers and service companies that the long drought is just
about over,”  Randall Luthi , the president of the  National Ocean
Industries Association , said in an e-mailed statement.  “This
decision offers hope that the  United States  is getting back in
the energy and jobs market.”  Noble Energy began drilling its well 70 miles (113
kilometers) southeast of Venice, Louisiana, on April 16, four
days before the BP blowout. The company stopped when drilling
was suspended by the administration on June 12. Noble’s well is
in the Mississippi Canyon, in the same area as BP’s.  Noble’s Response  Noble Energy rose $3.47, or 3.9 percent, to $92.66 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
increase since Jan. 31 and the highest price since July 3, 2008.  “Noble Energy is proud to help lead the industry back to
drilling in the deep-water Gulf,” David Stover, the company’s
president and chief operating officer, said in a statement.
Drilling is expected to resume in late March, the company said.  The company plans to use a containment system developed by  Helix Energy Solutions Group Inc . in case of a well explosion.  Helix, which provided vessels that responded to the BP
disaster, is able to collect 10,000 barrels of oil a day and cap
a well in water as deep as 5,600 feet, Cameron Wallace, a Helix
spokesman, said today. Noble Energy will combine this with its
own equipment to drill in 6,500 feet of water, according to
Bromwich.  Among other energy producers,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  plans
three exploratory wells in about 2,950 feet of water, 130 miles
off the Louisiana coast.  Bromwich didn’t specify today which companies were likely
to win the next permits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 