-- 
Five Questions for Bernanke on Capitol Hill: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-02-28T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/five-questions-for-bernanke-on-capitol-hill-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Twice a year, the chairman of the  Federal Reserve  goes up to  Capitol Hill  to deliver the Fed’s
semiannual monetary report to Congress.  And twice each year -- four times, actually, because he
appears before both Senate and House committees -- we get to
observe the spectacle of lawmakers delivering long-winded
opening statements and reading staff-prepared questions for what
appears to be the first time. This lack of preparedness is more
prevalent in the House.  No one expects lawmakers to be experts in macroeconomics
and monetary policy. They serve on many committees, specializing
in budget issues, environmental protection, landmark (or is it
earmark?) preservation, and financial services (our finances for
their services).  To expect our elected representatives to have a good grasp
on quantitative easing when Fed chief  Ben Bernanke  says the  term 
is a misnomer is too much to ask.  That’s why I’ve decided to ease the burden and offer
members of the Senate Banking Committee and House Financial
Services Committee some questions for Bernanke when he appears
before them March 1-2.  Question No. 1: Why $600 billion?  Chairman Bernanke, when the Fed announced a second round of
quantitative easing, known as QE2, at the conclusion of its Nov.
3 meeting, the  statement  said simply that the committee
“intends to purchase a further $600 billion of longer-term  Treasury securities  by the end of the second quarter of 2011.”  Why $600 billion? Why not $500 billion or $700 billion? Was
the amount an educated guess? Was it based on a formula, or
calculation of the money multiplier that equated an injection of
X dollars in reserves to a Y percent increase in the broad  money
supply ?  There’s been some suggestion that the $600 billion was
derived from a decision to remove a certain amount of  duration ,
or price risk, from the market. Is that true? And if so, why
does the central bank want to socialize the risk, transferring
it from investors, who choose or are able to take it, to
taxpayers? (Background for lawmakers: Because the Fed turns its
profits after operating expenses over to the Treasury, any
reduction in profits means a bigger deficit and higher taxes for
the rest of us.)  Question No. 2: About that global savings glut …  Back in 2005, you introduced the concept of a global
savings glut, or GSG, to explain why long-term  interest rates 
weren’t following the central bank’s lead in raising short-term
rates. It also was a nice way of exempting the Fed from any
responsibility for the housing bubble.  David Beckworth, assistant professor of economics at Texas
State University in San Marcos, wonders why the GSG theory, if
accurate, collapses in 2005. In a recent  blog post , he notes
that the U.S. current account deficit -- the other side of the
GSG -- continued to grow as a percent of gross domestic product
through 2006 while long-term interest and mortgage rates started
to rise in 2005.  Mr. Chairman, in a Feb. 18 speech on global imbalances, you
said that foreign countries have a range of tools, including
exchange and interest rates, to offset the effect QE2 is having
on their economies.  So which is it? Beckworth wants to know. Emerging market
economies have tools to offset the effects of U.S. monetary
policy, while the  U.S. economy  is a slave to emerging markets?  Which brings me to…  Question No. 3: What about the Fed’s tools?  If long-term interest rates didn’t budge when the Fed
started raising its benchmark overnight rate in quarter-point
increments in mid-2004, why not raise it faster or in bigger
steps?  The long rate is the sum of the current and expected future
short-term rates. Shove that baby up a full percentage point in
a surprise move, assuming you want maximum bang for your buck,
and watch those bond yields soar.  You stress that the Fed has the tools to unwind its $2.5
trillion balance sheet and raise interest rates when the time
comes. What if another GSG interferes with your plan?  Question No. 4: Those dueling mandates …  Chairman Bernanke, you have justified the initiation and
continuation of QE2 by citing the Fed’s dual mandate (stable
prices and maximum sustainable employment). You point to the
current rate of inflation, which is below the Fed’s target, and
the 9 percent  unemployment rate , which is unacceptably high. You
seem to understand the damaging psychological impact long-term
unemployment has on workers.  What if  core inflation  were to accelerate at a time when
the unemployment rate is still unacceptably high: a kind of
1970’s redux? (Members, pay attention. This question has a right
and wrong answer.)  Question No. 5: Knowing when it’s time to say good-bye …  How will the Fed know when to say sayonara to zero percent
interest rates?  It’s not the tools I’m worried about. It’s the ability to
know when to use them and the political will to carry it out.
One year ago, the Fed had to hustle when it looked like an early
exit was in order. Months later, QE2 was all the rage.  Mr. Bernanke, can you tell this committee what metrics you
will use to begin the march toward a neutral policy? The
unemployment rate? Inflation rate? Nominal or real GDP? Finger
to the wind?  Since expectations are such an important part of Fed
policy, what can you tell us that will raise our confidence that
this time is different, that this time you’ll get it right?  I thank you for your time.    Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  