-- 
Ford Named Most Improved Carmaker by Consumer Reports

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-02-28T19:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/ford-is-most-improved-automaker-on-consumer-reports-list.html
(Corrects Volvo company name in fifth paragraph.)    Ford Motor Co . improved the most
since last year in Consumer Reports’s annual automaker rankings,
bolstered by reliability for resale value, the magazine said.  Ford received 67 points out of 100, according to results
released today at the  National Press Club  in Washington. It
didn’t provide a year-earlier comparison. Consumer Reports
commended the manufacturer for the amount of room inside its
vehicles, and for how they accelerate and ride.  The company’s  Mustang  was the No. 1 sports-car pick,
placing a U.S. manufacturer at the top of that list for the
first time in six years. Top picks in other categories include
Honda Motor Co.’s Fit for the new category of budget cars,  Hyundai Motor Co .’s Elantra for small cars and Nissan Motor
Co.’s Altima for family sedans for the second year.  “Ford has really developed Mustang into a well-designed
car,” Rik Paul, the magazine’s auto editor, said at a press
conference. “It’s not only a good sports car, but it’s a good
daily drive.”  Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , is the only major U.S.
automaker that didn’t receive a government bailout. It ranked
fifth overall following Honda, Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd’s
Subaru unit,  Toyota Motor Corp . and Volvo Cars, the Swedish
automaker that Ford sold to  China ’s Zhejiang Geely Holding Group
Co. last year.  Prius, RAV4  Toyota, which last week recalled 2.17 million vehicles for
floor mats that may jam accelerator pedals, claimed three of the
10 top picks, the most of any automaker. Toyota’s RAV4 is the
top small sport-utility vehicle, its  Prius  is the top
environmentally friendly car for the eighth consecutive year,
and its Sienna is the top family hauler.  Toyota’s Prius scored the best for fuel economy at an
average 44 miles per gallon. Five vehicles -- the Cadillac
Escalade, the Ford Expedition EL Eddie Bauer, the Lincoln
Navigator Ultimate, the Nissan Armada SV and the Nissan Tital SV
-- tied for the worst with 13 mpg.  The rankings by Yonkers, New York-based  Consumer Reports 
influence car buyers and are published in the magazine’s annual
auto issue.  Consumer Reports, published by Consumers Union, uses
vehicle owner reliability surveys from 1.3 million people,
government and insurance-industry crash tests and its own
evaluations of how vehicles function for its ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  