-- 
Ford Says Its Prices Rose $700 While U.S. Market Unchanged

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-02-28T20:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/ford-says-its-prices-rose-700-while-u-s-market-unchanged-1-.html
  Ford Motor Co . said it has been
selling vehicles in the U.S. for $700 to $800 more in January
and February than it did a year earlier, while industrywide
prices have remained mostly unchanged.  It is a “good bet” that Ford lost U.S. market share in
February, said  George Pipas , Ford’s sales analyst. Ford Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has emphasized profitability over
gaining market share at any cost, Pipas said.  Ford’s rising prices were driven by its decision not to
engage in a “price war” with  General Motors Co ., Pipas said
today in a briefing with reporters in Dearborn, Michigan, where
the company is based.  GM “says they are using targeted incentives; I think I
heard that term before bankruptcy,” Pipas said, referring to
GM’s 2009 Chapter 11 reorganization. “GM’s incentives are very
targeted toward their owners, so what would be the point of
targeting their owners? That’s very expensive.”  Ford also is getting about an extra $6,000 for each new
version of the Explorer sport-utility vehicle it sells, Pipas
said.  Ford improved the most of any automaker in Consumer
Reports’s annual automaker rankings, bolstered by gains in
reliability, the magazine said today. Ford ranked fifth overall
following Honda, Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd’s Subaru unit,  Toyota
Motor Corp . and Volvo Cars, which Ford sold to  China ’s Zhejiang
Geely Holding Group Co. last year.  The company’s Mustang was the No. 1 sports-car pick,
placing a U.S. manufacturer at the top of that list for the
first time in six years.  2009 Share Gain  Ford’s U.S. sales rose 9.2 percent in January, according to
Bloomberg, less than the industrywide gain of 17.3 percent. Last
year, new models such as the Fiesta subcompact and the
redesigned Edge sport-utility vehicle enabled Ford to increase
U.S. market share to 16.7 percent, from 15.5 percent in 2009,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. of  Woodcliff Lake ,  New
Jersey .  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, reported a
79 percent fourth-quarter profit decline Jan. 28, as its
European unit had an unexpected loss and new models drove up
costs. For the year, Ford earned $6.6 billion, the most since
1999.  Ford fell 10 cents to $14.97 at 2:55 p.m. in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Ford’s shares fell
10 percent this year through Feb. 25.  Ford has gained consumer consideration because it managed
to avoid the bankruptcies that befell its U.S. rivals in 2009.
The automaker borrowed $23 billion in late 2006 before credit
markets froze, which gave it the cash it needed to weather the
recession and invest in new models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn,  Michigan , at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  