-- 
Forint Gains 3rd Day Before Budget Plan, Shares Hit 3-Week High

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-02-28T10:13:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/forint-gains-3rd-day-before-budget-plan-shares-hit-3-week-high.html
The forint gained for a third day
and shares climbed to a three-week high before  Hungary ’s
government announces spending cuts that may help restore
confidence in the European Union’s most indebted eastern member.  The currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 272.3 per euro at
11:04 a.m. in Budapest. A close at that level would mean a 0.3
percent for February, the third straight month of advances and
the longest such streak since the four months to July 2009. The
BUX index of shares rose 0.7 percent to 23,209.27, the highest
intraday level since Feb. 8 and extending the month’s rally to
2.2 percent.  The government, which has relied on temporary taxes on the
retail, banking, energy and telecommunications industries and
other revenue-side measures to reduce the  budget deficit , said
it will present plans to cut spending tomorrow.  “The forint is strengthening on the back of” expectations
“for the reform package,” analysts at Commerzbank AG including
Peter Karsai in Budapest wrote in a report today. “It seems
investors are expecting positive developments, meaning serious
spending cuts.”  Credit-rating companies, who grade the country’s debt one
step above junk, have called for a plan to make the savings
sustainable beyond 2012 when the temporary taxes run out and the
effect of directing private-pension savings to the state wanes.  The “reforms could turn the perception of Hungarian fiscal
fundamentals around,” Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist
for Morgan Stanley, said in a report today.  “We believe recent sound-bites from officials indicate
that the plan could be well-received,” analysts at BNP Paribas
SA including Bartosz Pawlowski in  London  wrote in a research
report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  