-- 
Former SEC Lawyer Says Ethics Counsel Allowed Madoff Work

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-02-28T18:59:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/former-sec-lawyer-says-ethics-counsel-permitted-his-madoff-work.html
David M. Becker, the former chief
Securities and Exchange Commission lawyer being sued for
inheriting money linked to  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme, said
he didn’t recuse himself from Madoff-related matters at the SEC
on advice from the ethics counsel.  Becker, whose latest two-year stint as the SEC’s chief
counsel ended Feb. 25, wrote the same day in a letter to U.S.
House Republicans that he had consulted with the SEC’s ethics
counsel at least twice about work related to Madoff. He said he
had no recollection of having any contact with the imprisoned
money manager.  Becker, 63, and his brothers inherited about $2 million
from his parents’ Madoff account after their mother’s death in
2004. Irving H. Picard, the bankruptcy court trustee unwinding
Madoff’s business, is seeking to recover about $1.5 million,
which he alleges is fraudulent profit.  In one instance in May 2009, Becker wrote, “it was
conceivable” that a decision faced by the SEC could have
affected legal moves by the Madoff trustee. The agency was asked
by lawyers representing Madoff investors to consider an
interpretation of the Securities Investor Protection Act that
“could affect the trustee’s decision to bring clawback actions
against persons like me,” Becker wrote. He said the ethics
counsel cleared his involvement, deciding it wouldn’t have a
“direct and predictable effect” on the trustee’s actions.  “The Ethics Counsel also concluded that a reasonable person
with knowledge of all of these facts would not question my
impartiality,” Becker wrote.  Order Flow  When Becker previously served as general counsel from 1999
to 2002, he worked on “issues relating to payment for order
flow” that affected Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities,
but were “not related to Mr. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme,” Becker
said.  About the time he returned to the agency in 2009, Becker
informed Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and William Lenox, then the
agency’s ethics counsel, about his mother’s account, he wrote.
Becker said the counsel told him that possible enforcement
actions against Madoff “did not have a direct and predictable
effect on my financial interests.” Becker said he “remained
aware that specific matters could require recusal.”    John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
on Lenox’s advice to Becker.  Becker’s letter was in reponse to a Feb. 24 letter to
Schapiro from House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus  and other committee members. The lawmakers also
asked why the SEC didn’t publicly disclose Becker’s family links
to the Madoff funds. Becker answered in his letter that “no one
specifically considered the issue,” and it didn’t apparently
violate any public-disclosure rules.  Becker also met Feb. 25 with staff of the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee.  Kurt Bardella , a spokesman for
the panel, confirmed the meeting. He declined to elaborate on
its purpose.  Becker, who announced earlier this month that he would
leave the SEC post, said on Feb. 23 that he had no detailed
knowledge of his parents’ investment. He said his departure from
the agency isn’t connected to Picard’s lawsuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 