-- 
Frank Buckles, Last Known American Veteran of WWI, Dies at 110

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-02-28T12:53:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/frank-buckles-last-known-american-veteran-of-wwi-dies-at-110.html
Frank Buckles, who fibbed his way
into the U.S. Army at age 16 and lived to become America’s last
known World War I veteran, has died. He was 110.  He died yesterday of natural causes on the  West Virginia 
farm where he lived since 1954 with his daughter, Susannah
Flanagan, the Washington Post reported.  More than 4.7 million Americans served in the military
during World War I, which wracked Europe from 1914 to 1918. When
108-year-old Harry Landis died in  Florida  in February 2008,
Buckles became the last known surviving American participant.  While Landis served without ever leaving Missouri, Buckles
sailed for England in 1917 and worked as an Army ambulance
driver and warehouse clerk in  Germany  and  France . Two decades
later, as a civilian working in the Philippines at the outbreak
of World War II, he was captured by Japanese troops and endured
three years in a prisoner-of-war camp.  He was saluted at ceremonies in  Washington  and West
Virginia when it became known that he was the last of a
generation. At a meeting at the White House in March 2008,
President  George W. Bush  thanked him “for your patriotism and
your love for America.”  “I had a feeling of longevity and that I might be among
those who survived, but I didn’t know I’d be the number one,”
Buckles told the  Associated Press .  In December 2009, at 108, Buckles testified in Congress in
support of a proposal to turn a Washington, D.C., monument
honoring local residents who fought in World War I into a
memorial honoring all Americans who served in the war. He was
honorary chairman of the group leading that charge, the  World
War I Memorial Foundation .  ‘Fitting and Right’  “These are difficult times, and we are not asking for
anything elaborate,” he said in a statement in November 2010.
“What is fitting and right is a memorial that can take its
place among those commemorating the other great conflicts of the
past century.”  Frank Woodruff Buckles was born Feb. 1, 1901, in Harrison
County in northern  Missouri , near the Iowa border.  At 16, he said, he was turned away from a U.S. Marines
recruiting station because of his age. Then, even lying about
his age, he said he was rejected by the Navy because he was
flat-footed. Finally he was accepted at an Army recruiting
station and sent for ambulance-serving training at Fort Riley,  Kansas .  Reading Newspapers  “I was interested in the war,” Buckles told an
interviewer for the U.S. Library of Congress’s  Veterans History
Project  in 2001. “I’d been reading the newspapers since I was a
child, and I was a wireless amateur, and the war was interesting
to me.”  His unit was sent to  England , where Buckles drove a
motorcycle sidecar, ambulances and cars while “pestering every
officer of influence” for the green light to be sent to France,
closer to combat.  He finally got his wish and drove cars and ambulances in
western France, getting within 30 or 40 miles of the fighting.  After the Allied forces reached an armistice with Germany
in November 1918, Buckles joined a company that escorted German
prisoners from France back to their country.  After the war -- and still just 18 -- Buckles took business
classes in  Oklahoma  and moved to Toronto, where he joined the
 White Star Line , the British shipping company. He later worked
in the bond department of Bankers Trust Co. in  New York .  Back to  Europe   Back in the shipping industry, he spent much of the 1930s
in Europe, learning languages -- he spoke German, Spanish,
Portuguese and some French even in his later years -- and
watching the rise of the Third Reich.  In 1940, the American President Lines dispatched him to  Manila  to expedite the movement of cargo at the start of World
War II. He was there when Japanese troops invaded the
Philippines -- “I knew we were going to get into the war, but I
didn’t expect it was going to be so soon,” he recalled -- and
became among 2,000 non-military prisoners of war, surviving
three years, two months in a prison camp.  For most of his life, Buckles kept his World War I stories
to himself, his daughter and his wife, Audrey, who died in 1999.  Also in 1999, Buckles and other American veterans of World
War I were awarded the Chevalier Cross of the Legion of Honor
from French President  Jacques Chirac .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  