-- 
Gazprom Chairman Sees Shtokman Investment Going as Planned

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-02-28T14:12:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/gazprom-chairman-says-shtokman-project-going-according-to-plan.html
OAO Gazprom’s Board Chairman  Viktor Zubkov  said the Shtokman offshore gas project in the Arctic is
“going according to plan” and U.S. shale gas developments
won’t alter its investment plans.  “This year we will reveal the content of the  investment
decision ,” Zubkov told reporters in Oslo after a meeting with
Norway’s Trade Minister Trond Giske.  Russia may delay the start of Shtokman production to 2018
as an increase in unconventional fuel, such as U.S. shale gas,
damps demand for its resources, Pyotr Sadovnik, deputy head of
the subsoil resources agency, said earlier this month. Shtokman
Development AG, the operating company created by Gazprom and its
partners  Total SA  and  Statoil ASA , has been scheduled to make an
investment decision on pipeline gas from the project in March.  “We’re of course hoping for a decision in the near future
and that it will be positive, but that has to be up to them,”
Giske said in an interview after meeting with Zubkov, adding
that he had not been given a date by the chairman for when a
decision would be made.  The investment decision may slip beyond the March target,
Shtokman Development Vice President Andre Goffart said at
conference in Moscow on Feb. 17.  The Shtokman field, located more than 500 kilometers (310
miles) off the coast of  Russia  in the  Barents Sea , may contain
3.9 trillion cubic meters of gas resources. That’s more than
half the proved reserves in the U.S. at the end of 2009,
according to BP Plc.  The venture aims to build a plant capable of producing 7.5
million tons of liquefied natural gas a year after output is
started. About 90 percent of this supply was originally
earmarked for the U.S.  The rise of unconventional gas production in the U.S. has
reduced the need for imports and displaced LNG cargoes to other
markets. LNG is gas cooled to liquid to ease shipping and
storage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 