-- 
Nestle, General Mills Said to Lead Yoplait Bids at $2.2 Billion Valuation

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   J e f f   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-03-01T08:57:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/general-mills-nestle-said-to-lead-in-yoplait-sale-process.html
  General Mills Inc . and  Nestle SA  are
among leading bidders for the 50 percent stake in yogurt maker
Yoplait being sold by PAI Partners, four people familiar with
the process said.  Nestle and General Mills submitted offers valuing Yoplait
at about 1.6 billion euros ($2.2 billion), one of the people
said. A final bidder may be selected in the next few weeks,
according to the people, who declined to be identified because
the process is private. Axa Private Equity is the only remaining
buyout firm in the race, three of the people said.  Yoplait shareholders Sodiaal and PAI last month said nine
companies, both French and foreign, had made indicative offers
for the asset. The joint owners said they would consider the
bidders’ plans to expand Yoplait in markets where the brand has
little or no presence, such as  China ,  India  and Latin America.
Sodiaal, which founded Yoplait and owns the other half of it,
doesn’t intend to sell its shares.  Bright Dairy & Food Co. submitted the highest offer, though
it remains uncertain whether the Chinese company will be able to
gain final approval from its authorities, one of the people
said. The Shanghai-based company’s bid values Yoplait at about
1.7 billion euros, the person said.  State Intervention?    Fromageries Bel SA , a French dairy products company, made a
bid that values Yoplait at around 1.2 billion euros, according
to one of the people. Groupe Lactalis, a French cooperative that
has a dairy joint venture with Nestle, and  Mexico ’s Grupo Lala
SA also submitted offers. Lactalis last year had a 1.4 billion-
euro bid for all of the yogurt maker rejected.  There has been speculation about whether French authorities
will intervene in an attempt to promote a French buyer, one of
the people said.  Nestle spokeswoman Nina Backes and General Mills spokesman
Tom Forsythe declined to comment. An official at Axa Private
Equity couldn’t immediately comment. Jacques Caillaud, a
spokesman for Sodiaal, declined to comment.  Nestle was little changed at 52.65 Swiss francs at 9:35
a.m. in Zurich trading.  Yoplait has grown to become the world’s second-largest
yogurt brand by distributing products through General Mills in
the U.S. and other partners around the world. The brand has a 6
percent share of the world’s yogurt market, which expanded 46
percent in the five years through 2010 to $65.2 billion,
according to Euromonitor International.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net .
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 