-- 
Georgian Central Banker Sees No Need to Raise Rates to Fight Price Growth

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-02-28T05:41:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/georgian-central-banker-sees-no-need-to-raise-rates-on-inflation.html
  Georgia  has lifted borrowing costs
enough to keep inflation expectations in check and more monetary
tightening would impede economic growth, central bank Governor
Giorgi Kadagidze said.  “At this point, we don’t see a reason for further
tightening,” Kadagidze said in an interview in London on Feb.
25. “We stand ready to go for more tightening in case it’s
necessary, but at this stage, it’s not necessary anymore.”  Policy makers have increased the key refinancing rate five
times since June by a total of 3 percentage points to 8 percent
after a heat wave in neighboring Russia cut wheat supplies and
global agriculture and energy prices surged.  The bank’s main goal is to prevent the pickup in food and
energy price inflation from increasing cost pressures and wage
demands across the economy or causing price growth for other
products and services, Kadagidze said.  Food makes up about two-thirds of the consumer-price index
in Georgia. The bank last lifted borrowing costs on Feb. 16 by
half a point after the inflation rate rose to 12.3 percent in
January, the highest since August 2008.  “We did our best to ensure the second-round wave isn’t
taking place,” he said. Further rate increases won’t prevent
food prices from accelerating and may “kill the growth in other
sectors.”  Inflation will begin to moderate in the second half of the
year and slow to less than 10 percent by the end of the year,
Kadagidze said. It was impossible to make a year-end forecast
because the crisis in the Middle East and North Africa was
stoking commodity prices, he said.  “I’m very confident by the end of the year we will have
single-digit inflation,” he said, adding the price growth will
approach the bank’s target rate of 6 percent within three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 