-- 
Germany Wants Libya Oil Payments Freeze, Westerwelle Says

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-02-28T13:57:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/germany-wants-libya-oil-payments-freeze-westerwelle-says-1-.html
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  urged a freeze on oil payments to Libya for 60 days,
as Italy said it’s stopped crude oil and gas shipments from the
strife-torn country.  “We want to stop money flows to the regime,” Westerwelle
told reporters today at a meeting in Geneva attended by U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and European allies. He said
there should be a freeze on all money flows to the Libyan regime
and that “a number of other countries” are in agreement with
the proposal. He didn’t say which countries back such a move.  Oil traded near a 29-month high in  New York  today amid the
Libyan turmoil. Futures posted the biggest weekly gain in two
years last week amid estimates that  Libya ’s output fell by as
much as two-thirds. The country is Africa’s third-biggest oil
producer after Nigeria and Angola, and holds the continent’s
largest reserves, according to the BP Statistical Review of
World Energy.  Italy decided to unilaterally stop gas and oil shipments
from Libya, Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said. Italy
is in a position “to replace oil and gas supply coming from
Libya,” Frattini said. “Each and every state will decide.
Italy already decided.”  Cut Libyan Finances  Asked about the prospect of restricting oil and gas exports
from Libya, British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said he
supports sanctions that “affect and constrain the flow of
finance to the Libyan regime.”  “There is a danger that a flow of finance will finance
death and misery in Libya, so sanctions have to be effective in
doing that,” Hague said, without commenting specifically on
energy measures.  Armed anti-government forces control much of Libya’s east
and have deployed tanks and anti-aircraft weapons to defend Al-
Zawiyah near the capital, Tripoli, according to the  Associated
Press . The  United Nations  estimates that more than 1,000 people
have died in the uprising and almost 100,000 have fled the
country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Geneva at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Geneva at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  