-- 
Gilead HIV Breakthrough of the Year Stymied by $12,000 Cost, Side Effects

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-02-28T21:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/gilead-s-12-000-a-year-hiv-prevention-pill-fails-to-win-physician-support.html
  Gilead Sciences Inc .’s Truvada
topped  Time magazine’s list  of medical breakthroughs for 2010
after a study showed it may achieve a goal pursued by scientists
for a quarter-century: a pill to prevent  HIV  infection.  Three months later, the advance has hit a wall. While study
findings show the drug prevents HIV in non-infected, sexually
active gay men, doctors say they’re wary about giving healthy
people a  $12,000-a-year  medicine that has  side effects  including
nausea and kidney damage, and may not be used as regularly as
needed. They also say they’re not often asked to make the drug
available for that use.  “We’re not seeing people beating down the doors,” said
Kenneth Mayer, medical research director and co-chair of  The
Fenway Institute , a clinic that serves 15,000 people in  Boston ,
including several thousand gay men. While a few patients have
asked about using Truvada for prevention, perhaps for their
healthy partners, Mayer says he doesn’t know any clinic doctor
who has prescribed it that way.  The issue is central this week at the  Conference on
Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections , or CROI, a meeting
for AIDS doctors that began yesterday in Boston. A dozen
presentations are scheduled that will examine Truvada’s long-
term use in uninfected people, its’ side effects and safety, the
best candidates for it and the potential risk of developing
drug-resistance with inconsistent use.  ‘Powerful Data’  “The study was beautifully done and the data are powerful,
but, so far, it raises more questions than it answers,” said
Martin Markowitz, clinical director of the  Aaron Diamond AIDS
Research Center  in  New York City . “People who can’t use a
condom, are they likely to take a pill every day?” he asked.
“And in the real world, who will pay?”  Healthy men who took Truvada regularly and had detectable
levels in their blood were 92 percent less likely to get the
AIDS-causing virus than those who took the drug sporadically or
received a placebo, according to a study published in the  New
England Journal of Medicine  in November.  Overall the research found the medicine cut infection risk
by 44 percent in 2,500 gay men who were prescribed it
preemptively for one to three years.  Truvada combines Viread and Emtriva, two drugs made by  Foster City , California-based Gilead, into a single blue pill.
It’s been used since 2004 to reduce levels of HIV in people
infected with the AIDS-causing virus. Researchers in the study
theorized that Truvada, taken preemptively, may prevent HIV from
gaining a foothold when it first enters the body, averting
infection that requires a lifetime of treatment.  Second Biggest Product  The medicine was Gilead’s second-best selling product last
year with $2.6 billion in revenue. The company plans to file for
U.S. approval as a preventative in the first half of 2011, said
Chief Executive Officer John C. Martin in the company’s Jan. 25
earnings call.  In November, soon after the study was reported, Robyn Karnauskas, a Deutsche Bank Securities analyst in  New York , said
the finding may add $1 billion to Truvada’s sales. The shares in
2011 have risen 7.6 percent before today, compared with the S&P
500 Pharmaceutical Index, which has been little changed.  Use of the drug, though, has increased only slightly,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Between 6,805 and 8,107 new prescriptions were written each
week for Truvada from December 1, 2010, to Feb. 19, generating
$8.7 million to $10.3 million in sales, the data shows. That’s a
rise from 5,819 to 7,698 prescriptions, with sales of $6.9
million to $9.2 million, during the same period a year earlier.  ‘Giant Question Mark’  “In terms of the market potential, it’s a giant question
mark,” said  Joshua Schimmer , an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co.
in New York, in a telephone interview. “It’s essentially a
pipeline product of unknown value. A whole lot of data needs to
be filled in before we know how big this could be.”  Gilead fell 3 cents, or less than one percent, to $38.98 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  Gilead spokeswoman Amy Flood said in a telephone interview
the company can’t track sales of Truvada for prevention.  During the earnings call, Martin said Gilead doesn’t view
Truvada’s new use as a “significant commercial opportunity.”
Nonetheless, he said, the company does “see it as an important
contribution to management of the HIV epidemic worldwide.”  Karnauskas said she based her estimate on the assumption
that 5 percent of uninfected gay men would take the drug 30
percent of the time. That isn’t happening yet, Mayer said in a
telephone interview.  Stigma Attached  “Knowledge of prevention isn’t uniform, not everyone
understands the results and there is still some stigma
associated with anti-retroviral drugs,” he said.  The AIDS meeting this week in Boston will also explore the
use of other preventatives, which may be used in connection with
Truvada in some populations, said Anthony Fauci, director of the
National Institute of Allergy and  Infectious Diseases , which
funded the Truvada study.  There are several methods to reduce the chances of HIV
infection, including condoms, circumcision and clean needles for
intravenous drug users. Progress is being made with other
approaches, including topical gels and other drug regimens that
will be also reported on at this week’s AIDS conference.  They will likely be used together in different combinations
for groups at high-risk for HIV infection, Fauci said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Combination Impact’  “We are starting to become more and more aware that
prevention of HIV is not going to be a uni-dimensional
phenomenon,” Fauci said. “It’s almost certainly going to be a
combination of things that together will have a major impact.”  Researchers are also looking at which population might best
be helped by use of Truvada as a preventative. The study results
apply only to men who have sex with men. Added trials in
intravenous drug users and heterosexuals will be complete
starting later this year.  The most likely to benefit, doctors say, may be those who
can’t be guaranteed safe sex protection including condoms, or
those who don’t wish to use one. That might include prostitutes
in some areas, or the partners of people who already have AIDS.  Most new infections in New York City involve young people,
often minorities, who can’t afford the $35 per pill price for a
drug that must be taken daily, Markowitz said.  Government programs for poor and unemployed people already
infected with HIV have waiting lists topping 6,700 people,
according to the  National Alliance  of State & Territorial AIDS
Directors in Washington, D.C.  Morning-After Pill  A prevention approach similar to a morning-after pill may
have been a better approach, potentially easing problems of
cost, long-term risk and the challenge of taking a daily drug,
said Kevin Robert Frost, chief executive officer of the New
York-based Foundation for AIDS Research. It’s unclear how much
benefit the study will yield in the real world, he said.  “This may be the most important scientific breakthrough
we’ve had so far to date that we don’t know what to do with,”
Frost said in a telephone interview. “At the end of the day
this study may prove valuable for the proof of concept that it
represents and not for any specific application.”  International health organizations like the  World Health
Organization and UNAIDS , are now discussing how the approach
known as pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP, should be used
globally, said Robert Grant, lead researcher in the Truvada
study and associate professor of medicine at the Gladstone
Institute of Virology and Immunology at the  University of
California  in  San Francisco .  Demonstration Projects  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is convening
panels of experts to discuss how to best roll out wider use of
Truvada as a preventative, a strategy they refer to as PrEP. The  National Institutes of Health  and the  Department of Health  and
Human Services are considering demonstration projects that would
establish clinics or programs to offer the pill to high-risk,
uninfected men.  Grant said more research is needed to find ways to ensure
people take the medicine regularly. Only about half those in the
study used the drug consistently, and those who didn’t received
no protection. Situations in which one partner is HIV positive
and the other is not may benefit most, he said.  “In principle, people are thrilled that there are new
concepts available,” Grant said. “We need to let them have
time to find out how to best use it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in  Singapore  at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  