-- 
Goldman to Win Fed Blessing to Repay Berkshire's $5 Billion, Buffett Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/goldman-to-win-fed-blessing-to-repay-berkshire-s-5-billion-buffett-says.html
  Warren Buffett  said  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . will probably win Federal Reserve approval this year
to repay the $5 billion he injected in the bank, pressuring
investment income at his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .  The Goldman Sachs stake and a $3 billion investment in  General Electric Co ., each of which pay 10 percent annual
interest to Berkshire, will likely be terminated by Dec. 31,
Buffett said Feb. 26 in his  annual letter . While the Fed has
held back Goldman from repaying, the regulator “will likely
give Goldman the green light before long,” Buffett wrote.  GE and Goldman Sachs turned to Buffett in 2008 to bolster
their capital and increase confidence in the firms as borrowing
costs surged after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
Goldman and GE are each required to pay a 10 percent premium to
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire to redeem the investments.  “The redemptions are nevertheless unwelcome,” Buffett
wrote. “After they occur, our earning power will be
significantly reduced.”    Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment.  David Skidmore , a spokesman for the
Fed, didn’t return calls outside of normal business hours.  Dividends from GE, Goldman Sachs and Swiss Reinsurance Co.
helped bolster investment income at Buffett’s insurance units
when fixed-income yields declined and  Wells Fargo & Co . slashed
its dividend. Berkshire is the largest investor in the San
Francisco-based bank, with more than 340 million shares. Swiss
Re struck a deal in November to repay Berkshire.  ‘Whether Strong or Weak’  Wells Fargo cut its dividend in 2009 to 5 cents a share
from 34 cents and said in October that boosting the payment is a
priority for the company. The Fed issued guidelines in November
on how it will decide whether large U.S. banks may increase
dividends and buy back shares, requiring the lenders to submit
to stress tests of capital levels.  “The  Federal Reserve , our friend in respect to Goldman
Sachs, has frozen dividend levels at major banks, whether strong
or weak,” Buffett said. “Wells Fargo, though consistently
prospering throughout the worst of the recession and currently
enjoying enormous financial strength and earning power, has
therefore been forced to maintain an artificially low payout.”  Buffett said the Fed acted appropriately during the
financial crisis in enforcing limits across the banking industry
and that Wells Fargo will be permitted “probably soon” to
boost its payment.  Wells Fargo has gained about 19 percent in the past year
through Feb. 25 on New York Stock Exchange, valuing Berkshire’s
holding at more than $11 billion.  As part of Buffett’s 2008 deals, Berkshire has warrants
giving him the option to buy $5 billion of Goldman Sachs stock
for $115 a share and $3 billion of Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE for $22.25 a share. Goldman Sachs closed at $165.12 on Feb.
25 and GE at $20.82. GE has stated its intention to call the
preferred stake in October, Buffett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  