-- 
Gold-Bull Bets Rebounding This Month as Mideast Tensions Spur Haven Demand

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-02-28T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/gold-bull-bets-rebounding-this-month-as-mideast-tensions-spur-haven-demand.html
  Hedge funds  boosted their bullish
bets on gold to the highest since December, when the precious
metal was headed to a record price, as tensions in the Middle
East spurred investor demand for a haven.  Managed-money funds held net-long positions, or wagers on
rising prices, totaling 182,739 futures and options contracts on
the Comex as of Feb. 22, up 14 percent from a week earlier, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed last week.
Holdings rose for a third straight week and are the highest
since Dec. 7, the day gold reached a record $1,432.50 an ounce.  The price has rallied for five straight weeks as pro-
democracy uprisings spread from the Middle East to North Africa.
Gold is rebounding after a plunge in January that was the
biggest in more than a year. Before then, the precious metal had
rallied every year for the past decade.  “Gold has found support and buyers have been coming in in
the past few weeks,” said  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath
Trading LLC in  Chicago . “All the factors driving the price of
gold higher are still there -- political instability, currency
volatility and inflation. People are following through with
their intentions after the dip in January.”  Gold has climbed 5.6 percent this month, after a 6.1
percent decline in January prompted by an investor shift into
equities. Prices are up 27 percent in the past year.  Managed-money positions include hedge funds, commodity-
trading advisers and commodity pools. Analysts and investors
follow changes in speculator positions because such transactions
may reflect an expectation of a shift in prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in  Seattle  at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  