-- 
BofA Mortgage-Bond Investors Hold $84 Billion Connected to Buyback Dispute

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-02-28T22:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/group-targeting-bofa-mortgages-grows-to-84-billion-in-bonds.html
A bondholder group seeking
reimbursements from  Bank of America Corp . over soured home-loan
securities said the amount of debt it holds grew to $84 billion
after more investors joined the dispute.  The number climbed from about $46 billion in October,
according to the group’s lawyer. The investors have had “enough
progress” in negotiations with Bank of America and  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp ., which acts as trustee of the debt, to warrant
continued talks,  Kathy Patrick , a partner at Houston-based Gibbs
& Bruns LLP, said today in a telephone interview.  Bank of America said Feb. 25 there were 225 mortgage deals
in dispute, up from 115 in October. It didn’t provide a dollar
value for the securities. Investors challenging the bank include
Pacific Investment Management Co., BlackRock Inc. and the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , people familiar with the
matter said in October.  The bank is seeking to limit losses on mortgages originated
by Countrywide Financial Corp., which the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender purchased in 2008. So-called mortgage
putbacks may cost banks and lenders as much as $90 billion,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. bond analysts said in an October report.  The “careful approach” of Patrick’s investor group
doesn’t mean it will accept less than it’s entitled to, she
said, dismissing the idea that her clients will limit their
settlement goals because of their other business dealings with
Bank of America.  Mortgage Trust’s Role  Growing membership is a “vote of confidence” in the
group’s seriousness, she said. The investors have only
considered a settlement that pays through the mortgage trust, a
channel that would serve even the bondholders Patrick doesn’t
represent, she said.    Bill Frey , head of Greenwich, Connecticut-based Greenwich
Financial Services LLC, which also advises mortgage bondholders
seeking buybacks, said many investors he has spoken to “are not
expecting a terribly aggressive settlement,” from Patrick’s
clients.  “Our clients will let any results they achieve speak for
themselves,” Patrick said.  In October, Bank of America said the dispute with Patrick’s
clients covered bonds with a face value of about $46 billion and
original balances of $105 billion. The original balance of the
securities now involved totals $182 billion and the group has
grown from eight to more than 20 institutions, Patrick said. New
members include insurers, investment managers and banks, she
said.  BofA Questions Validity  “The amount of unpaid principal balance doesn’t reflect
what ultimately might be paid if, in fact, there were valid
claims,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman.
“At this point we have a number of questions about the validity
of the assertions, including whether the investors are qualified
to bring claims.”  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for BNY Mellon, declined to
comment.  David Grais, a New York-based lawyer, on Feb. 23 sued Bank
of America on behalf of investors holding more than $700 million
of mortgage securities. BNY Mellon, the debt’s trustee, refused
to sue Bank of America after the lender declined to buy back
loans the investors deemed faulty, according to the complaint.  “This is the strategy for investors who are serious,”
Grais said Feb. 24 in a telephone interview. “This is the best
strategy for investors who actually want teeth in their dogs.”  The plaintiffs in his case are a group of limited liability
companies with variations of the name Walnut Place. Grais
declined to identify the investors behind the companies.  BNY Mellon, which was named as a nominal defendant in that
case, has “a limited role that is distinct from the seller and
the servicer and contractually limited by the pooling and
servicing agreements,” Heine said.  “We have been fulfilling our obligations under these
agreements,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  