-- 
Libya Oil Cargoes Still Moving From Ports, World's Biggest Shipbroker Says

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-02-28T16:56:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/libya-oil-cargoes-still-moving-from-ports-world-s-biggest-shipbroker-says.html
Oil cargoes are still leaving  Libya ,
Africa’s third-largest producer, as ports mostly keep operating
through an uprising against leader  Muammar Qaddafi , according to
Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  At least five owners of tankers carrying crude, refined oil
products and liquefied natural gas reported successful loadings
from Libyan ports in the past week. A majority of loadings
arranged by Clarkson have gone normally, said Bob Knight, head
of tankers at Clarkson in London.  Crude oil traded in  New York  jumped almost 14 percent last
week as traders speculated that Libyan supply is being disrupted
and that regional unrest is spreading. Riots from Morocco to
Bahrain have already toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt and
there are protests in Yemen, to the south of  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s biggest oil producer.  “We have been involved in a number of transactions over
the past week,” Clarkson’s Knight said by phone today. “Most
of these deals have been concluded satisfactorily from a point
of view of ships going in and loading.”  Eni SpA, the largest foreign oil-producer in Libya, may
halt output in the country because difficulty loading oil onto
tankers is causing  storage tanks  to fill, two people with
knowledge of the situation said Feb. 24.  Libya’s largest refinery, Ras Lanuf, has had its supply of
crude oil interrupted, two company officials said. Arabian Gulf
Oil Co. said its export terminals and two refineries at Tobruk
and Sarir were working normally and that the company is in the
process of shipping 1 million barrels of crude.  Libyan Oil  As much as 1 million barrels of Libya’s daily oil
production may have been shut,  Barclays Capital  said in a Feb.
23 report. The country produced 1.65 million barrels a day in
2009 or about 2 percent of the global total, according to data
from BP Plc.  Torm A/S,  Europe ’s largest publicly traded oil-products
shipping line, said today that the vessel Torm Ingeborg is
scheduled tomorrow to load its cargo at the port of Zawia, which
had been closed by bad weather. Naftomar Shipping & Trading Co.
said today a liquefied petroleum gas tanker set sail after
loading at Zuetina, while a second is due to leave tomorrow.  The Trident Star is sailing toward Brisbane,  Australia ,
having previously called at Ras Lanuf, ship tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Last week, two tanker owners,
Thenamaris Ships Management Ltd. and Polembros Shipping Ltd,
said cargoes had loaded normally.  Gulf Sheba  The supertanker Gulf Sheba was due to load its cargo
normally from the port of Es Sider, Per Wistoft, chief executive
officer of Gulf Navigation Holding PJSC, said Feb. 24. The ship
has sailed through part of the  Suez Canal  and is still en route
to Libya, according to ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some  oil companies  have been unable to complete loadings
because they couldn’t reach the Libyan authorities to check the
vessels they wanted to hire were acceptable, Clarkson’s Knight
said. Weather-related issues have delayed some carriers waiting
to collect cargoes, he said. The ships include tankers to load
both refined oil products and crude oil, Knight said.  Reduced Libyan cargoes may translate into additional
shipments to European oil refiners from elsewhere in the
Mediterranean and West  Africa , ICAP Shipping International said
in a Feb. 25 report.  That would have a “mixed impact” on tanker rates because
it would increase shipping distances to Europe while
simultaneously cutting the flow of cargoes to  China  and India
from West Africa and Libya. Voyage distances are a determinant
of vessel demand.  Tanker rates for shipping 600,000-barrel cargoes of crude
across the Mediterranean advanced 65 percent last week to 155.63
industry standard Worldscale points. That equates to daily
earnings of $31,256.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Alaric Nightingale} in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  