-- 
Iceland Channels Volcanoes in Europe's Energy-Supply Race

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-02-28T15:33:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/iceland-channels-volcanoes-to-win-europe-s-clean-energy-supply-race.html
Europeans left stranded at airports
last year as an Icelandic volcano spewed ash across the
continent may soon benefit from the power that seethes beneath
the remote north Atlantic island.  Iceland is doing a feasibility study into building a 1,170-
kilometer (727-mile) power cable to  Scotland  to send some of its
untapped potential of 18 terawatt-hours of geothermal and
hydropower -- that’s enough for 5 million European homes. The
project has the backing of the government, Industry Minister
Katrin Juliusdottir said in an interview.  “Icelanders live with earthquakes and volcanic activity
but the benefits are that now we can monetize these powers,”
said Valdimar Armann, an economist at Reykjavik-based asset
manager GAMMA, who estimates annual clean-energy exports could
reach about a tenth of the island’s $12 billion economy.  The island is trying to emerge from  Europe ’s biggest
banking meltdown this century to restyle itself as one of the
European Union’s main sources of renewable energy. The power
cable, which would be the longest of its kind ever built, would
come as the EU strives to reach its target of 20 percent clean
energy by 2020. In about 20 years, Iceland’s energy revenue per
capita may rival that of  Norway , where oil income has made its
$540 billion sovereign wealth fund the world’s second-biggest,
Armann said.  Investors Upbeat  The U.K. day-ahead spot price values 18 terawatt hours at
828 million pounds ($1.33 billion), according to data available
on Bloomberg.  Landsvirkjun , a state-owned utility that produces
75 percent of Iceland’s electricity, is driving the feasibility
study for the $2.1 billion power-cable project, which would send
as much as 5 terawatt-hours a year  Investors are already more upbeat about Iceland’s prospects
of recovery. The cost of insuring against an Icelandic default
fell below  Spain ’s on Feb. 11, credit default swaps show. The
island, the world’s fifth-richest per capita in 2007, still has
a long way to go before it can restore its former wealth. Its
2008 banking crisis sent the krona down 80 percent against the
euro offshore and shaved almost a fifth off disposable incomes
the following year.  Geothermal Dreams  Iceland may also be unable to realize its geothermal dreams
without some foreign investment. It costs $300 million to $400
million to generate each terawatt hour, said Hordur Arnarson,
Landsvirkjun’s chief executive officer, who expects the results
of the study by the end of the year.  The government estimates that 75 percent of Iceland’s
potential energy is undeveloped. Hydropower, fueled by the
island’s glaciers, accounts for about 73 percent of electricity
production, with geothermal generating about 27 percent. About
39 percent of the available geothermal energy, which taps the
earth’s heat, is used to make electricity.  President Olafur Ragnar Grimsson has been travelling the
world promoting Icelandic expertise in geothermal technology and
has announced deals with  China ,  India  and  Russia . He says
countries are turning to Iceland for clues on how to switch to
green energy.  “The geothermal transformation of the world has become a
very important global mission for Iceland,” he said in an
interview on Jan. 28 in Davos,  Switzerland . “We’ve proved that
you can move within a relatively short time from a fossil-fuel
economy over to a clean economy.”  Powering Smelters  The island produced 17.2 terawatt-hours of electricity last
year. Of that, about 80 percent went to three aluminum smelters
and a ferrosilicon smelter. Output could double or triple over
the next 30 years, depending on whether Iceland exploits
environmentally sensitive areas, Landsvirkjun estimates.  State-owned Orkuveita Reykjavikur hf is Iceland’s second-
largest utility, followed by HS Orka hf, which was taken over by  Canada ’s  Magma Energy Corp . last year. Energy accounted for
about 5 percent of the economy in 2008, compared with almost 7
percent for financial services, according to the latest data
available from the country’s statistics agency.  Iceland’s drive to become one of Europe’s main renewable
energy sources comes as competition also intensifies in Denmark
and Norway to supply the continent with energy. The EU is trying
to spur development of a  power grid  covering the whole region to
establish more links between countries, connect offshore
turbines to prevent blackouts when the wind doesn’t blow and
allow easier movement of power between markets.  So far, the island’s producers have concentrated on selling
power to the energy-intensive aluminum industry. Iceland now
wants to diversify to other industries that use a lot of power,
such as data centers and chemical industries, said Juliusdottir.    Alcoa Inc ., Rio Tinto Group and Century Aluminum Company
have already set up plants in Iceland to take advantage of its
cheap energy.  Consider Options  For now, demand for access to Iceland’s power is growing
faster than the island can supply. Alcoa, the biggest U.S.
aluminum producer, said this month it’s pursuing a plan to build
a geothermal-powered smelter even after Landsvirkjun said it may
not be able to supply the plant.  “We have to consider options that allow us to generate the
greatest amount of revenue,” said Juliusdottir. “Connecting
Iceland with Europe via cable gives us the chance to sell our
excess power onto the  spot market  in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  