-- 
Michael Jordan Knows Superstars Defeat Owners: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-02-28T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/michael-jordan-knows-superstars-beat-owners-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
National Basketball Association team
owners like to think that they run the league.  They don’t. Not anymore.  It’s the superstar players who drive television ratings,
sell T-shirts and breed fan loyalty who have assumed de-facto
leadership positions. They, not owners or general managers,
determine who goes where and which teams win.  Parity is out. Power plays are in. And, as  Michael Jordan 
knows, his fellow owners are powerless to stop it.  The cause of ownership’s distress was on display last night
in Miami, where the Heat hosted the suddenly star-laden
Knickerbockers from New York.  One court played stage to four of the league’s top 10
scorers, including Carmelo Anthony, who last week forced a trade
from Denver to New York, where he teams with Amar’e Stoudemire.  “I’m not interested in seeing a congregation of star
players on a handful of teams,” said Greg Miller, chief
executive officer of the Utah Jazz. The team last week traded
its marquee player, Deron Williams, to the Brooklyn-bound Nets
before he could do to  Utah  next season what Anthony did to
Denver. “It doesn’t do the fans any good. It doesn’t do the
sponsors any good.”  Owners in the smaller markets like Salt Lake City and  New
Orleans , where Chris Paul is already planning his escape to New
York, and  Orlando , where Dwight Howard is a free agent after
next season, seethe while watching the players dictate their
destinations.  No Bosses  Only as Cleveland Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert once said,  LeBron James  doesn’t have a boss. And neither do his All-Star
teammates Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh, who, with all due respect
to Heat owner and  Carnival Corp . Chairman Micky Arison, are
answerable to no one. Not even a billionaire can do much when a
player with all the leverage flexes his collectively bargained
muscle.  If the owners need an explanation as to why there is no
contractual solution, all they need do is consult  Charlotte ’s
Jordan, an iconic player who went from sneakers to wingtips,
from the court to the owner’s suite.  It was Jordan who used part of his hall-of-fame  induction
speech  to remind the masses that players win basketball games,
not organizations. In other words, contrary to what coaches
think and preach, the name on the back of the jersey is more
important than the name on the front.  In most businesses, what the boss says goes. Professional
sports isn’t most businesses. The employees have the power
because they’re the ones the customers pay to see.  Player Over Team  The NBA and its marketing partners, whether  Nike Inc .,  Adidas AG  or Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN, have been complicit in
pushing player over team.  It was always billed as Kevin Garnett and the Minnesota
Timberwolves. One guy and the on-court extras. That’s before, of
course, Garnett was traded to  Boston , where his union with Ray Allen and  Paul Pierce  resulted not only in a championship but
copycats like the Heat.  The NBA long ago embraced a culture of entertainment.
Shaquille O’Neal went from Orlando to  Los Angeles , the show-
business capital of the world, and become more than just a
basketball player.  Fans of the Magic ought to cringe when they hear that their
franchise player, Howard, two days ago spent two hours at a Best
Buy store celebrating the release of his first kids CD.  It sure seems like Howard, like O’Neal before him, wants to
be more than a basketball player. Playing in  New York , the No. 1
media market, might interest him. Or maybe  Brooklyn , future home
of the Nets, whose ownership includes Jay-Z.  ‘This Moment’  “People should be concerned about this moment, this season
and nothing else,” Howard told the  Orlando Sentinel . What
Howard doesn’t understand is that organizations can’t think that
way. The franchises that do wind up getting pennies on the
dollar for their most important asset. See Cleveland.  Owners contend the answer is a so-called franchise player
designation, which in the  National Football League  prevents that
player from becoming a free agent.  What happens, though, when a superstar signs a long-term
contract and then simply refuses to play? Trade me or else. Star
players win. Always.  Not long ago the marketing whizzes at the NBA said they
were intent on pushing team rivalries over individuals. Sounded
good. Only it never happened. Yes, Lakers and Heat are two fine
brands. Make no mistake, though, should they meet in June it
will be billed as Kobe versus LeBron.  The star players are bigger than their teams. Bigger than
their coaches. Bigger than their owners. A 212-foot wide
 likeness  of James, remember, once occupied the side of a
downtown  Cleveland  office building.  Such is the atmosphere created by NBA owners, executives
and their marketing partners. No rule will change that.  Just ask Jordan.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  