-- 
India’s Top Economist Slaps Dark Side of Invisible Hand: Books

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-02-28T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/india-s-top-economist-slaps-dark-side-of-invisible-hand-books.html
Franz Kafka had something in
common with  Adam Smith , the father of modern economics. They
shared a vision of a system running on its own steam, writes  Kaushik Basu  in his alluring new book, “Beyond the Invisible
Hand.”  Smith’s system was benevolent, of course -- an
“invisible hand” guiding the economy -- while Kafka’s was
malevolent and surreal: Arrested and prosecuted, Joseph K runs
from bureaucrat to bureaucrat in “The Trial,” trying to
learn what crime he has supposedly committed in a society with
no central authority.  This is what Basu, an Indian economist, calls “the other
side of the invisible hand,” a dark side where individual
actions unleash “oppression and malignancy” ranging from
coercive contracts to discrimination. Kafka’s vision is, in
some ways, more pertinent than Smith’s to the world today, he
argues.  If that sounds like a rant from the blogosphere, look up
Basu’s CV. A professor at  Cornell University , he’s now serving
as  chief economic adviser  to  India ’s Ministry of Finance.  His latest book, subtitled “Groundwork for a New
Economics,” aims to show that many economists have
dogmatically accepted capitalist theories as fact and have
failed, as a result, to scrutinize their own discipline. This
blind belief has permeated society and politics with
unintended consequences, he says. Why, the thinking goes,
should the state get involved if workers agree to put in 14-
hour days in hazardous conditions with no legal protections?  ‘Rampant Misuse’  “The free-market proposition is a powerful intellectual
achievement and one of great aesthetic appeal,” Basu writes.
“But its rampant misuse has had huge implications for the
world -- in particular, in the way we craft policy, think
about globalization, and dismiss dissent.”  All too many economists and policy makers believe there
is no viable alternative to unbridled capitalism, he says. In
celebrating selfishness, they’ve forgotten that altruism can
carry economic clout. Consider the billions of dollars in
relief donors pledged to  Haiti  after last year’s deadly
earthquake.  This is a serious book, not bedside reading, as Basu
himself says at the onset. Economists will be at ease with his
use of technical jargon and proofs, while the uninitiated may
struggle to keep up. Basu devotes the bulk of the text to
deconstructing some sacrosanct tenets of capitalism that have
become entrenched in government policy over the past 60 years.  Beyond Self-Interest  Contrary to laissez-faire theory, individuals don’t
always act in their economic self-interest, he shows. Some
people will die for a religious cause; others will forgo a
desired product by participating in a boycott. Nor do free
markets eradicate discrimination: Women still earn less than
men in the U.S.  And what of the assertion that any governmental attempt
to guide the invisible hand restrains society’s optimal
potential? Free-market fundamentalists tend to forget the
economic benefits that flow from state projects such as  Dwight D. Eisenhower ’s Interstate Highway System, which got 90
percent of its  funding  from the federal government.  Would any of this have surprised Smith? Probably not.
Smith was an 18th-century moral philosopher, and his concept
of the invisible hand arose from a broader vision of a just
society -- the same thing Basu is after.  To get there, Basu offers some recommendations. For
starters, he would alter how governments and global
institutions measure economic development. Instead of focusing
on gross domestic product or per capita income, he would judge
a nation by the income of the bottom 20 percent of its
population. Using this metric, the U.S. drops in the world
rankings from first to sixth, he says, whereas Japan moves
from sixth to second.  Job Losses  In a globalized world, of course, countries that seek to
counter poverty and inequality often lose jobs to locales with
cheaper wages and laxer  labor laws . So companies that
outsource jobs, says Basu, should be obliged to surrender a
portion of their earnings to those adversely affected by the
labor shift.  Just how this would happen isn’t clear; Basu is loose on
the implementation details. He sees global governance as a
solution for what ails the planet, though he doesn’t explain
how such unity might be achieved. Perhaps he’s counting on a
burst of altruism from global leaders, though there hasn’t
been much of that on display at gatherings of the Group of 20
nations.  “Beyond the Invisible Hand” is from  Princeton  (273
pages, $29.95, 20.95 pounds).  (Timothy R. Homan writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net . 