-- 
Singh Puts Burden on RBI to Tame Prices as India Plans Spending, Tax Cuts

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-03-01T10:34:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/indian-tax-cuts-spending-leave-rbi-with-burden-to-check-prices.html
  India ’s plans to lower income taxes,
increase wages and boost spending risk fueling price gains that
will force the central bank to raise interest rates further.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee yesterday unveiled plans
to increase spending by 13.4 percent to 12.6 trillion rupees
($278.3 billion) for the financial year starting April 1. The
government is boosting incomes through wider exemptions from
individual tax payments, reduced costs for some housing loans
and the allocation of 1.44 trillion rupees in subsidies.  “The budget hasn’t done enough to curb price pressures and
the central bank may have to continue to do the heavy lifting to
slow inflation,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “More rate actions are in the offing
starting this month.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government faces five state
elections this year and said last week that its “foremost”
priority is to curb inflation, which reduces purchasing power in
a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more than three-quarters
of the people live on less than $2 a day. The central bank has
raised its benchmark rate seven times in the past year and
signaled more increases at its last meeting in January.  Stocks Gain  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
rose 3.5 percent at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The Sensex
has lost 10 percent this year, the world’s fourth-worst
performing benchmark index, on concern government measures to
quell inflation will hurt economic growth.  The yield on the 8.13 percent bond due in September 2022
was little changed at 8.09 percent as of 4 p.m. in Mumbai after
dropping five basis points yesterday, according to the central
bank’s trading system.  “India’s government is likely to face a challenging year,
trying to maintain economic growth, control inflation, and
achieve fiscal consolidation,”  Takahira Ogawa , a credit analyst
at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, said in an e-mail today.
“The government may struggle to meet its fiscal deficit target
for 2011-2012 as pressure to step up spending mounts.”  India’s $1.3 trillion economy expanded 8.2 percent last
quarter, making it the fastest-growing major economy after  China ,
government figures showed yesterday. The benchmark wholesale-
price inflation rate averaged 9.4 percent in the nine months
through December, the most in the past decade, the  finance
ministry  said in a report on Feb. 25.  Corruption Allegations  Singh’s budget must be approved by India’s parliament,
where the ruling coalition has been battling opposition protests
over corruption allegations for months. The final parliament
session of 2010 was the least productive in 25 years.  Even as he reduced the income-tax burden, Mukherjee moved
to boost levies in other areas that might contribute to price
pressures. The finance chief included more services under the
tax net to lift revenue. Taxes would now be collected from air-
conditioned restaurants, hotels, airlines and hospitals.  He also imposed an excise duty of 10 percent on branded
garments and raised the levy on drugs, textiles and medical
equipment to 5 percent from 4 percent. Cipla Ltd., an Indian
drugmaker, plans to pass on the increase in excise duty on
medicines to customers, its Chief Financial Officer S. Radhakrishnan said yesterday.  “I doubt the budget has anything very concrete to dent
inflation,” said Samiran Chakraborty, a Mumbai-based chief
economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “The burden of controlling
inflation will be more on the monetary policy in the near
term.”  Tax Relief  From the next financial year, incomes below 180,000 rupees
won’t be taxed, higher than the previous threshold of 160,000
rupees. Mukherjee also announced a 1 percent interest-rate
subsidy for housing loans up to 1.5 million rupees and said the
government will give cash to the poor to buy kerosene.  India’s state-controlled railway operator last week said it
will leave passenger and freight charges unchanged to help
tackle inflation that accelerated to the fastest in a decade.  “The central bank is getting some help from the budget but
not very much,” said Leif Eskesen, an economist at  HSBC
Holdings Plc  in  Singapore . “It has to carry the burden on
really addressing the near-term inflation pressures.”  India’s manufacturing grew in February at the fastest pace
in three months, according to the purchasing managers’ index
released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, adding
pressure on the central bank to increase rates further.  Growth Forecast  The finance ministry predicts GDP may grow as much as 9.25
percent in the year starting April 1. The government estimates
growth in revenue will outpace outlays, forecasting the  budget
deficit  will narrow to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product in
the financial year starting April 1 from 5.1 percent of GDP in
the previous year.  “The budget may be difficult to deliver in practice as
growth assumptions are quite optimistic and they are relying on
a significant compression of non-planned spending including a
decline in the subsidy bill,” HSBC’s Eskensen said. “If
delivered as planned, it will be contractionary. There may be
more subsidy outlays later in the year.”  Mukherjee cut taxes and stepped up  government spending  in
2008 and 2009 to provide stimulus worth more than 4 percent of
GDP to cushion the Indian economy from the impact of the global
financial crisis.  ‘Massive Withdrawal’  If the 4.6 percent fiscal deficit target “is met, then it
will be a massive withdrawal of stimulus,” said Jahangir Aziz,
an economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co . in Mumbai. “It will be
largest fiscal consolidation, if it is done, in the history of
India.”  The government plans debt sales of 4.17 trillion rupees in
the next financial year, less than the estimated 4.47 trillion
rupees this year.  The  Reserve Bank  is next expected to release its monetary
policy decision on March 17. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Feb.
26 declined to comment on whether the central bank would take
interest-rate action between scheduled monetary policy
announcement days.  “Growth will slow down next year as the  Reserve Bank of
India  tightening takes effect,” said  Dharmakirti Joshi , a
Mumbai-based economist at  Crisil Ltd ., the local unit of a
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. “The government is taking
steps to ease inflation in the budget and the RBI, on its part,
will raise  interest rates  further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  