-- 
Mukherjee Seeks to Ease India Tax Burden, Cut Deficit as Inflation Gains

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-02-28T13:19:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/india-s-economy-grows-8-2-increasing-pressure-on-inflation.html
  India ’s government unveiled a
budget proposal designed to ease the impact of inflation on
lower-income earners by exempting more people from paying taxes,
while inviting foreign investment in infrastructure and
accelerating sales of state-owned assets.  The budget deficit will narrow to 4.6 percent of gross
domestic product in the financial year starting April 1 from
5.1 percent of GDP in the previous year, Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee said in his budget speech in New Delhi today.  The economy grew 8.2 percent last quarter while inflation
stayed above 8 percent, adding pressure on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government to join Hong Kong and  Singapore  in
expanding benefits to help people cope with price pressures.
Stocks rose as Mukherjee said India will allow overseas
investment in domestic mutual funds, while bonds gained on
plans to cut the budget shortfall.  “India’s  budget deficit  is moving in the right direction,
but at a fairly modest pace,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-
based emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of  Canada .
“The onus will remain firmly on the  Reserve Bank of India  to
adjust monetary policy in order to get inflation under
control.”  Total spending will rise 13.4 percent to 12.6 trillion
rupees ($278.8 billion) from a year earlier, Mukherjee said.  Stocks Gain  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, which has
declined about 13 percent since Dec. 31, gained 0.7 percent at
the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The rupee strengthened 0.1
percent to 45.27 against the dollar, while the yield on the
8.13 percent bond due September 2022 dropped five basis points
to 8.09 percent.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate averaged
9.4 percent in the nine months through December, the most in
the past decade, the  finance ministry  said in a report on Feb.
25. The price gauge rose 8.23 percent in January.  The  Reserve Bank , which has raised its benchmark
repurchase rate seven times in the past year to 6.5 percent,
signaled more increases on Jan. 25 as it urged the government
to cut subsidies and tighten the fiscal policy alongside rising
borrowing costs to defeat inflation.  Kerosene Subsidy  Mukherjee said today the government plans to give cash
directly to the poor to buy kerosene and remove a subsidy on
the purchase of the fuel. The government plans debt sales of
4.17 trillion rupees in the year starting April 1, less than an
estimated 4.47 trillion rupees in the previous year, according
to the budget.  “Fiscal consolidation is in the right direction,”
central bank Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said at a press
conference in Mumbai. “The borrowing doesn’t provide a shock
in the sense that the absolute borrowing is roughly going to be
the same and so, it does not pose much of a challenge in
managing.”  Singh’s government faces five state elections this year
and said last week that its “foremost” priority is to curb
inflation, which reduces purchasing power in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more than three-quarters of the people
live on less than $2 a day.  Street Protests  Thousands of workers from across India led by trade unions
marched toward the country’s parliament in  New Delhi  on Feb. 23,
the fourth major rally in the capital in a year, protesting
rising food prices, low wages and job insecurity.  Singh is also battling corruption allegations and on Feb.
22 agreed to a parliamentary probe into the sale of second-
generation mobile-phone licenses, surrendering to three months
of opposition demands that had derailed legislation and eroded
investor confidence. The final parliament session of 2010 was
the least productive in 25 years.  Given the pressures faced by the government, economists
including Morgan Stanley’s Singapore-based Chetan Ahya had
expected the government to provide income-tax relief to the
urban poor.  Mukherjee said incomes below 180,000 rupees won’t be taxed
from the next financial year, increasing the threshold from
160,000 rupees. He also announced a 1 percent interest-rate
subsidy for housing loans of up to 1.5 million rupees.  Infrastructure Shortage  The finance ministry estimates that India produces about
10 percent less electricity than it needs, and roads, which
handle 65 percent of the nation’s cargo, are plagued by single
lanes and irregular surfaces, boosting the cost of goods and
services.  To ease infrastructure bottlenecks and reduce inflationary
pressures, India plans to spend 23 percent more on roads, ports
and power and increase the limit for foreign institutional
investment in infrastructure bonds to $25 billion from $5
billion, Mukherjee said.  India will also allow companies to issue tax-free bonds
worth 300 billion rupees to finance infrastructure projects,
the minister said.  The country will build capacity to store 4 million metric
tons of food grain by March 31, 2012, Mukherjee said, to help
boost farm supplies and drive down food prices. The minister
said he has directed commercial banks to step up loans to
farmers by 27 percent to 4.75 trillion rupees.  Singapore’s Plan  Singapore plans to spend S$6.6 billion ($5.2 billion) on
benefits including tax cuts and rebates, the government said on
Feb. 18. In  Hong Kong , relief measures announced this month to
help residents cope with inflation included an electricity
subsidy and a waiver of property rates.  Mukherjee has room to maneuver in next year’s budget
because less bonds are due for repayment and the government in
May earned 677.2 billion rupees from the sale of third-
generation phone licenses to companies including  Vodafone Group
Plc , more than the budgeted 350 billion rupees.  The government needs to repay 741.3 billion rupees in the
coming fiscal year, compared with 1.12 trillion rupees in the
12 months through March, according to the finance ministry.  India aims to raise 400 billion rupees from the sale of
stakes in state-run companies, Mukherjee said. Proposed sales
of stakes in Indian Oil Corp., the country’s biggest refiner,
and  Steel Authority of India Ltd ., its second-largest producer
of the alloy, may help raise about 104 billion rupees next
fiscal year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tax Revenue  Tax revenue is also getting a fillip as economic growth
accelerates. Gross collections may rise 25 percent to 9.32
trillion rupees in the financial year starting April 1,
Mukherjee estimated.  India will maintain the excise tax rate at 10 percent,
refraining from raising the levy to the 12 percent level that
existed before the global financial crisis to help boost
investment, the minister said.  He said the government plans to increase the service tax
on  air travel  and will extend the levy to include new
businesses such as air-conditioned hospitals.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy may expand by as much as
9.25 percent in the next financial year, the fastest pace since
2008, the annual Economic Survey prepared by advisers to
Mukherjee said on Feb. 25.  “The government is really now bringing in a lot of fiscal
discipline into the country,” said Robin Banerjee, chief
financial officer of Suzlon Energy Ltd., India’s largest wind-
turbine maker. “If fiscal discipline comes back, there will be
enhanced investment in the country from the international
sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  