-- 
India's to Start National Mission on Hybrid Vehicles, Finance Chief Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-28T12:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/india-s-to-start-national-mission-on-hybrid-vehicles-mukherjee-says.html
  India ’s proposed budget, among the
country’s most closely watched policy announcements, detailed
plans to push for the adoption of hybrid and electric vehicles
and reduce duties on solar equipment.  The country, the second-fastest growing automobile market,
will launch a national mission plan to “promote green and clean
transportation for the masses,” Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said today in his budget statement for the fiscal year
starting April.  Mukherjee proposed exempting imported parts and components
for hybrid vehicles from basic customs duty and concessional
excise duty. Excise duty would also be halved to 5 percent on
the vehicles themselves as well on kits that convert petrol and
diesel-run cars into hybrids, he said.  The budget was a letdown to clean energy companies, which
had been hoping for major new funding to help upgrade India’s
patchy grid. The transmission network, which reaches only two
out of three residents, threatens hold up investments and delay
projects in a country whose chronic electricity shortage reached
 11 percent  last month, according to government data.  “I am disappointed with the lack of aggression and support
for the renewable energy sector,” said Ramesh Kymal, chairman
of the Indian unit of  Gamesa Corp Tecnologica SA ,  Spain ’s
largest wind-turbine maker.  Solar Sector ‘Ignored’  Customs duty on “a few more inputs” used in the
manufacturing of solar cells and modules will also be
eliminated, Mukherjee said without elaborating. He also
announced duty reductions on solar lamps and energy-saving
lights using light-emitting diode technology.  “This ignores the needs of the solar industry more
widely,” and its dependence on overseas engineering services
and a slew of components, such as inverters, cables, mirrors and
turbines, James Abraham, managing director of  SunBorne Energy
Technologies , a solar power developer backed by billionaire
Vinod Khosla, said in an e-mail.  The budget proposed to introduce a Minimum Alternative Tax
of 18.5 percent on tax-free industrial enclaves called Special
Economic Zones. Robin Banerjee, chief financial officer of  Suzlon Energy Ltd ., India’s largest wind-turbine maker, called
it a “retrograde step.”  Government Plan  “The government started Special Economic Zones in the
country to make all export-oriented activities completely tax
free so that they can fight the world competition hand-in-
hand,” Banerjee said by telephone. The tax would “discourage
investments in export-oriented industries in India.”  Sunborne and Suzlon said a bright spot in the budget were
plans to attract investment by slashing the  budget deficit  by a
third to 3.5 percent by March 2014, doubling the cap on foreign
investment in corporate bonds to $40 billion, and allowing
companies to issue tax-free bonds to finance infrastructure
projects.  “These encouragements would definitely help in providing
funds to renewable energy,” Banerjee said.  Last year’s budget announced a new carbon tax on domestic
and imported coal to fund clean energy projects that was
forecast to raise 25 billion rupees ($555 million) in its first
year. Mukherjee proposed spending 2 billion rupees from those
collections to clean up polluted lakes and rivers.  The budget proposal will be put to a vote in parliament
after a debate.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  