-- 
India’s Tax on Special Economic Zone Units to Affect Drugmakers

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-02-28T11:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/india-s-tax-on-special-economic-zone-units-to-affect-drugmakers.html
  India ’s plan to levy a new tax on
companies operating in special economic zones may reduce profits
at drugmakers, Cipla Ltd. and  Ipca Laboratories Ltd . said.  The move to levy the so-called minimum alternate tax on
units operating in the zones will be a ‘setback’ for the
drugmakers, said S. Radhakrishnan, chief financial officer of
Cipla, in a telephone interview today. Companies opted to set up
manufacturing facilities at the SEZs assuming that there would
be no such expenses, he said.  The government will levy a minimum alternate tax of 18.5
percent on profits of all units operating at the special
economic zones from the next fiscal year starting in April,
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in his budget speech
today.  Cadila Healthcare Ltd . and  Aurobindo Pharma Ltd . have
also SEZ manufacturing units.  “This is the biggest negative in the budget,” for
pharmaceutical companies, A K Jain, Chief Financial Officer of
Ipca, the country’s largest maker of anti-malarials, said in an
interview. “Effectively two-thirds of the benefits of setting
up a SEZ are withdrawn. They are not so special anymore.”  Special Economic Zones  are enclaves with uninterrupted
power, water and other infrastructure support for manufacturers.
They offer a single window for environmental, land, water and
other government clearances. Companies also get tax breaks for
as long as 15 years.  Cipla Ltd. fell 0.7 percent to 299.65 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai. Ipca rose 0.3 percent to 274.95 rupees.
The country’s benchmark Sensitive Index rose 0.7 percent.  Excise Duty  Cipla’s facility at an SEZ in Indore in central India
started production in April last year.  Mukherjee also  increased  the excise duty on drugs and
medical equipment to 5 percent from 4 percent. The increase is
“marginal” and won’t have an impact on drug prices, Ipca’s
Jain said.  Patients at hospitals with central air conditioning and
more than 25 beds will have to pay a service tax of 5 percent,
the minister said. The fee may lead to higher costs for patients
at  Fortis Healthcare Ltd . and  Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd .,
the country’s two biggest hospital operators, Nitin Agarwal, an
analyst at IDFC Securities Ltd. said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  