-- 
India to Allow Foreign Individuals to Invest in Equity Funds

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   S u r e s h   S e s h a d r i
-- 
2011-02-28T09:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/india-to-allow-foreign-individuals-to-invest-in-equity-funds-2-.html
  India  will allow foreigners to
invest individually in domestic mutual funds, Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee said today, paving the way for increased
participation in the nation’s capital markets.  Shares of Indian companies with asset management operations
rose after the announcement.  Reliance Capital Ltd ., which runs
the nation’s largest mutual fund, rallied 4.2 percent to 473.3
rupees, set for its biggest gain in almost two weeks.  “This move will boost the funds industry as it will cut
the dependence on domestic retail investors,” said Kishor Ostwal, managing director of CNI Research (India) Ltd., a
publicly traded equities research provider in  Mumbai . “It will
give more depth to our capital markets.”  JM Financial Ltd. gained 3.7 percent to 22.5 rupees, while
Infrastructure Development Finance Co. Ltd. climbed 5.3 percent
to 145.35 rupees, headed for its best close since Feb. 17.  “This would enable Indian mutual funds to have direct
access to foreign investors and widen the class of foreign
investors in Indian equity market,” Mukherjee said in his
budget speech to parliament today. Foreign investment in the
funds is presently limited to institutions that comply with  Securities and Exchange Board of India  rules.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
climbed 0.5 percent to 17,784.7 as of 2:59 p.m. in Mumbai today.
The gauge has lost 13 percent this year, the biggest drop among  Asia ’s largest stock markets.  The nation’s mutual funds industry had total assets under
management of 6.8 trillion rupees ($150 billion) at the end of
December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 