-- 
India Budget Welcomes Foreign Capital, JPMorgan’s Chatterji Says

-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 
2011-02-28T10:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/india-budget-welcomes-foreign-capital-jpmorgan-s-chatterji-says.html
Rohit Chatterji, head of  investment
banking  at JPMorgan Securities India Pvt., comments on India’s
budget and stock market in an interview broadcast by Bloomberg
UTV today.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
advanced 0.7 percent to 17,823.4 as of the 3:10 p.m. Mumbai
close today. India will cut its  budget deficit  to 4.6 percent of
its gross domestic product in the fiscal year ending in March
2012, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in his annual
budget speech in parliament today.  On the budget:  “The budget has set about a lot of enabling factors for
foreign investors to participate more directly in the Indian
markets, whether it be through an increase in capacity allocated
for the infrastructure funds, or it be through a reduction in
withholding taxes or for the ability to directly invest in
Indian mutual funds.”  On foreign investment flows:  “Directionally, the finance minister set the pace for what
he wants and sent out message to the market that ‘we would
welcome foreign capital in specific sectors and we will welcome
foreign capital in our equity markets,’ which is positive
because then the capital is available to help fund the
investment plans and to create capacity that needs to exist in
the next 12 to 24 months in  India  to cater to the demand
growth.”  “The manner in which foreign investors react would depend
on the relative performance of the market vis-a-vis some of the
other markets in the west that are also on the path to
rebound.”  On the government’s fiscal deficit aim:  “It has to be seen as to how it plays out particularly in
the subsidies, in the oil prices side. But, it’s a strong
positive and while it’s dependent on some ambitious assumptions
around tax buoyancy, the signal to the market regarding the
borrowing program for the government and the amount of credit
that will be available for the corporate sector is a strong
positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 