-- 
Indonesian Lending Drive May Risk Spurring Bad Loans, Eroding Bank Income

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-02-28T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/indonesian-lending-drive-may-risk-spurring-bad-loans-eroding-bank-income.html
A plan by  Indonesia ’s central bank
to spur bank lending and economic growth may cause an increase
in bad loans and erode earnings, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG and Business Monitor International Ltd.  Bank Indonesia will begin penalizing banks with loan-to-
deposit ratios below 78 percent as of today. PT Bank Mandiri,
the country’s largest lender by assets, boosted its ratio to 72
percent from 66 percent in June, according to a company
spokesman. PT Bank Central Asia raised its ratio to 55 percent
from 51 percent, Corporate Secretary Raymon Yonarto said, while
PT Bank Negara Indonesia has a ratio of 68 percent, central bank
figures show.  “With the 78 percent floor in place asset quality is
likely to deteriorate, leading to higher non-performing loans,”
Eugene Leow, an analyst at research provider Business Monitor
International, said in a phone interview from  Singapore .
“Profit margins will also take a hit as banks may have to lower
lending rates to meet the minimum ratio, eroding their net
interest margins.”  Rising consumer spending is driving expansion in Indonesia,
the world’s fourth-most populous nation, increasing pressure on
policy makers to restrain price gains and protect purchasing
power. The economy grew the fastest in six years last quarter,
and the central bank raised its benchmark  reference rate  last
month from a record low to curb inflation.  Loan Threshold  By setting a loan-to-deposit ratio threshold and
stipulating the amount banks must hold as reserves, Bank
Indonesia can bolster growth while keeping inflation on target,
Governor Darmin Nasution said Sept. 6, when the new rules were
first outlined. About 30 lenders had ratios below the required
minimum, the central bank said at the time. Indonesian banks
have a blended loan-to-deposit ratio of 76.8 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.    Bank Indonesia  spokesman Difi Johansyah didn’t immediately
respond to phone or e-mailed requests from Bloomberg News for
further comment.  If banks are forced to boost lending “then it’s quite easy
to think they might relax their standards a little too much,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , head of Southeast Asia economics at
Credit Suisse, said in a phone interview from Singapore. “I’ve
also heard that Bank Indonesia wouldn’t mind higher amounts of
leverage in the economy to make its interest rate tool more
effective.”  Consumer loans in Indonesia climbed 22.7 percent last year
compared with a 19 percent increase in 2009 and a 30 percent
advance in 2008, Bloomberg data show. The country’s debt-to-
gross domestic product ratio of 27 percent is also one of the
lowest in the world.  ‘Under-Banked Country’  Companies in Indonesia raised $10.8 billion from syndicated
loans last year, little changed from 2009, Bloomberg data show.
They agreed to $119 million of loans in January, the slowest
start to a year since 2006, the data show.  “Indonesia is a very under-banked country and there is
clearly scope for loan growth,”  Aninda Mitra , Moody’s lead
sovereign analyst for the country, said in an interview in
Singapore. “Any persuasion to increase lending needs to be
handled carefully though given that inflationary pressures are
becoming more evident.”  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is seeking to expand
Indonesia’s economy at an annual average rate of 6.6 percent and
to create 10.7 million jobs by the end of his second term in
2014. He’s also pledged to double infrastructure spending to
$140 billion to improve and expand the archipelago’s roads,
ports and  power plants .  Moody’s Upgrade  Moody’s upgraded Indonesia’s credit rating to Ba1 on Jan.
17, one step below investment-grade and the highest since the
1997 Asian financial crisis, citing the nation’s economic
resilience. Fitch Ratings Ltd. raised the country’s outlook to
positive Feb. 24.  Bank Indonesia will impose a fine of 0.1 percent of a
bank’s deposit base for every 1 percent shortfall in the loan-
to-deposit ratio. It’s “almost impossible” for Bank Central
Asia to meet the 78 percent target this month and so instead it
will pay a penalty to Bank Indonesia of about 6 to 7 trillion
rupiah ($795 million), Yonarto said.  “We are not about to be doing any acrobatic lending,” he
said in a Feb. 25 phone interview from Jakarta. “We will still
lend conservatively. Over time, we are trying our best to meet
the 78 percent.”  A Bank Mandiri spokesman who declined to be named in line
with company policy, said while the bank won’t lend
“imprudently,” it would seek to meet the 78 percent target
within two years. In the interim, a fine of about 1.2 trillion
rupiah would be incurred, he said.  Bank Negara investor relations manager Ryan Kiryanto didn’t
respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  While low benchmark interest rates helped depress banks’
cost of funding, rising rates may erode margins, Credit Suisse’s
Prior-Wandesforde said.  “The average lending rate in Indonesia is about 12.5
percent to 13 percent and the central  bank rate  is 6.75 percent,
so banks are getting a comfortable spread,” he said. “There’ll
be a squeeze on margins which may make banks less profitable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Kohn at 
 tkohn@bloomberg.net  