-- 
Inflation Above 9% Shows Bankers No Longer Gods: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-02-28T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/inflation-above-9-shows-bankers-aren-t-gods-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Duvvuri Subbarao knows a thing or
two about inflation.  India ’s central-bank head defeated price
gains exceeding 10 percent twice in the past two years alone.  Now, Subbarao is back at battle stations as a chorus of
traders say he’s behind the curve. It’s hard to argue with the
wisdom of markets with Indian inflation back above 9 percent,
the highest among Asia’s 10-biggest economies.  Yet the  Reserve Bank of India  is the vanguard of a
worrisome phenomenon in the world’s most vibrant economic
region. Central banks are in over their heads and need help from
politicians. Higher  interest rates  alone won’t cut it.  Subbarao personifies the shifting economic sands. Prior to
taking the monetary reins in September 2008, he was a top World
Bank economist from 1999 to 2004. Back then, central bankers
like then-Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  were treated
like gods for their supposed omnipotence to tame inflation.  Several asset bubbles and one global crisis later, we know
better. The ongoing surges in prices of commodities such as food
are fanning Asian inflation and they require bold action. Higher
rates will only do so much. It’s time for politicians to do
their part to reduce fiscal-stimulus excesses.  Just before joining India’s central bank, Subbarao said
monetary policy is the “first line of defense” against price
pressures. Now, he is being very vocal in urging the government
to curtail fiscal policies that are working at cross purposes
with interest rates.  Food Surge  And good luck with that. India’s government yesterday
unveiled a budget proposal that kept the onus on the central
bank to contain prices. That should be a concern for investors.  Events from  Egypt  to  Tunisia  and from Libya to Yemen show
just how destabilizing rising food costs can be. For officials
in  New Delhi  and those controlling budgets in India’s 28 states,
the focus is on subsidies -- ways to shelter households living
on the edge. That makes sense in a nation where 66 percent of
the population lives on less than $2 a day.  In the week ended Feb. 5, food inflation was 11.1 percent.
That marked the 10th consecutive week in which food cost-
increases held above 10 percent. Such increases are beyond
unsustainable.  Let’s remember, though, where the blame for all this lies.
Elected officials dragged their feet for years on boosting
agricultural production to curtail prices. At the very least,
India must allocate ample funds for more efficient warehousing
and distribution of farm products. More money must be invested
in improved irrigation techniques and infrastructure.  Secular, Not Cyclical  Among the handful of people who saw this coming was Rob Subbaraman, chief economist for Asia excluding Japan at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . Nomura’s September report titled
“The Coming Surge in Food Prices” is a sobering road map for
where the global economy is heading. It predicts, and very
convincingly, a multiyear jump in food costs.  The problem is many Asian governments are thinking this
jump in commodity prices is cyclical, not secular. Demographics
is one reason to expect prices to keep rising. Dithering among
government officials is another. Governments aren’t doing enough
to make sure that the supply side of the equation comes at least
close to meeting the demand side.  That’s not to give central banks a pass. Monetary policy
makers left the punchbowl out for too long in recent years. From  Seoul  to Jakarta, rates need to go higher to reduce price gains
risks.  Asia  risks falling behind the curve on inflation.  Flooding the Globe  Yet there are two reasons to at least partially give
central bankers the benefit of the doubt. One is hot money. Fed
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  is flooding the globe with liquidity. So
are central banks in Japan and  Europe . Lots of that money is
heading to Asia, and higher rates may only attract more of it as
investors seek more generous returns.  The other reason is the risk of shoulder checking
economies. Central banks in India,  Indonesia  and the  Philippines 
must balance inflation risks with poverty. They worry about
ushering in a period of stagflation, that dreaded combination of
weakening growth and steepening price increases.  It’s time for politicians to earn their paychecks. During a
credit crisis, fiscal policy is more effective in steering
economic activity than monetary policy anyway.  The 1990s and early-to-mid 2000s were a time of policy
drift in which governments deferred economic fine-tuning to
central banks. It was left to them to keep growth up and
consumer prices down. That willful neglect has run its course.
The job can no longer be fobbed off on central bankers alone.  Subsidies are a bandage that treats the symptoms of rising
inflation, not the causes. That will become painfully apparent
very quickly if uprisings in  Libya  and elsewhere lead to a
global oil shock. That would be the last thing the developing
world needs amid a food-price surge.  India’s 8.9 percent growth rate is impressive. Yet
inflation explains why investors aren’t more excited about it.
Winning back their esteem will take more than Subbarao’s
interest rate hikes. The government needs to get busy, too.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  