-- 
Iran Detains Opposition Leaders to Derail Protest March, Mousavi Aide Says

-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n
-- 
2011-02-28T23:21:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/iran-detains-opposition-leaders-to-derail-protest-march-mousavi-aide-says.html
  Iran ’s move to detain the country’s
main opposition leaders, Mehdi Karrubi and Mir-Hossein Mousavi,
is an attempt to derail a march by demonstrators today and
avert the turmoil that has swept through the region, according
to one of their top advisers.  Karrubi and Mousavi, who had been under forced seclusion
at home, were transferred to a Tehran prison, the opposition
Kaleme website said yesterday. The two, along with their wives,
were “arrested and taken to Heshmatiyeh prison,” Kaleme said,
citing neighbors for some of the details. State-run media
denied the arrests.  They “have become hostages in the hands of the Iranian
government,” Ardeshir Amir-Arjomand, one of Mousavi’s
advisers, said in a telephone interview from Paris. “It is
surprising that two prominent political figures have
disappeared and no government official takes responsibility.”  A crackdown on Karrubi and Mousavi, who both lost in the
2009 election against President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , is aimed
at curbing dissent, which has revived as unrest roils the
Middle East and North Africa. Protests that ousted President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from  Tunisia  and  Hosni Mubarak  from  Egypt , is now buffeting  Libya , where more than 1,000 people
have died and almost 100,000 have fled, according to the  United
Nations .  Detentions ‘Unacceptable’  Iran’s detention of opposition leaders drew a rebuke from
U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s press secretary, Jay Carney, who
called it “unacceptable.”  “We call on them to be treated well and released,”
Carney told reporters in  Washington .  Iran’s state-run Fars news agency said reports about
Mousavi and Karrubi being arrested are false. The agency, which
cited a judicial official who wasn’t identified by name, said
the pair were at home and not in prison as reported by their
websites.  Mousavi and Karrubi had earlier called for a Feb. 14 rally
in solidarity with regional protesters and, according to
opposition websites, were placed in seclusion along with their
wives in mid-February.  Amir-Arjomand said conflicting reports about the status
and location of the opposition leaders is an attempt to confuse
and demoralize the opposition.  “For two weeks now, no one has been able to see Mousavi
and Karrubi,” Amir-Arjomand said. “They have been unable to
even meet family members.”  Protest March Called  The Coordination Council of the Green Path of Hope, a
group that backs Mousavi and Karrubi, asked followers to march
toward Tehran’s Azadi square from 5 p.m. today, according to
statements posted on the  kaleme.com  and sahamnews.org websites.
The opposition has also called for demonstrations every Tuesday
until they are released.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday
criticized Iran for pursuing “policies of violence abroad and
tyranny at home.”  Iran is constrained by sanctions over its nuclear program,
which the U.S. and its allies say is aimed at the development
of atomic weapons. Iran rejects the allegation and says it
needs nuclear technology to generate electricity and serve
other civilian purposes such as medical research.  “Why do people have the right to live free from fear in
Tripoli but not in Tehran?” Clinton said. “The denial of
human dignity in Iran is an outrage that deserves the
condemnation of all who speak out for freedom and justice.”  Accused of Sedition  Iran’s protesters, known as the Green Movement,
demonstrated last year against alleged vote rigging that
resulted in Ahmadinejad’s victory. This year’s protests, which
began on Feb. 14, have since widened to include criticism of
the political system and its policies.  Mousavi and Karrubi have been dubbed by the authorities as
“leaders of the sedition,” and accused of being backed by
foreign powers. Last year, Iranian prosecutor Abbas Jafari-
Dolatabadi said the two will be put on trial “when it will be
in the interest of the ruling establishment and once public
opinion is ready.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 