-- 
Iran Arrests Opposition Leaders Karrubi, Mousavi After Calls for Protests

-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n
-- 
2011-02-28T19:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/iran-arrests-opposition-leaders-mousavi-karrubia-after-calls-for-protest.html
  Iran ’s opposition leaders Mehdi Karrubi and Mir-Hossein Mousavi, who had been under forced
seclusion at home, were transferred to a Tehran prison, as
supporters prepared to hold a rally tomorrow, the opposition
Kaleme website said.  Mousavi and Karrubi, along with their wives, were
“arrested and taken to Heshmatiyeh prison in Tehran,” Kaleme
said on its website, which cited neighbors for some of the
details.  A crackdown on Karrubi and Mousavi, who both lost in the
2009 election against President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , is aimed
at curbing dissent, which has revived as turmoil spreads in the
Middle East and North Africa. Unrest that ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from  Tunisia  and  Hosni Mubarak  from  Egypt ,
is now roiling  Libya , where more than 1,000 people have died
and almost 100,000 have fled, according to the  United Nations .  Mousavi and Karrubi had earlier called for a Feb. 14 rally
in solidarity with regional protesters and, according to
opposition websites, were placed in seclusion along with their
wives in mid-February.  The Coordination Council of the Green Path of Hope, a
group that backs Mousavi and Karrubi, asked followers to march
toward Tehran’s Azadi square from 5 p.m. on March 1, according
to statements posted on the  kaleme.com  and sahamnews.org
websites.  Green Movement  U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton today criticized
Iran for pursuing “policies of violence abroad and tyranny at
home.”  “Why do people have the right to live free from fear in
Tripoli but not in Tehran?” Clinton said. “The denial of
human dignity in Iran is an outrage that deserves the
condemnation of all who speak out for freedom and justice.”  Iran’s protesters, known as the Green Movement,
demonstrated last year against alleged vote rigging that
resulted in Ahmadinejad’s victory. This year’s protests, which
began on Feb. 14, have since widened to include criticism of
the political system and its policies.  Mousavi and Karrubi have been dubbed by the authorities as
“leaders of the sedition,” and accused of being backed by
foreign powers. Last year, Iranian prosecutor Abbas Jafari-
Dolatabadi said the two will be put on trial “when it will be
in the interest of the ruling establishment and once public
opinion is ready.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 