-- 
Iraq’s Baiji Refinery Unit to Restart Next Week, Ministry Says

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-02-28T16:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/iraq-s-baiji-refinery-unit-to-restart-next-week-ministry-says.html
One crude unit that was in
maintenance at  Iraq ’s biggest refinery will restart ahead of
schedule to compensate output lost in a sabotage attack two days
ago, said Asim Jihad, a spokesman for the Oil Ministry.  Iraq will also import fuel from neighboring producers to
boost stockpiles after operations at the refinery in the
northern city of Baiji were partially halted after a bombing on
Feb 26 which affected two out of four crude units at the plant,
he said by phone from Bagdad today. Jihad declined to name the
countries it would buy the products from.  The damage to the refinery did not affect production at
Iraq’s power plants which run on imported diesel, said Masaab
Serri Al-Mudarress, a spokesman for the Electricity Ministry.
The country suffers from power shortages and rationing can
exceed more than 15 hours per day.  Four engineers were killed in the first direct assault on
the refinery since violent attacks by militants engulfed the
country following the 2003 invasion. Iraq, which holds the
world’s fifth-biggest oil reserves, needs to import about a
quarter of its refined product needs, according to data from the
U.S.  Energy Information Administration .  Output at the 250,000 barrel-a-day Baiji complex, which
processes crude into diesel and gasoline, fell by 150,000
barrels after the attack. Apart from the production unit under
maintenance due to restart within a few days, a fourth unit was
undamaged and continues to process up to 60,000 barrels a day.  The government plans to increase production from the Ash
Shaabiya refinery in Basra to cover shortages, Jihad said.  Iraq also started the Samawa refinery at a capacity of
30,000 barrels a day after a precautionary stoppage, state-run
National Media Center reported, citing Jihad. The stoppage was
due to a technical fault at a storage unit, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  