-- 
Iraq Refinery Bombed; Libya Plant’s Supply Cut: Persian Gulf Oil

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-02-28T12:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/iraq-refinery-bombed-libya-plant-s-supply-cut-persian-gulf-oil.html
Iraq’s largest oil refinery at Baiji
was damaged in an attack that destroyed two of four production
lines and killed four employees.  Libya ’s biggest refinery, Ras
Lanuf, had its supply of crude interrupted due to violent
clashes there.    Saudi Arabia  increased oil output to make up for the loss
of more than half of Libya’s crude production due to the anti-
government uprising in the North African country, the  International Energy Agency  said.  The following is a weekly summary of Persian Gulf crude and
product market news and forthcoming events:    Crude Oil   Additional oil supplies from Saudi Arabia are heading for
the  Mediterranean Sea  after violent clashes between opponents of
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and forces loyal to him cut the
nation’s oil output by at least 850,000 barrels a day from 1.6
million before the conflict, the IEA said in a  statement .  Saudi oil is generally higher in sulfur than Libyan crude,
though the kingdom’s Arab Super Light stream “is of similar
quality,” the Paris-based IEA said. The “closest quality
replacement” oils are from  Algeria , the  North Sea , West Africa
and the  Caspian Sea , it said.  The IEA, which advises the world’s most industrialized
nations, estimated Saudi Arabia’s average January crude
production to be 8.6 million barrels a day, unchanged from
December, according to the agency’s Feb. 10 monthly report.  Libya’s oil export terminals are operating only partially
because port personnel are taking refuge from violence in some
parts of the country, Dario Scaffardi, general manager at
Italian refiner Saras SpA, said on a conference call Feb. 25.  Saudi Aramco was said to have sold the first crude cargo
from its new storage facility on Japan’s Okinawa island, three
people with direct knowledge of the transaction said. State-run
Aramco sold a cargo of heavy-grade Khafji crude from an Aframax-
size tanker, which can carry 650,000 barrels, to an Asian
refiner in the  spot market , the people said, asking not to be
identified as the transaction is confidential.  Petroleum Development Oman  made a “material” discovery of
oil at a deposit holding some 300 million barrels of crude and
will start production at the site called Amal Southeast this
year, Managing Director Raoul Restucci said in the Omani
capital, Muscat. PDO made three additional oil finds, at Sayyah,
Al Ghubar East and Aqeeq, Restucci said.  Light Products  Aramco, the world’s largest crude exporter, will start
trading refined oil products this year through a new unit that
seeks to take advantage of the company’s expanding refinery
business. The wholly owned unit,  Saudi Aramco  Product Trading
Co., will buy and sell refined fuels internationally and start
operations in Dhahran, Aramco said.  Said Al-Hadrami will be the president and CEO of Aramco
Trading, as the new unit will be known.  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. settled the price of naphtha
supplies to  Asia  for the year from April at premiums of $17.50
to $20 a ton over benchmarks, according to buyers involved in
the negotiations. Among premiums for other products, Splitter
naphtha sold at $17.50 a ton over Middle East benchmark prices,
Low-Sulfur grade at $18.50 a ton and Pentane-Plus naphtha at $20
a ton, said the people who asked not to be identified because
the talks were not public.  Refineries  Two production lines at  Iraq ’s oil refinery in the northern
city of Baiji were destroyed and four staff killed in an attack
by militants. Output at the 250,000 barrel-a-day complex, the
country’s largest, fell by 150,000 barrels a day, an engineer at
the refinery named Saad Mahmud said by telephone yesterday.  Libya’s largest refinery, the 220,000 barrel-a-day capacity
Ras Lanuf, has had its crude supply interrupted and is exporting
fuel processed from existing stockpiles, two company officials
said today.  The refinery in the city of Ras Lanuf has enough crude for
a few more days, one of the officials said. The plant is still
exporting products, mainly to European countries, and the city’s
port is functioning for now, the officials said.  Bahrain Petroleum Co. started a partial maintenance
shutdown of units at its 267,000 barrel-a-day refinery on Feb.
16 until early April. Bapco, as the refiner is known, shut a
hydrocracker at the refinery for servicing.  Kuwait plans a full closure of its 200,000 barrel-a-day
Shuaiba refinery for 45 days starting April 3, Mohammed Al-Ajmi,
a spokesman for the state-run refinery operator Kuwait National
Petroleum Co., said Feb. 15. Shuaiba is the oldest and smallest
of  Kuwait ’s three refineries.  Saudi Aramco was set to start operating a new diesel-fuel
unit at its Ras Tanura refinery this month, two people with
knowledge of the project said. The hydrotreater will produce
low-sulfur diesel, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans haven’t been made public. Samsung
Engineering Co. won a contract in Dec. 2007 to build the 100,000
barrel-a-day unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 