-- 
Kenny Starts Irish Coalition Talks, Aims to Ease Bailout Terms

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-02-28T14:05:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/ireland-s-kenny-to-reopen-eu-bailout-talks-after-democratic-revolution-.html
Enda Kenny, leader of Ireland’s Fine
Gael party, is starting talks on forming a new government after
Feb. 25 elections ejected the ruling Fianna Fail party, setting
the stage for a clash over the terms of an emergency bailout.  Kenny, 59, and Labour leader Eamon Gilmore are due to meet
for preliminary discussions on forming what Gilmore called “the
closest thing we might get to a national government.”  Kenny will fly to Helsinki on March 4 to meet leaders
including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  at a gathering of the
European  People’s Party . Kenny said on broadcaster RTE that he
will seek to ease the conditions of the bailout Ireland received
last year from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund . He’s seeking to lower the 5.8 percent interest rate on aid
loans and end the protection of senior bank bondholders.  “We can count on a good match forthcoming with  Germany  and
France in one corner and Ireland in the other as a battle royale
gets played out in front of a worldwide audience,”  Mark Grant ,
managing director at Southwest Securities Inc. in  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida , said in an e-mail yesterday.  Germany won’t back down over its insistence on setting
conditions for euro-area bailouts, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today.  “We can’t back off from this conditionality,” Schaeuble
said, saying that it would spell the end of the euro. “The
German government is not ready to make any compromises.”  Irish  government bonds  were little changed today, with the
10-year yield at 9.36 percent as of 1:05 p.m. in Dublin.  Election Results  So far, 154 lawmakers have been elected to the 166-seat
Dail, as the Irish parliament is known, according to  RTE ’s
website. Fine Gael had won 70 seats and Kenny said “no time can
be wasted” in forming a government. Labour won 36 seats, Fianna
Fail had 18 and  Sinn Fein  had 13.  “With Fine Gael in charge we don’t expect any radical
policies vis-á-vis rocking Ireland’s relationship with the
EU/IMF,” according to Cathal O’Leary, head of fixed-income
sales at NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin. “Ireland will continue to
implement the 15 billion-euro ($21 billion) fiscal consolidation
plan, with 9 billion euros of cuts still to be achieved.”  Fine Gael will probably shy away from relying on the
support of “high-maintenance” independent lawmakers, the
party’s finance spokesman  Michael Noonan  said on Feb. 26.
Labour hopes to hold a party conference to approve a coalition
with Fine Gael on March 5, lawmaker Ciaran Lynch said on RTE.  Fine Gael raced to its best-ever election performance as
voters punished Fianna Fail after the government presided over
the worst recession on record and a 85 billion-euro rescue in
November. Fianna Fail lost about 60 of the 78 seats it won in
2007, with Deputy Prime Minister Mary Coughlan among the
victims.  Stress Tests  Fine Gael lawmaker Richard Bruton said taxpayers can’t be
expected to shoulder all of the cost if stress tests next month
reveal further capital needs in lenders including Bank of
Ireland Plc and  Allied Irish Banks Plc . The state has already
injected about 46 billion euros into the financial system, with
another 8 billion euros due to go in next month.  “We have to see the stress tests,” Bruton said in an
interview at the count centre in Dublin on Feb. 26. “If that
unearths fears of further holes in the banks, the credibility of
expecting the taxpayer to shoulder all the burden” is something
that “many would regard as unsustainable.”  Kenny said the bailout cost is “too much” and he’ll seek
agreement to ease the terms, including the existing protection
of senior bank bondholders. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on Feb. 15 there is “no appetite”
for imposing losses on senior bondholders at Irish banks.  “We owe so much to  Europe , we can’t ignore what they
say,” Garret FitzGerald, a former Fine Gael leader who served
two terms as prime minister in the 1980s, said in an interview.
Kenny is “very good with people and whilst you can delegate
policy to able colleagues, he does have to go into the EU
council on his own: that’s where the decisions are made.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  