-- 
Irish Consumer Banks’ Reliance on ECB Funds Rose in January

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-02-28T17:57:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/irish-retail-lenders-ecb-reliance-rose-to-eu96-billion-in-jan-.html
Irish consumer lenders’ reliance on
 European Central Bank  funding rose in January to the highest
since the country’s bailout as banks struggled to wean
themselves off sources of emergency funding.  Borrowings from the ECB rose 1.5 billion euros ($2.1
billion) from December to 96 billion euros, the Dublin-based
central bank said in a  statement  today. Deposits from Irish
companies and individuals fell 1.2 billion euros in the month.
Customers from outside the country added 1.7 billion euros,
paring the annual decline in non-resident private-sector
deposits to 22 percent in January from 26 percent in December.  Ireland’s government was forced to apply for an 85 billion-
euro rescue package in November, partly to shore up the
country’s debt-laden banking system. Customers pulling deposits
from Irish banks and lack of access to wholesale funding markets
“created significant funding pressures” for Irish banks, which
has been “alleviated largely” by increased borrowings from the
ECB and Ireland’s central bank, the European Commission said on
Feb. 10.  Total deposits among the country’s six state-guaranteed
lenders fell by 18.6 billion euros, or 5.5 percent, to 319.3
billion euros in January from December, according to tables
published on the central bank website today.  “Approximately 75 percent of the decline was due” to
movements in “intra-group deposits in the banks concerned,”
said Peadar Hayes, a spokesman with the central bank, in an e-
mailed response to questions. The figures are “done on a gross
basis, which does not net out movements in deposits and loans
that are intra-group.”  Lending to Irish households fell 5.1 percent in January
from a year earlier, while loans to non-financial companies fell
1.4 percent, the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  