-- 
Israel ‘Top of List’ on Rights Violations, Turkish Minister Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-02-28T11:16:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/israel-top-of-list-on-rights-violations-turkish-minister-says.html
  Israel  is at the “very top of the
list” when it came to human-rights violations, Turkish Foreign
Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said, showing little thaw in relations
between the once-close countries.  Davutoglu was speaking at Ankara’s Esenboga Airport before
leaving for a meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Council
in Geneva, where ministers from around the world will meet to
discuss a coordinated response to Colonel Muammar Qaddafi’s
crackdown against anti-regime rebels in  Libya .  “If you’re going to make a list ranking human-rights
violations, Israel’s probably at the very top of the list,”
Davutoglu said in remarks carried today by  Turkey ’s state-run
Anatolia news agency.  Turkey withdrew its ambassador from Israel and has said
relations with the Jewish state are “under review” after
Israeli soldiers raided a Turkish aid ship headed for the  Gaza
Strip  on May 31, killing nine Turks on board. Turkey has
demanded an official apology and compensation for the victims as
preconditions for the normalization of relations. Israel has
refused to give either, saying it was enforcing an embargo of
the Hamas-controlled strip and that its soldiers were attacked
by Islamic extremists on board.  Leaders of the charity behind the Turkish flotilla were in  Iran  on Feb. 17, where they were hosted by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and called for a Middle East “free of Israel and
America,” news site  Sanliurfa.com  said. The Turkish site cited
Behcet Atila, a provincial coordinator for the  IHH , whose name
in English is the Foundation for Human Rights and Freedoms and
Humanitarian Relief.  March Report  Davutoglu said he would submit a report on the flotilla
raid to another sitting of the UN panel in Geneva on March 21,
calling it “an attack on a civilian convoy that violated all
human rights and principles.”  He also criticized the U.S.’s Feb. 19 veto of a UN
resolution condemning Israel’s West Bank settlements. “You
can’t expect Israel to take the necessary steps for peace at the
negotiation table” if other countries refuse to criticize it,
he said.  Davutoglu said he will meet with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  and
European Union foreign-policy chief  Catherine Ashton  while in
Geneva.  Turkey opposes sanctions against the Libyan regime. Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said yesterday they would do more
harm than good.  “Libyans who face starvation and death will face more
difficulties and desperation in the event of sanctions,” he
said. “The Middle East and  Africa  have been viewed by the West
as merely sources of oil and used as pawns in oil wars for
decades. People take to the streets because they are fed up with
being used as pawns in oil wars.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 