-- 
Israel Jobless Rate Was Stable at 6.6% in Fourth Quarter

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-02-28T13:20:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/israel-jobless-rate-was-stable-at-6-6-in-fourth-quarter-2-.html
  Israel ’s unemployment rate was
unchanged in the fourth quarter, even as the economy grew at the
fastest pace in four years.  The jobless rate held at 6.6 percent compared with the
previous quarter, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said today on its website. The percentage of the
population in the workforce rose to 57.8 from 57.7.  “This is positive news,” Ayelet Nir, chief economist at
Tel Aviv-based IBI-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. said in
an e-mail. “There are more people working in the economy, more
wage-earners, more employees with full-time jobs.”  Israel bounced back from the global recession faster than
many developed economies, with growth reaching 7.8 percent in
the last quarter of 2010. Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised the benchmark lending rate to 2.5 percent last
week, the second consecutive increase, after annual inflation
rose to 3.6 percent, exceeding the government’s 1 percent to 3
percent target range for the first time since March.  While the increase in labor participation in the fourth
quarter was “moderate,” it is an important figure because it
confirms that the increase in the number of workers in the third
quarter wasn’t an error and wasn’t temporary, Nir said. The fact
that the number of people with full-time jobs rose and the
number with part-time jobs fell is also good news, she said.  Output Gap  Israel has almost closed the output gap in its economy and
is approaching full employment, with labor participation rates
at a record high, the central bank said in a Feb. 22 report. The
output gap is the difference between potential growth and actual
growth.  Investment has increased to above its level before the
global financial crisis and consumers are optimistic, according
to the central bank’s report.  Consumer spending  grew 9.8 percent
in the fourth quarter, including an almost 40 percent increase
in  consumer durables , the bureau reported on Feb. 16.  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 stock index has gained about 11
percent in the past 12 months, led by Perrigo Co., a maker of
over-the-counter drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  