-- 
J. Crew Said to Push Investors, Weigh Raised Bid to Win Vote

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-02-28T21:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/j-crew-said-to-press-investors-over-buyout-weigh-higher-bid-to-win-votes.html
  J. Crew  Group Inc. is concerned that
shareholders may reject its $3 billion buyout and is holding
last-minute meetings to convince large, institutional investors
to vote in favor of the deal tomorrow, said three people
familiar with the matter.  TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners LP, the private-
equity firms trying to acquire J. Crew, were advised by a
special committee of the clothing retailer’s board of directors
to sweeten their $43.50 a share offer to sway skeptical
shareholders, said two of the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. The firms held
internal talks last week about raising the bid, though it wasn’t
clear yesterday if they would do so, said the people.  “If they were to bump to say $46 a share, I think they
could get a successful deal and 80 percent or more of the
vote,” said  Stuart Grant , a partner at the law firm Grant &
Eisenhofer, which represents J. Crew shareholders objecting to
the buyout.  Shareholders are scheduled to vote March 1 on the deal, a
marriage arranged by New York-based J. Crew’s Chief Executive
Officer Millard Drexler. His insistence on dealing only with TPG
and keeping early talks from the board led to more than a dozen
lawsuits and snubs from the top proxy adviser firms.  ISS, Glass Lewis  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and Glass Lewis &
Co. this month said J. Crew investors shouldn’t support
Drexler’s plan because the secrecy in which he shrouded the
bidding may have diluted the price. For the deal to go through,
a majority of shareholders not affiliated with the company or
buyout group have to vote in favor in the meeting that starts at
10 a.m. in  New York .  Large shareholders such as Fidelity Management & Research,
Vanguard Group Inc.,  BlackRock Inc . and  State Street Corp . met
late last week with J. Crew advisers or will speak to them
today, said the people. Fidelity owns about 12 percent of J.
Crew, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Vanguard,
BlackRock and State Street are among the ten largest holders,
the data show.  J. Crew is also trying to convince  John Paulson , whose
hedge fund Paulson & Co. has about a 9 percent stake, to support
the deal, said the people. Paulson’s backing is seen as
critical, both inside his investment fund and at J. Crew, they
said.  “If you take the controversy with management, combined
with the recommendations of the voting services, it makes for a
much more interesting contest than ordinarily you see,” said  Charles Elson , chairman of the University of  Delaware ’s Weinberg
Center for  Corporate Governance .  Mason Capital  If the funds and J. Crew are going to raise their bid, they
would have to do so today before the vote.  Margot Fooshee, a spokeswoman for J. Crew, declined to
comment in an e-mail.  Mason Capital Management, a New York-based hedge fund with
7.5 percent of J. Crew’s stock, is the only large investor to
publicly say it won’t vote for the deal. Principal Michael Martino told the board in a Feb. 11 letter that the buyout firms
should raise their price so that “all shareholders, not just
those named Drexler,” are paid the fair value of their stock.
Mason bought shares after the deal became public. Martino didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  J. Crew shares have traded below the buyout price of $43.50
since Feb. 22, a sign some investors expect the vote to fail,
according to Nancy Havens-Hasty, president of Havens Advisors
LLC. Her merger arbitrage fund manager has a position in J.
Crew.  ‘High-Stakes’  Nevertheless, the spread between the stock and offer prices
-- less than $1 -- suggests most expect the deal to win
approval, since J. Crew shares would likely slide as much as $8
if the buyout firms walked away, she said. J. Crew fell 10 cents
to $43.12 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading for the lowest closing price since Jan. 4.  Drexler has become almost synonymous with J. Crew since his
arrival from  Gap Inc . in 2003. With his hands-on approach to
selecting clothes, he doubled sales to more than $1.5 billion
and pushed the stock up 100 percent since the company’s initial
public offering in June 2006.  While the board formed a special committee to take control
of the sales process, Drexler said he would only work with TPG,
leading the group to forgo a search for other buyers. After the
deal became public Nov. 23, the board initially had about two
months to solicit competing bids, and extended that to ease
investor concerns over the price.  Drexler’s Stake  No other deals emerged, and now Drexler stands to benefit -
- if shareholders sign on. He could make more than $200 million
from selling his stake while keeping some ownership in the new
closely held J. Crew, according to  Glass Lewis ’s Feb. 17 report.  J. Crew sees the vote as a 50-50 proposition, said one of
the people. Advisers at Perella Weinberg Partners LP and proxy
solicitor Daniel Burch of Mackenzie Partners are counting on
being able to swing some of the institutional investors to
supporting the deal, said two of the people.  “It will be a tight vote,” said Grant. “The company
seems to be playing a high-stakes game of roulette.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  