-- 
Japan's Jobless Rate Stays at 4.9% as Payrolls Climb, Signaling Recovery

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-02-28T23:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/japan-s-jobless-rate-stays-at-4-9-as-payrolls-climb-signaling-recovery.html
Japan’s unemployment rate held
steady while payrolls rose in January, adding to signs the
nation’s recovery is gaining pace after a temporary slowdown.  The jobless rate remained unchanged from the previous month
at 4.9 percent, the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo. That
figure matched the median estimate of 29 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Honda Motor Co. is among companies saying they will boost
hiring as Japan’s export-driven recovery gains steam. Improving
sentiment among consumers about their job prospects helped
household confidence rebound from a 10-month low in January,
when retail sales unexpectedly increased.  “The job market has been recovering on the whole, even if
the improvements have been slow,” Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief
economist at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, said before
the report. “With corporate profits recovering, we should
continue to see stable demand for labor.”  While the world’s third-largest economy contracted last
quarter, gross domestic product will probably expand 1.47
percent in the year starting April, according to the average
forecast of 43 economists in a survey by the government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association released on Feb. 10.  Payrolls Increase  The number of people with work increased by 170,000 in
January from a month earlier while those outside the workforce
decreased 0.4 percent, seasonally adjusted figures show.  A separate report today showed that the job-to-applicant
ratio rose, indicating that more jobs are becoming available.
There were 61 positions for every 100 candidates in January,
compared with a revised 58 positions in December, the Labor
Ministry said.  Honda said last week it will hire 600 college and high
school graduates in the year starting April 2012, an increase
from the 588 the company’s planning to take on in fiscal year
2011. Japan’s third-largest automaker increased its profit
forecast for the year ending this month by 6 percent in January,
helped by rising U.S. auto sales and Asian motorcycle demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  