-- 
Japan's Ruling Party Passes Budget Amid Fight Over Financing Legislation

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-03-01T09:10:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/japan-parliament-passes-budget-amid-fight-over-financing-bills.html
Japan’s lower house of parliament
passed Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s record 92.4 trillion yen ($1.1
trillion) budget amid fighting over related legislation to
finance the world’s largest public debt.  The lower house, controlled by Kan’s  Democratic Party of
Japan , approved the measure for the fiscal year beginning April
1 early today by a vote of 295-158. The budget becomes law
within 30 days regardless of whether it is voted on by the
opposition-controlled upper house.  Kan has been unable to persuade opposition lawmakers to
authorize 44.3 trillion yen in  government bonds  to help fund the
budget, a measure that must be approved by both houses. The
stalemate has increased the likelihood of a snap election and
his popularity is plummeting amid dissent within the DPJ.  Kan’s efforts have been complicated by an intra-party
rebellion. Sixteen DPJ lawmakers, who last month announced their
opposition to his push to raise the  sales tax , abstained from
this morning’s vote. The group is loyal to indicted former DPJ
leader  Ichiro Ozawa , whose suspension from the party during his
trial for violating campaign funding laws provoked a backlash.  ‘Nearly Impossible’  The dissension makes it “nearly impossible” for Kan to
pass the financing bills and avoid a shortfall that could damage
an economy already burdened by rising welfare costs and
deflation, said independent political analyst Hirotada Asakawa.  “Kan will be forced to either resign or call an
election,” Asakawa said. “He’ll probably choose to dissolve
the lower house in May or June.”  Real estate transaction fees, some tariffs and small
business taxes all would rise unless the bills are passed, and
Kan’s pledge to increase a monthly allowance to 20,000 yen from
13,000 yen for families with children under three years of age
wouldn’t be implemented.  DPJ dissident leader Koichiro Watanabe said the group
didn’t vote on the budget because of Kan’s failure to keep a
campaign pledge to restrict the influence of the country’s
bureaucrats, not because of Ozawa.  “The Kan administration has been clearly sabotaging civil
service reform,” Watanabe told reporters today. “We can’t
support the budget bill unless it’s changed to cut spending on
public servants.”  The DPJ’s executive committee today proposed suspending
Watanabe for six months and reprimanding the other 15.  Debt Rating  Moody’s Investors Service on Feb. 22 lowered Japan’s debt
rating outlook on concern political gridlock will constrain
efforts to tackle debt that is set to exceed twice the size of
gross domestic product this year.  Standard & Poor’s  last month
cut its rating for Japan to the fourth-highest level, citing the
debt and the possibility the financing bills won’t be passed.  “There is no doubt that a failure to pass the budget bills
will cause trouble for Japan’s economy and public,” Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told a news conference in Tokyo today,
saying the government aims to get the legislation approved by
the end of the month. “I don’t think Japan can afford to play a
game of Chicken.”  A report today showed Japan’s unemployment rate held steady
at 4.9 percent while payrolls rose in January, adding to signs
the nation’s recovery is gaining pace after a temporary slowdown.
While the world’s third-largest economy contracted last quarter,
gross domestic product will probably expand 1.47 percent in the
year starting April, according to a survey by the government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association released on Feb. 10.  Kan’s approval ratings fell to 20 percent in an Asahi
newspaper survey published Feb. 21, down 6 percentage points
from January and the lowest since he took office in June. His
disapproval rating rose eight percentage points to 62 percent,
and 49 percent of those surveyed said he should resign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  