-- 
Japan’s Industrial Production Increases Less Than Expected

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-02-28T02:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/japan-s-january-industrial-production-rose-2-4-missing-analyst-estimates.html
Japan’s  industrial production 
increased less than estimated in January, in a slowdown likely to
be temporary caused by declining output of mobile phones and
flat screen televisions.  Factory output climbed 2.4 percent from December, when it
rose 3.3 percent, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today. The
median estimate of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a 4 percent gain.  Companies plan to increase output 0.1 percent this month
and 1.9 percent in March, according to a survey in today’s
report, setting the stage for the first advance in production in
three quarters. Growing demand in emerging  Asia  is prompting
Japanese companies such as Sony Corp. and Canon Inc. to forecast
higher sales and consider expanding output capacity.  “The January figure came in a lot weaker than expected,
but we don’t need to be too worried as the outlook figures point
to an expansionary trend,” said  Takuji Okubo , chief Japan
economist at  Societe Generale  SA in Tokyo. “Production will
likely be relatively robust in the first half of the year.”  The yen traded at 81.69 per dollar at 10:37 a.m. in Tokyo
and the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average fell 0.7 percent amid concern
about unrest in the Middle East. The yield on the benchmark 10-
year bond fell to 1.23 percent.  Retail Sales  Retail sales rose 0.1 percent in January, beating
economists’ forecasts for a 1.5 percent drop, a separate report
from the trade ministry showed today.  Consumer spending  has been
cooling after the government scaled back a stimulus program for
household appliances in December and in January, and is
scheduled to end the incentives in March.  Canon, the world’s largest maker of digital cameras, is
considering expanding production capacity in Zhuhai, southern  China , as it aims to counter mounting competition and falling
prices, Masaya Maeda, head of the Tokyo-based company’s Image
Communication Products Operations, said on Feb. 14.  Sony forecast its television sales in India may almost
double to about 1.6 million units in the year starting April,
Masaru Tamagawa, Sony  India ’s managing director, said on Feb. 18.  Output may start slowing in the second half of this year as
growth in China slows and European nations implement fiscal
austerity programs to counter the region’s debt crisis, Societe
Generale’s Okubo said.  Mazda Factory  Mitsubishi Motors Corp., maker of the i-MiEV electric car,
said this month that net income fell 75 percent in the three
months ended Dec. 31 on a drop in domestic sales after the
government ended a program to subsidize fuel-efficient car
purchases.  Mazda Motor Corp. may pull out from a U.S. factory it
operates jointly with Ford Motor Co. after production turned
unprofitable, Chief Financial Officer Kiyoshi Ozaki said on
Feb. 18.  While the economy contracted in the final three months of
2010, gross domestic product will probably expand 1.47 percent
in the year starting April, according to the average forecast of
43 economists in a survey by the government-affiliated Economic
Planning Association released on Feb. 10.  A government report released earlier this month showed that
machinery orders, an indicator of  capital spending  in three to
six months, rose for the first time in four months in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  