-- 
Japanese Stocks Climb the Most in Two Weeks as Concern on Oil Price Eases

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-02-28T07:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/japanese-stocks-decline-on-stronger-yen-concern-over-middle-east-tension.html
Japanese stocks rose the most in two
weeks, reversing earlier declines, as a report of restored oil
production in  Libya  eased concern higher fuel prices will derail
the global economic recovery.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s No. 1 carmaker, gained 1.7
percent after the Wall Street Journal said Libya had resumed
some oil shipments. Sony Corp., Japan’s biggest electronics
exporter, climbed 0.9 percent. Mizuho Securities Co. surged 12
percent, the largest increase on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average,
after a report its parent will buy out subsidiaries. Nippon
Sheet Glass Co., a glassmaker, jumped 3.1 percent after Deutsche
Bank AG raised its rating on the stock.  The Nikkei climbed 0.9 percent to 10,624.09 at the close in
Tokyo, reversing an earlier decline of as much as 0.7 percent.
The index rose 3.8 percent this month, the biggest monthly gain
since November. The broader Topix index gained 1 percent to
951.27. Both gauges posted their biggest gain since Feb. 14.  “If there are no real effects on  oil prices , then no
matter how politically volatile it gets, we don’t have to worry
as much,” said Koichi Kurose, chief strategist in Tokyo at
Resona Bank Ltd., which oversees the equivalent of $57 billion
in assets. “It seems there are systems in place for any
disruption in supply and demand.”  Both the Nikkei and the Topix index fell last week the most
since August 2010, as markets worldwide sank amid concern
instability in the Middle East and North  Africa  will drive oil
prices higher.  Exporters Gain  Toyota advanced 1.7 percent to 3,820 yen, while Sony gained
0.9 percent to 2,993 yen. Pioneer Corp., a maker of car-
navigation and audio equipment that gets about half of its
revenue abroad, jumped 4.5 percent to 439 yen. Fanuc Corp.,
Japan’s largest maker of factory robots, increased 3.8 percent
to 12,680 yen.  Markets across  Asia  rebounded from earlier declines
following a report in the Wall Street Journal that Libyan rebels
allowed oil shipments to resume from territory under their
control. Crude production in the country, Africa’s third-largest
producer, may have been cut by as much as two-thirds during the
conflict that escalated last week between Leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
and demonstrators calling for his ouster, according to  Barclays
Capital .  Oil Speculation  There is speculation that “production is back up again in
Libya,” said Diane Lin, a Sydney-based  fund manager  at Pengana
Capital Ltd. “Everyone has been worried about the oil prices
and about inflation in emerging economies.”  Mizuho Securities jumped 12 percent to 251 yen, while
Mizuho Financial increased 1.8 percent to 168 yen and Mizuho
Trust & Banking Co. advanced 6 percent to 89 yen. The three
companies, majority owned by Mizuho Financial Group Inc., gained
after a report the parent company is in talks to make them
wholly owned subsidiaries.  Nippon Sheet climbed 3.1 percent to 234 yen after Deutsche
Bank raised its rating on the stock to “buy” from “hold.”  The Topix has risen 5.8 percent this year, the first
January-February increase since 2007, as companies reported
improved earnings. Shares trade at 15.9 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13.7 times on the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index
and 11.3 times on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 