-- 
Johnson & Johnson Sued Over Defective Hip-Replacement Device in Australia

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-02-28T00:37:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/johnson-johnson-sued-by-australian-teacher-over-hip-replacement-device.html
  Johnson & Johnson  was sued by a
Tasmanian high school teacher over an implanted hip-replacement
device that the drugmaker stopped selling in Australia in
December 2009 after reports of defects surfaced.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , and its DePuy
International unit broke Australia’s trade law by selling an
unfit product and were negligent, according to the lawsuit filed
in Sydney Federal Court today by  Maurice Blackburn Lawyers .  More than 5,000 Australians had the metal-on-metal
prosthetic hips implanted between 2003 and 2009, according to
the  Australian Orthopaedic Association’s National Joint
Replacement Registry . The Australian suit follows similar
litigation in the U.S., where J&J was sued in September on
behalf of 93,000 patients. DePuy generated more than $5.4
billion in sales last year, according to U.S. court filings.  “A vast number of people are affected by these faulty
implants in  Australia  and internationally,” Ben Slade, a
principal at  Maurice Blackburn , said in a statement. “These
faulty implants can impact in a range of ways including economic
loss and the costs of careers.”  Johnson & Johnson didn’t immediately respond to a request
from comment.  Tammy Stanford, 40, of Hobart, Tasmania, received a left
hip replacement in 2005, according to the lawsuit. Last year her
doctor recommended revision surgery after she developed “ever-
worsening symptoms.” Following surgery in January, doctors
found Stanford’s hip joint was inflamed and tissue and the bone
had degenerated, according to the lawsuit.  Pain Relief  The mother of two hasn’t been able to return to work at
school and is on crutches and pain-relief medication, the
lawyers said.  J&J and Warsaw, Indiana-based DePuy said they recalled the
devices, known as the ASR XL Acetabular and the ASR Hip
Resurfacing systems, after researchers found many patients
needed “revision surgery” after five years because of design
defects.  The resurfacing system substitutes a metal device for the
ball of a human hip while the Acetabular version helps address
pelvic problems.  Researchers in the U.K. found recently that after five
years, 13 percent of patients with complete hip replacements and
12 percent with resurfacing devices needed a second operation,
known as a revision, J&J officials said in a  statement 
announcing the U.S. recall.  Other medical-device makers have faced costly product-
liability cases in the U.S. in the past over hip-replacement
systems.  $1 Billion Settlement    Sulzer AG  agreed in 2001 to a $1 billion settlement of
suits alleging hip and knee implants made by its former Sulzer
Medica unit were defective. Sulzer, the world’s second-largest
maker of pumps, is based in Winterthur,  Switzerland .  The unit, based in Austin,  Texas , began recalling hip
implants in January 2001, saying they could loosen. Of the
31,000 patients who received the implants, more than 2,700 have
had them replaced. More than 560 had knee implants replaced.  J&J and DePuy also face similar suits in U.S. state court
in  Los Angeles  and federal court in New Jersey, according to
court filings.  “I don’t want to suffer in silence on this,” Stanford,
the Tasmanian school teacher, said in a statement. “I feel like
I have been a guinea pig for this company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at  