-- 
JPMorgan Chase May Face Enforcement Action, Added Costs in Mortgage Probe

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-01T00:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/jpmorgan-says-it-may-face-enforcement-fines-in-mortgage-servicing-probes.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., the second-
largest U.S. bank by assets, may face enforcement actions, fines
and other added costs stemming from probes of its mortgage-
servicing procedures.  “The firm expects to incur additional costs and expenses
in connection with its efforts to correct and enhance its
mortgage foreclosure procedures,” the New York-based company
said in its annual filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission yesterday. JPMorgan said it can’t predict the outcome
of the federal and state investigations or the financial impact.    Bank of America Corp . and  Wells Fargo & Co ., the largest
and third-largest U.S. banks by assets, said in separate filings
last week they may face fines or enforcement actions from state
and federal law enforcement agencies tied to their foreclosure
practices. The probes may also lead to “significant legal
costs,”  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America said.
Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, said in its filing that
penalties are likely.  JPMorgan and its subsidiaries are defending themselves in
more than 10,000 legal proceedings, including government
investigations and civil litigation, the company said. It added
$7.4 billion to its litigation reserves in 2010, up from $161
million in 2009. The bank reduced its legal reserves by $781
million the year before.  Possible Tally  JPMorgan said it’s “reasonably possible” that legal
proceedings may cause as much as $4.5 billion in additional
losses that aren’t covered by its litigation reserves, which
were not fully disclosed. Such losses may be as low as zero, it
said.  The bank may incur as much as $2 billion in losses beyond
accruals to cover demands that it repurchase faulty mortgages,
such as loans sold to government-sponsored enterprises  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac . Such losses may also be as low as zero,
JPMorgan said. The estimate is contingent on a further decline
in  home prices .  JPMorgan said its cost of repurchasing mortgage loans sold
to the government-sponsored enterprises increased substantially
last year, “and there is no assurance that such costs could not
continue to increase substantially in the future.” JPMorgan’s
repurchase liability to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or private
companies may “materially and adversely” affect the bank’s
future earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  