-- 
JPMorgan Is Said to Pick Stewart to Run Proprietary Trading Ahead of Curbs

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-02-28T15:03:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/jpmorgan-is-said-to-pick-stewart-to-run-proprietary-trading-ahead-of-curbs.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co . picked Mike Stewart to head a proprietary trading unit the firm is moving
from its investment bank ahead of U.S. restrictions on making
bets for its own account, a person briefed on the decision said.  The bank may seed the group with as much as $2 billion,
Financial News reported earlier, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the situation. While plans aren’t final, the team
may start a core fund that invests mainly in emerging markets,
credit and equities, the newspaper reported.  Congress passed restrictions known as the Volcker rule last
year, limiting risk-taking by lenders to prevent a recurrence of
the credit crisis. Proprietary traders make trades on behalf of
their firm, rather than clients. New York-based JPMorgan said in
September it planned to shift proprietary traders in emerging
markets, structured-credit and equity units to its asset
management division, with Stewart overseeing the move.  Stewart, co-head of the bank’s global emerging markets
business, will lead investments in that area, Financial News
said. Fahad Roumani, a managing director in credit proprietary
trading, will run credit, and Deepak Gulati, head of global
equity proprietary trading, will oversee equities, the newspaper
said.    Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t comment.  JPMorgan plans to close its desk for proprietary trading of
commodities, affecting fewer than 20 traders, to comply with the
new rule, a person briefed on the matter said in August.  Two Years to Comply  The Volcker rule, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act passed
last July, was named after former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who campaigned for limits on risk-taking by lenders
following the global financial crisis. The  Federal Reserve  said
this month that banks would generally have two years to comply
after the rule takes effect.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last year shut down an equity
proprietary trading group, Goldman Sachs Principal Strategies,
to comply with the rule. Morgan Stanley, the world’s top merger
adviser, said last month that it plans to break off its largest
proprietary-trading group, Process Driven Trading, as an
independent advisory firm by the end of 2012.  JPMorgan will try to raise money from outside investors for
the fund, according to the report by Financial News carried on
the Wall Street Journal’s website.  The company’s shares climbed 34 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
$47.02 as of 10 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock is up 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  