-- 
Kenya's Inflation Rate Increases for Fourth Consecutive Month in February

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-02-28T13:59:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/kenya-s-inflation-rate-increases-for-fourth-consecutive-month-in-february.html
Kenyan inflation accelerated for the
fourth consecutive month in February after fuel costs rose,
bringing a likely halt to a series of eight interest rate cuts
in a little more than two years.  The inflation rate climbed to 6.5 percent, the highest
since October 2009, from 5.4 percent the month earlier, the
Nairobi-based  Kenya National Bureau of Statistics  said in an e-
mailed statement today. Prices rose 1.3 percent in the month,
the statement said.  Rising inflation may prompt the central bank to leave the
key interest rate at 5.75 percent, the lowest since it was
introduced in June 2006, at its next meeting, following eight
reductions since December 2008 to spur economic growth. The
government’s inflation target is 5 percent.  “I would anticipate the central bank would pause at this
time because of the food inflation, and upheaval in energy
prices globally,” Robert Bunyi, managing director of Nairobi-
based Mavuno Capital, said by phone before the announcement.  Food and non-alcoholic beverages, which make up 36 percent
of the consumer price basket, climbed an annual 9.8 percent in
February, while transport including petrol and diesel costs
jumped 13 percent, the bureau said.  Food, Oil, Rain  The combination of surging global food prices and a  lack of
rainfall  in  Kenya  has pushed up inflation in a country which
derives about 25 percent of its gross domestic product from
agriculture.  East Africa, particularly Kenya and  Somalia , suffered
“extremely poor” rainfall in the short October to December
rainy season, raising the possibility of a food crisis, the
 Famine Early Warning Systems Network  said on Feb. 23. The United
Nations  World Food Programme  is seeking $226 million to purchase
food for about 2.1 million Kenyans.  Rising oil costs are also adding to pressure on inflation.
Kenyan regulators set the maximum retail price for regular
gasoline in Kenya’s capital, Nairobi, at 98.11 shillings ($1.19)
a liter on Feb. 15, up 1 percent from the month before.  Crude for April delivery gained as much as $2.08, or 2.1
percent, to $99.96 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  today. The price has risen from $84.99
on Feb. 16.  Kenyan policy makers usually convene to decide on interest
rates every two months. The bank held its last monetary policy
committee meeting on Jan. 27.  “Alarm bells are ringing in my head,”  Aly-Khan Satchu , an
independent financial analyst, said by phone from Nairobi today.
The central bank is “going to have to establish some inflation-
busting credentials or else the  bond market  is going to take a
buffeting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 