-- 
Kenyan Shilling Falls to Nine-Month Low Amid Demand for Dollars

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-02-28T09:42:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/kenyan-shilling-falls-to-nine-month-low-amid-demand-for-dollars.html
  Kenya ’s shilling depreciated to its
weakest level in almost nine months as demand for dollars by oil
importers and other domestic businesses outstripped supply.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy weakened as
much as 1 percent to trade at 82.60 per dollar, the lowest
intraday level since June 7, and traded 0.7 percent down at 82.4
by 12:24 p.m. in Nairobi from a close of 81.83 on Feb 25.  Oil gained for a second day in  New York  after turmoil that
has cut  Libya ’s output spread to Oman, raising concern Middle
East production may be disrupted further.  “The shilling has weakened due to high demand for dollars
by oil importers and businesses amidst tight liquidity in the
market following the participation of the central bank on
Thursday and Friday last week,” Dickson Magecha, a trader at
Nairobi-based Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Ltd., said in a
phone interview.  Last week, the central bank bought 4 million euros ($5.5
million) on Feb. 23 and 4 million pounds ($6.5 million) on Feb.
25 to bolster its reserves.  With limited inflows expected this week and demand for the
dollar expected to remain high as businesses settle their month-
end obligations, the shilling is expected to remain under
pressure in the coming days, Magecha said.  “The high demand for the dollars from businesses for their
monthly obligations and the possibility of the central bank
entering the market to bolster its reserves will put the local
unit under pressure with the possibility of crossing the 83
psychological level,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  