-- 
Knight Frank’s Dutta Says Mukherjee Left Out Some Home Buyers

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-02-28T11:25:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/knight-frank-s-dutta-says-mukherjee-left-out-some-home-buyers.html
Pranab Dutta, vice-chairman and
managing director at the Indian unit of Knight Frank LLP
comments on  India ’s budget.  India will cut the  budget deficit  to 4.6 percent of its
gross domestic product in the fiscal year ending in March 2012,
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in his annual budget
speech in parliament today. India will extend an interest rate
subsidy on housing loans, Mukherjee said.  “Despite being a positive budget, from a real estate
perspective, the urban middle-income housing consumers who have
been reeling under the pressure of spiraling prices seem to have
been left out of any meaningful benefit.  ‘‘The minimum alternate tax on Special Economic Zone
developers has been advanced by a year. This will increase the
skepticism in the minds of SEZ developers about the future tax
benefits of developing such zones. While it was to be
implemented under Direct Tax Code from 1st April 2012, the
advancement of this tax by one year will be a dampener.  ‘‘During the last one year, the prices of residential real
estate has increased by 10 percent to 20 percent across several
cities. The enhanced limit for interest subvention will ensure
continued benefit to the buyers of this particular segment.  ‘‘Increase in the priority sector lending limit is in line
with the increase in the property price. Priority sector tag to
home loan up to 2.5 million rupees will ensure credit flow at
relatively cheaper interest rate to this segment.  ‘‘Banks and financial institutions were reluctant to lend
to low-income groups and economically weaker sections on account
of poor repayment capability. However, the provision of a
Mortgage Guarantee Fund for housing loans to these segments will
provide the required safety cushion to financial institutions,
which provide home loans to them, resulting in higher fund flow
to this segment.  ‘‘The Rural Housing Fund allocation of 30 billion rupees
($663 million) will provide the much needed impetus for the
growth of housing in the rural centers.’’  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  