-- 
N.Z.'s GDP Growth May Slow to 0.3% This Year After Quake, Group Predicts

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-03-01T01:56:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/n-z-s-growth-may-slow-to-0-3-this-year-research-group-says.html
  New Zealand ’s economic growth may
almost stall this year, a research group predicted after the
government estimated earthquakes in Christchurch caused as much
as NZ$20 billion ($15 billion) in damage.  Gross domestic product may expand by 0.3 percent this year,
the  New Zealand Institute of Economic Research  said today. Prime
Minister John Key yesterday estimated the cost of the Feb. 22
temblor that devastated much of the city’s business district and
killed at least 154 people at as much as NZ$15 billion, triple
the cost of a Sept. 4 quake.  Slowing growth, deteriorating government finances and the
prospect of an interest-rate cut to bolster a recovery drove the  New Zealand dollar  down 1.3 percent last week. Christchurch, the
nation’s second-biggest city, and the surrounding province of
Canterbury contribute about 15 percent of the country’s economy.  “The financial and economic costs of the second earthquake
will be significant,” said  Shamubeel Eaqub , principal economist
at the Wellington-based institute. “Delays in rebuilding will
reduce GDP by 0.5 percent each quarter.”  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand’s next rate-setting meeting
is scheduled for March 10, and four of eight economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News predict the official cash rate will be lowered
from 3 percent. Investors see a 100 percent chance of a cut at
that meeting, according to a Credit Suisse AG index based on
swaps trading.  Downward Revision  New Zealand’s economic outlook for this year was revised
from a previous 2.3 percent forecast, Eaqub said in an e-mailed
statement. Not all the slowdown stems from the quake; the
economy was already weak from rising food and fuel prices, he
said.  Growth in the six months ending June 30 will be less than
the government forecast, Finance Minister Bill English said in a
statement yesterday.  “As growth slows, government tax revenue will be lower
than expected,” he said. The government also “will bear extra
costs to support Christchurch and rebuild the city and its
infrastructure.”  Central bank Governor Alan Bollard will cut the official
cash rate to 2.5 percent from 3 percent at his next review on
March 10 to support the economy, said Robin Clements,
Christchurch-based chief New Zealand economist at UBS AG.  Recovery Phase  “A stronger New Zealand economy will be crucial to the
recovery phase in Christchurch,” he said in an e-mailed note
yesterday. There is a risk of a GDP contraction in the first
quarter that could depress consumer and business confidence
later in the year, Clements said.  Buildings throughout Christchurch’s central business
district were destroyed by the magnitude 6.3 quake, while houses,  power lines  and water pipes were damaged. The province was
recovering from the September temblor that was magnitude 7,
which was centered farther away and claimed no lives.  About 755 buildings in the city center, or about a quarter
of the total, have been condemned, according to the  Christchurch
City Council  website. Rebuilding the city could take five to 10
years, the New Zealand Herald reported yesterday, citing an
interview with the prime minister.  Key yesterday announced a subsidy plan for businesses
unable to operate so they can keep paying wages to at least
42,000 workers for six weeks. The package is made up of two
parts, and will cost NZ$100 million to NZ$120 million, Key told
reporters.  Port Reopens  Lyttelton Port Co. near Christchurch, New Zealand’s largest
coal-exporting hub, yesterday resumed core services after
infrastructure was damaged. One ship berthed for fuel exchange
and two more are scheduled to arrive at the oil berth in the
next two days, the company  said  on its website. Two container
vessels unloaded, it said.  New Zealand was unlikely to introduce a separate levy to
help rebuild Christchurch because that might slow the economy,
Key said. It was likely that the Earthquake Commission levy, an
extra charge on house insurance, would double or triple, he said.  “We will pay for this by prioritizing our spending on
Canterbury and it may be the case that we take on a bit more
debt in the short term,” English told reporters today in
Wellington. “We will be endeavoring to deal with the impact of
the earthquake within reasonable bounds of the current levels of
foreign debt and government debt.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson in Sydney   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  