-- 
Libyan Rebels Win Backing of U.S., EU as Qaddafi Says `My People Love Me'

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-03-01T17:54:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/nations-back-libyan-rebels-as-qaddafi-says-my-people-love-me-.html
Libyan rebels braced for possible
renewed clashes with forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi , who
is attempting to regain control of major cities after the U.S.
and European nations began planning for a no-fly zone.  Armed rebels in Zawiyah, 28 miles (45 kilometers) west of
Tripoli, the capital, were stationed at the entrances to the
city after repelling an attack by pro-Qaddafi fighters
overnight, Ibrahim al-Hajj, a 58-year-old resident, said by
telephone. Many were armed with machine guns and rocket-
propelled grenades taken from weapons depots, said Belgassem al-
Zawee, a 50-year-old protester in the city.  “Thank God, they are ready,” al-Zawee said by telephone
from the city today. Forces loyal to Qaddafi retook control of
Libya’s western border with Tunisia yesterday before attacking
and failing to recapture Zawiyah and Misratah, a city 115 miles
east of the capital, according to the  Associated Press .  Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index plunged the most since
November 2008 on concern political unrest in the Middle East may
spread to the kingdom. Oman deployed armored vehicles in the
center of the city of Sohar after protests late yesterday while
Yemeni demonstrators again took to the streets of Sana‘a, the
capital, today to demand the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  Iranian Clashes  Iranian protesters clashed with security forces in Tehran,
Al Arabiya television reported.  Iran ’s Foreign Ministry said
issues relating to the country’s opposition are “internal
affairs,” without commenting on the opposition statements that
authorities have detained the main opposition leaders, Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi.  In  Libya , some army brigades had joined rebel forces in
Zawiyah, according to al-Hajj. “The Libyan army is the army of
the people, not the army of the dictator,’” he said. “We hope
that the brigades that are still hesitating would side with the
people and spare the bloodshed.”  “Libya is essentially split into two, an eastern and a
western part,” Mohammed Dangor,  South Africa ’s ambassador to
Libya, who left Tripoli on Feb. 27, told reporters in  Cape Town 
today. “The eastern part centers around Benghazi, the western
part centers around Tripoli. This is moving toward civil war,
that’s the danger.”  Support for Rebels  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  promised not to abandon
Libyan opposition groups in the face of attacks by Qaddafi’s
forces, stopping short of saying Britain will provide arms for
the rebels. Cameron said the Libyan people must not be left to
their fate, as were Kurdish rebels after the Gulf War in 1991
when they rose up against Saddam Hussein’s Iraqi regime with the
expectation of U.S. support that never materialized.  “We mustn’t let that happen in Libya,” Cameron told
reporters in  London  today.  The European Union yesterday imposed an arms embargo and
other sanctions, and the U.S. said it has frozen $30 billion in
Libyan assets. The U.S. said refugee-aid teams were sent to the
country’s borders with Egypt and  Tunisia  while American naval
and air units are being repositioned in the Mediterranean for
possible military or humanitarian operations.  All Options  “We are taking no options off the table so long as the
Libya government continues to turn its guns on its own people,”
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told the House Foreign
Affairs Committee today. Clinton met yesterday with ministers
from the EU and Russia in Geneva, and announced that the U.S.
had allocated $10 million for immediate humanitarian aid for
refugees.  Sybella Wilkes, a spokeswoman for the United Nations High
Commission for Refugees, said the situation facing refugees on
the Tunisian border had “reached a crisis point.”  “The area has reached absolute saturation,” Wilkes said
today by telephone. “It is absolutely packed with people. The
sanitary conditions are very poor.” UNHCR representatives in
the border area estimate that between 10,000 and 15,000 people
are waiting to cross from the Libyan side, she said.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  dropped 6.8 percent,
the biggest slump since November 2008, to close at 5,538.72 at
3:30 p.m. in  Riyadh . The measure fell for a 12th day, its
longest losing streak since 1998, and has entered a  bear market 
after dropping 20 percent from the high in 2010.  Oil Markets  Oil rose as authorities in Iran, the second-largest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
reportedly arrested opposition leaders to derail protests
scheduled today. Fighting in Libya may have shut as much as
850,000 barrels a day of output, according to the  International
Energy Agency .    Fitch Ratings  said it downgraded Libya’s long-term foreign
and local currency issuer default ratings to BB, or below
investment grade, from BBB. The ratings remain on rating watch
negative, Fitch said, which means further downgrades may occur.  Oil dropped yesterday after Saudi Arabia, the world’s
biggest producer, said it will compensate for lost Libyan
supplies. Libya, Iran and  Saudi Arabia  are all members of OPEC,
which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil.  Oil for April delivery rallied 1.6 percent to $98.47 a
barrel as of 11:38 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Yesterday, the contract slid to $96.97, the lowest settlement
since Feb. 22. Prices jumped 5.2 percent in February and have
risen 25 percent in the past year.  Asset Freeze  The UN Security Council voted 15-0 on Feb. 26 to freeze the
foreign assets of Qaddafi and four aides and to bar them from
traveling. The resolution also imposes an arms embargo on Libya
and calls for an immediate end to violence that it says “may
amount to crimes against humanity.”  Imposition of a no-fly zone, to keep Qaddafi’s forces from
conducting air strikes or flying in mercenaries, was part of
discussions between Clinton and European ministers in Geneva
yesterday, a State Department official said under rules that
don’t allow the use of names.  A no-fly zone over Libya “would be a military operation”
involving more than simply “telling people not to fly
airplanes,” the top U.S. commander in the Middle East said
today.  “You would have to remove the air defense capability in
order to establish the no-fly zone,” said Marine Corps General
James Mattis, whose command area doesn’t include Libya but does
include other parts of the region in turmoil. He was asked for
his opinion by the Senate Armed Services Committee during
testimony today.  A United Nations mandate would be required for any Western
military operation in Libya, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe
said during a parliamentary debate today.  ‘My People Love Me’  Qaddafi laughed at a suggestion he should quit and denied
using force against his people, ABC said in a news release.
Speaking to correspondents from ABC,  BBC  and the London-based
Sunday Times, he called the Libyan rebels in control of Benghazi
terrorists loyal to al-Qaeda and asserted ‘my people love me.’’  Qaddafi sounds “just frankly, delusional,” U.S.
Ambassador to the UN  Susan Rice  told reporters at the White
House yesterday, after Obama met with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon about Libya.  The UN estimates that more than 1,000 people have died in
the Libyan uprising and almost 100,000 have fled amid the
heaviest fighting in six weeks of regional unrest, which has
ousted Tunisian leader Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak.  Oman, Yemen, Bahrain  In Oman, two demonstrators were killed Feb. 27 and several
were wounded in clashes with security forces in the city of
Sohar. In Tunisia, where the regional turmoil began two months
ago, protests have flared up again, forcing interim Prime
Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi to resign after at least three
people were killed.  Tens of thousands of protesters gathered in Yemen’s
capital, Sana‘a, for a “Day of Rage,” voicing anger over the
deaths of demonstrators in the port city of Aden.  In Bahrain, where the minority Sunni monarchy is being
challenged by predominately Shiite protesters, the government
denied rumors that neighboring Saudi Arabia had sent tanks to
reinforce Bahrain’s armed forces.  “Tanks identified on Monday evening were Bahraini tanks
returning from Kuwait National Day celebrations, where military
from several Allied countries participated in an event
commemorating  Kuwait ’s liberation in 1991,” the country’s
Information Affairs Authority said in an e-mailed statement
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  