-- 
National Bank of Greece Chief Rules Out ‘Hostile’ Alpha Bank Bid

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-02-28T17:37:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/national-bank-of-greece-chief-rules-out-hostile-alpha-bank-bid.html
  National Bank of Greece SA , the
nation’s largest lender, ruled out a “hostile” bid for Alpha
Bank SA after being rejected by its smaller rival, saying the
goal was to build a stronger Greek banking system.  “We made a friendly offer because we are convinced that
only a friendly combination of forces can result in maximizing
the benefits of the synergies in such an agreement,” Chief
Executive Officer Apostolos Tamvakakis said in an e-mailed
transcript of a speech he gave in  Athens  today. “And that is
the main issue here -- hostile moves don’t suit us nor do they
deliver, and for that reason we reject them.”  The board of Alpha,  Greece ’s third-biggest bank, voted
unanimously on Feb. 18 to spurn National Bank’s unsolicited 2.6
billion-euro ($3.6 billion) takeover offer of 8 new shares for
11 existing Alpha shares. The government is pushing the
country’s banks to combine after their capital was depleted by
the sovereign debt crisis and mounting loan losses. Moody’s
Investors Service said today National may submit a more
“hostile” or revised bid for Alpha.  “NBG continues to promote the merger proposal with the
market and investors, which in our view suggests that NBG is
either pursuing a hostile public offer for Alpha Bank or that it
will propose a revised bid,”  Moody’s  said in an e-mailed note.  Tamvakakis said National believes Greek banks could take
initiatives and carve out their own fate amid the country’s debt
crisis, which has forced lenders to rely on funding from the  European Central Bank  for liquidity as soaring borrowing costs
forced the government to seek a 110 billion-euro bailout in May
to avoid a default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net .
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  