-- 
New Zealand Quake Damages May Cost as Much as $15.1 Billion

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-02-28T07:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/new-zealand-quake-damages-may-cost-as-much-as-15-1-billion.html
Repairs to the southern  New Zealand 
city of Christchurch after two earthquakes within the past six
months may cost as much as NZ$20 billion ($15.1 billion), Prime
Minister John Key said.  Last week’s temblor could cost as much as NZ$15 billion --
the higher end of a preliminary range provided by the Treasury
Department -- while a quake that struck the city on Sept. 4 will
cost an estimated NZ$5 billion, Key said.  New Zealand’s economic growth will be lower than the
government forecast in the first half of 2011 because of the
magnitude 6.3 earthquake that struck the city on Feb. 22,
Finance Minister Bill English said in an e-mailed statement
today. Tax revenue will also be less than previously predicted,
he said.  “The earthquake has clearly dealt a considerable human and
economic blow to Canterbury, and this will have a significant
impact on the government’s finances and the wider New Zealand
economy,” English said in the statement. “Its effects will be
felt for some years to come.”  Businesses in Christchurch’s central business district were
destroyed and at least 148 people killed. Key today announced a
subsidy plan for companies unable to operate so they can keep
paying wages to as many as 42,000 workers for six weeks.  The two-part package will cost NZ$100 million to NZ$120
million, Key said. The first portion allows employers to pay
wages, and the second component will support workers whose
employers view their business as no longer viable.  ‘Generosity’  “These payments made under the earthquake job cover are
universal” and are “available immediately,” Key said. “It is
my expectation we will err on the side of generosity.”  Multinational businesses, national chains, businesses with
insurance coverage, and central and local governments are
eligible for the aid, Key said.  The employer subsidy will pay full-time workers NZ$500 per
week and part-time workers NZ$300 per week, Key said. The job
loss cover will pay full-time employees NZ$400 per week and
part-time employees NZ$240 per week.  New Zealand was unlikely to introduce a separate levy to
help rebuild Christchurch, as that could slow the economy, Key
said. It was likely that the Earthquake Commission levy, an
extra charge on house insurance, would double or triple, he
said.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand’s next rate-setting meeting
is scheduled for March 10, and four of eight economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News predict the official cash rate will be lowered
from 3 percent. Last week, RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard said the
central bank is “ready and able to supply any cash required by
banks.”  Condemned Buildings  About 755 buildings in the city center, or about a quarter
of the total, have been condemned, according to the  Christchurch
City Council  website. Rebuilding the city could take five to 10
years, the New Zealand Herald reported today, citing an
interview with Key.  The  names  of eight victims have so far been released. All
are local residents and range in age from 5 months to 46 years,
according to  police .  About 180,000 metric tons of silt covers Christchurch’s
streets, six times the amount that seeped through after
September’s earthquake, Christchurch Mayor  Bob Parker  told
reporters today. As much as 90 percent will be cleared by the
end of the week, he said.  Pioneer Stadium has been opened for the public to have
showers, according to  Civil Defence . About 35 percent of
Christchurch remains without water and residents are advised to
boil water, Parker said today.  More Evacuations  Properties around Redcliffs, in Christchurch’s east, were
evacuated this morning because of concerns about the stability
of the rock face and hills behind the suburb, Civil Defence
Director John Hamilton told reporters today. Some roads in the
nearby suburb of Sumner remain closed while the rock face is
assessed, according to the Civil Defence website.  Lyttelton Port of Christchurch, New Zealand’s largest coal-
exporting hub, today resumed core services after infrastructure
was damaged. One ship berthed for fuel exchange and two more are
scheduled to arrive at the oil berth in the next two days, the
company  said  on its website. Two container vessels unloaded
today, it said.  Key has asked New Zealanders to observe two minutes of
silence tomorrow to remember victims of the earthquake.  “I am calling on all New Zealanders to stop and remember
those who have lost their lives, those who are missing and the
hundreds of people who are mourning family and friends,” Key
said on his website. The observance will begin March 1 at 12:51
p.m., one week since the earthquake struck.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  