-- 
New Zealand Pauses to Remember Quake Victims as Death Toll Climbs to 155

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-03-01T04:56:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/new-zealand-pauses-to-remember-quake-victims-as-death-toll-climbs-to-154.html
  New Zealand  paused for two minutes
to remember more than 150 people killed when the southern city
of Christchurch was struck a week ago by the nation’s deadliest
earthquake in 80 years.  Prime Minister John Key asked the country to observe the
silence at 12:51 p.m. local time, the moment a 6.3-magnitude
earthquake struck the South Island city on Feb. 22. The death
toll has reached 155 and is expected to rise further, according
to New Zealand police. More than 240 people are missing, which
may include all of the confirmed fatalities, the statement said.  The earthquake was the second to hit Christchurch within
six months after a 7.0-magnitude temblor struck on Sept. 4.
Repairs to the city may cost as much as NZ$20 billion ($15
billion) after both disasters, Key told reporters yesterday. The
country’s economic growth will be lower than forecast as a
result, Finance Minister Bill English said yesterday in a
statement.  “This is really important,” said Christchurch-born
Gabrielle Herrick, after stopping to observe the silence on a
street corner opposite the  Merivale Mall , minutes from the city
center. “This mall is the hub of the community. People are very
loyal to this place.”  A Nation Pauses  The shopping center is located on Papanui Road, where
people came to gather at 12:51 p.m. meters away from the
collapsed façade of the local  Quinns  womens department store.
Staff from a delicatessen stopped giving away barbecued sausages
and workers from Westpac Banking Corp. formed a semicircle on
the footpath further down the street.  Two parents and their son paused with a pet Labrador, while
some couples hugged each other. Taxi driver  David Paterson  stood
outside his car, in exactly the same spot he was in when the
quake struck a week ago. Cars stopped or slowed and silence
enveloped the street, normally one of Christchurch’s busiest.  On  Lambton Quay , the main shopping street in Wellington’s
central business district, activity ground to a halt. Hundreds
of business workers gathered outside nearby office buildings in
the nation’s capital city and lunchtime shoppers walked out of
stores to join them, standing and reflecting in silence. Five
buses pulled over for two minutes and cars stopped.    Australia ’s House of Representatives met for a special
sitting, according to a government statement. The lower house
said it would observe the two minutes of silence before
suspending until its normal meeting time of 2 p.m. local time.  Growth May Stall  New Zealand’s economic growth may almost stall this year,
partly as a result of the earthquake, the  New Zealand Institute
of Economic Research  said today. Christchurch, the nation’s
second-biggest city, and the surrounding province of Canterbury
contribute about 15 percent of the economy.  About 755 buildings in the city center, or about a quarter
of the total, have been condemned, according to the  Christchurch
City Council  website. Rebuilding could take five to 10 years,
the New Zealand Herald reported yesterday, citing an interview
with Key.  More than 900 search and rescue personnel from 12 countries
are combing through the rubble of Christchurch’s office and
heritage buildings, including teams from Australia, Japan,  China ,  Singapore ,  Taiwan , the U.S. and the U.K., according to an
e-mailed statement from Foreign Minister Murray McCully.
Australia has also provided 323 police officers.  Victims Identified  On streets north of the central business district today,
workers wearing face masks repaired holes in the road as diggers
scraped up piles of silt. Two postal workers cycled by in the
hot, dusty conditions, also wearing masks as mail deliveries
resume in the least-affected suburbs.  The  names  of eight victims have so far been released. All
are local residents and range in age from 5 months to 46 years,
according to  police . More than 170 people are involved in
identifying victims, including teams from Australia, Thailand
and  Israel , according to Civil Defense.  “The earthquake has clearly dealt a considerable human and
economic blow to Canterbury, and this will have a significant
impact on the government’s finances and the wider New Zealand
economy,” English said yesterday. “Its effects will be felt
for some years to come.”  Offices in Christchurch’s central business district were
destroyed by the disaster. Key yesterday announced a subsidy
plan for companies unable to operate so they can keep paying
wages to as many as 42,000 workers for six weeks.  Worker Support  The two-part package will cost NZ$100 million to NZ$120
million, Key said. The first portion allows employers to pay
wages, and the second component will support workers whose
employers view their business as no longer viable.  New Zealand was unlikely to introduce a levy to help
rebuild Christchurch, as that could slow the economy, Key said.
It was likely that the  Earthquake Commission  levy, an extra
charge on house insurance, would double or triple, he said.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand’s next rate-setting meeting
is scheduled for March 10. Four of eight economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predict the official cash rate will be lowered
from 3 percent. Last week, RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard said the
central bank is “ready and able to supply any cash required by
banks.”  The death toll from the quake is the worst since the Napier
earthquake in 1931 killed 256.  To contact the reporters on this story: Chris Bourke in
Wellington at   cbourke4@bloomberg.net ; Tracy
Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  