-- 
NFL’s Wage Fixes May Give Us Not-So-Super Bowl: Kevin Hassett

-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 
2011-02-28T00:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/nfl-s-wage-fix-may-give-us-not-so-super-bowl-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
Over the past few decades, economics
has been the chief driver of success in the  National Football
League . Teams that best understood the limits and opportunities
of the salary cap enjoyed an advantage on the field. You could
call it the Age of the Nerd.  When a new collective bargaining agreement is finally
reached, that age seems certain to end. The NFL is about to
undergo its most significant change since overall team salaries
were capped in 1994.  Even while players are running the 40-yard dash tomorrow at
the NFL’s annual draft combine, representatives of team owners
and the NFL Players Association will resume meeting with a
federal mediator on a new collective-bargaining agreement.  The most important piece of the new agreement in terms of
the league’s future may be the restructuring of  first-year
wages . The old scale turned NFL management into a contest of
applied economics. The few teams that got the economics right --
the New England Patriots and Pittsburgh Steelers among them --
have excelled for years. Teams struggling with the concept --the  Washington Redskins  come to mind -- likewise struggled on the
field.  Economists Cade Massey of  Yale University  and Richard Thaler of the  University of Chicago  analyzed the economics of
the NFL draft in a seminal paper that I have written about
before. Since the NFL salary cap means all teams have roughly
the same amount to spend, a winning team must get production
from its entire roster, not just from a few highly paid stars.
The teams that win do so because they get surplus value from
their players -- that is, performance above salary.  Risky Picks  Under the old system, the way to get surplus value was
through the draft. This was because the rookie wage scale was
structured to throw tremendous riches at the unproven players at
the top of the draft and relatively little money to those picked
later. So the top picks each year, while coveted for their
strength, speed and talent, were bad risks from an economics
standpoint. Even if  Sam Bradford , last year’s first overall
pick, becomes a star, it’s unlikely that he would exceed the
value of the six-year, $78 million contract he signed with the  St. Louis Rams .  By contrast, later picks -- especially those late in the
first round, and throughout the second round -- were paid little
enough to be high in surplus value. The few teams that
understood this regularly outperformed the others by piling up
these high-value picks. The Patriots, to choose one example,
wheeled and dealed so that they would have  three second-round
picks  in 2010. Then they went out and posted a 14-2 regular-
season record.  Understanding Economics  In the old world, it wasn’t that the better teams
identified potential superstars better than the losers did. They
just understood the economics better.  This point is easy to demonstrate using  NFL draft  data from
1970 through 2010, with selection to the  Pro Bowl  -- football’s
all-star game -- as the gauge of excellence.  The first pick is substantially more likely to make a Pro
Bowl than the 10th, the 10th substantially more likely than the
20th, 30th or 47th. Fully 56 percent of first picks have gone to
the Pro Bowl during their careers, versus 46 percent of the 10th
picks, 34 percent of the 20th picks, 26 percent of the 30th
picks and 5 percent of the 47th picks.  What teams don’t all seem to understand is that when you
consider salary and excellence together, the most valuable picks
of all are at the end of the first round -- exactly where the
very best teams are assigned their place in line. The worst
teams, meantime, have to pay huge salaries to sign each draft’s
top picks. Massey and Thaler refer to the first overall pick --
ostensibly a huge opportunity bestowed on the team most in need
of help -- as “ the loser’s curse .”  Rational on Rookies  That may change this year.  The new collective bargaining agreement will likely include
a rookie wage scale in line with the lessons of the Massey-
Thaler research. This could have dramatic implications for the
NFL, not to mention sending a whole squad of football-loving
nerds in search of new jobs.  If the new pay structure is more rational, as it seems sure
to be, surplus value will become more difficult to find anywhere
in the draft. Teams seeking value won’t find it in unsigned
veterans either, since a free agent’s salary is set in the
market and therefore should be about equal to his expected
production.  Evenly Matched  In this new world, NFL teams should become much more evenly
matched. Imagine an automobile race with all drivers in
identical cars. The only way to win consistently will be to
regularly get more out of your players.  A great coach may be able to do that -- where’s Vince Lombardi when we need him? -- but since most players deserve the
title “professional,” it seems unlikely that sideline
leadership can provide much enduring advantage. In that case, we
might expect fewer dominant teams and fewer awful ones, with
more teams clustered right around .500, at least when viewed
over a period of many years.  Get ready for the Not-So-Super Bowl.    Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the  American Enterprise Institute , is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  