-- 
NFL Can Pay Debts for One Year in Work Stoppage Instead of Two, S&P Says

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   M i c h a e l   S i l l u p
-- 
2011-03-02T22:37:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/nfl-can-pay-debt-on-stadiums-through-two-year-work-stoppage-s-p-says.html
National Football League teams can
make debt payments on stadiums for as long as one year, not two,
during a work stoppage,  Standard & Poor’s  said, revising a two-
day-old report.  The rating agency changed its opinion after a court ruled
yesterday that the league improperly negotiated television
contracts to provide $4 billion in revenue during a lockout.  The NFL, the U.S.’s most-watched television sport, has
enough money to pay its debts for one year if there are no games
played in the 2011 season, S&P said in a revised report on the
possible credit effects of a lockout. The potential loss of the
TV money convinced S&P to make the change from two years as
listed on Feb. 28, the report said.  “Based on the NFL’s past history with work stoppages and
available stadium resources, and assuming the ruling stands and
revenues from TV contracts are not accessible, we believe that
each project has sufficient resources to fund its fixed
obligations for up to one year if there are no games played in
the 2011 season,” S&P analyst Jodi Hecht wrote in the latest
report.  U.S. District Judge David Doty in  Minneapolis  yesterday
upheld a complaint from the players’ union, overruling an
earlier decision by a special master, or arbitrator. Doty, who
has overseen the NFL labor contract since 1993, ordered a
hearing to consider the award of money damages and equitable
relief to the players.  The union asked to have the $4 billion placed in an escrow
account in the event of a lockout.  Stadium Costs  NFL owners voted in 2008 to end the league’s labor contract
with players this week, saying it didn’t account for costs such
as those of building stadiums. Along with what share of revenue
players should get, talks have included topics such as expanding
the regular season to 18 games from 16, a rookie salary cap and
health care. The two sides met for seven straight days beginning
Feb. 18, and George H. Cohen, director of the Federal Mediation
& Conciliation Service, said on Feb. 24 that “strong
differences” on basic issues remained between the two sides.  Negotiations also have been held the past two days in  Washington , with Cohen present. League owners are meeting in
Chantilly,  Virginia , outside the nation’s capital, to decide if
they will lock out players when the collective bargaining
agreement expires at 11:59:59 p.m.  New York  time tomorrow.  Owners want to set aside about $1 billion from the league’s
$9 billion in revenue for expenses before paying players,
according to the union. The league and players already deduct
about $1 billion before calculating player payroll for some
costs related to stadiums, marketing, NFL.com and the NFL
Network, according to  DeMaurice Smith , executive director of the
 NFL Players Association .  Record Revenue  Smith has said owners are preparing to lock out players
when the deal expires. He says players haven’t seen financial
information demonstrating the need for a new deal, after a
season in which the NFL set revenue and television audience
records.  The NFL’s work stoppages have historically been shorter
and less contentious than those in other sports leagues, Hecht
wrote in the Feb. 28 report. The league’s most-recent work
stoppage was 24 years ago and its longest was a 1982 strike that
lasted 57 days. Unlike the  National Hockey League  in 2004 and
2005, the NFL has never lost an entire season, and unlike  Major
League Baseball  in 1994, it’s never canceled its championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 