-- 
Noble Group Seeks More Mongolia Coal Deals to Add to Rising Energy Profit

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-01T02:02:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/noble-group-seeks-more-mongolia-coal-deals-to-add-to-rising-energy-profit.html
  Noble Group Ltd , the Hong Kong-based
supplier of energy, food and mining commodities, sees  Mongolia 
as its next opportunity to expand in coal and build on its
record 2010 profits.  “We have staff looking at several opportunities” in
Mongolia, especially in exploration companies, Chief Executive
Officer Ricardo Leiman said on a conference call yesterday.
“Mongolia will be an area specifically for quarter two. We look
at developing a similar model there to what we have in Indonesia
and  Australia .”  Noble won exclusive overseas marketing rights for PT Berau
Coal, Indonesia’s No. 5 producer, in November, adding to its
Australian assets, which include  Gloucester Coal Ltd . The Berau
deal will “contribute nicely” to 2011 earnings, Leiman said
after his company posted record annual net income of $606
million from $57 billion in sales.    Aspire Mining Ltd ., which explores for coal in Mongolia,
said Jan. 17 that Noble bought 4.1 percent of its shares and is
in preliminary talks on how the two can cooperate. Xanadu Mines
Ltd., which plans to develop coal and iron ore fields in
Mongolia, said Feb .3 it has struck an alliance with Noble. The
company has an office in Mongolia and ships coal from the region,
Leiman said.  Noble climbed 6.3 percent to S$2.18 at 9:57 a.m. in
Singapore trading for its biggest gain in more than five months.
The company led gains in commodity suppliers in the city-state,
with  Olam International Ltd . gaining 1.4 percent and Golden Agri
Resources Ltd., the world’s second-largest palm oil planter,
adding 3.9 percent  ‘Well Positioned’  Noble completed 28 deals worth $3.37 billion since January
2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as the company
transforms the business from trading to buying and running some
energy and food producing assets. Founded by billionaire Richard Elman, a former Southeast Asia chief at 110-year-old commodities
trader Phibro, Noble counts  China ’s sovereign fund among
shareholders.  Noble is “well positioned to leverage its supply chain to
expand our business further,” Leiman said.  Commodity prices have jumped as adverse global weather,
from droughts in  Russia  to floods in Pakistan, hurt wheat,
rubber, cotton and palm oil harvests, and disrupted the flow of
commodities including coal and  iron ore  over the past six months.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials rose
16 percent in the last three months of 2010, the fastest since
the second quarter of 2008.  Higher prices for its commodities, which include coffee,
cotton, grains, coal, iron ore, oil, and aluminum, helped Noble
to triple profit to $247.4 million in the three months ended Dec.
31, from $84.9 million a year earlier, the Singapore-listed
company said in a statement to the stock exchange yesterday.
Sales rose 82 percent to $17.4 billion.  Stock Price  Until today, the earnings and price gains hadn’t filtered
through into the stock. In the 12 months before today, Noble had
fallen 0.7 percent, compared with a 10 percent gain in Olam, and
double-digit growth of Japanese trading houses including  Marubeni Corp .,  Itochu Corp ., and  Sumitomo Corp .  “Noble didn’t show great profit growth despite all the
commodity price increases” in the first part of last year, said
James Koh, an analyst with brokerage  Kim Eng Holdings Ltd .
“They are spending a lot of money building assets which are not
quickly earnings accretive and their profits are also coming
from a very high base due to the great 2005 to 2008.”  Returns  Returns on Noble’s acquisitions will become apparent in 18
months, Leiman said. The company is “committed” to keeping its
investment grade credit rating and will evaluate asset purchases
and borrowings with this in mind, Chief Financial Officer Robert Van Der Zalm said on the conference call.  Noble gained control of Gloucester Coal in Australia’s New
South Wales state in 2009 and also owns Donaldson Coal, a miner
operating in the same region. The supplier’s energy business
accounted for 65 percent of revenue last year.  The unit’s earnings will grow in 2011 with help from newly
acquired assets, such as  Sempra Energy  Solutions, a power and
gas operator in the U.S., Van Der Zalm said. Rising energy and
agricultural commodity prices are not tempering demand in
emerging markets, Leiman said.  Noble will decide on paying dividends in “the next few
months,” Leiman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  