-- 
Northam May Need Smaller Loan for Booysendal Mine After Mvelaphanda Accord

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-02-28T16:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/northam-platinum-may-need-a-smaller-bond-credit-facility-for-booysendal.html
  Northam Platinum Ltd ., operator of
the world’s deepest platinum mine, may need to borrow less than
forecast to build its South African Booysendal project, after a
deal with its largest holder gave it access to additional funds.    Mvelaphanda Resources Ltd ., which owns 50.3 percent of the
company, said Feb. 8 it will distribute Northam shares to its
investors. Northam may then buy Mvelaphanda, accessing 650
million rand ($94 million) in cash that Mvelaphanda is expected
to hold, according to a statement from the companies.  “The market is changing and we’ve done this deal on
Mvelaphanda,” Ayanda Khumalo, finance director at Johannesburg-
based Northam, said today by telephone. “That might affect the
size at which we go into the market.”  Northam plans to develop the 3.6 billion-rand Booysendal
venture as its Zondereinde mine gets deeper, raising the cost
and risk of extracting minerals. The company said Aug. 20 it may
sell its first bond, a 2 billion-rand convertible note, in early
2011 and seek a 500 million-rand revolving credit facility to
help fund Booysendal. Platinum has since gained a fifth in value
to trade at $1,807.25 an ounce in  London .  Peak Funding  While Northam is still considering a convertible bond or a
revolving credit facility or both, it may now seek funding only
after the Mvelaphanda deal closes, Khumalo said. Peak funding
for Booysendal is expected in 2012, the company said today in a
statement, adding that it will spend 747 million rand in the
2011 financial year and will fund that from its own resources.  Northam rose 0.2 percent to 49.50 rand at the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg, valuing the company at 17.9 billion rand.  The Booysendal mine, forecast to produce 162,000 ounces of
platinum group metals, is located in the world’s richest
platinum reserves in the north of  South Africa . Zondereinde is
currently Northam’s only operating mine.  Northam’s U.S. shareholder base has doubled over the past
year or so, and the company may start trading American
depositary receipts around April, Khumalo said.  The company today reported a 65 percent slump in fiscal
first-half earnings, saying net income dropped to 76 million
rand as a pay strike halted production for six weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  