-- 
Nokia, Vodafone Drive Europe Telecom Loans to Four-Year High

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-02-28T09:18:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/loans-to-europe-telecoms-companies-reach-four-year-high-on-nokia-vodafone.html
  Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, and  Vodafone Group Plc , the biggest cell phone
operator, are driving loan volumes to European
telecommunications and media to the highest since 2007.  Nokia and Vodafone are seeking $6 billion of credit lines
after their peers raised $17.6 billion this year, the most since
2007 when $34.5 billion was done in Europe, Middle East and  Africa , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The industry
accounts for almost a third of the loan market this year, the
highest since 2002, according to Bloomberg data.  Nokia and Vodafone and  France Telecom SA  joined high-grade
companies such as  Sweden ’s state-owned utility Vattenfall AB and
its Norwegian peer Statkraft AS in taking advantage of falling
borrowing costs to raise loans this year for refinancing or
expansion. The average interest margin banks charge European
investment-grade borrowers for loans in the past six months have
fallen 55 percent to 71 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  “Telecom companies are obviously very interesting
borrowers with their international, diversified footprints and
strategic expansion,” said Stuart Fidler, a managing director
of European loan syndication at Societe Generale SA. “These
companies are the bread and butter for banks and therefore they
have been able to leverage the solid relationships for very
competitive terms.”  Spectrum Auctions  Vodafone and  France Telecom  may each spend 1.5 billion
euros to 2.5 billion euros ($3.5 billion) this year on spectrum
auctions in Europe while Stockholm-based  TeliaSonera AB  may
spend between 500 million euros and 1 billion euros on the bids,
according to a CreditSights Inc.  research report  last month. The
auctions in western Europe could cost as much as 20 billion
euros in the next two years, the report shows.  With European economic growth predicted to be hamstrung by
government austerity measures, key drivers for phone companies’
growth will be their presence in emerging markets, CreditSights
analysts said in the report.  More telecommunications companies may seek assets for 5
billion euros or less this year, with Paris-based France Telecom
and TeliaSonera the most likely candidates to spend on
acquisitions or significantly increase their capital
expenditure, according to CreditSights.  Vodafone is seeking a $4 billion five-year revolving credit
that can be extended by another year to replace a facility
maturing next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Newbury, England-based company is offering to pay initial
interest of 40 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate to draw the funds, down from 60 basis points it
agreed for a  credit line  signed last year, Bloomberg data show.  Nokia Loan Pricing  Espoo, Finland-based Nokia also plans to pay an initial
interest margin of 40 basis points for a 1.5 billion-euro credit
line that will renew a transaction due in 2012, according to
Bloomberg data. Standard & Poor’s rates Nokia’s debt A. Moody’s
Investors Service grades it A2.  Fitch Ratings  ranks it BBB+.  The pricing is in line with similarly-rated France
Telecom’s 6 billion-euro five-year revolving credit concluded
last month, which served to extend the maturity of its main
existing undrawn facility, the data show.  “Most of these credit lines are not expected to be drawn
and the reality of life is that banks prefer lending to
companies which have diversified funding avenues so they don’t
tend to draw bank debt as part of their permanent funding,”
London-based Fidler said. “Pricing seems to have stabilized at
the moment, though some top-rated names may still be able to
marginally undercut the interest margins for their loans from
previous deals.”  Investment-grade borrowers in  Europe  raised $28 billion of
syndicated loans this year, up 80 percent from the same period
of 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  