-- 
Obama Endorses Plan to Let States Opt Out of U.S. Health-Care Overhaul Law

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-02-28T18:10:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/obama-endorses-plan-to-let-states-opt-out-of-u-s-health-care-overhaul-law.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he
supports a plan to let states opt out of the health-care law to
set up their own systems starting in 2014 that provide benefits
and coverage equivalent to federal law.  Obama, speaking today at the White House to the nation’s
governors, said states can apply for waivers under the law to
try their own hands at meeting the goals of the overhaul he
pushed through Congress. The law has a provision that lets
states set up their own programs in 2017.  “It will give you more flexibility more quickly, while
still guaranteeing the American people reform,” Obama said. “I
will go to bat for whatever works, no matter who or where it
comes from,” he said.  The  idea  has been pushed by Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon
Democrat, as well as Massachusetts Republican Senator Scott Brown and Louisiana Democratic Senator Mary Landrieu.  The administration, whose health effort has been managed by
Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  and White House Deputy Chief of Staff Nancy-Ann DeParle, has previously
waived requirements for 900 companies employing
2.4 million people mandating higher levels of insurance coverage
than the companies now provide.  Trimming Medicaid  They are also working with states to trim Medicaid programs
by eliminating benefits and removing higher-income,
childless recipients from the rolls. Medicaid is the federal-
state health-care program for the poor.  The health-care overhaul requires all Americans buy
insurance and is projected by the  Congressional Budget Office  to
expand coverage to 32 million in 2014. States that wanted to opt
out would have to prove that the coverage plans they offer are
at least as comprehensive as the federal version and as
affordable. The state efforts would have to cover as many people
without increasing the federal deficit.  Federal government approval of state plans opting out of
the law would be the biggest concession the administration has
granted to states so far in implementing overhaul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 