-- 
Obama Says Public Employees Shouldn't be `Vilified' as States Trim Budgets

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-02-28T22:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/obama-says-public-employees-shouldn-t-be-vilified-as-states-trim-budgets.html
President  Barack Obama  said public
employees shouldn’t be “vilified” or lose collective
bargaining rights as states seek to balance their budgets.  The president, speaking to a bipartisan group of the
nation’s governors at the White House, said that while everyone
will need “to give up something” to bring state and federal
spending into line, government workers shouldn’t have to bear
the entire burden.  The president didn’t specifically mention the battle in
Wisconsin between the state’s Republican governor,  Scott Walker ,
and unionized state workers that has sparked protests in
Madison.  Walker wants to let public workers bargain only over wages.
He also proposes to double their health-care premiums and would
require them to start paying part of their pension costs. The
minority Democrats in the state Senate have fled  Wisconsin  to
block passage of the legislation, and Walker today gave them an
ultimatum to return in 24 hours or risk costing the state $165
million in bond refinancing.  The fight is likely to spread to other states, including  Ohio , which will be a key battleground in the 2012 presidential
election. Unions are a prime Democratic Party constituency and
the workers in Wisconsin have gotten help from Obama’s political
organization and aligned political advocacy groups such as
MoveOn.org.  Obama earlier this month called Walker’s proposal an
“assault on unions.”  Walker’s Response  Walker stayed in Wisconsin and didn’t attend the three-day
conference of governors in Washington. His spokesman, Cullen
Werwie, issued a statement saying that Obama “simply
misunderstands the issues in Wisconsin.”  “I’m sure the president knows that most federal employees
do not have collective bargaining for wages and benefits while
our plan allows it for base pay,” Werwie said in the e-mailed
statement. “And I’m sure the president knows that the average
federal worker pays twice as much for health insurance as what
we are asking for in Wisconsin.”  He also said Walker’s administration has “repeatedly
praised” Wisconsin’s state workers.  Labor Allies  Obama’s message is tailored to his supporters.  “He’s got to speak up for public employee unions because
they are an important part of the base of the party,” said
Steve Elmendorf, a Democratic strategist and  lobbyist  in
Washington.  In Wisconsin, a state that also likely will be contested
when Obama seeks re-election in 2012, 14.2 percent of workers
 belonged  to a union in 2010, Bureau of Labor Statistics data
show. While Obama got 56 percent of the vote there in the 2008
election, Republicans won the governorship, took control of both
houses of the legislature and ousted three-term Democratic
Senator Russell Feingold in the 2010 election.  The conflicts grew out of financial pressure in the wake of
the 18-month recession, the longest since the 43-month Great
Depression in the 1930s. States are expected to have $175
billion less than they will need to pay their bills during the
next two years, according to the  National Governors Association .
Financial market losses and rising employee-care costs have also
meant less spending on programs such as public education.  ‘Shared Sacrifice’  In the meeting with governors at the White House today,
Obama said “most public servants agree” that everyone needs to
give something up. He called on states to invoke a practice of
“shared sacrifice” where “everyone should be at the table.”  “If all the pain is borne by only one group, whether it’s
workers or seniors or the poor, while the wealthiest among us
get to keep or get more tax breaks, we’re not doing the right
thing,” he said. “I don’t think it does anybody any good when
public employees are denigrated or vilified or their rights are
infringed upon.”  He said doing so will make it more difficult to attract the
best teachers for public schools or recruit firefighters and
police officers.  Obama also used his address to the governors to defend his
budget priorities. He said the federal government, like the
states, must get spending under control. Still, he said, that
shouldn’t be done by cutting spending for education, building
infrastructure or innovation.  The U.S. can’t “sacrifice our future” by trimming in
those areas because it will make the country less competitive in
the global economy, Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  