-- 
Oil Trades Near Highest in Two Years as Unrest Spreads to Oman

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-28T13:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/oil-rises-a-second-day-in-new-york-as-middle-east-turmoil-spreads-to-oman.html
Oil traded near a 29-month high in
New York after turmoil that cut  Libya ’s output spread to  Oman ,
raising concern Middle East production may be disrupted further.  Futures had the biggest weekly gain in two years last week
as hedge funds raised bullish oil bets amid estimates that
Libya’s crude flow was cut by as much as two-thirds. Protestors
in Oman were killed in clashes with police yesterday. The
turmoil has made crude prices more vulnerable to a “spike-and-
crash” scenario, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “The flash-fire is spreading,” said Thorbjoern Bak Jensen, an analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,  Denmark . “The situation in Oman creates speculation the unrest
will spread to  Saudi Arabia  itself, though living standards in
Saudi are higher and the country is much richer.”  Crude for April delivery on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange was at $97.58 a barrel, down 30 cents, at 1:33 p.m.
London time after rising as much as $2.08, or 2.1 percent, to
$99.96. Prices rose 14 percent last week, the most since the
five days ended Feb. 27, 2009, and reached $103.41 a barrel on
Feb. 24, the highest price since Sept. 29, 2008.    Brent crude  for April settlement gained as much as $2.36,
or 2.1 percent, to $114.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange. The contract rose 9 percent last week.  The difference between the New York and London April
contracts widened to $14.20 today from $10.36 on Feb. 21,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oman Unrest  In Oman, the largest Middle East oil producer outside the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, two demonstrators
were killed and several wounded in clashes with police
yesterday, according to hospital and government officials.  Hundreds of Omanis, many unemployed, gathered at a sit-in
for a second day in the city of Sohar, refusing to go home after
a pledge by the nation’s ruler to provide jobs.  Oman, with a population of about 2.7 million nationals and
600,000 expatriates, produced 885,600 barrels of oil a day in
January, according to data reported by the state-run Oman News
Agency yesterday.  China  is the nation’s biggest customer for
crude, taking about 40 percent of its exports, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Libyan production has been cut by more than 1 million
barrels a day,  Barclays Capital  said. The  International Energy
Agency  said output was down by at least 850,000 barrels.  Libya pumped 1.6 million barrels of oil a day in January,
making it the ninth-largest producer among the 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. It ships most of
its crude and fuels to Europe.  ‘Spike and Crash’  The reduction in Libyan exports may be the eighth-largest
oil-supply shock since 1950, Merrill analysts led by  Francisco Blanch , the bank’s New York-based head of commodities research,
said in a report dated Feb. 26.  The oil market’s ability to absorb any further disruptions
is “limited” following a substantial drop in OPEC’s spare
capacity, according to the report.  “In our view, the cocktail of further increases in oil
consumption and a severe supply shock makes a spike-and-crash
scenario more likely,” Merrill said.  OPEC members, along with producers outside the group, can
compensate for any halt in crude shipments from Libya, Qatari
Oil Minister Mohammed Saleh Al Sada said yesterday.    Hedge funds  raised bullish oil bets to a record as the
clashes in Libya curbed output from  Africa ’s third-largest
producer. The funds and other large speculators increased net-
long positions, or wagers on rising prices, by 30 percent in the
seven days ended Feb. 22 to 240,572 futures and options
combined, the highest in records dating back to June 2006,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly
Commitments of Traders report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  