-- 
Oil Rises for Second Day as Middle East Turmoil Spreads to Oman

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-02-28T08:20:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/oil-extends-gains-amid-concern-disruption-to-middle-east-output-may-spread.html
Oil gained for a second day in New
York after turmoil that has cut  Libya ’s output spread to Oman,
raising concern Middle East production may be disrupted further.  Futures posted the biggest weekly gain in two years last
week amid estimates that Libya’s crude flow was cut by as much
as two-thirds. In Oman, two demonstrators were killed and
several wounded in clashes with police earlier yesterday,
according to hospital and government officials. The country is
the largest Middle East oil producer that isn’t a member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  “When we look around the region we are seeing more visual
concerns that unrest is continuing,” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney.
“There’s a little bit of fear in the markets.”  Crude for April delivery rose as much as $2.08, or 2.1
percent, to $99.96 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange, and was at $99.15 at 4:18 p.m.
Singapore time. The contract increased 60 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to $97.88 on Feb. 25. Prices rose 14 percent last week, the
biggest gain since the five days ended Feb. 27, 2009.  Oil rose to $103.41 a barrel on Feb. 24, the highest
intraday price since Sept. 29, 2008. New York crude’s gains have
lagged  London ’s Brent oil, widening the difference between April
contracts to $14.22 today, from $10.36 on Feb. 21, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.    Brent crude  for April settlement gained as much as $2.36,
or 2.1 percent, to $114.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange. The contract rose 78 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $112.14 on Feb. 25.  Oman Unrest  The unrest that has swept the Middle East, ignited by the
ouster of Tunisia’s president and the fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , has spread to Oman.  Hundreds of Omanis, many unemployed, gathered at a sit-in
for a second day in the city of Sohar, refusing to go home after
a pledge by the nation’s ruler to provide jobs.  Oman, with a population of about 2.7 million Omanis and
600,000 expatriates, produced 885,600 barrels of oil a day in
January, according to data reported by the state-run Oman News
Agency yesterday. China is the nation’s biggest customer for
crude, taking about 40 percent of its exports, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Libyan production has been cut by more than 1 million
barrels a day,  Barclays Capital  said. The  International Energy
Agency  said output was down by at least 850,000 barrels.  ‘Geopolitical Risk’  Libya, pumped 1.6 million barrels of oil a day in January,
making it the ninth-largest producer among the 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. It ships most of
its crude and fuels to Europe.  “Geopolitical risk has been on the rise in global oil
markets since the end of January but has risen substantially
over the past week following events in Libya,”  Michael Lewis ,
the London-based head of commodities research at Deutsche Bank
AG, said in a report on Feb. 25.  OPEC members, along with producers outside the group, can
compensate for any halt in crude shipments from Libya, Qatari
Oil Minister Mohammed Saleh Al Sada said yesterday.    Hedge funds  raised bullish oil bets to a record as the
clashes in Libya curbed output from  Africa ’s third-largest
producer, driving crude to $100 a barrel for the first time in
more than two years.  Increasing Positions  The funds and other large speculators increased net-long
positions, or wagers on rising prices, by 30 percent in the
seven days ended Feb. 22 to 240,572 futures and options
combined, the highest in records dating back to June 2006,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly
Commitments of Traders report.  Oil shipments from Libya’s rebel-controlled eastern
territory may have resumed, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing Hassan Bulifa, a member of Arabian Gulf Oil Co.’s
management committee.  A tanker carrying 700,000 barrels of crude was expected to
depart yesterday from Tobruk in northeast Libya, Bulifa was
quoted as saying. The tanker may be bound for  China , he said.  Arabian Gulf Oil is Libya’s largest oil producer and the
only  oil company  based in the country’s opposition-controlled
eastern territory, the Journal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  