-- 
Oil Trades Near One-Week Low After Saudi Arabia Offers to Cover Supplies

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-03-01T03:03:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-after-saudi-arabia-offers-to-make-up-supplies.html
Oil traded near a one-week low in  New York  after Saudi Arabia offered to make up for supplies lost
because of unrest in Libya, which the world’s biggest shipbroker
said is still exporting crude.  Futures slid as much as 0.6 percent earlier today after
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al-Falih
yesterday said the kingdom is ready to cover a shortfall. The  International Energy Agency  last week said it will release
emergency stockpiles, if needed. Most ships picking up Libyan
cargoes have done so successfully in the past week, said Bob
Knight, head of tankers at Clarkson Plc.  “If we do get a supply shock it does sound like that a lot
of these big producers, or big organizations, would do something
to normalize the market balance, which has taken a little bit of
the heat out of the oil price,”  Ben Westmore , a minerals and
energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne,
said by telephone today.  Crude for April delivery was at $97.07 a barrel, up 10
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 2 p.m. Sydney time. Yesterday, the contract slid 91 cents to
$96.97, the lowest since Feb. 22. Prices gained 5.2 percent last
month and are 23 percent higher than a year ago.    Brent crude  for April settlement climbed 37 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $112.17 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract slipped 0.3 percent yesterday,
ending the month 11 percent higher.  Libyan Output  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ crude-
oil output fell in February as  Libya ’s production dropped to an
eight-year low, slipping 200,000 barrels a day to 1.385 million,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. It’s the lowest level
since January 2003.  Total OPEC production dropped 285,000 barrels, or 1
percent, to an average 29.11 million barrels a day, the survey
of  oil companies , producers and analysts shows. Daily output by
members with quotas, all except  Iraq , decreased 335,000 barrels
to 26.515 million, 1.67 million above their target.  As much as 1 million barrels of Libya’s daily oil
production may have been shut by the turmoil in the country,  Barclays Capital  said in a Feb. 23 report. Libya produced 1.65
million barrels a day in 2009 or about 2 percent of the global
total, according to data from BP Plc.  The U.S. and European nations have solidified their support
for Libya’s opposition, promising humanitarian aid and planning
for a no-fly zone, as leader Muammar Qaddafi declared that “my
people love me.”  Middle East  Riots from Morocco to Bahrain have already toppled leaders
in Tunisia and Egypt and there have been protests in Yemen, to
the south of  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil producer.  In Oman, the largest Middle Eastern producer outside OPEC,
two demonstrators were killed and several wounded in clashes
with police on Feb. 27, according to hospital and government
officials. Oman pumped 885,600 barrels of oil a day in January,
according to data reported by the state-run Oman News Agency.  “Regional protests spread to oil-producer Oman although
oil flows had not been impacted,”  Mark Pervan , head of
commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
in Melbourne, said in an e-mailed note today. “But, this could
flare up concerns over further disruptions in other parts of the
Middle East.”  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
oil supplies rose 1 million barrels last week from 346.7 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. It
would be the seventh week of gains.  Oil prices may rise to between $120 and $150 a barrel
because of tensions in the Middle East, T. Boone Pickens, the
billionaire energy investor, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  