-- 
Oil Price Rise Likely to Offset Air-Traffic Gains, IATA Says

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-02-28T14:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/oil-price-rise-likely-to-offset-air-traffic-gains-iata-says.html
Airlines worldwide face “a very
challenging year” as the price of oil rises, even after air-
traffic growth accelerated in January, the  International Air
Transport Association  said today.  International scheduled traffic rose 8.2 percent in
January, compared with a year earlier, IATA said in a statement.
That beat the 5.4 percent growth logged in December when wintry
weather in  Europe  and  North America  curbed traffic.  Fuel costs have surged amid concern that the turmoil in  Libya  will crimp supply, and IATA estimates that every $1
increase in the per-barrel price of oil costs the airline
industry $1.6 billion. Oil is trading near a 29-month high after
gaining 14 percent last week.  “With most major indices pointing to strengthening world
trade and economic growth this is positive for the industry,”  Giovanni Bisignani , IATA’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “But we are all watching closely as events unfold in
the Middle East. The region’s instability has sent  oil prices 
skyrocketing.”  IATA on Dec. 14 forecast carriers would log net income of
$9.1 billion in 2011 based on oil at $84 a barrel, and will
provide an update of its outlook March 2. Crude oil for April
delivery today traded more than $15 higher than that price, at
as much as $99.96. Airlines’ net income last year has been
estimated at $15.1 billion by IATA.  Aer Lingus, Ireland’s second-biggest carrier, said today
that the rise in oil prices would cut earnings this year, and
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the company formed
by the merger of British Airways and Iberia, said Feb. 25 that
its fuel bill may rise 31 percent this year.  Demand for  air travel  has rebounded following the global
recession, with traffic now 18 percent higher than the lowest
point reached in early 2009, the trade body said.  The average passenger load factor, a measure of how full
planes are, fell to 75.7 percent from 77.2 percent in December
after capacity grew 9.1 percent in a year, outstripping the
increase in air traffic.  Air freight grew by 9.1 percent in January, compared with a
year earlier, and is now 39 percent above the low point reached
at the end of 2009, the trade body said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 