-- 
Dubai Stocks Slump to Seven-Year Low as Protests Spread to Oman

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-02-28T14:21:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/oman-stocks-slump-the-most-in-15-months-as-protests-spread-dubai-retreats.html
Middle East shares tumbled, sending
Dubai’s stock index to the lowest level in almost seven years,
as political unrest in the region spread to the Sultanate of
Oman, prompting investors to trim riskier assets.    Emaar Properties PJSC , builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, slumped to the lowest since 2009 and  Dubai Islamic
Bank PJSC  retreated 3.2 percent. The  DFM General Index  slid 3.8
percent to 1,410.7, the lowest since June 2004, at the 2 p.m.
close in Dubai, bringing its drop for the month to 8.1 percent.
Oman’s  MSM30 Index  plunged 4.9 percent, the world’s worst
performer. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  fell 0.8 percent. It has
lost 11 percent since Tunisia’s president fled amid protests
that spurred unrest in Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Yemen and Bahrain.  Two demonstrators were killed in Oman and several wounded
in clashes with police yesterday, according to hospital and
government officials. Hundreds of protesters, many unemployed,
gathered for a sit-in for a second day in Sohar, north of the
capital city Muscat. Sultan Qaboos Bin Said, the country’s ruler
since 1970, ordered the government to hire 50,000 Omanis and to
pay 150 rials ($390) a month to registered job seekers.  “Investors are hedging the risk of the crisis spreading
further by exiting their positions; negative sentiment is being
driven by the uncertainty,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief
investment officer at Abu Dhabi-based financial services company
CAPM Investments PJSC. “The opening of the Egyptian market
tomorrow is expected to cause additional pressure.”  Tunisia Suspension    Egypt  stock trading is set to resume tomorrow after a
suspension of more than a month amid a popular revolution that
toppled the 30-year-old regime of former President Hosni
Mubarak. The measure lost 16 percent the week ended Jan. 27,
when it last traded. The Tunisian bourse suspended trading from
today until further notice, the bourse said on its website.  Tunisia was the first nation in the Arab world to see a
leader ousted by popular protests on Jan. 14, followed by Egypt
this month. Interim Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi resigned
yesterday, meeting a main demand of protesters, after security
forces killed three people in street demonstrations. Libyan
leader Muammar Qaddafi has lost control of several cities to the
opposition since unrest erupted in the North African nation, the
continent’s biggest holder of crude oil reserves.  Egypt GDRs Slump  The turmoil sent crude oil for April delivery up as much as
5.4 percent to $103.41 a barrel on Feb. 24, the highest intraday
price since September 2008. The contract rose as much as 2.1
percent to $99.96 a barrel today.  Emaar tumbled 6.3 percent to 2.67 dirhams, the lowest since
December 2009. Dubai Islamic, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest
lender complying with Islamic banking rules, dropped to 2.09
dirhams, the lowest since Sept. 15. Bank Muscat plunged 8.8
percent, the most since January 2009, to 0.791 rial in Muscat
trading.  The global depositary receipts of  Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE , the country’s largest mobile network operator by
subscribers, lost 5 percent to $3.117 at 1:32 p.m. in London
trading today, bringing its drop since Jan. 27 to 4.1 percent.  In  Saudi Arabia , activists and academics called on King Abdullah to improve political rights and move the country toward
a constitutional monarchy. The world’s largest oil supplier is
spending more on social and housing programs as popular turmoil
roils the Arab world.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  retreated 0.2
percent after tumbling 5 percent yesterday and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX
General Index  slid 1.5 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index
lost 0.4 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index  decreased 3.2 percent.  In the Levant, Jordan’s  Amman SE General Index  dropped 1
percent and in North Africa, Morocco’s measure gained 0.2
percent. Kuwait’s bourse was closed for a national holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  