-- 
Oman Youth Protests Enter a Third Night as Sultan Promises to Create Jobs

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-02-28T18:02:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/omani-protesters-maintain-sit-in-doubting-sultan-s-promise-after-clashes.html
Hundreds of Omani protesters
gathered in the city of Sohar for a third night, demanding that
the government open talks on their demands for more jobs, higher
pay and more representative political institutions.  Khaled Maqbuli, a leader of the protest, called on the
demonstrators at a roundabout in the center of Sohar, north of
the capital, Muscat, to stay peaceful and avoid confrontation
with the army and the police. Two people were killed, several
wounded and a supermarket set on fire over the past two days.  “We are peaceful, we have demands, we are not saboteurs,”
Maqbuli, 26, said through a loudspeaker. “We want the
government to send civilian people to discuss our demands; we
have nothing to say to the military.”  Sultan Qaboos Bin Said, the country’s ruler since 1970,
“has received the demands of the citizens in all the provinces
and is giving them his attention,” state television reported.  Demonstrations against poverty and autocratic rule are
spreading through the Arab world. Tunisia was the first to see
an Arab leader ousted by popular protests in January, followed
this month by  Egypt . Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has lost
control of several cities to the opposition and demonstrations
also have taken place in Yemen, Bahrain,  Algeria  and Jordan.  Stocks Fall  Oman’s  MSM30 Index  of stocks closed down 4.9 percent, the
most since January 2009, at 6,142.42. Oil gained for a second
day in New York. Crude for April delivery rose as much as $2.08,
or 2.1 percent, to $99.96 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Demonstrators circulated a list of demands today, including
that the sultan names a prime minister and gives more power to
the consultative council. Qaboos is head of the government.  Omani television said the sultan formed a committee to
examine how to expand the power of the 83-member council whose
role is to make recommendations to the government. Yesterday, he
ordered the government to hire 50,000 Omanis and to pay 150
rials ($390) a month to job seekers.  Among the other demands of the demonstrators were a
tripling of salaries, cancellation of private bank debts and the
establishment of a government fund to help people marry and
build a house.  “How can anybody live on 150 rials a month,” said Nasser
Sheibi, a 26 year-old unemployed man. “I want a government
official to come here and to tell me how that can be possible.”  Protests in Sohar escalated yesterday after security forces
rounded up demonstrators, arresting a total of 48, according to
Ammar Hanai, who said he was one of those detained.  Released Detainees  Qaboos later ordered the release of the detainees and the
withdrawal of the police from the roundabout where hundreds of
demonstrators have gathered since about noon on Feb. 26.  The city’s harbor is operating normally after protesters
blocked roads, Jan Meijer, the chief executive officer of the
Port of Sohar, said today.  As in Bahrain, the feeling of deprivation of the Omani
demonstrators is exacerbated by their proximity to richer oil-
producing nations Qatar and  United Arab Emirates . The U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency estimates that 60 percent of the
workforce in Oman was made up of non-citizens in 2007 and that
unemployment in 2004 was 15 percent. The Omani government
doesn’t publish employment indicators.  Oman, with a population of about 2.7 million Omanis and
600,000 expatriates, produces just over 800,000 barrels of oil a
day. The sultanate lies at the strategically important entrance
to the  Strait of Hormuz , through which a fifth of the world’s
oil passes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Sohar, Oman, at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at   rhamade@bloomberg.net  