-- 
London's Former Love Lane Tops U.K. Priciest Address List as Values Climb

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-28T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/london-s-former-love-lane-tops-u-k-priciest-address-list.html
Victoria Road  in London’s Kensington
district took the top spot in an annual list of the most
expensive U.K. addresses as the nation’s priciest streets gained
in value,  Mouseprice  said.    Home prices  on the  street  close to Hyde Park once known as
Love Lane and now the address of the Vietnamese embassy surged
28 percent over the past year. The average value there is now
6.4 million pounds ($10.3 million) after an “extremely high”
11 million-pound transaction in 2010, the London-based property
researcher said in a report today.  Luxury-home prices have rebounded faster than the rest of
the housing market due to a lack of properties and the weaker
pound luring overseas buyers. While Knight Frank LLP says values
of “super-prime” properties in the capital costing more than
10 million pounds will climb as much as 10 percent this year,
the Centre for Economics and Business Research this month
predicted overall U.K. house prices will drop 1.7 percent.  “Prime central  London  has always been a good safe haven
for large chunks of money, if that’s where you want to put it,
plus it’s a good place to live and enjoy,” Mark Redfern, head
of Knight Frank’s Kensington branch, said in a telephone
interview. “Demand so far has been outstripping supply, in some
cases by fivefold for the best properties.”  A particular attraction of Victoria Road is “its proximity
to good local schools,” Redfern said. The north end of the
street was once an ancient track called Love Lane before being
redeveloped in the early 19th Century on land known as the
Vallotton estate after purchases by a family of the same name.  Art Tutor  Edward Henry Corbould, art tutor to the children of Queen Victoria, lived at No. 52, according to a plaque at the address.  Knight Frank  lists an eight-bedroom  property  for sale on
Victoria Road for 13 million pounds, with eight bathrooms, four
reception rooms, a library, a garden and private parking.  “As in previous years, a number of distinct patterns exist
in the rankings, with clusters of expensive streets gathered in
small areas,” Mouseprice, owned by Calnea Analytics, which
calculates the U.K. Land Registry’s house price index, said in
today’s report. “The largest cluster can be found in Kensington
and Chelsea, close to Fulham Road and the Chelsea and
Westminster Hospital.”  Out of the nation’s 20 priciest streets, 14 are in
Kensington and Chelsea. The pound, which has dropped 23 percent
on a trade-weighted basis since 2007, has helped attract
overseas buyers to the U.K.’s prime real-estate market.  Lifestyle Choice  “Kensington and Chelsea offer the lifestyle that the
international market would come to expect and enjoy,” Redfern
said. Knight Frank’s Kensington office has as many as 40 people
registered looking for a property valued at more than 10 million
pounds, he said.  North London’s Barnet area holds the second-highest number
of streets on the list, with four appearing in the rankings.
Ingram Avenue, Britain’s second most expensive street, posted
gains from a year earlier, according to Mouseprice. The street
is next to Hampstead Golf Club, with homes also averaging 6.4
million pounds, up 5.5 percent from 2010.  Chester Square in the U.K. capital’s Belgravia area, close
to Victoria Station, fell from the No. 1 spot in last year’s
rankings after two properties changed hands at less than the
“extremely high sales prices” seen in previous years,
Mouseprice said.  Of the 11 streets that retained a presence in this year’s
top 20, all but Chester Square showed gains in the average price
of a property. Mouseprice uses Land Registry data back to 1995
to calculate the rankings and excludes addresses with
insufficient property transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  