-- 
London's Luxury Homes Attract Overseas Buyers Seeking Financial Stability

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-02-28T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/london-s-luxury-homes-attract-overseas-buyers-seeking-financial-stability.html
The scarier things get, the better  London  homes look to the world’s rich.  A widening range of foreign nationals bought houses and
apartments in the British capital worth more than 1 million
pounds ($1.61 million), lifting values for the fourth
consecutive month in February, according to property broker
Knight Frank LLP. Greeks and Spaniards increased investment as
their economies reeled and Asians sought a hedge against
inflation.  London property is drawing investors facing financial and
political instability in their home markets, according to  Liam Bailey , Knight Frank’s head of residential research. The
overthrow of the Tunisian and Egyptian rulers, triggering
uprisings in  Libya , Bahrain, and Yemen, will probably bring more
Middle East money to London as the rich seek to protect their
wealth, Bailey said.  “The number of nationalities buying in London has risen
from 46 in 2009 to a new record of 61 over the past year,”
Bailey said.  Knight Frank  has been tracking the number of
countries since 2005 when there were 30.  Greeks and Spanish were among the five nationalities that
increased investment the most, joined by buyers from Uzbekistan,  Hong Kong  and the U.S., according to Knight Frank.  Prices advanced 1 percent in February from a month earlier,
Knight Frank said. The annual gain was 8 percent, the lowest in
14 months.  The city’s most expensive street was Victoria Road in
Kensington, where the average home costs 6.43 million pounds,
according to a separate study released today by U.K. property
website  Mouseprice.com .  Pound Loses Value  London homes became cheaper for many foreigners after the
pound lost 13 percent of its value against a basket of
currencies since September 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. collapsed, escalating the global financial crisis.  Concerns about accelerating inflation in  Asia  have
persuaded many to store their wealth in tangible assets such as
real estate, gold, art and antiques, according to advisers for
wealthy international buyers.  “London is perceived to be safer than a Swiss bank
account,” said John Vaughan, co-founder of  Prime Portfolio ,
which has advised mostly European and southeast Asian buyers on
acquiring and managing investment properties for the last 20
years. A lack of homes for sale bolstered the market and supply
won’t improve significantly this year, according to his
colleague Perry Bousfield.  Status Symbol  London’s position as a global financial center, the quality
of its education system and the city’s attractions have made
owning a home there a status symbol for overseas buyers,
particularly from countries with mining and commodity-led
economies, Knight Frank surveys of wealth managers show.  Buyers from  Russia  and other former Soviet republics will
boost their share of London’s “super prime” market of
properties worth 10 million pounds or more, from 14 percent last
year, Knight Frank’s brokers predict.  Investors from outside the U.K. account for about 75
percent of sales in Mayfair, compared with about 50 percent in
2007, said Peter Wetherell, managing director of property broker
 Wetherell . He said the company handled about one third of sales
in the district last year.  February’s price gains have lifted prime central London
home values to 2 percent below the record reached in March 2008.
Overseas demand has helped lift values by 24 percent since a
year-long decline ended in March 2009, Knight Frank estimates.  That contrasts with the rest of England and  Wales , where
prices are almost 11 percent below their peak after declining
every month since September, according to an index compiled by
the  Land Registry  from completed sales.  Knight Frank compiles its luxury-homes index from estimated
values of properties in the Mayfair, St. John’s Wood, Regent’s
Park, Kensington,  Notting Hill , Chelsea, Knightsbridge,
Belgravia and South Bank neighborhoods of London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 