-- 
Option-ARM Bonds Tumble as Investors Question if Valuations Got Too `Rich'

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-02-28T20:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/option-arm-bonds-tumble-as-investors-question-if-valuations-got-too-rich-.html
Securities backed by option
adjustable-rate mortgages, the home loans that allow borrowers
to decide how much they pay each month, dropped for a second
week as investors speculated a rally pushed values too high.  Typical prices for the senior-most option-ARM bonds fell as
much as 4 cents to about 62 cents on the dollar, according to  Barclays Capital  data. The debt, which dropped to 33 cents in
2009, remains 4 cents higher than three months ago.  “There are myriad possible reasons for the recent weakness
in option-ARM prices,” Barclays Capital analysts including
Sandeep Bordia in New York said in a Feb. 25 report that cited
“rich valuations” and turmoil in the Middle East.  Option ARMs sometimes allow borrowers to make minimum
payments of less than the monthly interest due on their loan,
with any shortfall being tacked onto the mortgage balance. Bonds
tied to such loans, once considered toxic, have gained in the
past year as the economy grows and investors seek higher yields
with the  Federal Reserve  holding short-term  interest rates  near
zero.  About 45 percent of investors surveyed last week by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said securities tied to option
ARMs looked “rich” after the run-up in prices. Only 10 percent
saw “more upside.”  Investors have reduced worst-case assumptions for the size
of losses on defaulted mortgages such as option ARMs, a change
that helped boost values of the bonds linked to those loans, New
York-based JPMorgan analysts led by  John Sim  wrote in a Feb. 25
report. The bank’s models project about 70 percent of remaining
loans underlying the bonds will default.  Severity of Losses  The severity of losses hasn’t improved in recent months,
nor have default rates, Bordia said in a telephone interview.  Option-ARM bonds may decline more as challenges mount to
bank foreclosure procedures, slowing the process of liquidating
loans to a pace “as bad as or even worse than our
expectations,” according to Barclays Capital’s report.  Barclays Capital recommended earlier this month that
investors eschew the securities, “the only outright sell call
we’ve made anywhere in the non-agency space in the last two
years,” Bordia said. Non-agency mortgage bonds are those that
lack government guarantees.  Option-ARM securities are among bonds “still cheap
relative to their price volatility” over the past two years,
though falling home prices pose a risk, JPMorgan said.  Dropping Home Prices  U.S. home prices have fallen 4.3 percent since July, after
showing sporadic improvement through much of 2009 and early
2010, according to S&P/Case-Shiller index data.  Fewer than 5 percent of investors in the JPMorgan survey
expect  house prices  to rise and almost 50 percent project
declines of 5 percent to 10 percent before housing hits bottom.
About 10 percent of respondents said they expect an additional
price drop of 10 percent or greater.  Wall Street brokers conducted open auctions on $4.9 billion
of option-ARM securities this month, the most since October,
according to Empirasign Strategies LLC. The 59 percent increase
from January’s $3.1 billion compares with a gain of 11 percent
in the entire non-agency market aside from subprime debt, the
New York-based data provider said.  Dealers widely provided “color,” or information about
whether bonds traded and at what price, to investors on only 28
percent of the option-ARM debt offered, down from 42 percent in
January and 78 percent in December, Empirasign said.  “Not much of leap to say a lot of those bonds are not
trading or are trading at levels folks don’t want others to know
about,” Adam Murphy, the firm’s president, said in an e-mail.
About 15 percent of the bonds offered this month were reported
by dealers to have gone unsold, down from 22 percent last month,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  