-- 
Morgan Stanley Attacked by China-Based Hackers Who Hit Google

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-03-01T01:03:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/morgan-stanley-network-hacked-in-same-china-based-attacks-that-hit-google.html
  Morgan Stanley  experienced a “very
sensitive” break-in to its network by the same China-based
hackers who attacked  Google Inc .’s computers more than a year
ago, according to e-mails stolen from a cyber-security company
working for the bank.  The e-mails from the Sacramento, California-based computer
security firm  HBGary Inc. , which identify the first financial
institution targeted in the series of attacks, said the bank
considered details of the intrusion a closely guarded secret.  “They were hit hard by the real Aurora attacks (not the
crap in the news),” wrote Phil Wallisch, a senior security
engineer at HBGary, who said he read an internal Morgan Stanley
report detailing the so-called Operation Aurora attacks.  The nickname came from  McAfee Inc ., a  Santa Clara ,
California-based cyber-security firm, which said the attacks
occurred for about six months starting in June 2009 and marked
“a watershed moment in cyber security.” The number of
companies known to be hit in the attacks was initially estimated
at 20 to 30 and now exceeds 200, said Christopher Day, senior
vice president for Terremark Worldwide Inc., which provides  information-technology  security services.  The HBGary e-mails don’t indicate what information may have
been stolen from Morgan Stanley’s databanks or which of the
world’s largest merger adviser’s multinational operations were
targeted.  “They have given me access to a very sensitive report on
their Aurora experience,” Wallisch wrote in a May 10 e-mail to
HBGary President Penny Leavy-Hoglund. “I will honor their
wishes about not sharing the info with anyone, but the good news
is that I have some great ideas for our final reports.”    Sandra Hernandez , a spokeswoman for the New York-based
bank, which unlike Google didn’t disclose the attacks publicly,
declined to comment on them specifically.  ‘Conducting Business’  “Like any other company in our industry we deal with
malware and attempted computer compromises as a matter of
conducting business and work with  law enforcement  where
appropriate,” Hernandez said yesterday by phone.  FBI Deputy Assistant Director Steven Chabinsky said that
hackers have increasingly targeted information related to
mergers and acquisitions, data that can give companies involved
an advantage in negotiations.  Google said in January 2010 after an attack lasting for
months that it was one of 20 major U.S. companies breached by
hackers using China-based servers, an event that McAfee Chief
Technology Officer George Kurtz described as the “largest and
most sophisticated cyberattack we have seen in years targeted at
specific corporations.”  ‘Politburo Standing Committee’  U.S. diplomatic cables published by WikiLeaks and citing
high-level Chinese sources later traced direction of the attack
to the “Politburo Standing Committee level” of  China ’s
government.    Wang Baodong , a spokesman for the Chinese embassy in
Washington, said cyber-hacking is an international issue and
that many Chinese governmental websites have been attacked.  “China’s stand on fighting hacking activities is clear and
consistent, with relevant strict domestic laws and regulations
in place, and is always ready to work with other countries to
jointly strike down on hacking crimes,” he said yesterday in an
e-mail.  China’s official news agency last year quoted an
unidentified spokesman from the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology saying that accusations the government
was behind the attacks were “groundless.”  Escalating Tensions  The attacks fueled escalating U.S.-China tensions and led
to a call on China by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to
investigate Google’s claims and make the results public.  The attacks also led Google to stop censoring search
results generated by its Chinese search engine Google.cn. After
months of negotiations with Chinese officials, Google began to
shutter the site last March, redirecting users to the company’s
service in  Hong Kong .  Google’s share of revenue generated by the China search
market fell to less than 20 percent in the fourth quarter of
2010 from 31 percent before the closure, according to Analysys
International, a Beijing research firm. This month, China’s
official news agency launched its own Internet search site
called Panguso that will conform to government-specified norms.  Forensic Investigations  Dmitri Alperovitch, McAfee’s vice president of threat
research, said that the company believes the Aurora attacks were
shut down by the hackers as Google began to uncover their
activities near the end of 2009. The company announced on Jan.
12, 2010, that it had been a victim of an attack.  Kevin Mandia, chief executive officer of the  cyber-security 
firm Mandiant, based in Alexandria,  Virginia , said forensic
investigations of the attacks showed that the hackers had
penetrated various company networks over a period lasting more
than a year and had hit some companies multiple times.  Day and Mandia, citing client confidentiality, didn’t
discuss the companies that were victims of the attack.  The HBGary e-mails were stolen from the firm’s computer
network by the group of hacker activists called Anonymous, which
posted them on the Internet as a searchable database. HBGary
confirmed the messages were stolen and declined last week to
comment on their content.  Marc Zwillinger, an attorney for HBGary, didn’t respond to
a phone message seeking comment. Zwillinger has previously
declined to comment on the HBGary e-mails’ content, citing
client confidentiality.  Hired in 2010  Morgan Stanley hired HBGary in 2010 to address suspected
network breaches by hackers not linked to Operation Aurora who
broke through the company’s Internet security systems. The
hackers successfully implanted software designed to steal
confidential files and internal communications, according to
dozens of HBGary e-mails that detail efforts to plug the holes.  One e-mail, dated June 19, said that the attackers may be
the same ones who had hit a U.K.-based defense contractor and
discusses hacking software called Monkif, which can be used by
intruders to remotely orchestrate a sophisticated form of cyber
attack known as an ‘advanced persistent threat’ or APT.  “This Monkif payload may represent APT or play a part in
the APT’s campaign,” HBGary Chief Executive Officer Greg
Hoglund wrote to Wallisch. “Phil, you might find this of value
given that you are dealing with the same attack over at
Morgan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 