-- 
Morgan Stanley Loses Bid to Dismiss Taiwanese Bank's Fraud Claims Over CDO

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-02-28T20:39:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/morgan-stanley-loses-bid-to-dismiss-taiwanese-bank-s-fraud-claims-over-cdo.html
  Morgan Stanley  lost a bid to dismiss
fraud claims by Taipei-based China Development Industrial Bank,
which seeks to recover losses from an investment tied to U.S.
residential mortgage-backed securities.  The Taiwanese bank claims Morgan Stanley made an investment
linked to U.S. subprime mortgage bonds in mid-2006 and “dumped
those losses” on CDIB in April 2007 after learning of problems
with the investment.  New York state Supreme Court Justice Melvin L. Schweitzer’s
decision was posted today on the state’s court filing system.  “CDIB has alleged in sufficient detail that Morgan Stanley
knew the Supersenior Swap was a highly risky, if not troubled,
investment and also that the ratings process which made it
appear to be safe, or even more secure than a ‘AAA’ rated
security, was deeply flawed,” Schweitzer wrote.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on the decision.  CDIB claims it was fraudulently sold a $275 million
interest in what the bank called the STACK 2006-1 Ltd., a hybrid
collateralized debt obligation. CDOs are pools of assets such as
mortgage bonds packaged into new securities.  CDIB said in its lawsuit it had lost $228 million on the
transaction.  Morgan Stanley allegedly knew the CDO assets were rated
with models no longer in use and that the CDO assets’ ratings
were likely to be downgraded in the future, according to court
papers. The firm also allegedly failed to disclose to CDIB it
had paid the ratings agencies fees of up to three times more
than usual to obtain a rating in return for assistance in
structuring the product.  The case is China Development Industrial Bank v. Morgan
Stanley, 650957/2010, New York state  Supreme Court    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  