-- 
Motorola's Xoom Tablet Sales Have Started `Relatively Well,' CEO Says

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-02-28T21:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/motorola-s-xoom-tablet-sales-have-started-relatively-well-ceo-says.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
which began selling its Xoom tablet computer last week, said
sales have started “relatively well” at  Verizon Wireless  and
it plans to introduce tablets with other carriers this year.  Motorola Mobility will introduce models this year based on  Google Inc .’s Android software that are smaller than the 10-inch
Xoom, Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha told analysts at a
conference today in  San Francisco . He didn’t name any of the
carriers that will offer the new models.  Jha plans to offer a variety of tablet sizes and features
to counter the wide appeal of the market-industry leading  Apple
Inc .’s iPad, which comes in a single 9.7-inch format. Motorola
Mobility is negotiating to supply tablets to a range of
companies that want to use the Xoom because of how it can be
adapted to specific needs, Jha said.  “One reason they like it is that it’s more customizable”
than rival devices, said Jha.  The Xoom costs $799, compared with $729 for  a similarly
equipped  iPad with 32 gigabytes of memory and third-generation
wireless technology. The Xoom will be upgradable to faster 4G
networks, which helps justify the price premium, Jha has said.  Motorola Mobility wants “people to make a choice based on
the capabilities we deliver rather than just price,” the CEO
told reporters in Barcelona earlier this month.  Jha, who is rebuilding Motorola on the Android operating
system, said the company plans to make more small acquisitions
to differentiate itself from rival handset makers that also use
Android like Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC Corp. Buying small
software developers with less than 30 people should make
Motorola Mobility a more “software-centric company,” Jha said.  Motorola Mobility fell 41 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $30.20
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock has gained 3.8 percent this year  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  