-- 
Lloyds Tops List for Consumer Complaints on U.K. Bank Market

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-02-28T18:06:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/lloyds-tops-list-for-consumer-complaints-on-u-k-banking-market.html
  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, received twice as many consumer
complaints as other banking groups in the second half of 2010,
according to the U.K.  Financial Ombudsman Service .  Lloyds was the subject of 22,181 complaints between July 1
and Dec. 31, 2010, the ombudsman said in a statement today. The
company with the second most was  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  with 8,644, followed by  Barclays Plc  on 8,256. Lloyds
accounted for 22.8 percent of all new complaints lodged during
the period.  The data shows that “while some financial businesses are
improving the way they handle their customers’ complaints, some
regrettably are not,” Natalie Ceeney, the ombudsman’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement on the agency’s
 website .  Objections filed with the ombudsman against financial
services firms increased 15 percent in the last six months of
2010 compared with the preceding six-month period. Experts were
“unable to agree” on how the figures could be adjusted to
reflect a company’s size or market share, the service said.  “Our customers tell us the two areas we need to improve
are the length of time it takes to resolve complaints and the
perception that the bank is not taking sufficient ownership of
them,” Martin Dodd, customer services director for Lloyds
Banking Group, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are committed
to getting this right.”  Consumers won in 53 percent of complaints resolved by the
ombudsman in the last half of 2010, the agency said.  Payment Protection  The majority of cases involving Lloyds that were referred
to the ombudsman “appear” to be related to payment-protection
insurance, the bank said.  PPI is used to cover payments on credit cards and mortgages
in case of illness or unemployment. The FSA issued new guidance
in August on how consumer complaints over PPI should be treated.  “Clearly, in some cases there is room for improvement, but
banks are committed to bringing standards of complaint handling
in line with the best,” the British Bankers’ Association said
in an e-mailed statement. “Banks are working closely with the
regulators to improve the standards of complaint handling across
the industry.”  Lloyds’ figure did mark a reduction compared with the first
six months of 2010, when it was the target of 22,420 complaints.
The comparable figures for RBS and Barclays were 6,469 and 9,215
complaints, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  