-- 
Toyota February Recall Is Unlikely to Derail Carmaker's U.S. Sales Rebound

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-01T01:48:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/toyota-s-february-recall-unlikely-to-derail-u-s-sales-rebound.html
  Toyota Motor Corp .’s February U.S.
sales gain may be its second-biggest since last year’s record
recalls, even after the world’s largest carmaker said it will
have to fix more flawed vehicles.  The automaker may report a 27 percent increase in
deliveries of Toyota, Lexus and Scion cars and light trucks for
the month, based on the average of four analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. At most, the recall of 2.2 million
vehicles last week may cost Toyota “a couple thousand units”
of sales in February, said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at
industry researcher Edmunds.com in  Santa Monica ,  California .  Toyota has spent 15 months reassuring consumers about
quality after calling back more than 10 million vehicles for
defects related to unintended acceleration. Along with assessing
complaints faster, the carmaker added two years of no-cost
maintenance as standard on new U.S. models and raised incentives
to draw buyers.  Following the company’s sales suspension in late January
and early February 2010, “this February was easy,” said
Caldwell. “It still looks like they’ll be up 28 or 29 percent.
And we’re conservative with Toyota.”  Toyota rose 0.8 percent to 3,850 yen at 10:30 a.m. in Tokyo
Stock Exchange trading. The shares have gained 20 percent this
year.  2010 Decline  Toyota’s U.S. sales fell 0.4 percent in 2010, making it the
only major automaker to post a full-year decline.  To boost sales, the company is offering no-interest
financing for 60 months on Camry sedans and $500 in down-payment
assistance to all customers,  Bob Carter , Toyota’s U.S. group
vice president of sales, said last month.  Toyota is also offering an extra $500 to current Camry
buyers who buy a new model, he said.  On most models, including Corolla compacts, Prius hybrids,
RAV4 crossovers and Tundra pickup trucks, Toyota is offering
discounted leases and loan interest rates of between 0 percent
and 2.9 percent in February,  according to its website .  “Their incentives were up from January, but not as much as
we expected,” Caldwell said. Toyota spent an average of $2,041
per vehicle in February, compared with $1,942 in January,
according to Edmunds.com.  That’s below the industry average of $2,558 for the month,
Caldwell said.  Rising Confidence  Toyota and other automakers will release February sales
results today. Industrywide deliveries are likely to rise 19
percent from a year earlier, the average of five analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, as rising consumer confidence
spurs buying.  Confidence among U.S. consumers increased in February to
the highest in three years, according to separate reports from
the Conference Board and Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan 
last week. The percentage of consumers planning to buy a new
vehicle within six months increased to 4.6 percent from 3.1
percent at the end of last year, the New York-based Conference
Board said.  U.S. sales for the Toyota City, Japan-based company fell
8.7 percent in February 2010, pulled down by a sales suspension
affecting models including the Camry, Corolla and RAV4.  February will be good for overall U.S. auto sales, owing to
poor weather that curtailed some sales a year ago, Rod Lache, an
auto analyst for Deutsche Bank AG, said in a Feb. 24 report.
Toyota will further benefit because it only began to lift its
sales stoppage on Feb. 5, 2010, he said.  The Japanese automaker’s monthly U.S. sales rose 41 percent
in March 2010, its best monthly gain for the year.  ‘Things Have Changed’  Toyota also benefited from the  National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration ’s report that found mechanical flaws,
rather than electronic defects, were the only likely cause of
unintended acceleration in  Toyota vehicles .  “Things have changed” at Toyota, U.S. Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood told Bloomberg in an interview last month.
The company is investing more in safety, he said. “They get it,
and I think Toyotas are safe to drive.”  Toyota’s Feb. 25 recall included 1.38 million vehicles
being added to its November 2009 recall to fix floor mats that
could shift out of position. The company also said it would
recall 769,000 Highlander and Lexus RX sport-utility vehicles to
fix driver’s side floor-carpet covers and retention clips.  Last week’s recall was “unexpected, but it is more of the
same,” said John Humphrey, senior vice president of automotive
operations at  J.D. Power  and Associates in Troy, Michigan.
“Last year, there were more unknowns about the causes of
unintended acceleration.”  The following table shows estimates for combined Toyota,
Lexus and Scion brand sales in the U.S. in February and the
overall industry, compared with the year-earlier level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  