-- 
‘World’s Best Restaurant’ Noma Fails to Win Third Star

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-03-16T15:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/paris-restaurants-gain-in-michelin-france-guide-with-more-focus-on-value.html
Noma, holder of the “World’s Best
Restaurant” title, fails to win a third Michelin star today in
the French tiremaker’s guide to the “Main Cities of  Europe .”  Chef Rene Redzepi, 33, is feted by fellow culinary masters
for the creativity of his new Nordic cuisine at the restaurant,
housed in an 18th-century warehouse on the waterfront in
Copenhagen. Noma entered the World’s 50 Best list at 33 in 2006
and took first place last April, toppling El Bulli.  “Noma is a world-class restaurant and Michelin was among
the first to recognize it, but Rene Redzepi would be among the
first to admit that it still has a long way to go,” Rebecca
Burr, 40, editor-in-chief of the guide, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “It will happen one day, I’m sure. It’s a
very good two-star restaurant and sits easily in the guide.  Redzepi was philosophical about the decision. “Don’t be
disappointed for me,” he said in a phone interview. “Of
course, it’s a dream to get three Michelin stars but I have many
dreams. I dream of playing a guitar solo at the Roskilde rock
festival but that hasn’t happened yet either. So many things
make me happy, I’m going to be a father in a month. If Michelin
thinks I’m not ready yet I’m going to keep on cooking and do my
best to sway them.”  Inspector Visits  Burr declined to say how many visits Michelin inspectors
had made to Noma over the past year and also refused to say what
were the shortcomings that cost Noma a third star.  “It’s not a question of consistency: It’s a really good
restaurant. It’s not about whether the chef is always there. We
recognize that chefs need to publish books and do other things.
Rene’s always in his kitchen and no restaurant at this level can
rely on one person’s talent. It’s about the food.”  “We make as many visits as we have to,” she said. “We
don’t just make these things happen. Our decisions are well
considered and we want our customers to be confident in them. We
understand that this is someone’s business and we may be accused
of taking our time, but we consider carefully and we want our
awards to be for a long time. There are six new Bib Gourmand
awards in Copenhagen, which has always stood apart from the
other Nordic capitals. It’s a destination.”  Star Losers  Olo, in Helsinki; Onyx, Budapest; and Thoernstroems Koek,
Gothenburg, win a star. Restaurants losing a star include Zur
Plainlinde, Salzburg; Bo Bech at Paustian and MR, both in
Copenhagen; Carma, Helsinki; Haga, Oslo; and Sjoemagasinet, in
Gothenburg. Geranium, in Copenhagen, gets a  rising star .  The new winners of a Bib Gourmand for value for money
include Schmederer, Salzburg; Martin Stein, Vienna; Enomania,
Melee, Orangeriet, Relae, Skovshoved and Soren K, in Copenhagen;
Farang and La Table, Helsinki.  The guide includes entries for a dozen cities not covered
in other Michelin volumes: Helsinki, Oslo, Copenhagen, Vienna,
Salzburg, Prague, Athens, Budapest, Warsaw, Cracow, Stockholm
and Gothenburg. It also features London, Paris and other
capitals where the results previously have been announced.  Noma has become a place of pilgrimage for chefs wanting to
try Redzepi’s innovative cooking. I went along last month with
Pierre Koffmann, who once held three Michelin stars at La Tante
Claire in London. He described our 20-course meal as fantastic.  Real Food  “I went to Noma with the idea that he’s the little brother
of El Bulli, but that’s not the case at all,” Koffmann said.
“He’s doing his own thing. El Bulli is more technical, using
more machines, more chemistry. Noma is simpler, but there is
technique, too. It’s real food.” Koffmann said he assumed
Redzepi would get a third star this year. “Why wouldn’t he?”  Noma received its second Michelin star in 2007. Redzepi
plans to cook in  London  on April 16, preparing a dinner with his
friend Claude Bosi at Hibiscus. That’s two days before the
announcement of this year’s  S. Pellegrino World’s 50 Best
Restaurants  awards. I am one of the 837 members of the
international academy that votes for those awards.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  The criteria for stars are: food quality, preparation and
flavors; the chef’s personality as revealed through the cuisine;
value for money; and consistency over time and across the menu.  Michelin & Cie. is the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
after  Bridgestone Corp. (5108)  It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free of charge (until 1920) and intended for
chauffeurs. The guide contained practical information, including
street maps and tips on using and repairing tires. The guide is
based in Paris, and Michelin in Clermont-Ferrand,  France .  “Main Cities of Europe,” costs 14.99 pounds in the U.K.
It will go on sale in France on April 4 for 22.90 euros.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 