-- 
Pending Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Decline by 2.8%, More Than Forecast

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-02-28T15:33:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/pending-sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-decline-by-2-8-more-than-forecast.html
The number of Americans signing
contracts to buy previously owned homes fell in January, a sign
the industry that triggered the recession was struggling at the
start of 2011.  The index of pending home resales dropped 2.8 percent after
a revised 3.2 percent decrease the prior month that was
initially reported as a gain, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists called for a
2.3 percent decrease.  Foreclosures that are driving down prices and unemployment
at 9 percent signal the housing market may not make much headway
this year.  Interest rates  that are rising pose another challenge
to real estate, which may lag behind the rest of the economy
this year.  “This is worrying,” said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist
at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “People may be holding back
because they think there are more foreclosures coming. We need a
strong pickup in jobs to see people buying again.”  Pending home sales were projected to fall after an
originally reported gain of 2 percent in December, according to
the median of 39 forecasts in the Bloomberg survey. Estimates
ranged from a drop of 6 percent to an increase of 1.5 percent.    Consumer spending  in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent in January,
less than forecast and the smallest gain since June, as
increasing food and fuel prices caused Americans to cut back on
other goods and services, Commerce Department figures showed
earlier today.  ISM-Chicago  Businesses in the U.S. unexpectedly grew in February at the
fastest pace in two decades, indicating manufacturing remains at
the forefront of the expansion. The Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. said its business barometer rose to 71.2
this month, the highest since July 1988, from 68.8 in January.  Stocks extended gains after the report, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rising 0.7 percent to 1,328.56 at 10:32 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was
little changed from Feb. 25 at 3.41 percent.  From January 2010, pending home sales were down 4.4
percent.  Three of four regions showed a decrease in contract
signings from a month earlier, today’s report showed, led by a
7.3 percent drop in the Midwest and a 5.2 percent decrease in
the West. Purchases rose 1.4 percent in the South.  February Snow  Snow covered about 70 percent of the country in the middle
of last month, according to the National Climatic Data Center.
That may have prevented potential buyers from venturing out to
new developments.  Housing demand see-sawed last year, reflecting a boost from
a national home buyer tax incentive of as much as $8,000 that
gave way to a plunge in sales by mid-2010 as the credit ended.  With sales yet to show sustained strength, builders have
slowed construction efforts. Housing permits fell 10 percent to
a 563,000 annual rate in January, the Commerce Department said
last week.  More distressed homes may come on the market this year
after home seizures were delayed due to state investigations and
bank reviews of foreclosures. The number of homes receiving a
foreclosure notice will climb about 20 percent in 2011, reaching
a peak for the housing crisis, RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine,
California-based data seller, said last month.  Falling Prices  That will put more pressure on prices. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of home values in 20 cities fell 2.4 percent in December
from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month decrease since
December 2009, the group said this week. Prices were down 31
percent from their peak in July 2006.  “My intuition rates the probability of another 15, 20,
even 25 percent real-home price decline as substantial,”  Robert Shiller , a co-founder of the index, said on a conference call
last week. “It’s a substantial risk.”  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Purchases of existing
homes are tabulated when a contract closes, typically a month or
two later.  Sales of previously owned homes, which now make up more
than 90 percent of the market, unexpectedly climbed in January
to the highest level in eight months, led by rising demand for
distressed properties. Sales increased 2.7 percent to a 5.36
million annual rate, according to figures from the National
Association of Realtors.  Distressed Sales  Distressed sales accounted for 37 percent of the total, the
highest proportion in 12 months, and all-cash sales amounted for
32 percent, the highest since the group started tracking that
category in 2008, the group said.  Purchases of new houses in the U.S. fell 13 percent to a
284,000 rate in January, close to a record low of 274,000, the
Commerce Department said last week.  Rising borrowing costs represent another hurdle. The
average rate on 30-year fixed mortgages matched or exceeded 5
percent for a third period in the week ended Feb. 18, the first
time that’s happened since April, the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  said last week. Rates have been rising from a record
low of 4.21 percent reached in October.  Homebuilders keep posting losses. D.R. Horton Inc., the
second-largest U.S. homebuilder by stock-market value, on Jan.
27 reported a fiscal first-quarter loss that was wider than
analysts expected.  “I don’t see anything in ‘11 that’s going to make ‘11
better than ‘10,” D.R. Horton Chief Executive Officer Donald
Tomnitz said during a conference call. “We need job growth, we
need  consumer confidence  and we still have issues with
qualifying people with tighter mortgage underwriting”
standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  