-- 
Pent-Up Demand Lifts U.S. Economic Recovery Outlook, Business Survey Shows

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/pent-up-demand-boosts-u-s-gdp-outlook-business-economists-say.html
U.S. companies expect the economy to
grow faster than previously estimated as demand from consumers,
businesses and other countries picks up, a survey showed.  Gross domestic product in the world’s largest economy will
expand at a 3.3 percent pace in 2011, up from the 2.6 percent
rate forecast in November, according to a survey by the  National
Association for Business Economics  issued today in Washington.
Consumer spending, business investment and exports will also
increase more than previously projected.  “Pretty much across the board there has been a better view
with regard to the economic recovery,” Bill Strauss, a senior
economist at the Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Chicago , who analyzed
the results, said in an interview. “The consumer sector is
coming back, and we’re still looking at pretty good numbers
coming from the business sector.”  The report, along with recent data showing stronger
manufacturing, overseas demand and  consumer confidence , adds to
evidence the  U.S. economy  is gaining momentum in 2011. At the
same time, a “tepid” housing market and sustained high
unemployment will restrain growth this year, the survey said.  About 40 percent of respondents expect the recovery will
continue at a moderate pace with output at or slightly above
potential, while about 30 percent are more optimistic about
growth, the survey showed. Eleven percent characterized the
expansion as subpar, down from 40 percent in the last survey.  More Spending    Consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, will increase 3.2 percent this year, up from the
previous forecast of 2.4 percent. Business investment in
equipment and software will expand 12.1 percent, 1.3 percentage
points higher than the last projection.  Export growth this year will exceed import growth, rising
8.6 percent versus 7 percent, according to the survey.  Even with improvements in the labor market, the jobless
rate will remain high, according to the report. Employers will
add an average of 178,300 workers to payrolls each month in 2011
as unemployment ends the year at 9 percent.  The report also said housing will lag behind the rest of
the economy. Respondents cut their expectations for housing
starts to 660,000 units in 2011, from 720,000 projected in the
prior survey. Most said home prices will be “bumping along at a
cyclical low,” increasing a less-than-previously estimated 0.4
percent.  The federal deficit, forecast to widen to $1.4 trillion
this year, was the respondents’ “single greatest concern going
forward,” according to the report.  Inflation Outlook  The economists surveyed lowered their forecast for the
Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, which excludes food and energy
costs, by 0.1 percentage point, expecting prices to increase 1.2
percent in 2011.  “The group really is not taking much concern either with
inflation or deflation,” Strauss said.  Oil will rise to $96 per barrel in December, up from $86
per barrel estimated in the last survey.  Finally, the economists pushed back their forecast for the
Fed’s first increase in its benchmark interest rate to the first
quarter of 2012, citing “persistently high unemployment and low
inflation.” The benchmark 10-year Treasury note will yield 3.9
percent, up from the previous forecast of 3.25 percent.  Forty-seven NABE members responded to the survey, conducted
between Jan. 25 and Feb. 9. The National Association for
Business Economics, founded in 1959, is the professional
organization for people who use economics in their work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski at in  Washington  or
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  