-- 
U.S. Positions Military Units Near Libya, Freezes Qaddafi Family's Assets

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-01T15:30:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/pentagon-repositions-military-near-libya-as-treasury-blocks-qaddafi-assets.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
said the Pentagon is positioning military units near  Libya  to
support humanitarian relief efforts, while the  U.S. Treasury 
announced the freeze of $30 billion in assets of Libyan leader
Muammar Qaddafi, his family and the Libyan government.  In the strongest rhetoric so far against Qaddafi from the
Obama administration,  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the
United Nations, called the Libyan leader “delusional.” Qaddafi
insisted in a television interview yesterday that “my people
love me” and pledged to stay in power, while suggesting the
U.S. wants to occupy Libya.  “When he can laugh in talking to American and
international journalists while he is slaughtering his own
people, it only underscores how unfit he is to lead and how
disconnected he is from reality,” Rice told reporters at the
White House yesterday. Qaddafi’s attitude to the bloody
crackdown on his people highlights the necessity of U.S.,
European and  United Nations  sanctions that have been imposed on
Libya in recent days, she said.  Clinton said U.S. naval forces in the Mediterranean and
U.S. military assets from NATO and host country bases may be
used to support a “humanitarian intervention” and “rescue
missions” aimed at assisting refugees fleeing political
violence in Libya and elsewhere in North Africa.  Nothing ‘Off the Table’  “There is not any pending military action involving U.S.
naval vessels,” Clinton told reporters in Geneva, where she
joined European foreign ministers and other allies at a meeting
of the United Nations Human Rights Council.  Still, “we are taking no options off the table so long as
the Libyan government continues to turn its guns on its own
people,” Clinton said in testimony today before the House
Foreign Affairs Committee in  Washington .  “The entire region is changing, and a strong and strategic
American response will be essential. In the years ahead, Libya
could become a peaceful democracy, or it could face protracted
civil war. The stakes are high,” Clinton told Congress today.  Commander Wendy L. Snyder, a Pentagon spokeswoman,
described the repositioning of forces near Libya as part of the
Defense Department’s “contingency planning to provide the
President flexibility on a full range of options regarding
Libya.”  Aid Teams  Clinton said the U.S. was dispatching emergency relief
teams to Libya’s borders to assist refugees fleeing the
government’s armed crackdown on a popular uprising.  The U.S. Agency for International Development has allocated
$10 million in emergency aid and two expert relief teams to
support relief organizations aiding Libyans, guest workers and
migrants caught up in the violence and dislocation, Clinton
said.  Meanwhile, $30 billion in cash and securities belonging to
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , his family or the Libyan
government have been frozen since President  Barack Obama  ordered
sanctions on Feb. 25, in what a Treasury official called the
largest such action in history.  “This is the largest blocking under any sanctions program
ever,” said  David Cohen , acting Treasury undersecretary for
terrorism and financial intelligence, without giving details of
the banks involved in the freeze. The funds blocked by the U.S.
don’t include any Libyan assets frozen by European governments,
he said.  ‘Viable Alternative’  U.S. officials, meanwhile, have been in touch with Libyan
opposition figures and members of civil society, Rice told
reporters at the White House, though it’s “unclear at this
point who will emerge” as a viable alternative representing
those seeking a democratic government. In that context, she
said, it’s “premature” to talk about “any kind of military
assistance” to anti-Qaddafi rebels.  The U.S. wants to see a “responsible government emerge
that respects the will of the Libyan people,” Rice said, adding
that “it would be wrong of us to sit here with a road map for a
political transformation in Libya.”  State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said U.S.
Ambassador to Libya Gene Cretz, who is in Washington, has been
reaching out since the weekend to a range of opposition figures
to understand “what’s happening on the ground and to identify
as we go forward what needs and concerns they might have.”  Future Leaders  Many who have put themselves forward as possible leaders of
a transitional leadership or opposition movement, such as former
Justice Minister Moustafa Abdel Jalil, were until recently
loyalists to Qaddafi. Crowley acknowledged the definition of
“what constitutes a legitimate government is complex.”  “We are just at the beginning of assessing” the
opposition and its goals, he told reporters at the State
Department.  Referring to possible military action in Libya, Rice said
the U.S. is considering “a wide range of options,” saying it
would be “premature to say more than that.”  Some Congressional leaders, including Senator  John McCain ,
the ranking Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee,
have called for the U.S. and allies to impose a no-fly zone over
Libya.  Obama administration officials say that is one idea under
consideration, though it is a complicated action to take, and
not something that might be imposed immediately.  ‘Horrible Regimes’  “Most of the violence is on the ground,” Clinton told the  BBC  in an interview in Geneva yesterday.  “That’s one of the drawbacks of a no-fly zone, as we
learned in  Iraq ,” she added. “Sometimes absolutely horrible
regimes decide” that a no-fly zone means “it’s open fire on
the ground.”  In Washington, Crowley added, “You can’t snap your fingers
and declare a no-fly zone. There’s a lot of preparatory work
that has to be done.”  “You need rules of engagement, on what happens on when
aircraft enter the airspace of another country,” he said,
adding that those issues are under discussion with allies.  Clinton said she and counterparts in Geneva discussed
providing humanitarian relief and other measures “to determine
the best way forward” and “support the Libyan people as they
pursue” building a democracy.  The U.S. is focused on keeping medical supplies flowing and
making sure the violence does not lead to food shortages, she
said. “We have conducted an inventory of all American food aid
resources in the region and are prepared to divert or dispatch
other food stocks to Libya as the need arises,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Geneva at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  