-- 
Pep Boys Auto-Parts Chain Said to Halt Efforts to Sell Itself Over Price

-- B y   J e f f   M c C r a c k e n ,   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-02-28T21:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/pep-boys-auto-parts-chain-said-to-halt-efforts-to-sell-itself-over-price.html
Pep Boys - Manny, Moe & Jack, the
Philadelphia-based auto-parts retailer, halted efforts to sell
itself after failing to attract a high enough price, said two
people with knowledge of the negotiations. The shares fell the
most in almost nine months.  The company got initial indications of interest at $10 to
$11 a share this month, said the people, who declined to be
identified because talks weren’t public. Pep Boys had
anticipated offers in the low teens, about or slightly above
where the stock is currently trading, the people said.  Pep Boys had hired Bank of America Corp. to explore a sale,
approaching buyout firms such as Bain Capital LLC, TPG Capital
and Leonard Green & Partners LP, people familiar with the matter
said in January. Founded 90 years ago, Pep Boys has more than
620 stores across the U.S. offering service and parts.  Alex Spooner, a representative for the company, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment. Pep Boys’ sales are
poised to rise for the first time in four years in the 12-month
period ended in January, approaching $2 billion, according to
the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Pep Boys fell $1.40, or 10 percent, to $12.53 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The drop was the
largest since June 8.  Pep Boys, which has tried unsuccessfully to sell itself in
the past, could still revive the process, one of the people
said. About five years ago, the auto-parts retailer hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . to weigh options after investor
Barington Capital Group LP lobbied for a change in leadership.  Pep Boys is now run by Chief Executive Officer Mike Odell,
who joined the company as operations chief in September 2007.
New York-based Barington owned 4.7 percent of Pep Boys’ shares
outstanding as of June 29, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  