-- 
Peru Raises Bank-Reserve Requirement a Second Time to Cool Credit Growth

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-02-28T17:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/peru-raises-bank-reserve-requirement-to-ease-inflation-pressure.html
  Peru ’s central bank increased
reserve requirements for a second straight month to ease
inflation pressures amid surging demand for credit, goods and
services.  Banco Central de Reserva del Peru raised the average
reserve rate by 0.25 percentage point of banks’ sol- and dollar-
denominated deposits. The increase takes effect March 1, the
central bank said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Policy makers have raised both the reserve ratio and their
benchmark rate twice this year as bank lending feeds a boom in
private investment and consumer demand in the $153 billion
economy. The central bank is seeking to prevent rising
international prices for food and crude oil from contaminating
other parts of  South America ’s sixth-largest economy, bank
president Julio Velarde said last week.  “They’re trying to deflate any potential bubble in the
credit market and moderate demand-side pressures on inflation,”
said  Benito Berber , a currency strategist at Nomura Securities
Inc, in a phone interview from New York. “The risk is that by
the end of the year inflation could have tripled. They’re
putting the brakes on right now.”  Higher commodity prices sparked the fastest monthly
inflation in more than two years in January and will likely push
the annual rate “very close” to 3 percent, Velarde told
reporters Feb. 24.  Peru’s sol gained 0.1 percent to 2.7735 per  U.S. dollar  at
11:39 a.m. in  New York , from 2.7765 on Feb. 25.  Consumer Prices  February’s rise in consumer prices is forecast to match
January’s 0.39 percent month-on-month increase, according the
median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
annual inflation rate for February is projected to rise to 2.2
percent, compared with 2.17 percent in January.  Peru’s national statistics agency will issue its monthly
inflation report tomorrow.  The increase in the reserve ratio seeks “to keep inflation
expectations anchored within the 1 percent to 3 percent target
range,” the bank said in yesterday’s statement.  Outstanding bank loans rose 19 percent to 110 billion soles
($39.6 billion) in January from a year earlier, the Andean
country’s banking association Asbanc said last week.  Sol Volatility  The central bank extended  reserve requirements  to include
the overseas units of domestic lenders for the first time on
Jan. 1 as it seeks to prevent short-term capital inflows from
increasing volatility in the sol.  Peruvian banks’ average reserve requirement was 12.1
percent during Feb. 1 to Feb. 22, according to central bank
 data .  Economic growth accelerated in the fourth quarter as
infrastructure projects boosted construction output. Gross
domestic product rose 2.2 percent from the third quarter, the
government’s statistics agency said today in an e-mailed report.  GDP climbed 9.2 percent in the fourth quarter from the same
period a year earlier, taking growth for 2010 to 8.8 percent,
the agency said. Analysts forecast a 9.1 percent year-on-year
expansion, according to the median estimate of 10 economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  “Growth will probably be close to 9 percent in the first
quarter, and that’s very high,” said  Pedro Tuesta , a
Washington-based economist for Latin America at 4Cast Inc, in a
phone interview. “The central bank will keep tightening to stay
ahead of the curve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  