-- 
Premia Foods CEO Says Raw Material Prices Are Stabilizing

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-02-28T08:06:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/premia-foods-ceo-says-raw-material-prices-are-stabilizing.html
AS Premia Foods, the largest Baltic
frozen-food producer, sees more stable raw materials prices for
its ice-cream operations in coming quarters, Chief Executive
Kuldar Leis said.  Premia last week reported a wider fourth-quarter loss due
to higher raw material costs for ice cream production and said
such increases will continue. It will raise rates this quarter
to compensate.  “The biggest price increases for raw materials are already
left behind and the situation has stabilized,” Leis said in a
phone interview in Tallinn today. “For us, the second and third
quarter are more important due to higher sales volumes, and
historically, raw material prices have been more stable in those
periods.”  Premia Foods last May acquired Russia’s OOO Khladokombinat
No. 1, the second largest ice-cream producer in  St. Petersburg ,
after listing its shares in Tallinn earlier that month. The
company earned 34 percent of revenue from ice-cream last year,
up from 23 percent in 2009, with Russia being the biggest
market. Fish products, mostly sold in  Finland , had a 38.5
percent share of revenue, down from 43 percent in 2009.  “The dairy raw material prices have already stabilized and
aren’t rising anymore, while the price of sugar has started to
rise very steeply during last months,” Leis said. “Still, the
European Union is discussing a change in import strategy, and is
apparently doing everything to bring the price of sugar back to
normal levels.”  Kristo Oidermaa, an analyst with LHV Pank, said cost
increases “are certainly difficult” to pass on to clients as
retail chains are trying to negotiate lower prices.  Raw material price increases take three to six months to
feed into end-user prices and will affect Premia’s rivals as
well, he added. Oidermaa has a “buy” recommendation on the
stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  