-- 
Prosecutors Seek Trail of Carbon Permit Thieves in Romania

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-02-28T16:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/prosecutors-seek-trail-of-carbon-permit-thieves-in-romania.html
Prosecutors are investigating
whether the hackers who roiled the world’s biggest carbon market
to  Romania , can be traced to the eastern European country, said
 Codrut Olaru , head of the national  anti-organized crime unit .  The European Union is helping coordinate a joint effort
with the Romanian prosecutors to investigate the computer-
hacking attacks, Olaru said in an interview in Bucharest on Feb.
25. There isn’t sufficient evidence to prove the hackers are
Romanian citizens, although prosecutors haven’t ruled out they
may have been located in the country, he said.  “I can undoubtedly say that there are no certain elements
to identify the criminals inside Romanian borders,” Olaru said.
“We’re checking, we cannot rule out that possibility, but the
investigation is ongoing.”  Registries across Europe reported unauthorized transfers of
carbon permits worth an estimated 60 million euros ($83 million)
over the past three months, which forced the EU to close on Jan.
19 all 30 registries that track ownership of carbon allowances.
The European Commission, the EU regulator, has so far permitted
10 registries to reopen after proving they meet the minimum
security requirements.  Spot trading remains hampered in the world’s biggest
program for greenhouse gas permits by traded volume, even as
registries in  Belgium ,  Estonia ,  France ,  Germany , Luxembourg, the
Netherlands,  Portugal , Slovakia,  Spain , and the U.K. have
reopened in the past weeks. The remaining 20 have yet to present
independent reports showing they meet the security requirements.  ‘Carousel Fraud’  Suspended registries can’t record transactions, except for
the surrender and allocation of permits. That prevents account
holders from selling or buying permits for spot delivery and
drove spot carbon markets to a halt for 15 days before the
BlueNext SA exchange resumed earlier this month.  Last month’s attacks on the EU carbon market followed
“carousel fraud” involving value-added tax collection and so-
called password phishing last year. The Romanian unit of Holcim
Ltd., a Swiss cement maker, reported 1.6 million permits missing
from its account in November and managed to track 600,000 of
them. Italian energy trader TCIE Srl, operating under the name
The Cube Energy, still hasn’t found around 268,000 allowances
that disappeared from the registry last month.  Both TCIE and Holcim are suing the commission, demanding
help in locating the missing allowances and seeking as much as
100,000 euros a day in penalty payments.  “The only connection we have found so far between the
other cases in  Europe  and the one in Romania is the subject of
the crime,” Olaru said.  Some member states and firms neglected security rules,  Jos
Delbeke , director general for climate at the commission, said on
Jan. 28. Organized crime may be responsible for the theft, and
national authorities are working with Europol to catch the
criminals, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  