-- 
Qatar to Award $3 Billion of Construction Contracts for New World Cup City

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-02-28T07:58:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/qatar-to-award-3-billion-of-construction-contracts-for-new-world-cup-city.html
Lusail Real Estate Development Co.,
the state-owned Qatari company building a new city in time for
the 2022 soccer  World Cup , plans to award about $3 billion worth
of contracts for roads and infrastructure over the next year.  “Our strategy is to go for an open bid,” Chief Executive
Officer Essa Mohammed Ali Kaldari said in an interview. “We
would like to give an opportunity to many companies.”  Lusail City , which will have 200,000 residents and capacity
to accommodate twice that many people, is scheduled to be
completed by 2019, Kaldari said. The city will include manmade
islands, an entertainment district, an office park for energy
companies, a golf course and five stadiums. The  World Cup  final
will be held in a venue north of the city, the CEO said.  The largest of the projects to be awarded in the next year
will be for construction of the Al Khor Highway, running along
Lusail City’s western border, Kaldari said. He didn’t provide
details of other contracts to be given out.    Hochtief AG ,  Germany ’s biggest construction company,
started a joint venture with Lusail Real Estate in May to
provide planning and construction services for the new city. The
company plans to bid for other contracts.  “We are interested in infrastructure projects and building
projects as well,” Hochtief spokesman Bernd Puetter said in a
telephone interview. “We will be bidding.”  Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund acquired a 9.1 percent stake
in Hochtief in December. The German company is building a
commercial area for Qatari developer  Barwa Real Estate Co .  Spain ’s Actividades de Construccion & Servisios SA said this
month it controls 33.5 percent of Hochtief as it pursues a
hostile takeover of the company.  Hotels, Railways  Qatar will spend about $65 billion getting ready for the
World Cup, awarded to the country in December, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch estimates. The country plans to double the number
of hotel and apartment rooms in the country, build a new rail
network, construct nine World Cup stadiums and refurbish three
existing ones. Plans to build Lusail City were included in plans
shown in September to inspectors from FIFA, world soccer’s
governing body.  “Before, people were beginning to come to us for building
permits and concept design approval. Things were going in a
normal manner,” Kaldari said. “Now it’s starting to speed up
because people know that they need to deliver.”  Private Developers  Lusail City’s infrastructure will cost about $5 billion and
will be finished by 2015, Kaldari said. About 75 percent of the
city’s land has been sold to private developers, mostly from the  Persian Gulf . The companies are required to complete their
projects within four years of receiving the land, Kaldari said.  Mourjan Marinas  is developing the Lusail marina, and Qatar
Real Estate Development Co. plans to construct a 1 billion riyal
($275 million) mall.  Qatar, a country of 1.6 million, is using revenue from the
world’s third-biggest gas reserves to invest in infrastructure,
research centers and universities. The country’s government
forecasts that its gross domestic product will grow 21 percent
this year, after a 16 percent increase in 2010. The population
may rise to 3 million by 2020, Kaldari said, citing government
projections.  Lusail Real Estate is part of Qatari Diar Real Estate
Investment Co., the development arm of Qatar’s sovereign wealth
fund. Lusail city will be financed through Diar, Kaldari said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  