-- 
U.S. Treasury Freezes Record $30 Billion in Libyan Assets

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-28T20:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/treasury-freezes-30-billion-of-libyan-assets-as-obama-pressures-qaddafi.html
The  U.S. Treasury  has frozen $30
billion in cash and securities of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
and his government in what amounts to the largest ever such U.S.
action, a Treasury official said today.  The freeze began over the weekend as a result of President
Barack Obama’s executive order issued Feb. 25.  “This is the largest blocking under any sanctions program
ever,” said  David Cohen , acting Treasury undersecretary for
terrorism and financial intelligence. The $30 billion blocked by
the U.S. doesn’t include any Libyan funds frozen by European
governments under separate orders, he said.  The freezing of Libyan assets in the U.S. is part of the
Obama administration’s effort to pressure Qaddafi to step down
and allow for a transitional government to be formed in the
North African country that has been wracked by violence in the
last several days.  Cohen said he had no details on the types of assets or the
number of banks involved in the freeze.  The executive order applies to any cash or investments
owned by Qaddafi, his family members, the Libyan government, or
the central bank of  Libya , Cohen said.  He didn’t rule out the freezing of additional assets if
they are discovered in subsequent reviews.  “There may be some additional money that will be blocked
as a result, but I can’t say what that would be,” Cohen said in
a conference call with reporters.  He said he didnt think Libyan officials had sought to
withdraw large amounts of money from U.S. accounts in the last
few days.  “We have not seen evidence that there was an effort to
liquidate these accounts,” Cohen said.  He also said the U.S. is considering whether to expand the
asset blockage to other individuals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  