-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yield May Rise to 4% by Year-End, Caron Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-02-28T17:13:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/treasury-10-year-note-yield-may-rise-to-4-morgan-stanley-says-tom-keene.html
Yields on Treasury 10-year notes may
reach 4 percent by the end of the year as projections for U.S.
economic growth and inflation increase, according to Morgan
Stanley’s James Caron.  “As long as we see rising growth and inflation projections
continuing to move higher, then we’re in line for some higher
yields,” Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy in New
York, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Morgan Stanley forecast U.S. gross domestic product to
increase 4 percent for 2011 versus the 3.2 percent consensus,
Caron said.  Core inflation  will rise to 1.8 percent by year end,
versus a 1.1 percent consensus, he said.  U.S. 10-year yields were little changed today in New York
at 3.42 percent after touching 3.39 percent, the lowest level
since Feb. 1. They closed on Feb. 8 at 3.74 percent, the highest
in 10 months, after the employment rate unexpectedly dropped the
previous week and small-business confidence rose, adding to
evidence the economy is accelerating.  Yields have fallen since then as unrest in North Africa and
the Mideast has raised concern higher  oil prices  will dent the
recovery, and a report from the Commerce Department on Feb. 25
showed the economy grew more slowly in the fourth quarter than
first estimated. The annual pace was 2.8 percent, versus a 3.2
percent initial calculation.  If growth stalls and oil pressure continues, the 10-year
yield may not reach 4 percent, Caron indicated.  “Unless we can get through stresses of the Middle East, a
4 percent 10-year yield seems, even for us, a little bit
optimistic and yields for us stay within a range here at this
point,” Caron said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  