-- 
Regeneron's Arcalyst Treatment Shown to Help Prevent Gout Flares in Study

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-02-28T21:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/regeneron-s-arcalyst-treatment-shown-to-help-prevent-gout-flares-in-study.html
  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc . said
its only marketed product, Arcalyst, helped prevent gout flares
in a late-stage study of patients starting therapy to lower uric
acid levels.  Those taking an injection of 80 or 160 milligrams a week of
Arcalyst over four months had a decrease of 72 percent in gout
flares compared with placebo, Tarrytown, New York-based
Regeneron said today in a statement. The data, from the third
and final stage of testing generally required for approval, will
support an application with U.S. regulators by mid-2011, the
company said.  About 750,000 gout patients start taking uric acid-lowering
therapy such as allopurinol each year, Mark Monane, an analyst
with Needham & Co. in New York, wrote in a Feb. 17 research
note. During the first few months of therapy, the breakup of
uric acid crystals can cause flares of joint pain, which
Arcalyst aims to prevent. If successful, the medicine may
generate up to $500 million in annual revenue, Monane estimated.  Arcalyst “may have significant potential as a co-treatment
in allopurinol initiation for chronic gout,” Monane said in his
note. “We were impressed by the drastic reduction in the mean
number of gout flares” in an earlier study, he said.  The medicine was generally well-tolerated, and the
incidence of severe adverse events was similar in both arms of
the study reported today, Regeneron said. Mild injection-site
reactions were more common in the Arcalyst arm, the company
said.  Arcalyst was approved in February 2008 for the treatment of
rare, inherited autoinflammatory diseases known as Cryopyrin-
Associated Periodic Syndromes. The drug had $25.3 million in
revenue last year, according to a Feb. 17 Regeneron statement.  Regeneron fell 73 cents, or 2 percent, to $36.27 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares gained
48 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 