-- 
Sudanese Militia Kills Five in Disputed Abyei Region, Administrator Says

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-03-22T15:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/renewed-fighting-leaves-seven-police-officers-dead-in-sudan-s-abyei-region.html
Sudanese militia fighters killed
five people in an attack on a village in  Abyei , a region claimed
by both northern and  southern Sudan , said the chief
administrator for the area, Deng Arop.  The attack occurred when the northern government’s Popular
Defense Forces militia attacked the village of Dungop east of
Abyei town at 2 a.m. local time, Arop said by phone. Hua Jiang,
a spokeswoman for the  United Nations Mission in Sudan , confirmed
the killings.  Southern Sudan’s army spokesman, Philip Aguer, said that
only three people were killed in the attack. Two soldiers from
the region’s army who were visiting the area were wounded, he
said. Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled did not answer
calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  Oil-rich  Southern Sudan  voted in January to secede from the
rest of  Sudan  and will become independent in July. Abyei was
supposed to vote at the same time to decide whether to be part
of the north or south. The plebiscite, part of the 2005  peace
agreement  that ended Sudan’s two-decade civil war, was postponed
because of disputes over who is eligible to vote.  Abyei Clashes  Fighting in the region in January, which claimed more than
60 lives, ended after northern-backed ethnic Misseriya leaders
agreed in principle that they should pay compensation for
killings in 2010, while the Ngok Dinka, who are supported by
Southern Sudan’s government, would allow the Misseriya to bring
their cattle to the region in their annual seasonal migration in
search of water.  The Ngok Dinka said they alone should be allowed to vote in
the region’s referendum. The Permanent Court of Arbitration in
the Hague, in a 2009 ruling, set Abyei’s borders to the area
around Ngok Dinka settlements, largely excluding the Misseriya.  The Misseriya, supported by President Umar al-Bashir’s
government in Khartoum, say that as seasonal inhabitants of
Abyei they should also have the right to vote in the referendum.
The north-south peace agreement gave Abyei “special
administrative status” and its residents citizenship in both
the north and south.  Clashes in the area three years ago between the armies of
northern and southern Sudan killed 89 people and forced more
than 90,000 people to flee their homes, according to the  United
Nations .  Oil Fields  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration , in its ruling, set key
oil fields, including Heglig and Bamboo, outside of the Abyei
region. Those fields and Diffra in Abyei are run by the Greater
Nile Petroleum Operating Co., which is 40 percent owned by
Beijing-based China National Petroleum Corp.  Abyei accounts for less than 2,500 barrels a day, according
to Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  Sudan’s army dropped several bombs from an Antonov plane
close to two villages in the Southern Sudanese state of Western
Bahr el-Ghazal, close to the border with the north, at 10 a.m.
yesterday, Aguer said. There were no reports of casualties, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 