-- 
Republican Budget-Cut Plan Would Cost 700,000 Jobs by 2012, Moody's Says

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-02-28T18:16:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/republican-budget-cut-plan-would-cost-700-000-jobs-by-2012-moody-s-says.html
House Republicans’ $61 billion
budget-cutting plan would cost 700,000 jobs, according to a
 report  likely to inflame the debate over the U.S. government
deficit.  The measure would reduce real economic growth this year by
0.5 percentage points and by 0.2 percentage points next year,
resulting in 700,000 fewer jobs by the end of 2012, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist for Moody’s Analytics. He said budget-
cutters should wait until the  U.S. economy  is stronger, saying
Republicans “would be taking an unnecessary chance with the
recovery.”  “Significant government spending restraint is vital, but
given the economy’s halting recovery it would be
counterproductive for that restraint to begin until the U.S. is
creating enough jobs to lower the  unemployment rate ,” Zandi
said.  The House approved its plan Feb. 19. Democrats who control
the Senate have said they wouldn’t accept the reductions.  A spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, dismissed Zandi’s report.  “The fact that a relentless cheerleader for the failed
‘stimulus’ -- which the Democrats who run Washington claimed
would keep unemployment below 8 percent -- refuses to understand
that ending the spending binge will help the private sector
create jobs is sad, but not surprising,” said Michael Steel.  The U.S. unemployment rate was 9 percent in January.  Last week, Goldman Sachs said the House budget plan would
shave between 1.5 and 2 percentage points off economic growth
during the second and third quarters of this year.  Zandi said the proposed spending cuts would come at a
particularly inopportune time because the economy is under new
pressure from rising oil prices, pushed upward by the unrest in
the Middle East. He said the plan would also undo some of the
economic boost provided by the  Federal Reserve  and the $858
billion tax-cut package approved in December by Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  