-- 
Rio Tinto, Baoshan Sign Three-Year Coal Supply Contract

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-28T10:12:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/rio-tinto-baoshan-sign-three-year-coal-supply-contract-1-.html
  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s third-
largest mining company, signed a contract to supply coking coal
to Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., entering its first long-term
agreement for the fuel with a steelmaker in China.  Rio signed a three-year contract in Shanghai last week,
Baoshan, China’s biggest publicly traded steelmaker, said today
in a  newsletter , without giving a volume or value of the
contract. Supplies will start this year, Baoshan said.  “Chinese steelmakers along the coast will import more
coking coal because shipping the raw material from domestic
mines in Shanxi,  Inner Mongolia  and other provinces becomes
costly,” said Liu Bao, a Shanghai-based coal analyst with
Mysteel Research Institute.  Rio is seeking to mend ties with China, a market that
brings in about one-quarter of its sales, after rejecting a
proposed investment from Aluminum Corp. of China in 2009.  China 
last year also sentenced four former Rio executives to prison
for bribery and the infringement of commercial secrets.  China’s coking coal imports will probably gain to 110
million tons by 2020 from 37 million tons in 2009 and about 53
million tons last year, Gerard McCloskey, the founder of
researcher McCloskey Group Ltd., said in January.  Rio advanced 1.2 percent to close at A$84.93 today in
Sydney trading. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. gained 1.5 percent to
6.95 yuan in Shanghai.  Coal Imports  Coking coal imports account for less than 10 percent of
Chinese demand, Liu said. Baoshan imports about 1 million tons
of the raw material a year from overseas, about 15 percent of
its annual consumption, she said. Coking coal is turned into
coke and used in blast furnaces.  Baosteel Group Corp., Baoshan’s parent, formed a venture
with Rio’s Hamersley Iron unit in Western  Australia  in 2002,
securing 200 million tons of iron ore supply over 20 years,
Baoshan Steel said in the newsletter. Rio Tinto supplies its
customers with 13.6 million tons of coal a year, taking a 5.7
percent global share, the newsletter said.  Floods in Australia’s Queensland state, which supplies
about 40 percent of global coking-coal exports, forced companies
including Rio, Xstrata Plc, BHP Billiton Ltd. and Anglo American
Plc to warn customers they may miss deliveries. The coal
contract for the three months starting April 1 may jump 51
percent to $340 a ton as floods curb supplies, UBS AG said Jan.
19.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Helen Yuan in  Shanghai  at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 