-- 
Xavier Rolet Wrestles Technology at LSE as Rivals Steal M&A Show

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-02-28T16:37:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/rolet-fights-to-tame-technology-at-lse-as-deutsche-boerse-steals-m-a-show.html
Xavier Rolet, the chief executive
officer of  London Stock Exchange Group Plc , has started
overhauling the 209-year-old bourse’s technology, stemmed a
slide in market share and helped spur a rebound in the stock --
all in less than two years on the job.  He has also seen his $3.15 billion takeover bid for Toronto
Stock Exchange owner  TMX Group Inc . upstaged by  Deutsche Boerse
AG  and NYSE Euronext’s merger. London’s main equities venue,
which brought a new system online Feb. 14 after more than three
months of delays, experienced a four-hour trading halt on Feb.
25. Three days earlier, a data malfunction shut down LSE’s Borsa
Italiana for 6 1/2 hours just as violence in  Libya  sent global
markets tumbling.  Rolet, 51, is struggling to compete at a time when global
markets are consolidating by modernizing systems and expanding
into  North America . While LSE’s shares almost doubled since his
appointment was announced Feb. 13, 2009, the company’s annual
sales are forecast to rise 2.9 percent this year after climbing
an average of 25 percent from fiscal 2005 to 2010, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “He has substantial challenges,” said Jeremy Isaacs,
founder of JRJ Group who was head of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s European and Asian business and has been friends with
Rolet since the 1990s. “TMX is a good deal, and if it wasn’t
for NYSE-Deutsche Boerse, it would be viewed as groundbreaking.
It’s been usurped -- like buying a new car and putting it on
your drive, then your neighbor buys a Rolls Royce.”  Shares Gain  Victoria Brough, a spokeswoman for LSE, said Rolet wasn’t
immediately available to comment. LSE shares rose 0.8 percent to
900 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London  today.  Rolet, who earned a master’s degree in business
administration from  New York ’s Columbia University in 1983,
joined LSE in May 2009 after almost a decade at Lehman Brothers,
where his last job was head of its French business. London-based
LSE, led by Clara Furse for eight years, was confronting
unprecedented competition from electronic exchanges after
regulators threw open markets to competition in 2007.  The company’s share of equity trading for FTSE 100 Index
stocks fell as low as 52 percent in 2010 from about 75 percent
two years earlier as customers shunned higher fees and an aging
trading system that trailed rivals in speed and capacity. The
level is about 55 percent now, according to data compiled by
Bats Global Markets in  Kansas City ,  New Jersey .  Executive Suite  On his arrival at LSE’s Paternoster Square headquarters,
Rolet passed up the seventh-floor executive suite to be closer
to staff. His glass-walled office on the second floor is
decorated with photos of the 2007 Lisbon-Dakar Rally, a desert
car race that he completed for charity, and shots of his three
children and wife sailing.  The executive, who restored and modernized  a medieval
priory and vineyard  in Provence,  France , got to work fixing
LSE’s technology. He took a majority stake in Turquoise, an
alternative platform owned by his biggest customers, and
restructured fees to stem the loss of market share.  “Xavier’s always been very aggressive,” said  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive officer of Caldwell Securities Ltd. in
Toronto, which with its affiliates oversees about C$1 billion
including TMX and LSE shares. “It’s putting that aggressiveness
into practice that’s sometimes a challenge. He’s in a little bit
of a siege situation in London because you have these monster
competitors.”  Turquoise Malfunction  In September 2009 Rolet announced the acquisition of
MillenniumIT, a Sri Lankan technology services company, to
replace LSE’s old equities platform, TradElect. After the
exchange moved Turquoise to Millennium on Oct. 4, the system
malfunctioned on its first two days of operation.  LSE’s main market was scheduled to move to the system on
Nov. 15. On Nov. 2, Turquoise again halted dealing for about two
hours, citing a technical problem. Later that day, LSE postponed
the bigger network’s move, saying there may have been
“suspicious circumstances” behind the Turquoise stoppage. LSE
now blames human error for the glitch. It transferred the main
market to Millennium on Feb. 14.  On Feb. 25, London markets paused for more than four hours
due to what the exchange called a “market data issue.” On Feb.
22, LSE’s Milan bourse was unable to open the day after Italy’s
benchmark  FTSE MIB Index  plunged to an eight-month low amid
concern about unrest in Libya. A problem with a system that
sends data to vendors led to trading on Borsa Italiana starting
two hours before the close.  ‘Thankless Task’  “Investors won’t remember necessarily that Borsa Italiana
went down, they will remember that the LSE Group system went
down -- that’s the problem,” said Peter Randall, chief
executive officer of Equiduct Systems Ltd., which is seeking to
take LSE’s business from retail brokers. Fixing the LSE is “a
big task and a thankless task,” he said. Randall previously ran
London-based Chi-X  Europe  Ltd., which he built into LSE’s
biggest rival.  The Google Inc. Internet search engine blocked visitors to
LSE’s website this weekend because an advertisement on the page
was flagged as a possible source of computer viruses, LSE
spokesman Alastair Fairbrother said today. The exchange took
down the ad yesterday and Google is removing the website from
its blacklist, he said.  Dougan, Wheat  Rolet was born to parents in the French military and grew
up in  Sarcelles,  a working-class region of northern Paris. He
served in the French Air Force, as a second lieutenant and
instructor, before enrolling at Columbia.  He started in finance a year later, working for  Robert
Rubin  at Goldman Sachs in New York.  Duncan Niederauer , now CEO
of  NYSE Euronext , was a colleague. He moved to London in 1990,
promoted to co-head of European equity sales and trading.  In 1994 he joined  Credit Suisse First Boston  as global head
of European equities. CSFB employed Brady Dougan, now CEO of
Credit Suisse Group AG, and derivatives pioneer Allen Wheat.  Rolet next worked for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson as global
head of risk and trading before switching to Lehman Brothers in
2000, where as CEO of the bank’s French business he was
responsible for winding up the unit following the September 2008
bankruptcy that marked the height of the financial crisis.  M&A Game  “He is a fixer,” said Isaacs, who worked with Rolet at
Goldman Sachs before bringing him to Lehman. “Also a person
with enormous intellect. I can’t think of anyone who’s more
qualified to sort LSE out -- if sorting it out means making the
LSE a globally competitive platform, giving it a voice in the
global debate and positioning it in the M&A game.”  LSE has sought sources of revenue away from stock trading.
The exchange, which started in the coffee shops of 17th century
London, was the first European market targeted by alternative
trading platforms since deregulation in 2007. Even with TMX,
analysts say the company lacks a clear strategy to tap the more
profitable businesses of its competitors.  “LSE is not paying a premium for TMX and the deal is
accretive from year one,” Donald Fandetti and Nese Guner,
analysts at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a Feb. 15 note to
investors. “Negative is that the deal does not provide the LSE
with meaningful scale in derivatives or post-trade services.”  A combined NYSE and  Deutsche Boerse  will account for about
93 percent of listed derivatives in Europe, according to data
compiled by Citigroup. The expanded company will also own
Clearstream, the region’s second-largest securities-settlement
company, as well as Eurex Clearing.  ‘Able and Aggressive’  LSE is “in a more vulnerable position now than when he
took over, though that’s not because of him,” said Niki Beattie, a consultant to exchanges who knows Rolet from her
years as Merrill Lynch & Co.’s managing director of market
structure. “He is able and aggressive. But the landscape around
LSE is changing faster than they can. Being trumped by NYSE and
Deutsche Boerse shows that. He’s a capable guy but his hands are
relatively tied.”  Rolet’s predecessor Furse fought off five takeover offers
in two years, including bids from Deutsche Boerse, Euronext and
New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc ., before buying the operator
of the Milan stock exchange in 2007. Furse also tried and failed
to buy Liffe, the U.K. derivatives exchange that is now part of
NYSE Euronext.  “Losing Liffe was a critical defining moment in the
history of the LSE,” said Beattie. “Then they didn’t do
anything strategic after that. There was no strong move to get
into derivatives.”  All-Time High       LSE shares gained 83 percent since Feb. 13, 2009, the day
Rolet was named CEO, beating the 49 percent rally in the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index. The stock remains 55 percent
below its all-time high of 1,979 pence reached in December 2007,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  TMX and LSE have a combined market value of 4.32 billion
pounds ($6.96 billion), based on closing prices on Feb. 25. That
compares with $24.6 billion for a combined NYSE and Deutsche
Boerse.  “He’s very aware of the unstoppable consolidation trend
among exchanges,” said Bruce Weber, professor of finance at the
London Business School, who met Rolet about two years ago and
invited him to be a guest lecturer. “He is positioning London
to survive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 