-- 
True Finns Threaten Debt Bailout Plan as April Election Nears: Euro Credit

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-02-28T11:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/true-finns-threaten-debt-bailout-plan-as-april-election-nears-euro-credit.html
Finnish voters may prove as great a
threat to the euro region’s retooled bailout plan as German
taxpayers.  Support for the anti-euro True Finns party has soared as an
April 17 election nears. It’s the fastest-growing movement in
the northernmost euro member, with opinion-poll backing to rival
the nation’s biggest opposition party. Voters are rallying to
its argument that Europe shouldn’t have rescued  Greece  or
Ireland, and Finland should veto more cash for the bailout fund.  “How come they can’t see the euro doesn’t work?” Timo Soini, leader of the True Finns, said in a Feb. 24 phone
interview. “If a melon and an apple each wear the same size
baseball cap, everyone can see that just doesn’t work.”  The party’s success comes as opposition mounts among
Europe’s AAA rated nations to a revamp of aid packages, to be
debated at a March 24-25 summit prior to seeking approval from
the 17 euro-area parliaments.  Portugal ’s 10-year yield has
climbed to 7.58 percent from 6.93 percent at the start of the
month as investors fret that the rescue mechanism won’t be big
enough, last long enough or would charge recipients too much.    Europe ’s leaders need to strengthen the bailout fund amid
speculation that Portugal may need assistance to repay its
debts. Greece has been relying on a 110 billion-euro ($151
billion) bailout since May, while Ireland agreed to its 85
billion-euro rescue loan in November. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s bloc lost a Hamburg regional election on Feb. 20 as
voters recoiled at having their taxes pay for Greek
overspending.  Frustrated Voters  “Some citizens may feel frustration because of the poor
economic policies of the Greeks and the Irish, especially since
Finland has kept its finances in good order throughout the
difficult times,” Prime Minister Mari Kiviniemi said in an e-
mailed reply to questions.    Finland  pays 20 basis points more than Germany to borrow
for 10 years, the second-smallest yield premium in the euro area
after the Netherlands. Greece’s premium is about 870, while
Ireland’s is 616. Portugal’s spread has climbed to more than
440, up from 370 at the start of the year.  The  European Central Bank  has kept its benchmark interest
rate at a record-low 1 percent since May 2009 even as growth
picks up in Germany and other trade-surplus countries with
smaller debt burdens. Inflation in the 17 nations sharing the
euro was at a two-year high of 2.3 percent in January, exceeding
the Frankfurt-based central bank’s limit, according to data
published by the European Union’s statistics office today.  Sovereignty Infringement  The EU will next month decide whether the European
Financial Stability Facility, a rescue fund started in August
with 440 billion euros in capital, should be allowed to buy  government bonds  directly, finance purchases by governments of
their own debt, and how much funding should be available.  “We’re very critical,” of the facility, Soini of the  True
Finns  said. “It infringes on national sovereignty on many
counts, agreeing on budget deficit goals or pre-approval of
budgets.”  His party’s support rose to 16.9 percent in a poll
published by broadcaster YLE last week, up from 6.3 percent a
year ago. Finland’s three biggest parties, by contrast, have all
slid in popularity in polls. The True Finns this month shared
17.9 percent support with the opposition Social Democrats in a
Feb. 17 poll by newspaper  Helsingin Sanomat . The same poll had
Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen’s National Coalition Party at
20.2 percent, and Kiviniemi’s Center Party at 18.2 percent.  “The polls show the True Finns will be the clear winners
in the election,” said Sami Borg, director of the Finnish
Social Science Data Archive at the University of Tampere.
“Their success makes them a force to be reckoned with.”  No Cheaper Funds  The March EU summit will also aim to forge a deal on the
permanent European Stability Mechanism that’s due to take effect
in July 2013, when the EFSF expires. That discussion may be
shaped by the success of efforts to strengthen the EFSF.  Katainen has already signaled his government is opposed to
allowing more lenient terms for Ireland, which is requesting a
cut in the interest rate it pays for emergency funds.  “There is an understanding in Europe and the euro area
that the requirements can’t be eased,” Katainen told Helsinki-
based broadcaster YLE on Feb. 25. In a Feb. 19 interview with
the same station, he said his government “cannot guarantee that
the new parliament will agree” to extend the bailout fund’s
scope.  The True Finns want a smaller euro area shared by AAA
countries such as Finland,  Germany  and  France . Nations on
Europe’s periphery have the “wrong” currency, Soini said.  ‘Like a Cake’  Advance voting for the April 17 elections starts April 6.
Though one in six Finns supports the True Finns, Soini’s plans
to divide the bloc aren’t really feasible, said David Mackie,
chief European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London .  “The way I tend to think about EMU, it’s a bit like if
you’ve made a cake: you may not like the cake that you’ve made,
but you can’t say I’d like to just go back to my starting
ingredients, because you’ve created something new,” Mackie
said. “You’ve got a huge amount of financial integration here,
which is going to be very disruptive to unravel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  