-- 
Rumsfeld ‘Disappointed’ Obama Hasn’t Done More to Boot Quaddafi

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-28T17:52:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/rumsfeld-disappointed-obama-hasn-t-done-more-to-boot-quaddafi.html
Former U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said he’s “disappointed” in how the Obama
administration handled the early stage of the  Libya  crisis and
called on the White House to work with other countries to
“encourage” Muammar Qaddafi’s overthrow.  “The people in Libya and the people in the Middle East
will be vastly better off if he, in fact, goes,” Rumsfeld said
in an interview today on Bloomberg Television.  “We ought to be leaning forward, preferably with other
countries, to try to find ways to encourage the overthrow of
Qaddafi,” he said.  Rumsfeld, an architect of the 2003 Iraq invasion during
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, also said creating a
no-fly zone over Libya “has some merit.”  The Obama administration has worked with the  United Nations 
to impose economic sanctions and travel restrictions on Qaddafi
and his family. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told
reporters in Geneva today that a no-fly zone is an option.  Rumsfeld said Arab governments, including Egypt, might have
averted protests if they had addressed public demands more
quickly.  “Those countries have not moved rapidly or sufficiently
fast toward freer political or freer economic systems,” he
said. “The countries that are doing well are the countries that
have freer political and freer economic systems.”  ‘Radical Islamists’  While advocating a new government for Libya, Rumsfeld said,
“I do worry, as I do in other countries in that part of the
world, that you’d end up with a small minority of radical
Islamists that are well-organized, disciplined and vicious
taking over.”  Since leaving the Pentagon in 2006, Rumsfeld stayed largely
out of public view until the release this month of his memoir,
“Known and Unknown.”  Even as he called for Qaddafi’s overthrow and faulted other
Arab leaders for not embracing political reform, Rumsfeld
defended years of U.S. policy that has fostered cooperative
relationships with Arab strongmen such as  Egypt ’s Hosni Mubarak.  “Our national security and our economic interests require
that we have relationships” with countries “where the
governments are not exactly like us,” he said.  On other issues, Rumsfeld expressed concern that the
national debt has become “crushing.” He rejected the notion
that the problem requires deep cuts in the  defense budget .  While some savings can be found in defense, he said, “If
anyone thinks you’re going to balance the federal budget on the
Defense Department, it’s just not there. It’s in the
entitlements.”  Spending on the Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid
entitlement programs make up the largest share of federal
spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 