-- 
Russia’s RTS Stock-Index Futures Rise as Oil Gains on Libya

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-02-28T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/russia-s-rts-stock-index-futures-rise-as-oil-gains-on-libya.html
  Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
rose as oil, the country’s biggest export, gained on concerns
supplies may be disrupted because of political unrest in  Libya .  Futures on the RTS expiring in March rose 0.3 percent to
193,340 at the close of trading in New York on Feb. 25,
signaling Russian stocks may rise for a third session in Moscow
today. The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, climbed 2.7 percent. Futures on OAO
Rosneft, the nation’s largest oil company, gained 0.3 percent.  “Oil is a major indicator for the Russian market,” Sam Voloshin, the president of Voloshin Capital Management LLC, said
in a telephone interview. “People are concerned over oil and
gas supplies from the Middle East, so oil and gas prices rise,
helping Russian energy stocks.”  The prospect of civil war in Libya as opponents push for
the ouster of leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has pushed crude prices to
a 2 1/2-year high and led to calls for intervention to stop the
worst violence seen in two months of unrest spreading across the
region. Libya holds Africa’s largest oil reserves.  Qaddafi must go “as soon as possible,” U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday after the United Nations
Security Council voted unanimously to freeze his assets and bar
him from travelling on Feb. 26. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said at a news conference with Turkish President Abdullah Gul in
Ankara on Feb. 25 that Qaddafi should leave.  Shares Decline  Middle East shares fell yesterday, sending Saudi Arabia’s
index to a nine-month low, on concern the deadly clashes of the
past week that caused  oil prices  to surge to a more than two-
year high will stall a global recovery.  Crude oil for April delivery rose 0.6 percent to close at
$97.88 a barrel on Feb. 25. Futures are up 25 percent from a
year ago. Prices for the futures contracts closest to expiration
increased 14 percent last week in  New York , the biggest gain
since the five days ended Feb. 27, 2009.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45 nations
rose 1.1 percent on Feb. 25 after a measure of U.S. consumer
confidence beat forecasts. Confidence among American consumers,
whose purchases account for about 70 percent of gross domestic
product in the world’s biggest economy, increased more than
forecast in February to the highest level in three years,
according to a Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index.  Emerging-market stocks climbed for the first time in five
days, rebounding from an almost three-month low, as concern
eased that inflation will derail the global economic recovery.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 1.1 percent to 1,098.90
at the close Feb. 25 in New York.  Funds Inflow  The  Micex Index  added 1.9 percent to 1,747.72 on Feb. 25 in
Moscow. OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil producer,
climbed 0.3 percent. OAO Gazprom, a natural gas producer,
increased 0.6 percent. The two stocks have a combined weighting
of about 32 percent in the 30-stock gauge. Sberbank added 3.2
percent. OAO Novolipetsk Steel, billionaire  Vladimir Lisin ’s
steelmaker, rose 5.9 percent. OAO Novatek, the country’s largest
non-state gas producer, climbed 5.3 percent.  Russian equity mutual funds attracted inflows for a 13th
straight week in the period ended Feb. 23, even as global
emerging-market funds had outflows of $1.9 billion, according to
a report by EPFR Global. Russia holdings had $162 million of
inflows, while there were outflows in  China ,  Brazil  and  Turkey ,
according to EPFR Global. Investors pulled over $20 billion out
of emerging market equity funds in the five weeks to Feb. 23.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ; 