-- 
Russia to Curb Borrowing as Oil Prices Trim 2011 Deficit

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-02-28T12:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/russia-to-curb-borrowing-as-oil-prices-trim-2011-deficit-1-.html
Russia, the world’s biggest oil
producer, will curb borrowing plans this year as higher revenue
from oil narrows the  budget deficit  to less than 2 percent of
gross domestic product, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said.  The  Finance Ministry  won’t use its sovereign Reserve Fund
to finance the shortfall, which is officially forecast at 3.6
percent of GDP, Kudrin told Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  today,
according to a  transcript  published on the government’s website.  “This year we were planning to spend the rest of the
Reserve Fund,” Kudrin said. “But since market prices for oil
are good, we won’t use the Reserve Fund at all.”  Urals crude, Russia’s main export blend, has surged 21
percent since the start of the year because of concern that
unrest in the Middle East will lead to supply disruptions. Putin
said last week in Brussels that  Russia  wasn’t interested in
unlimited gains in the price of oil that would pose a
“serious” threat to the global economic recovery.  An upgrade to Russia’s rating was “highly probable” if
the budget deficit remains in check as the economy grows,  Fitch
Ratings  said in January. Fitch put Russia on “watch positive,”
indicating optimism, in September after cutting it one step to
BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, in February 2009.  Eurobond  Russia raised 40 billion rubles ($1.4 billion) in its first
ruble-denominated Eurobond last week at a yield near what it
pays for similar domestic debt. The Finance Ministry raised 53.2
billion rubles in an auction of 2013 notes on Feb. 2, the
largest amount for a single security.  While Russia’s borrowing to cover its fiscal gap remains
“high,” the country must rebuild its  Reserve Fund  to curb
inflation and create a new safety net in case high  oil prices 
“aren’t permanent,” Kudrin said.  The Reserve Fund, which collects excess oil revenue up to
10 percent of GDP, may grow to 1.45 trillion rubles this year,
from 775 billion rubles at the start of 2011, Putin said on Feb.
22. The government must save the oil revenue to avoid stoking
inflation, he said.  Consumer prices rose an annual 9.6 percent in January,
prompting the central bank to boost its key  interest rates  and
raise mandatory  reserve requirements  on Feb. 25.  ‘Non-Expansionary’ Policy  Bank Rossii  will probably raise rates again by another
quarter-point in March and then pause to avoid boosting capital
inflows, Aleksandra Evtifyeva, an economist in Moscow at VTB
Capital, said on Feb. 25 by e-mail.  “A big help to the central bank would be tighter, or at
least non-expansionary, fiscal policy,” said Evtifyeva, who
correctly predicted the rate hike. Putin’s announcement that
Russia will start saving oil revenue is “very encouraging,”
she said.  The Reserve Fund stood at $26 billion in January, down from
a record $142.6 billion in August 2008.  “Given the situation on the domestic market and the
impermissibility of excess money growth, even if it’s coming
from oil, we’ll continue with some amount of borrowing,” Kudrin
told Putin. “Maybe it will be about 2 percent or even less, but
part of our deficit must be covered through debt.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net . 