-- 
Samsung Wins Trade Ruling in Patent Case Against Spansion

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-02-28T23:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/samsung-wins-trade-ruling-in-patent-case-against-spansion-2-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. won a U.S.
trade ruling in its efforts to block imports of flash-memory
chips made by  Spansion Inc . Shares of Spansion fell after the
close of regular-hours trading.  U.S. International Trade Commission Judge Carl Charneski
 said  today that Spansion infringes a Samsung patent for a way of
controlling the processes used to make the chips. The judge’s
findings, which were released after U.S. financial markets
closed, are subject to review by the six-member commission,
which has the power to block imports of products found to
infringe U.S. patents.  Spansion and Samsung are competitors in the market for
flash memory, used to store images and music on portable
electronics. The companies have eight patent-infringement cases
pending against each other, Spansion said in its annual report
Feb. 23. Charneski’s full findings weren’t immediately released
to give both sides time to redact confidential information.  “We are disappointed in the judge’s preliminary decision
and do not agree with the conclusions,” Michele Landry, a
Spansion spokeswoman, said in e-mailed statement. “Once we have
had the opportunity to review the judge’s ruling in detail, we
expect we will ask for the full commission review, which will
occur in the next couple of months.”  Spansion Shares Fall  Chips made by Sunnyvale, California-based Spansion are used
in electronics including Alpine Electronics Inc.’s global-
positioning systems and  D-Link Corp .’s wireless routers.  Spansion fell 8.4 percent to $19.30 at 4:30 p.m. in after-
hours trading. The shares closed at $21.07 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  In December, the commission upheld a finding by ITC Judge
Charles Bullock that Samsung wasn’t violating Spansion’s patent
rights. That case also targeted products that use Samsung chips
such as  Apple Inc .’s iPod and  Research In Motion Ltd .’s
BlackBerry.  “Spansion will continue to fight any violations of our
patents to defend our investment in technology,” Landry said.
“Spansion filed four additional patent infringement lawsuits
against Samsung in August 2010, so there are five lawsuits
expected to go to trial over the next thirteen months beginning
in June.”    Chris Goodhart , a spokeswoman for Samsung, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  Agreement Rejected  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , filed the complaint
against Spansion and its customers after a U.S. bankruptcy judge
rejected an agreement in which Samsung would have paid $70
million to end all patent disputes. Spansion, a former unit of
Advanced Micro Devices Inc., filed for Chapter 11 protection
from creditors in March 2009, and emerged from bankruptcy in May
2010.  Samsung is  Asia ’s biggest maker of computer chips, flat-
screen televisions and mobile phones.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Flash Memory and
Products containing same, 337-685, and Spansion’s case against
Samsung and the electronics makers is In the Matter of Flash
Memory Chips, 337-664, both at the U.S. International Trade
Commission   Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  