-- 
San Francisco Small Businesses Sell Faster as Economy Rebounds

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/san-francisco-small-businesses-sell-faster-as-economy-rebounds.html
When Johnny Hwin was looking to
raise money for his San Francisco social-media marketing company
last year, he found a better way to expand: sell it.  Hwin’s six-month-old startup, Damntheradio Inc., was
 acquired  by New York-based  FanBridge  on New Year’s Eve for a
price in the “low seven figures,” Hwin said. Damntheradio
helps companies like  Warner Music Group Corp . and  Sony Corp . and
bands like Linkin Park create “media rich” Facebook fan pages.  The sale “made sense from a product level and a business
level,” said Hwin, who is now vice president of business
development for FanBridge. “We’re pretty stoked.”  Hwin isn’t alone. The number of small businesses being
acquired is increasing this year as the economy recovers from
the recession, according to firms that monitor the transactions.  “It really picked up in January,” said Peter Siegel,
founder of  BizBen.com , a website that lists about 7,000 small
and midsize businesses for sale. “I think there was just pent-
up demand. A lot more buyers have come into the market because
the prices are so low, and they wanted to pick up some
bargains.”  In January, 62 small and midsize businesses changed hands
in  San Francisco , almost double the 34 deals that  closed  a year
earlier, according to Dublin, California-based BizBen.com. For
all of 2010, 535 companies sold, compared with 502 in 2009.
Siegel says 2011 should see more gains.  “I’m projecting a 30 percent increase over last year,” he
said.  Fewer Bankruptcies  The number of failing firms has declined as well. Small-
business bankruptcies fell 18 percent nationally in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, according to a report by Equifax
Inc. It was the sixth straight quarter of declines since peaking
in the second quarter of 2009.  Part of the gain in small-business purchases in 2010 was
due to an increase in lending guarantees from the U.S. Small
Business Administration, which supports companies through loan
programs and disaster assistance, said  Mark Quinn , director of
the agency’s San Francisco district office. Nationally, the SBA
lent more than $10.4 billion in the quarter ended Dec. 31.  “That’s the largest quarter of lending we’ve ever done in
history,” Quinn said. “Just in December, we did a billion
dollars of lending in  California .”  SBA Loans  The boost was also due in part to the Small Business Jobs
Act, which President  Barack Obama  signed in September. The act
created a $30 billion program to help community banks make more
loans to small companies. It also increased the loan limit to $5
million from $2 million and reduced its fees.  “The folks that were coming to me last year were saying
that they were struggling and needed some additional lending
just to keep them in operation,” Quinn said. Now business
owners want to grow, though it’s difficult to secure financing
because revenue and profit fell so much during the recession
that banks are hesitant to approve loans, he said.  As a result, small business owners are able to entice more
buyers by offering their own financing, said Mike Handelsman,
general manager of  BizBuySell.com  in San Francisco, an online
marketplace for buying and selling small businesses.  “Banks are lending, but they’re much more conservative
than they were in 2008,” Handelsman said. Even with the
rebound, only about half as many small businesses sold in 2010
as in a typical year before the recession. “There’s still a
lack of capital readily available for business buyers, and until
that comes back, we’re not going to see the number of
transactions that we saw a few years ago.”  Seller Financing  Some of the San Francisco companies for sale on
 BizBuySell.com  that offer seller financing include a museum-
quality art-framing service for $600,000, an all-natural grocery
store in the Castro District for $275,000 and a dental office
for $160,000.  Purchases of small businesses increased noticeably in the
last three months of 2010, Handelsman says, thanks to business
owners lowering their prices and posting better financial
results than before.  “It takes a while for people to accept reality and realize
that valuations are lower than they were,” he said. “And
businesses are doing better, so people are starting to think
again about exiting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  