-- 
Sangamo's Gene Therapy for HIV is Safe, Helps Immune Cells in Early Trial

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-02-28T15:09:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/sangamo-gene-therapy-shown-to-be-safe-in-first-study-in-hiv.html
  Sangamo Biosciences Inc .’s
experimental gene therapy was used safely in six patients
infected with HIV in the first trial of a new approach aimed at
blocking the virus so patients won’t need antiviral drugs.  After a year, five of the six had “significant and largely
sustained” increases in the number of infection-fighting t-
cells in their system, said study leader Jacob Lalezari,
director of  Quest Clinical Research , a San Francisco clinical
trial center. The patients kept taking drugs to suppress the
virus during the study because the research first must assess
whether the therapy is safe.  The treatment modifies patients’ t-cells to disable a
protein called CCR5 that HIV uses to enter the cells. Without
the entry point, HIV might not be able to kill off the immune
system cells and they will outlast or eventually overpower the
virus, Lalezari said. If the therapy cuts HIV levels in patients
who aren’t taking antiviral drugs, it may gain approval by late
2013, said Liana Moussatos of Wedbush Securities in  San
Francisco .  “When that data comes at the end of this year, we should
have an idea whether the efficacy is durable enough and potent
enough,” Moussatos, a biotechnology analyst, said in a Feb. 25
telephone interview. If approved, the drug may have sales of
$750 million a year, she said.  Shares Rise  Sangamo gained 14 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $8.86 at 9:54
a.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The Richmond,
California-based company gained 66 percent in the 12 months
before today.  Findings from the company-funded trial were presented today
in  Boston  at the  Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic
Infections , a meeting of infectious disease doctors.  “This isn’t for mass production or fully ready for prime
time,” said Scott Hammer, a professor of medicine at  Columbia
University  in  New York , in an interview yesterday. “This is
early work that takes molecular biology into the clinic. Like
everything else in science and HIV, it’s an early and important
finding, but we shouldn’t be raising the flag to say we’ve
solved the problem yet.”  All six patients, before the trial began, had low levels of
the key immune system cells that orchestrate the fight against
HIV. Previous therapy had made the virus undetectable in the
patients. Researchers were able to modify an average of 26
percent of the t-cells in the laboratory before returning them
to the patients.  Cells Take Hold  The modified cells took hold and accounted for 1 percent to
6 percent of the peripheral blood in five patients two weeks
after treatment. The genetically-engineered cells lasted
throughout the study. The number of immune system cells overall
also increased in all five patients, the study found.  One patient had a muted response because his body fought
off the virus used to deliver the therapy, Lalezari said in an
interview.  More information is needed about how the immune system and
the virus react to treatment before it will be clear if the
approach works, Lalezari said. If it doesn’t reduce the amount
of HIV in people with high levels of the virus, it may have
little real impact on the disease, he said.  “These results are about as good as you could hope for,”
he said. “Unequivocally, the safety looks good. But it could
all amount to nothing unless we move viral load. Then it’s just
an interesting experiment.”  Sangamo is presenting another study on Wednesday that
tracked patients who stopped taking their HIV drugs after
getting the gene-therapy to better understand how it works.  Curing AIDS  The therapy tries to replicate the successful treatment of
an American, Timothy Brown, who in 2007 received a stem-cell
transplant aimed at curing his leukemia and his HIV. The
transplant donor was among the 1 to 2 percent of people with
mutations that inactivate both copies of their CCR5 gene.  The transplant worked and Brown stopped taking antiviral
medication. Four years later, he has no detectable virus in his
system, according to his doctor, Gero Hutter, now with the
German Red Cross in Mannheim,  Germany .  In Sangamo’s process, doctors draw patients’ blood and
remove the infection-fighting white blood cells called t-cells.
They are sent to Sangamo and modified using naturally occurring
proteins called zinc fingers that cut into patients’ DNA in the
middle of the CCR5 gene. The modified cells are then returned to
the patient through an infusion.  Reservoir of Cells  While the therapy won’t eliminate the CCR5 protein from all
of a patient’s t-cells, it may create a reservoir of cells that
are resistant to HIV, helping suppress the virus, Lalezari said.  The Sangamo therapy is “a way to delay or replace
antiviral therapy” with one or more treatments, Lalezari said.
“To my mind, the importance of this is the extent to which it
contributes to a cure.”  There are 1.1 million Americans living with the Human
Immunodeficiency Virus that causes AIDS, and 34 million are
infected worldwide, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  Antiviral drugs, led by Atripla and Truvada, made by  Gilead
Sciences Inc ., of  Foster City ,  California , and Reyataz, sold by
New York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co ., generated $15.1 billion
in worldwide sales last year, according to IMS Health Inc., a
Norwalk, Connecticut-based industry research company.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 