-- 
Sarkozy Names Juppe Foreign Minister to Stem Critics of Mideast Response

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-02-28T08:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/sarkozy-names-juppe-foreign-minister-to-stem-critics-of-mideast-response.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
replaced top ministers and advisers in an effort to stem
criticism of his foreign-policy management amid revolutions in
the Arab world.  The cabinet shuffle was a “strategic act in face of an
acceleration of history with consequences we cannot imagine yet
on the global economy and on our countries,” Prime Minister
Francois Fillon told  RTL radio  today.  Sarkozy’s address last night and Cabinet shuffle follow a
troubled month. His approval ratings fell to a record low and he
was criticized by opposition parties, French diplomats and
members of his own party for not firing Foreign Minister Michele Alliot-Marie after it was revealed her Christmas holiday in  Tunisia  overlapped with the beginning of anti-regime protests.  Alliot-Marie quit yesterday following criticism over her
Jan. 11 statement during the Tunisian revolt that her government
was ready to provide advice to local police on crowd control.
Alliot-Marie, who served as a minister for the past nine years,
was also criticized for accepting two flights in a private plane
from an associate of then-Tunisian dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.    France ’s voice had to be heard in the world … and Michele
Alliot-Marie’s voice wasn’t  audible  anymore,” Fillon said.
Polemics about Alliot-Marie ”became dangerous for France,” he
said.  Socialist Party  Opposition Socialist Party  spokesman Benoit Hamon called
Sarkozy’s management a “startling and humiliating failure for
France,” following the president’s address. The party
criticized Sarkozy for “saluting the courage” of former
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  after his resignation.  “Our foreign policy is made of improvisation and a
succession of impulsive choices that are often driven by
domestic-policy reasons,” French diplomats, who signed under
the name Marly, wrote in an  editorial in Le Monde  newspaper
dated Feb. 22. “Many mistakes could have been avoided, mistakes
that came from amateurism, impulsiveness and short-term media
considerations,” they said.  Sarkozy’s new cabinet is the ninth since the May 2007
election and the fourth change in the past year, with the last
shuffle in November. Fillon keeps his post as prime minister.  New Cabinet  Alain Juppe, a former prime minister, will replace Alliot-
Marie as foreign minister, a job he held between 1993 and 1995.
Juppe will hand over his defense minister post to Gerard Longuet, a senator and an executive at the ruling Union for a
Popular Movement party. Claude Gueant, Sarkozy’s chief of staff
since the May 2007 election, will replace  Brice Hortefeux  as
interior minister. The name of the new chief of staff was not
released.  Sarkozy said yesterday European nations have a duty to help
Arab countries that have overthrown their dictators. He said the
protesters who shook Tunisia, Egypt and Libya share the same
values as Western democracies. He said a poorly managed
transition to democracy could lead to a return to dictatorships
and to a wave of migrants to  Europe .  “These Arab revolutions open a new era in our relationship
to countries that are so close to us historically and
geographically,” Sarkozy said. “We should not be afraid. They
bring an enormous hope because they are carried out in the name
of values that are so close to us, democracy and human rights.”  Fillon today said France will send two planes with doctors,
nurses and medical equipment to eastern  Libya  as part of a
relief operation it plans to expand.  Fillon added  that European
countries will have to be ”very firm” against illegal
immigration coming from the North African countries.  ‘Must Go’  France is “evaluating” military option against Libya’s
ruler Muammar Qaddafi who “must go, must quit power,” Fillon
said.  Sarkozy’s approval rating fell 5 percentage points from the
previous month, with 66 percent of respondents saying they have
a bad or rather bad opinion of the French leader, according to a
survey by  BVA, a Paris-based polling institute  for  L’Express 
weekly magazine, France Inter radio and the Orange mobile phone
company, released Feb. 22.  BVA surveyed 982 people age 18 or older on Feb. 18 and 19.
The Paris-based polling agency didn’t publish a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  