-- 
Saudi Aramco CEO Says Company Ready to Make Up for Any Oil Market Shortage

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-02-28T13:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/saudi-aramco-ready-to-make-up-for-oil-shortage-from-libya-crisis-ceo-says.html
  Saudi Aramco , the world’s largest
state oil company, is ready to compensate for any shortfall in
crude supply, Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al-Falih said, as  oil prices  rally on potential shortages from Libya.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said on Feb. 22
that his country and other OPEC members would make up for any
production losses. The  International Energy Agency  said in a
Feb. 25 statement that Saudi Arabia has been offering extra
crude supplies to offset lost Libyan barrels.  “We’re ready to supply incremental change in demand from
our customers,” Al-Falih told reporters in the eastern Saudi
city of Khobar, when asked if Aramco would increase its
production to meet a gap in supply. He declined to specify the
amount of additional oil Aramco would provide. “The customer
demand varies from day to day, so it’s hard to tell by how much
we will raise the output.”  More than half of  Libya ’s crude output of 1.6 million
barrels a day has been halted, according to the Paris-based  IEA .
The North African nation has been convulsed by an uprising
against the government of Muammar Qaddafi, who has vowed to
crush rebels threatening his 42-year rule, sending North Sea
Brent crude futures as high as $119.79 a barrel last week.  The turmoil follows protests that led to the ouster last
month of Tunisia’s president and the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak and has put the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries under pressure to ensure that
adequate quantities of crude reach the market.  Any Customer With Needs  “Any customer with an additional incremental needs has got
it,” Al-Falih said. “You can verify that with customers.”  Aramco usually decides near the middle of each month how
much it will supply to its term customers the following month.    Saudi Arabia  is the Middle East’s largest crude exporter,
and produced about 8.4 million barrels per day last month,
according to Bloomberg News estimates. OPEC collectively pumped
29.4 million barrels a day in January.  Libya holds the largest oil reserves in  Africa  and is the
continent’s third-largest producer after Nigeria and Angola.  High-quality West African OPEC crude that goes to Asian
markets can be redirected to  Europe , and extra Saudi oil can go
to  Asia  to replace Nigerian or Angolan supplies, a Saudi Arabian
oil official said in a telephone interview on Feb. 24, declining
to be identified by name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Cairo at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  