-- 
HSBC Profit Misses Estimate as Investment Banking Income Falls, Costs Rise

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-02-28T16:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/hsbc-2010-net-rises-to-13-2-billion-as-impairments-drop-to-five-year-low.html
  HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s biggest
bank by market value, posted full-year earnings that missed
analyst estimates after an “unacceptable” increase in costs,
and said it would reduce its profitability target.  Net income more than doubled to $13.2 billion in 2010 from
$5.83 billion the previous year, missing the $13.7 billion
median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. HSBC’s
cost-income ratio rose to 55.2 percent from 52 percent as rising
staff costs outpaced revenue growth, the London-based bank said
in a statement today.    Stuart Gulliver , in his first earnings since being named
chief executive officer in September, cut the bank’s target for
return on equity, citing an uneven global economic recovery and
regulators’ efforts to make banks hold more capital in reserve
following the financial crisis. HSBC will target a return on
equity of 12 percent to 15 percent instead of 15 percent to 19
percent, the lender said.  “The reduction in HSBC’s return on equity is worrying,”
said Jane Coffey, head of U.K. equities at Royal London Asset
Management, which manages $51 billion including HSBC stock.
“People are questioning the premium HSBC trades at if they are
not going to make higher returns.”  The shares closed down 4.7 percent at 678 pence in London
trading, their steepest decline in almost a year. The stock has
dropped 5.8 percent in the past year, the worst-performer in the
five-member  FTSE 350 Banks Index .  ‘Unacceptable’ Costs  HSBC shares trade at 1.4 times book value, while those of  Barclays Plc  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc trade at a
discount, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Barclays,
Britain’s third-biggest lender, this month reduced its RoE
target to 13 percent or more, while Edinburgh-based RBS said it
would continue to target 15 percent.  HSBC’s cost efficiency ratio is “above our target range
and unacceptable,” Chairman  Douglas Flint  said. “We need to
re-engineer the business to remove inefficiencies.” On a call
with reporters today, he declined to address how the bank plans
to cut costs, saying HSBC will hold a briefing on strategy in
May. The bank has a 48 percent to 52 percent target, and will
probably take two years to reach it, Gulliver told analysts.  Both HSBC and  Standard Chartered Plc , the two British banks
that make most of their profit in Asia, are paying more to
attract employees to their investment banks as revenue from the
region jumps. Gulliver said today he’s paying more for bankers
in  Asia  than in Britain.  Outlook  Costs were “significantly higher than expected,” and
caused the bank to miss analyst estimates, said Cormac Leech, an
analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in London with a “buy”
rating on the shares. Analysts are likely to reduce their
earnings estimates based on today’s statement, he said.  “In the short term, risks to global growth remain, not
least from an elevated oil price,” Gulliver said. “We
therefore expect cyclical volatility to continue -- including in
emerging markets -- and progress is unlikely to be linear.”  Trading revenue at the investment bank, run by Samir Assaf
since Gulliver’s promotion, fell by 15 percent to $5.8 billion.
Pretax profit at the unit fell to $9.5 billion in 2010 from
$10.5 billion in 2009.  HSBC’s revenue rose 3.1 percent to $68.2 billion, missing
analyst estimates of $69.2 billion. Low  interest rates 
“constrained” income from deposits. HSBC takes in more than it
lends out to borrowers. The bank’s net interest margin, the
difference between what banks earns on loans and its funding
costs, declined to 2.68 percent, from 2.94 percent, HSBC said.  Basel Impact  “Investors are unlikely to take much relief today from
HSBC numbers or outlook,” said Exane’s Gordon. “The primary
area of disappointment, yet again, was revenue.”  The bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, rose to 10.5 percent from 9.4 percent, HSBC
said. Tier 1 capital ratio would drop by 300 basis points under
the proposed Basel III rules on bank capital, HSBC said. The
bank plans pay out between 40 percent and 60 percent of profit
in dividends.  Provisions for bad loans shrank to $14 billion from $26.5
billion, the London-based bank said in a statement. HSBC halted
lending at its U.S. subprime unit in 2009 after it racked up
more than $58 billion in provisions from bad debts.  HSBC  North America  returned to profit last year after three
years of losses, asset sales and the culling of more than 6,000
jobs. Pretax profit was $454 million, compared with a loss of
$7.7 billion in 2009. The unit includes the former subprime
lender  Household International , now closed to new business.  Libya Turmoil  Pretax profit rose in  Europe  by 7.3 percent to $4.3 billion
and in  Hong Kong  and Asia by 26 percent to $11.6 billion.  Turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa hasn’t so far
materially affected the bank’s performance, Gulliver said.  “We have been closely watching events unfold,” he said.
“HSBC has been present in the Middle East for more than 50
years and we remain absolutely committed to its future.”  Gulliver, the former head of the investment bank, was named
CEO last year in the culmination of a boardroom struggle as
Chairman  Stephen Green  stepped down to join the government and  Michael Geoghegan  departed as CEO. Green was replaced by Flint,
the former finance director.  Gulliver will receive a 5.2 million-pound ($8.4 million)
bonus for 2010, compared with 9 million pounds for 2009, the
bank said in its annual report today.  Bonuses  Employee compensation and benefits rose to $19.8 billion
from $18.5 billion, while other administrative costs rose 13
percent to $15.2 billion, the bank said. The bank paid 280
employees total bonuses of $374 million in 2010.  HSBC plans to start reporting earnings quarterly in the
second half of this year, Gulliver said. The bank reports group
earnings twice a year at present.  Gulliver also said that if the lender didn’t manage to list
its shares in  Shanghai  in the first half of this year, it would
be unlikely to happen until 2012 or 2013 because of changes in  China ’s leadership due this year and next.  “If it doesn’t happen in the first half of this year it’s
likely to get caught up in the people changes that will take
place in mainland China,” Gulliver said on a call with
reporters. “We remain committed to it, but the timetable is
beyond our control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jon Menon in  London  at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  