-- 
SEC Claims 3 Ex-Directors Aided Looting of Body-Armor Maker

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-02-28T23:13:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/sec-accuses-3-ex-directors-of-aiding-looting-of-body-armor-maker.html
Three former directors of a military
contractor whose cofounder was convicted of looting the firm
were sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over
claims they were “willfully blind” to the accounting fraud.  Jerome Krantz, Cary Chasin and Gary Nadelman aided and
abetted “pervasive accounting and disclosure fraud” at DHB
Industries Inc. while serving on the  audit committee  from at
least 2003 through 2005, the SEC said today in a lawsuit filed
at federal court in  Florida . The suit aims to recover ill-gotten
profits, impose fines and bar the three from serving on boards.  David H. Brooks, a co-founder who served as chief executive
officer, was convicted last year of committing a $185 million
fraud along with Sandra Hatfield, the firm’s former chief
operating officer. Krantz, Chasin and Nadelman failed to carry
out their responsibilities as independent directors of the  Pompano Beach , Florida-based firm, the SEC said.  “This massive accounting fraud permeated throughout an
entire company and was facilitated by the egregious, wholesale
failure of the company’s board to act in the face of mounting
red flags,” Eric Bustillo, head of the SEC’s regional office in
Miami, said in a statement.  Nadelman “did not willfully or knowingly do anything to
justify today’s SEC action,” his attorney, Robert Gottlieb,
said in a telephone interview. Amy Millard, attorney for Chasin
at Clayman & Rosenberg LLP in  New York , said her client
“faithfully” carried out his role and “looks forward to a
resolution of this matter,” said.  Inventory Questions  A call to Gerald Russello, Krantz’s attorney, wasn’t
immediately returned. Nancy Gunberg, lawyer for the company,
declined to comment.  Prosecutors contend Brooks and other company insiders lied
about the value of the firm’s inventory of combat vests and used
other financial manipulations to artificially inflate the value
of the company and divert funds from it, according to court
filings.  Krantz, Nadelman and Chasin ignored repeated warnings from
auditors that the company’s inventory figures were questionable
and employees’ complaints about Brooks’ use of a company run by
his wife as one of the firm’s vendors, regulators said in the
41-page complaint.  They noted a decision by  Point Blank ’s auditors at  Grant
Thornton LLP  to step down over questions about inventory figures
didn’t prompt any action by the trio, who served as the
company’s independent directors.  ‘Extreme Recklessness’  “Kranz, Chasin and Nadelman, knowingly or with severe or
extreme recklessness, provided substantial assistance to”
Brooks in connection with his violations of federal law,
regulators said in the suit.  The military body-armor maker, now known as  Point Blank
Solutions Inc ., agreed to a permanent injunction from future
violations to settle related SEC claims. The company filed
bankruptcy in April.  Point Blank wants to sell new shares in the reorganized
company to generate as much as $25 million in cash, according to
a summary of its restructuring plan filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Unsecured creditors, owed as much as $57 million, and
equity holders who owned Point Blank shares prior to bankruptcy
can participate in the rights offering, according to the court
filing. Point Blank will seek court approval of the plan’s
disclosure statement March 3.  The case is SEC v. Jerome Krantz, Cary Chasin and Gary
Nadelman, 11-CV-60432-WPD, U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of Miami (Florida). The company’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy
case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 