-- 
Shekel Advances on Bets Drop Overdone Given Economy; Bonds Rise

-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 
2011-02-28T12:22:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/shekel-advances-on-bets-drop-overdone-given-economy-bonds-rise.html
The shekel strengthened for a third
day on speculation last week’s decline may be overdone given
increased optimism about the economic recovery and as the dollar
fell on bets U.S.  interest rates  will remain low. Bonds rose.  Fourth-quarter unemployment held at 6.6 percent compared
with the previous quarter, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said today. The percentage of the population in the
workforce rose to 57.8 from 57.7, it said. The shekel declined 1
percent last week amid political turmoil in the Middle East. The
dollar weakened on speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will signal in an address to the Senate Banking
Committee tomorrow that the central bank will keep interest
rates at a record low.  The jobs report is “part of the overall positive economic
outlook,” said Rony Gitlin, head of shekel spot-trading at Bank
Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. “With the dollar trading lower today and
some positive sentiment returning to the markets, some investors
are starting to think the situation isn’t that bad,”Gitlin
said.  Israel has almost closed the output gap in its economy and
is approaching full employment, with labor participation rates
at a record high, the Bank of  Israel  said in a Feb. 22 report.
Output gap is the difference between potential growth and actual
growth. The country bounced back from the global recession
faster than many developed economies, with growth reaching 7.8
percent in the last quarter of 2010.  The shekel strengthened 0.8 percent to 3.6240 per dollar at
1:54 p.m. in  Tel Aviv . The Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, declined as much as 0.6 percent to 76.812, the lowest
since Nov. 9.  The benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bond maturing
January 2020 rose, pushing the yield down 2 basis points to 5.02
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Jerusalem at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  