-- 
Short Sales in Kenneth Cole, Timberline Curbed By New SEC Rule

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-02-28T17:48:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/short-sales-in-kenneth-cole-timberline-curbed-by-new-sec-rule.html
  Kenneth Cole Productions Inc . and
Timberline Resources Corp. were among the first stocks to have
short selling restricted today under a regulation aimed at
preventing bearish bets from snowballing.  Shorting Kenneth Cole Productions was curbed after the maker
of footwear and handbags plunged more than 10 percent following
quarterly earnings that missed analyst estimates. The
regulation, known as the alternative uptick rule, was triggered
by Timberline Resources after the mineral exploration company
slid on a plan to sell 5.3 million shares at 95 cents apiece.  By forcing speculators who want to bet on declines to wait,
regulators are seeking to keep the market from being overwhelmed
with sell orders that may feed on each other. When the 10
percent threshold is triggered, traders can only execute short
sales at a price above the market’s best bid. The curb lasts
through the following day.  “This new rule will have very limited impact,” said Jeff Middleswart, director of research at Behind the Numbers, which
advises investors on short selling. “It will just cause stocks
to fall over several days as opposed to one. Shorting is still a
major part of the market despite claims that it hurts markets
when it actually keeps them going.”  Short sellers sell borrowed stock in the hope of buying the
securities later at a lower price and returning them to the
lender. Other stocks with moves that triggered the restrictions
were  Bank of Granite Corp .,  Adeona Pharmaceuticals Inc .,  Alanco
Technologies Inc .,  Waccamaw Bankshares Inc .,  DJSP Enterprises
Inc ., Ohio Valley Banc Corp. and  Xueda Education Group .  Postponed  So-called Rule 201, which was opposed by the SEC’s two
Republican commissioners, was postponed from its scheduled
November 2010 implementation to allow extra time for securities
firms and stock brokers to revise their trading systems. The SEC
estimated last year that implementation will cost the financial
industry about $1 billion, or an average of $70,000 to $90,000
per firm. Ongoing costs will also be about $1 billion a year, or
$120,000 per firm, the SEC estimated.  Short selling was blamed by lawmakers, former Morgan
Stanley Chief Executive Officer  John Mack  and investors for
pushing the U.S. economy toward the brink of collapse by driving
down bank stocks during the financial crisis. Under pressure
from politicians, the SEC temporarily banned bearish bets
against almost 1,000 financial stocks in September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  