-- 
Siemens Said to Weigh IPO for Osram Unit Within Two Months

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-02-28T17:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/siemens-is-said-to-consider-ipo-for-osram-light-division-within-two-months.html
  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest
engineering company, is weighing an initial public offering of
its Osram lighting business within the next two months,
according to two people familiar with the discussion.  The German company has retained  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc . and  Commerzbank AG  to help prepare the IPO,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
information is private. Munich-based Siemens has yet to make a
final decision on the stock sale, one of the people said.
Siemens spokesman Alexander Becker declined to comment.  An IPO of  Osram  would be Siemens’s biggest structural
change since the company sold its VDO automotive unit to
Continental AG for 11.4 billion euros in 2007. Osram, the
second-largest lighting company by sales after Royal Philips
Electronics NV, has an enterprise value of 6.5 billion euros
($9 billion) to 7 billion euros, Morgan Stanley estimates.  “We would see an IPO and over time exit of Osram as a
positive step for Siemens,” Andreas Willi and Joseph Peter,
analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a research note today.
“We see limited synergies for Osram being part of Siemens as
its business model is different.”  Selling Assets  Siemens rose 3.43 euros, or 3.6 percent, to close at 97.59
euros, the biggest gain in almost three months.  Selling Osram would bring Siemens closer to a complete
withdrawal from consumer-oriented products, after giving up
phones and moving the home-appliance unit into a joint venture.
Siemens’s other consumer product is hearing aids, which the
company considered selling before shelving the plan last year.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  has accelerated a
corporate overhaul of Siemens after improving earnings and
cleaning up a bribery investigation that swept out his
predecessors. In December, Siemens agreed to sell its
unprofitable computer-services division to Atos Origin SA,
followed by the sale of a stake in a German tank maker.  New orders and sales at Osram both rose 14 percent to 1.28
billion euros in the first three months of fiscal 2011, while
profit slipped 2 percent to 141 million euros, Siemens said last
month. The company will “continue investing in market expansion
and production capacity in coming quarters,” Siemens said then.  Osram today agreed to buy Traunreut, Germany-based Siteco
Lighting GmbH from Barclays Private Equity for an undisclosed
sum. The purchase would add 1,250 workers and about 220 million
euros in revenue, and expand Siemens’s offerings of LED-type
lighting, an area where it trails Amsterdam-based Philips.  More Demanding Goals  Siemens on Nov. 11 introduced more demanding capital-
efficiency goals for its divisions, requiring a return on
capital employed, or ROCE, of 15 percent to 20 percent. That may
force Siemens to reconsider the future of its Osram unit as the
division needs more investments to catch up with rivals that
also include Samsung Electronics Co., analysts have said.  The German company has sold businesses previously that no
longer fit into the portfolio or require more capital. Siemens
in 1999 sold shares of its Epcos unit that made electronic
components, and a year later sold shares of Infineon
Technologies AG, the semiconductor division. Siemens sold its
remaining stakes in both companies in 2006. Siemens had also
prepared an IPO of the VDO automotive before deciding to sell
the business to Continental AG in 2007.  Osram, which is already a separate legal entity within
Siemens, employs about 39,000 people globally. The company was
founded in 1906, and the name Osram was created from the names
of the two materials needed at the time to produce filaments:
osmium and wolfram.  Governments in  Europe  are discouraging the use of
conventional  light bulbs , which turn only convert 5 percent to
10 percent of the energy used into light and have shorter life
spans than LEDs.  -- With assistance from Aaron Kirchfeld and Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt . Editors: Benedikt Kammel,  Heather Harris .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 