-- 
Solar ‘Gold Rush’ in U.K. May Die With Incentive Roll-Back

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-02-28T15:59:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/solar-gold-rush-in-u-k-may-die-with-fastest-roll-back-of-incentives.html
Cornwall, the poorest county in  England , said five months ago it expected a “gold rush” of
$1.6 billion in solar energy investments. Now, the U.K.
government may get in the way.  The central government said this month it’s considering
cutting incentives and reducing the size of projects, concerned
that the above-market rates it promised through April 2012 may
lead to too many solar farms.  Britain is moving faster than any other European country to
contain a surge in solar power and prevent the boom-and-bust
seen in  Spain  and predicted for the Czech Republic. The risk is
scaring off the investors who would create the “green jobs”
Prime Minister  David Cameron  is seeking to revive the economy.  “It’s going to completely kill the market,” said Tim
German, renewable energy manager for the local government in
Cornwall at the U.K.’s southwest tip. “Investors are starting
to get cold feet.”  Sharp Corp., the Osaka-based electronics maker which
employs 1,100 U.K. workers after doubling the size of its panel
factory in Wales, says the government may cripple the industry.
Already, companies are scaling back. Matrix Group Ltd. and
Ingenious Media Holdings Plc suspended solar funds seeking 55
million pounds ($89 million). Low Carbon Solar Ltd. says it
can’t spend the 70 million pounds it secured from pension funds.  At  Good Energy Group Plc , a clean electricity retailer
based in Chippenham, England, Chief Executive Officer Juliet Davenport says she may only get 4 percent of the 100 megawatts
of solar power-purchase agreements she wanted.  ‘Rug Has Been Pulled’  “It was an industry that for the first time was moving
fast and attracting investment,” Davenport said. “Suddenly,
the rug has been pulled and everybody’s saying ‘What’s the
future? Should we go off to North Africa and develop there and
forget about the U.K.?’”  The solar surge began April 1, when the government brought
in so-called feed-in tariffs guaranteeing prices as much as 12
times the market rate for electricity generated from the sun.
Last year, developers doubled the capacity of solar power
generation in the U.K. to 66 megawatts, enough for 9,000 homes.  That’s a fraction of the 16,800 megawatts installed in  Germany , 3,700 megawatts in Spain and 2,500 megawatts in the
U.S. Only one of last year’s 26,000 U.K. projects had a capacity
greater than 50 kilowatts. It was the bigger ground-mounted
projects in the works that triggered alarm bells in London, not
families tacking solar panels on their roofs.  ‘Gold Rush’  The council in Cornwall, where per-capital economic output
is a third below the national average, in September predicted a
solar “gold rush” worth up to 1 billion pounds. By February,
local officials were scoping 150 sites for about 50 companies
planning solar farms. Nineteen had applied for planning
permission, and seven had been granted it.  “What has spooked people is the 150 planning applications
in Cornwall,” Daniel Guttmann, director of renewable energy at
global accountancy firm PwC in  London . “If you multiply that
up, it’s a reasonably large number.”  The renewable-energy subsidies, paid by utilities, were
designed to spur not only roof-mounted panels. Wind turbines,
small hydroelectric plants and biomass projects were also
covered -- all intended to generate jobs. The Renewable Energy
Association said the solar industry would employ 17,000 people
by the end of this year, up from 10,000 in 2010.  Projects as large as 5 megawatts were eligible for the
incentives. That left room for solar farms on open land.  Surprising Speed  On Feb. 7, the Department of Energy and Climate Change said
it’s reviewing tariffs. The surprise was the speed and scale of
the probe: By July authorities plan to decide on new rates for
solar plants bigger than 50 kilowatts, or just 1 percent of the
5-megawatt eligibility maximum. Projects for wind, hydropower
and the smallest solar plans will be reviewed by year-end, with
new rates coming in April 2012.  “I don’t want large-scale solar installations to be
claiming money meant for householders, small businesses and
communities,” U.K. Climate Change Minister Greg Barker said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  Barker later today is due to speak with representatives of
the industry at a reception in London with two trade groups, the
Micropower Council and the British Photovoltaic Association.  Jenny Chase, head of solar analysis at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said she expects the government to “dramatically
reduce” or eliminate incentives for solar projects with more
than 50 kilowatts in capacity.  ‘Grace Period’  “Most European governments, however, allow a short grace
period for projects which are very close to being built when
incentives are cut,” she said. “A three-month grace period
might cause a cost overrun, but it would at least allow farmers
and developers who have invested significant amounts in
solicitors’ fees and leases to make the expected returns.”  It’s the earliest formal review of feed-in tariffs by any
European nation, New Energy Finance says. In Slovakia,
authorities stopped issuing licenses after six months, though
prices weren’t reviewed until 15 months after the program began.
The Spanish system lasted a year before being scaled back.  In the  Czech Republic , about 1.7 gigawatts of panels were
installed last year. After tariffs were cut, New Energy Finance
forecast about 400 megawatts this year. In Spain, installations
fell to 69 megawatts in 2009 from 2.8 gigawatts in 2008 after
incentives were changed.  Retreat  Already, U.K. investors are retreating. At NextEnergy
Capital Ltd. in London, Chief Executive Officer Michael Bonte- Friedheim scaled back plans to develop solar farms, saying three
are in the works, down from as many as eight.  Low Carbon Solar CEO Mark Shorrock said that of a planned
pipeline of 80 megawatts, the Cirencester-based company can now
only develop 3 megawatts. Two funds worth up to 30 million
pounds that his company was working on with asset manager
Ingenious are suspended. Six solar farms planned for Cornwall
can’t be built, and there’s nowhere to invest the funds he has
from pension plans, he said.  ‘Sabotage’  “It’s absolute sabotage,” Shorrock said.  The 50-kilowatt threshold would cause “huge shrinkage” in
the market, Ian Lucas, the lawmaker who speaks on business for
the opposition  Labour Party , said in an interview. A limit that
low would “cripple” the industry, said Andrew Lee, the head of
European sales for Sharp solar.  “This puts a hole in school installations, small community
installations, social housing installations -- all of which the
feed-in tariff was originally intended for,” Lee said in an
interview in Wrexham, where Sharp in the past year boosted
capacity to 500 megawatts of panels, adding 300 jobs and a
training academy for installers.  Some companies are less concerned about the review. Robert
Goss, solar panel maker  Conergy AG ’s head of U.K. sales, said
the Hamburg-based company hasn’t downgraded its forecast. Jamie Richards, a partner at Foresight Solar, said the company will
spend all 20 million pounds it’s raised on rooftop projects.  In Cornwall, German is less sanguine, saying “the so-
called solar gold-rush will not happen.”  The danger for the government is investors won’t have
confidence in other incentive programs, said Good Energy’s
Davenport and Shorrock at Low Carbon Solar.  “You won’t get offshore wind money, you won’t get tidal
energy money, you won’t get  carbon capture  and storage money
because it’s all got to come from these same pension funds and
they won’t trust the government,” Shorrock said.  “That’s the kind of seed of doubt the government has now
sown, and it’s very, very damaging.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  