-- 
Somali Rebels Threaten to Carry Out Attacks Against Kenya

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-02-28T17:29:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/somalia-s-al-shabaab-militia-threatens-to-carry-out-attacks-against-kenya.html
Somali insurgents threatened to
attack  Kenya , accusing the neighboring country of training
Somali government soldiers and allowing Ethiopian forces to use
its territory to stage assaults.  “Kenya’s government has played a significant role in
training government troops,” Sheikh Ali Mohamud Rage, al-
Shabaab’s spokesman, told reporters yesterday in Mogadishu, the
Somali capital. “We will not tolerate Kenya’s aggression toward
us and the country should be ready to face the consequences.”  The U.S. accuses al-Shabaab, which has been battling
Somalia’s Western-backed government since 2007, of having links
to al-Qaeda. Most of southern and central Somalia has been
seized by al-Shabaab rebels, while President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s government controls only parts of Mogadishu,
backed by African Union peacekeepers.  Fighting between al-Shabaab militants and fighters allied
with Somalia’s government erupted on Feb. 25 near the
northeastern Kenyan town of Mandera, close to the borders of  Somalia  and Ethiopia, the  Kenya Red Cross Society  said on its
website today. Residents are hiding indoors and at least  400
refugees  have registered with the organization to receive
emergency aid, the organization said.  In July, al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for twin bomb
attacks in Uganda that killed 76 people watching the soccer  World Cup  final at two separate venues. The group said it
targeted  Uganda  because the country has troops serving in the AU
peacekeeping force.  ‘Threatening Attacks’  “Al-Shabaab is a terrorist organization and they are
always threatening attacks because they don’t want stability in
Somalia,” Kenyan government spokesman Alfred Mutua said in a
phone interview today from Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.  Kenya’s government began training police officers three
years ago as part of an agreement with the six-nation
 Intergovernmental Authority on Development , though it hasn’t
trained any Somali government soldiers, he said. Ethiopians
haven’t attacked Somalia from Kenya because “we cannot allow
any country to launch attacks from our country,” Mutua said.    Ethiopia ’s Foreign Ministry denied that there are any
troops in Somalia.  “There is no plan on our side in that regard,” said Dina
Mufti, a spokesman for the ministry, by phone from  Addis Ababa 
today. “We have never tried to go back.”  Bogged Down  U.S.-backed Ethiopian troops invaded Somalia in 2006 to
oust the Islamic Courts Union administration. They withdrew in
January 2009 after becoming bogged down in a guerrilla war with
Islamist militants including the al-Shabaab.  Rage also urged Somalis living in Kenya to stop sending
family members to battle al-Shabaab fighters and urged them to
recall a massacre of Somalis carried out by Kenyan security
forces in the 1980s.  In February 1984, at least 380 Somalis died in Kenya’s
North Eastern province when government soldiers ordered
thousands of ethnic Somalis to lie naked on an airstrip for as
many as five days while torturing them, according to  Human
Rights Watch , the New York-based advocacy group. The incident is
known as the Wagalla massacre, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 