-- 
South Africa Rand Climbs to Six-Week High; Gold Rises on Inflation Concern

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-02-28T16:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/south-africa-rand-rises-extending-monthly-gain-before-monthly-trade-data.html
The rand strengthened to an almost
six-week high against the dollar as gold extended the best
monthly increase since November 2009 on concern global inflation
will quicken, boosting demand for an alternative asset.  The currency advanced 1 percent to 6.9516 per dollar, the
strongest intraday level since Jan. 19, at 5:09 p.m. in
Johannesburg, extending its rally this month to 3.2 percent.
Against the euro, the rand appreciated for a fourth day, adding
0.5 percent to 9.6137 for a monthly gain of 1.6 percent.  Gold, which with platinum accounts for about a fifth of
South Africa’s export earnings, climbed as much as 0.4 percent
to $1,416.55 an ounce as pro-democracy protests that have swept
the Middle East spread to Oman and reignited in  Tunisia . Crude
oil for April delivery gained as much 2.1 percent to $99.96 a
barrel, near a more-than two-year high. After noting in October
the rand was “overvalued,” South Africa’s Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said Feb. 23 that a “rapid” weakening may fuel
inflation.  “Investors are looking for countries that have inflation
under control and can allow their currencies to appreciate,”
Iran Ahmad, an emerging-market strategist, at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said by phone from  London  today. “For the
rand, comments from Gordhan that authorities will be less
interventionist have helped the currency, together with high
commodity prices and high yields.”  Inflation in Range  South Africa’s consumer inflation rate rose to a six-month
high of 3.7 percent in January from 3.5 percent the month
before, the government statistics office said in a Feb. 16
report. That’s within the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target range.  Policy makers on Jan. 20 left their benchmark interest rate
at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent, compared with 0.25 percent in
the U.S. and 0.5 percent in the U.K. Near-zero interest rates in
developed economies encouraged investors to place their money in
higher-yielding markets, attracting 89 billion rand ($12.5
billion) of net foreign capital inflows into South African bonds
from the start of 2009 to the end of last year and helping the
rand advance 42 percent against the dollar, the best-performing
emerging-market currency over the period.  Bonds erased earlier declines, with the 13.5 percent
security due September 2015 adding 2 cents to 121.55 rand. The
yield decreased one basis point to 7.80 percent.    South Africa  posted a trade deficit of 4.9 billion rand in
January, the first in three months, as exports of minerals,
metals and gemstones slumped and imports of machinery and
components surged, the South African
Revenue Service said in an e-mailed statement today. The median
estimate of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 2.3
billion-rand deficit.  Credit growth unexpectedly slowed to an annual 5 percent
January as demand for loans to invest in some financial
instruments, such as derivatives, declined, the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  said on its website today. The median estimate of
10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 5.9 percent
increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  