-- 
South Africa Detects a Suspected Outbreak of Foot & Mouth, Halts Exports

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-02-28T15:30:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/south-africa-detects-a-suspected-outbreak-of-foot-mouth-halts-exports.html
  South Africa  halted exports of beef,
pork and products from all cloven-hoofed animals for three
months after a suspected outbreak of foot and mouth disease in
the Kwazulu-Natal Province.  The Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
tested 600 animals during a routine surveillance for the disease
and half tested positive, Tina Joemat-Pettersson, the country’s
agriculture minister, told reporters in  Cape Town  today. No
symptoms, such as foaming at the mouth or limping, have been
seen yet and the animals all belonged to small-scale, rather
than commercial, farmers, she said.  Foot and mouth disease is a contagious viral disease.
Following a high fever the animals develop blisters inside their
mouths and on their feet.  Initial costs include a loss of revenue from 500 metric
tons of planned venison exports to the European Union valued at
30 million rand ($4.3 million) as well as hide exports worth 300
million rand, she said. Processing plants may have to lay off
workers, she said.  The resumption of wool exports to  China , halted because of
an outbreak of Rift Valley Fever, is also threatened, she said.
A meeting with a Chinese delegation due to arrive next week to
discuss the easing of export restrictions may be postponed until
more definite information about the outbreak is available, she
said.  No Culling  “We will compartmentalize the problem so that we can
export from certain areas as soon as possible,” Joemat-
Pettersson said, adding that the situation may last for more
than a year. Animals in the affected area will be vaccinated and
their movements restricted but no culling of livestock is
planned.  The virus may have come from buffaloes that escaped the
Kruger National Park and then migrated to an infected area in  Mozambique  before returning to South Africa, Botlhe Modisane,
the veterinary spokesman for the department, said at the same
press conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in Cape Town at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  