-- 
Old Mutual's Nedbank Says Profit Ex-Items Increases as Bad Loans Improve

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-02-28T12:22:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/south-african-lender-nedbank-s-first-half-profit-rises-15-to-700-million.html
  Nedbank Group Ltd ., the South
African bank controlled by  Old Mutual Plc , said full-year profit
climbed 15 percent as non-interest income increased and the
lowest lending rates in 30 years helped consumers to repay debt.  Profit before one-time items, known as headline earnings,
rose to 4.9 billion rand ($701 million) from 4.28 billion rand a
year earlier, the Johannesburg-based lender said in a statement
today. Headline earnings per share of 10.69 rand beat the 10.4
rand median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Nedbank forecast further earnings growth in 2011, adding
that the “worst of the cycle” has passed with interest rates
expected to remain on hold in the first half of the year. Non-
interest revenue climbed 11 percent to 13.2 billion rand as  South Africa ’s fourth-largest lender focused on increasing fee
and commission income.  “The results were good,” said Neville Chester, who helps
manage about $29 billion at  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd . in  Cape Town . “The non-interest revenue growth is good and bodes
well for the structure of the business going forward.”  Nedbank fell 1.2 percent to 126.46 rand as of 2:03 p.m. in
Johannesburg trading, giving the company a market value of 65
billion rand. The six-member FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index was
down 1 percent.  The bank increased its final dividend by 9.1 percent to 4.8
rand.  Bid Abandoned  Nedbank may still be up for sale, Chief Executive Officer  Mike Brown  said, after London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc  abandoned
a bid to buy a $7.3 billion controlling stake in the lender in
October without giving a reason.  “Old Mutual has been very clear that Nedbank is a good
asset which is generating good returns,” Brown said. Old Mutual
may still enter into discussions, he said, adding that he isn’t
aware of any talks by the parent company to sell its stake.  Short-term incentive bonuses for executives rose 17 percent
due to the rise in earnings and other non-financial performance
measures, Brown said a telephone interview from Johannesburg.  Full-year net income, which includes a revaluation gain of
547 million rand from the acquisition of Nedbank Wealth joint
ventures, fell 0.3 percent to 4.81 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  