-- 
South Africa's Private Credit Growth Slowed Unexpectedly to 5% in January

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-02-28T08:43:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/south-african-private-credit-growth-slowed-unexpectedly-to-5-in-january.html
South African credit growth
unexpectedly slowed in January as demand for loans to invest in
some financial instruments, such as derivatives, declined.  Borrowing by households and businesses rose an annual 5
percent, down from 5.6 percent in December, the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  said on its website today. The median estimate of
10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.9 percent.  The loan category that includes investment in derivatives
and debentures fell 15.7 percent from the month before. At the
same time,  consumer credit  rose an annual 7.5 percent, spurred
by  interest rates  at a 30-year low and an increase in employment
in the fourth quarter.  The credit that declined was “paper investment, rather
than asset-based credit,” Dennis Dykes, chief economist of
Nedbank Group Ltd., said by telephone from Johannesburg today.
“That category is very, very volatile. Most of the other
categories behaved pretty much as anticipated.”  Household credit rose after the central bank cut its main
lending rate three times to 5.5 percent last year to boost  consumer spending , which accounts for two-thirds of demand in
the economy.  South Africa ’s jobless rate also fell to 24 percent
in the fourth quarter of last year from 25.3 percent in the
previous three months, the statistics agency said on Feb. 8.  The rand traded at 6.98 per dollar at 9:27 a.m. from 7.0047
before the release of the credit data.  Retail Sales  “Most of the activity that is coming through is on the
household side, rather than the company side,” Dykes said.
“Companies aren’t actually investing at the moment because they
have got plenty of surplus capacity.”  Retail sales rose 10.6 percent in January compared with a
year ago, the Retailer Liaison Committee, an industry group,
said on Feb. 25.  Truworths International Ltd ., South Africa’s
largest publicly traded clothing retailer, on Feb. 21 said sales
advanced 15 percent to 4.6 billion rand in the six months
through Dec. 26 compared with the year before.  This month’s credit extension data was “distorted by a
very large decline in the investments category,”  Kevin Lings ,
an economist with Stanlib Asset Management, said in e-mailed
comments. “We still expect credit growth, especially consumer
credit, to move steadily higher during 2011, as the combination
of 30-year-low interest rates, improved real income growth,
reduced debt servicing costs and the slightly easier lending
criteria out of banks start to have a more positive effect.”  The broad M3 measure of  money supply  increased an annual
8.2 percent in January, compared with 6.9 percent in December,
the central bank said. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
was for M3 to expand 8.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 