-- 
Labor Department Fiduciary Rule for 401(k) Plans Too Broad, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-03-01T22:38:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/sponsors-of-401-k-plans-face-conflicts-of-interest-gao-says.html
Regulations proposed by the U.S.
Department of Labor to protect workers and employers from
conflicts of interest in retirement plans may be too broad, a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive testified in  Washington  today.  “Existing standards governing plan distribution education
and guidance are sufficient and need not be modified,” Karen Prange, executive director and assistant general counsel at New
York-based JPMorgan said at a Labor Department hearing.  Employers generally are held responsible for making sure
their 401(k) retirement plans operate in the best interest of
employees. The proposed Labor Department regulation would apply
a fiduciary standard to those firms who advise plan sponsors
about which investments to offer, for example, even if that
advice is not given on a regular basis, said Assistant Secretary
of Labor Phyllis Borzi in a telephone interview last week. It’s
designed to prevent conflicts of interest, such as the
recommendation of investments with higher fees.  “The point of this regulation is to make sure that all
the investment professionals that provide advice” to employers
and participants are held to the same standards, Borzi said. The
fiduciary standard, which generally requires advisers to put
clients’ interests ahead of their own, would not apply to
generic information such as asset allocation charts and graphs
provided to customers online, the Labor Department said.  Better Regulation  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is also looking
at the fiduciary issue and in January recommended a common
standard for brokers who provide personalized investment advice
and registered investment advisers. The agencies are working
together to make sure final rules don’t conflict, said Borzi.
The Labor Department is aiming to issue a final regulation by
the end of the year, she said.  Improved regulation of  retirement plans  is needed because
employers and participants may not understand that the person
educating them about their 401(k) investments may have a
financial stake in the choices they make, the  U.S. Government
Accountability Office  said in a  report  released yesterday.  “If left unchecked, conflicts of interest could lead plan
sponsors or participants to select investment options with
higher fees or mediocre performance, which, while beneficial to
the service provider, could amount to a significant reduction in
retirement savings over a worker’s career,” the GAO said.  Plan service providers, also known as recordkeepers, may
highlight their own funds even though they have a financial
interest in recommending them, the report said.  Cross-Selling  The Labor Department is also considering whether its rule
should apply to advice given to savers when they are leaving a
job and trying to decide whether to roll their money into an
individual retirement account, Borzi said.  The hundreds of employees at JPMorgan’s call centers
shouldn’t be considered investment advisers because they are
trained to give basic information to callers such as taking
distributions from their accounts and the tax implications, said
Prange. A saver who wants more information about an IRA may be
told that JPMorgan has the product and directed to a broker
dealer within the company, she said.  The GAO found that cross-selling, in which 401(k) providers
sell additional products such as IRAs to plan participants, is
an “important source of income” for recordkeepers. Fees on
IRAs are typically 25 basis points to 30 basis points higher
than fees on 401(k)s, and can be as much as 65 basis points
higher, the study said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Fighting Firms  “At a time when millions of Americans are saving what they
can for their retirement, they shouldn’t also have to fight
financial firms scheming to boost their own profits behind their
backs,” Representative  George Miller , a California Democrat and
member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce,
said in a statement yesterday.  “Workers and sponsors of 401(k) plans must have clear and
complete information on these backroom deals so that these plans
are run in the best interest of account holders, not Wall Street
insiders,” Miller said.  The GAO found that revenue sharing, where a mutual-fund
company passes some of the fee revenue it earns back to a plan’s
recordkeeper, “is a widespread practice.” Compensation can
range from 5 basis points to 125 basis points from those
arrangements, the study said.  “This situation creates an incentive for the service
provider to suggest funds with higher revenue-sharing
payments,” potentially including funds with poorer performance
histories than other investment choices, the report said.  ‘Huge Risk’  “Our concern is that the rule is so broadly written,” Ken Bentsen, executive vice president for public policy and advocacy
at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
said at the hearing. “That creates huge risk for us.”  Firms may stop providing services to retirement plans
because of the increased liability or shift to a fee-based model
from commissions, which may increase costs for IRA investors,
Bentsen said. Sifma is a lobbying group for banks and brokerages
with offices in  New York  and Washington.  The department also has underestimated the rule’s costs to
providers of retirement plans and investments, said  Jim
McCarthy , managing director of client advisory and retirement
services at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney. It will cost the firm
at least $10 million to $12 million to implement the regulation,
said McCarthy, who’s based in Purchase, New York. “We have to
assess every business practice we have to make sure it’s
compliant,” McCarthy said.  Fidelity Is Largest  An estimated 72 million people have 401(k)-type retirement
plans with assets totaling about $3 trillion, according to the
Labor department.  Boston-based  Fidelity Investments  was the largest 401(k)
recordkeeper at the end of 2009, with 27 percent of the market,
or $739 billion in assets, according to  Cerulli Associates , a
Boston-based research firm. Aon Hewitt, based in  Chicago , was
the second-largest with $228 billion in assets. Vanguard Group
Inc. was third largest with $205 billion in recordkeeping
assets.  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard is the world’s
largest mutual-fund firm.  Any changes to the definition of fiduciary as it relates to
retirement plans “should not threaten access to the guidance
that all investors receive every day by placing a call, going
online, attending an investor workshop or visiting a local
branch for one-on-one assistance,” said John Sweeney, executive
vice president for Fidelity’s planning and advisory services.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .
To contact the reporter on this story: Elizabeth Ody in New York
at   eody@bloomberg.net  