-- 
Sprint Boosts CEO Target Bonus, Drops Link to Clearwire Success

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-02-28T22:28:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/sprint-boosts-ceo-hesse-s-target-bonus-drops-link-to-clearwire-s-success.html
  Sprint Nextel Corp . boosted a target
bonus for Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse by 18 percent and
dropped as an explicit component of measuring management success
the Sprint customers on partner  Clearwire Corp .’s network.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless provider, increased
Hesse’s so-called short-term incentive bonus by $720,000 from
last year to as much as $4.8 million for 2011, according to a
filing today. The carrier kept Chief Financial Officer Bob Brust’s potential bonus at $2.6 million.  In this year’s first six months, Sprint will weigh
executives’ eligibility for bonuses based in part upon a measure
of operating income, contract subscriber turnover and service
revenue. The board may alter the criteria for the second half.  In a change from last year, the carrier will assess the
number of contract and non-contract, or prepaid, subscriber
additions, according to the filing.  Sprint also dropped as a specific factor customers on
Clearwire’s fourth-generation network, which was given 10
percent weight in last year’s compensation. Sprint, which owns
more than half the equity in Clearwire, resells wireless service
on the Clearwire network under its own brand.  Cristi Allen, a Sprint spokeswoman, said the carrier’s
board will assess Clearwire 4G customers as part of the criteria
concerning all postpaid users.  Hesse and some other executives of the  Overland Park ,
Kansas-based carrier are also eligible for bonuses based on
longer-term objectives, payable through a combination of stock
options and cash after three years. The CEO’s potential long-
term incentive grew by $2 million from last year to $12 million,
according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  