-- 
Sri Lanka’s Inflation Accelerates to Highest Level in 25 Months

-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 
2011-02-28T09:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/sri-lanka-s-inflation-accelerates-to-highest-level-in-25-months.html
  Sri Lanka ’s inflation accelerated to
a 25-month high in February, which may curb the central bank’s
scope to lower  interest rates  again.  Consumer prices in the capital, Colombo, rose 7.8 percent
from a year earlier after gaining 6.8 percent in January, the
statistics department said on its website today. That compares
with the 7.4 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of eight economists.  Central bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal cut borrowing
costs for the third time in seven months in January to support
economic growth, contrasting with neighbors from  India  to  China 
that have raised them to damp inflation. Cabraal this month kept
rates unchanged, saying the island faces “less” price pressure
than neighbors even after floods damaged crops.  “Sri Lanka needn’t get too worried because it isn’t yet
facing demand-driven inflation,” Waruna Singappuli, head of
research at NDB Stockbrokers Ltd. in  Colombo , said before the
report. “But the authorities may take a break on rate cuts and
keep a check on supply-side price gains by other means like more
tax cuts.”  The government raised electricity tariffs by 8 percent for
users of more than 120 units from January, while reducing rates
by 25 percent for institutions including government hospitals
and schools.  Heavy rains in January and early February caused floods in
the north and east of the island nation, destroying rice and
vegetable crops, displacing more than one million people and
killing about 50, according to government estimates.  Food Shortages  Sri Lanka may face shortages in vegetables and pulses, K.E.
Karunathilaka, the top bureaucrat in the agriculture ministry,
said Feb. 7. The island needs to watch inflation pressures from
supply shortages “closely,” Cabraal said earlier this month.  To help keep prices under control, Sri Lanka in January
almost halved  import taxes  on milk powder to 28 rupees (25 cents)
a kilogram and slashed customs duty on gasoline by 67 percent to
five rupees a liter.  Sri Lanka’s economic outlook is good, and the floods will
cause a “temporary” rise in prices, Brian Aitken, the
International Monetary Fund’s mission chief for Sri Lanka, said
Feb. 18.  The island is aiming to accelerate economic growth to 8.5
percent in 2011 and 9 percent in 2012 from an estimated 8
percent expansion in 2010, Cabraal said last month.  Sri Lanka’s next monetary policy announcement is scheduled
for March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  