-- 
St. Joe CEO to Leave as Fairholme's Berkowitz Succeeds in Board Shake-Up

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-02-28T22:43:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/st-joe-ceo-to-leave-as-fairholme-s-berkowitz-succeeds-in-board-shake-up.html
St. Joe Co. said Chief Executive
Officer Britt Greene and three other board members will resign,
marking a victory for  Bruce Berkowitz ’s Fairholme Capital
Management LLC in a battle for control of the  Florida  landowner.  Greene resigned from the company’s board effective
immediately and will step down as president and CEO this week,
the company said today in a statement. He was named CEO in 2008.
Michael L. Ainslie, John S. Lord and Walter L. Revell also will
leave as directors.  Berkowitz, whose firm is the biggest shareholder of
Watersound, Flordia-based St. Joe, will join the board, along
with three other new members. He resigned earlier this month
after disagreements over the company’s compensation and
governance process, and began efforts to oust some of the
directors.  St. Joe, with Berkowitz on the board, may consider a “more
aggressive” investment plan outside of its concentration of
northwest Florida properties, said James Wilson, a real estate
analyst at JMP Securities LLC in  San Francisco .  “How long before northwest Florida takes off and makes it
feasible to really develop a lot, I don’t know, but it’s
probably going to take a while,” Wilson said in a phone
interview. “Florida is still well behind the rest of the
country economically. Sitting and waiting for the Panhandle to
start growing is obviously not a very proactive business
model.”  Wilson has a “market perform” rating on the company.  New Directors  The other new directors are Charles M. Fernandez,
Fairholme’s president; former Florida Governor  Charlie Crist ;
and  Carnival Corp . Chief Operating Officer Howard Frank.
Chairman Hugh Durden, Thomas Fanning and Delores Kesler will
remain from the old board.  “St. Joe is committed to acting in the best interests of
shareholders, and in light of the feedback the board of
directors has received, we are taking steps to change the
company’s governance and leadership,” Durden said in the
statement.  Fairholme, based in Miami, has indicated it won’t seek
further changes to the board, St. Joe said in its statement. Jed
Repko, a spokesman for St. Joe, said company executives,
including Greene, would have no comment beyond today’s
statement. Tom Pinto, a spokesman for Berkowitz, also declined
to comment.  The company, which has lost money for 10 consecutive
quarters, said it will hire an executive search firm to find at
least one additional independent director.  Shares Down  St. Joe shares fell 89 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $26.78 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock has gained 23 percent this year, after losing 24 percent
in 2010.  Today’s announcement comes 12 days after St. Joe said it
“adamantly” opposed Berkowitz’s attempt to take control of the
company and that Fairholme’s proxy fight would be “costly and
disruptive.” On Feb. 8, St. Joe said it hired Morgan Stanley to
explore ways to boost  shareholder value , including a merger or
sale.  Hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  has questioned St. Joe’s
accounting practices. In October, Einhorn said the company
failed to properly write down the value of its land after having
sold its most valuable waterfront tracts. He said he was
shorting the stock, anticipating that shares would fall.  The company last month said it faced an informal inquiry
into its asset valuation practices by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt at   dlevitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 