-- 
Stronger Pound Might Stifle Growth in Exports, Trade Minister Green Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-02-28T19:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/stronger-pound-might-stifle-u-k-export-growth-trade-minister-green-says.html
A rise in the value of the pound
might stifle the increase in exports of British goods that has
been spurred in part by the weakening of the currency, Trade
Minister  Stephen Green  said.  “This would not be a moment when you would want the pound
to appreciate,” Green said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in  Washington  today. Sterling’s decline is “of help to the
rebalancing of the economy and you are now seeing the impact of
that coming through in the form of quite strong export
performance.”  British exports in December rose to a record 24.2 billion
pounds ($39.3 billion), according to the  Office for National
Statistics  in  London . Ernst & Young’s Item Club said in a report
this month that U.K. goods exports will probably increase 8.7
percent a year through 2020, compared with a 3 percent annual
gain in the three years through 2010.  Sterling has dropped about 24 percent since the start of
2007 on a trade-weighted basis. It advanced 1.4 percent against
the dollar this month amid mounting pressure on the  Bank of
England  to raise its key interest rate from a record low 0.5
percent to curb above-target inflation.  Central-bank policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said earlier this
month the bank should raise  interest rates  to boost the pound
and help it to contain inflation pressures. Inflation
accelerated to 4 percent in January, twice the bank’s target.  Policy Split  The U.K. economy contracted 0.6 percent in the fourth
quarter, complicating the bank’s task as a split deepens among
policy makers on whether to withdraw stimulus.  Green, a former chairman of HSBC Holdings Plc, said that
the bank’s mandate is to look at inflation, not currency levels.  “It’s important to be competitive,” he said when asked
whether the British economy could cope with a sterling
appreciation. At the same time, “competition is the result of a
mix of factors, where the  exchange rate  is one of the factors
only.”  Green said government steps to narrow the  budget deficit 
will “pay dividends” over the next few years as the country
seeks new engines of growth.  “The British economy had an unbalanced profile to it in
the run up to the crisis,” Green said. “We have to find a
growth model that is more sustainable and clearly going forward
it is not going to come from consumption fueled by debt and it’s
not going to come from growing government spending.”  One way to spur more trade would be to complete the long-
stalled Doha round of talks on a new global trade agreement
within the  World Trade Organization , which was launched in 2001.
Green, who is meeting with U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk
and a White House adviser, Michael Froman during his visit to
Washington, said 2011 provides a “window” to complete the
deal.  Reaching the agreement could boost global economic output
by $170 billion, including more than $30 billion for the U.S.,
he said.  “It’s in our collective interest to get it done,” Green
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net .
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  