-- 
Sun Hung Kai's Underlying First-Half Profit Rises 60% on Apartment Sales

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-02-28T09:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/sun-hung-kai-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-proceeds-from-home-sales.html
  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd ., the
world’s largest builder by market value, said fiscal first-half
underlying profit rose 60 percent after it sold more apartments
in Hong Kong and rents increased.  Profit excluding property revaluations rose to HK$10.4
billion ($1.3 billion), or HK$4.05 a share, in the six months
ended Dec. 31, from HK$6.51 billion, or HK$2.54 a share, a year
earlier, the Hong Kong-based company said in a filing to the
city’s stock exchange today. This compares with the HK$9.79
billion median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Property prices in Hong Kong rose 20 percent last year,
fuelled by an economic recovery and record low mortgage rates,
leading the government to raise down payments and transactions
taxes, and increase land supply to prevent a bubble. While those
measures have crimped developers’ shares, Sung Hung Kai booked
profits from luxury harbor-front projects including Larvotto and
The Latitude. The city is the world’s most expensive place to
buy a home, according to Savills Plc.  “Sun Hung Kai remains our top pick owing to its attractive
valuation and large exposure to investment property,” Hong
Kong-based analysts at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch &
Co. unit led by Raymond Ngai wrote in a Feb. 23 report. “We may
see a rebound of property stocks in the near term.”  An index tracking the city’s biggest developers has dropped
3.9 percent this year. Sun Hung Kai’s shares have fallen 2.6
percent this year and rose 1.2 percent to HK$125.80 at the 4 p.m.
close in  Hong Kong  today, before earnings were announced.  Larvotto  The company’s revenue from property sales, including joint
ventures, rose to HK$28.8 billion from HK$4.61 billion.  Sales at Larvotto in the Hong Kong Island South district
and at the Valais at Beas River in the New Territories
“contributed to this encouraging performance,” according to
the statement. Both projects were more than 90 percent sold
shortly after going on the market, it said.  Profit from property sales rose by HK$6.8 billion
to HK$8.9 billion from “substantial increase” in sales for
residential projects including Aria, The Latitude, Larvotto and
The Orchard Residences in  Singapore , the statement said.  Hong Kong home prices have risen more than 60 percent in
the past two years, fueled by an economic recovery, record-low  mortgage rates  and buying by rich Chinese, according to an index
compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd. The jump has raised
concern the  property market  may overheat, leading the government
to implement measures to cool the market.  The city’s home market fundamentals are “positive,” Vice
Chairman Thomas Kwok said at a press conference after the
earnings.  Office Rents  The developer expects revenue from property sales to reach
HK$28 billion in 2011, Chow Kwok-yin, acting executive director,
said at a press conference in Hong Kong after the earnings.  The company, which owns and operates the International
Finance Centre and the International Commerce Centre, Hong
Kong’s two tallest skyscrapers, also benefited from rising
office and retail rents in the city.  Net rental income rose 16 percent to HK$4.6 billion,
today’s statement said.  “Office rents are likely to keep rising, given relatively
tight new supply and greater demand for quality office space,”
the developer said in the statement. “Retail rents should also
continue to go up with higher local consumption and more
mainland tourist spending.”  Hong Kong has become the world’s most expensive place to
rent an office, according to New York-based real estate services
firm Cushman & Wakefield Ltd. Prime office rents in Hong Kong,
excluding taxes and service charges, surged 51 percent last year
to HK$139.50 per square foot, 29 percent higher than Tokyo’s
HK$107.80, according to  Cushman & Wakefield   Dividend  Deputy Chairmen Thomas and Raymond Kwok, sons of Chairwoman
Kwong Siu-hing and the company’s late founder, Kwok Tak Seng,
took over running Sun Hung Kai in May 2008 after ousting elder
brother Walter Kwok from the chairmanship. The family’s combined
wealth of $17 billion is third on Forbes Magazine’s list of Hong
Kong’s richest.  The company will pay an interim dividend of 95 Hong Kong
cents a share, compared with 85 Hong Kong cents a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  