-- 
Suzlon Says Cutting India’s Deficit Would Be ‘Icing on the Cake’

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-28T11:27:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/suzlon-says-cutting-india-s-deficit-would-be-icing-on-the-cake-.html
Robin Banerjee, chief financial
officer of  Suzlon Energy Ltd ., India’s largest wind-turbine
maker, welcomed plans by  Asia ’s third-biggest economy to reign
in its  budget deficit . Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said
the government planned to gradually cut the deficit to 3.5
percent by March 2014 from an estimated 5.1 percent.  “This is really important,” Banerjee said by telephone.
“The government is really now bringing in a lot of fiscal
discipline into the country. If this indeed happens, it would
really be icing on the cake. It will give a fillip to the
external investment community.  ‘‘In the last six to nine months, stock markets were not
doing too well primarily because of some uncertainty in the
fiscal discipline of the government. If fiscal discipline comes
back, there will be enhanced investment in the country from the
international sector.’’  On the budget proposal to introduce the Minimum Alternative
Tax of 18.5 percent on tax-free industrial enclaves called
Special Economic Zones:  ‘‘If I were to say the one single bad news for the
industry, it is the Minimum Alternative Tax on Special Economic
Zones. This in our view is a retrograde step.  ‘‘The government started Special Economic Zones in the
country to make all export-oriented activities completely tax
free so that they can fight the world competition hand-in-hand.
By introducing this tax of Minimum Alternative Tax of 18.5
percent, it may discourage investments in export-oriented
industries in  India .’’  On India’s decision to double the cap on foreign investment
in corporate bonds to $40 billion and allow companies to issue
tax-free bonds to finance infrastructure projects:  ‘‘It’s a very good step. These encouragements would
definitely help in providing funds to renewable energy,
especially the investments in infrastructure where the cap has
been increased to 300 billion rupees. A portion of that will
surely flow into our industry.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 