-- 
Swedish Banks, Policy Makers Clash Over Rules on Buffers

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-03-01T13:57:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/swedish-banks-policy-makers-clash-over-plans-to-impose-harsher-standards.html
Swedish banks are preparing to take
on the country’s policy makers as they balk at the prospect of
tougher capital rules than those being enforced elsewhere.  The Stockholm-based parliament today heard arguments from
Stefan Ingves, governor of the central bank, Finance Minister  Anders Borg  and Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman on risks
facing Sweden’s credit markets. Ingves and Borg warned that
Sweden faces imbalances from its credit and property markets and
want banks to follow stricter standards than those set out by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . Sweden’s bankers’
association says it will fight rules that undermine
competitiveness.  “We’ve been meeting with policy makers here so they know
how important it is that there is a level playing field,” said
Kerstin af Jochnick, managing director at the Swedish Bankers’
Association, in a phone interview yesterday. “We’ll continue to
raise our voice on this. Swedish banks are well capitalized and
if there isn’t harmony with the rest of Europe, business could
quickly go elsewhere.”  Sweden is home to four of the Nordic region’s six biggest
banks. The largest,  Nordea Bank AB , has railed against proposals
for tighter  capital requirements  that Chief Executive Officer
Christian Clausen calls “a bit strange” and “not realistic.”
Ingves, who helped rebuild Sweden’s financial industry after its
1990s meltdown, and Borg want lenders to have larger buffers as
credit growth hovers close to 9 percent and house prices exceed
a pre-crisis peak. Sweden’s banks are still recovering after
their Baltic operations got caught in the region’s 2009 property
market crash.  ‘Very Serious Risks’  Banks should prepare for a 1 percentage point increase in
capital requirements every year “over the next few years,”
Borg said today. Sweden’s banking industry faces “very serious
risks,” he said. Banks need to rein in risk-taking as the pace
of household credit growth, though “better than before,”
remains unsustainable, Ingves said at the hearing.  “Bank management should plan to, compared with the capital
base they have today, especially when it comes to common shares,
be looking at a scenario where these demands will be increased
by about 1 percentage unit per year during a few years,” Borg
told reporters.  International Leaders  Martin Andersson, the director-general at the Financial
Supervisory Authority, said Sweden “should be in the forefront
internationally when it comes to capital requirements,” in an
interview today. “We should have a high capital requirement, we
should have proper capital in the capital requirement and we
should be early in implementing it.”    Swedbank AB , the biggest bank in Latvia, Lithuania and  Estonia , wrote down $2.4 billion in 2009 after the former Soviet
region suffered the European Union’s deepest economic decline.
The economy of  Latvia , which was growing at a 12 percent pace in
2006, shrank 18 percent three years later. The losses fueled a
22 percent depreciation in Sweden’s krona against the euro from
an August 2008 peak through a March 2009 low.  “We have banks that take relatively large risks,” Borg
told reporters yesterday.  Swedbank was today’s biggest loser on the OMX Index of
Sweden’s 30 most-traded companies, dropping as much as 2.2
percent. The stock sank to 110.10 kronor at 2 p.m. in  Stockholm .
Handelsbanken slipped as much as 0.8 percent and was trading at
211.80 kronor. SEB dropped as much as 1.2 percent and was down
0.8 percent at 57.15 krona. Nordea traded 0.3 percent higher at
72.20 kronor. Financials were the biggest losers in the index,
trading 0.5percent lower, versus a 0.01 percent gain in the OMX.  Systemically Important  In addition to enforcing stricter capital rules in  Sweden ,
some policy makers want the country’s biggest lenders to come
under tougher standards than smaller rivals.  “It’s reasonable that they should have higher capital
requirements than other banks since they constitute a bigger
risk for society and therefore need a bigger cushion if
something should happen,’” Riksbank Deputy Governor Lars Nyberg
said in Feb. 23 interview. Ingves said in an interview today he
supports this view.  Under the so-called Basel III rules, banks are required to
have a minimum core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, of 7 percent. Nordea has a core Tier-1 ratio of 10.3
percent, fourth-quarter results show. That compares with 13.8
percent at  Svenska Handelsbanken AB , 12.2 percent at SEB AB, and
13.9 percent at Swedbank. Ingves and Borg want stricter rules
introduced faster in Sweden than the Basel committee’s 2019
deadline.  Nordic Drive    Norway  has also signaled it wants its lenders to live up to
stricter standards than those set abroad. The country’s
financial crisis commission has proposed levying a financial
stability fee and asked for a review of taxes on bank profits
and salaries. In  Denmark , the government’s decision to let
Amagerbanken A/S fail last month set a precedent in the EU for
depositor and senior bondholder losses and means lenders there
may face higher funding costs.  Banks will suffer without a “level playing field,” said
Maths Liljedahl, an analyst at Nordea. “If the Nordic region
moves ahead earlier than  Europe , then the banks will have to
bear more capital against the same type of risk, which means
lower profitability and a negative effect on GDP relative to
other countries. Policy makers would be wise to listen to the
market and wait for final Basel III rules before acting
themselves.”  Rating Outlook  Bjorn Erik Naess, chief financial officer of Norway’s DnB
NOR ASA, warns the region’s banks will be put at a competitive
disadvantage if policy makers get their way.  “We don’t want to see, and I don’t think we deserve, any
tighter regulation or higher requirements in Norway compared to
other countries,” Naess said on a Feb. 10 conference call.  According to Nyberg, banks with higher capital buffers will
win greater investor confidence, allowing them to fund
themselves at a lower cost. Rating agencies have said they
welcome policy maker efforts to contain risks. Norman told the
parliamentary committee today higher capital standards can be
used as a marketing tool to attract funding.  “Structural risks remain and will continue to shape the
longer-term prospects for Nordic banks,”  Standard & Poor’s  said
in Feb. 24 report. “We have seen and will continue to see
proactive political measures aimed at addressing developing
risks such as continued home price inflation, credit driven
consumption, and rising private debt levels. The degree to which
such measures are successful in moderating destabilizing trends
will be important for bank ratings over the longer term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net 
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  