-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance; Syngenta, Mayer Burger Climb in Zurich

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-02-28T11:19:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-credit-suisse-drops-as-syngenta-rises.html
Swiss stocks rose, rebounding from
the biggest weekly decline since July for the benchmark  Swiss
Market Index , as  Syngenta AG  climbed.  Syngenta, the world’s largest maker of agricultural
chemicals, rallied 5.6 percent as rival Bayer AG reported rising
sales of crop-protection products.  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, slid 1.1 percent.  The SMI of the biggest and most actively traded companies
rose 0.6 percent to 6,573.96 at 12:18 p.m. in Zurich, heading
for a monthly gain of 1.5 percent. The broader Swiss Performance
Index increased 0.5 percent today.  Syngenta surged 3.3 percent to 313.70 Swiss francs, its
third straight gain, as Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer reported
that sales of fertilizers, pesticides and other crop chemicals
rose 18 percent.  Indian fertilizer stocks rallied after Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee said the government will give cash to the poor
to buy agricultural chemicals.    Meyer Burger Technology AG , the maker of industrial cutting
equipment, advanced 5.6 percent to 32.25 francs after saying
full-year sales reached 826 million francs ($890 million).
Profitability at the earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization margin level advanced above 20 percent.  Credit Suisse declined 1.1 percent to 42.45 francs as
 SonntagsZeitung  reported that the lender is in talks with the
U.S. Department of Justice and the  Internal Revenue Service .  “We are cooperating with the authorities and stress that
the bank is not facing charges and is not the target of any
investigation,” Andres Luther, a spokesman for Credit Suisse,
told the newspaper.  A measure of European banking shares decreased as much as
1.5 percent today as HSBC Holdings Plc, the region’s biggest
bank by market value, reported full-year earnings that missed
analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 