-- 
Syngenta, Mosaic Favored as SAM’s Agribusiness Fund Sees Peak

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-02-28T10:46:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/syngenta-mosaic-favored-as-sam-s-agribusiness-fund-in-zurich-sees-a-peak.html
Agricultural commodity prices will
peak mid-year while avoiding a bubble-bursting decline, making
agribusiness stocks including  Syngenta AG  a good long-term bet,
according to the SAM Sustainable Asset Management AG group.  The forecast by Martin Jochum, a senior portfolio manager
at SAM in Zurich, came as corn advanced last week to the highest
level since July 2008, fueling concerns about global food
security where unrest sparked in part by rising food costs
brought down long-time rulers in Tunisia and Egypt.  Surging prices helped propel the UN Food and Agriculture
World Food Price Index 58 percent higher from 2009 to 2011. Even
though grains, rice and soy prices fell the past two weeks, the
case for investing in Basel, Switzerland-based Syngenta, the
world’s biggest agricultural chemicals maker, and companies
including  Mosaic Co .,  North America ’s second-largest fertilizer
producer, is robust, SAM and Julius Baer Group Ltd. say.  “The call at this time is for rising commodity prices”
with grains likely “peaking toward the half-year stage and then
leveling off,” Jochum said in a Feb. 22 interview. Syngenta
“is a very nice pure play,” with its shares having advanced 33
percent in the last six months, he said.  Syngenta had its biggest gain in almost three weeks today
as fertilizer stocks in  India , the world’s second-most populous
nation, rallied after Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said the
government will give cash to the poor to buy fertilizers.  “Structural factors like population growth, changing
dietary habits and the limited land supply underpin the
attractiveness of agribusiness stocks,” said Moritz Baumann, a
strategist at Baer, the Zurich-based wealth manager.  Move Into Agriculture  SAM has 11.2 billion euros ($15.5 billion) under
management, including 185 million euros in the SAM Sustainable
Agribusiness Equities fund. In-flows into the agribusiness fund
have jumped by about a third in the past six weeks, Jochum said.  That rise coincides with a move into agriculture that
accelerated in recent months. Through last week, corn had risen
40 percent since the end of September while soybeans advanced
more than 20 percent and wheat 16 percent.  Responsible for that in part were floods from  Canada  to  Australia  and drought from  China  to  Russia  that ruined crops and
drove food prices tracked by the UN to a record last month, in
turn prompting turmoil in  Africa  and the Middle East.  Wheat futures that reached a 29-month high Feb. 14 on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Corn hit a 31-month high on Feb. 22 and
soybeans the highest in 30 months on Feb. 9.  Jochum prefers to profit from the commodities rally by
investing in companies that benefit from high grain prices.
Stocks in his Sustainable Agribusiness Equities fund, founded in
2008 as Robeco Agribusiness Equities before changing its name
Jan. 15, include makers of products that may ease  food security 
concerns.  ‘Financial Incentives’  “Higher prices for agricultural products increase farmers’
profitability and set the necessary financial incentives for
farmers to invest more into yield-enhancing inputs like
fertilizers, seeds and machinery,” Baumann said after a
 conference  on sustainable investing in January.  Asian markets are showing “strong demand growth” for
fertilizers, Baer’s strategy and research team said.  The SAM agribusiness fund’s biggest holding is  White
Plains , New York-based  Bunge Ltd ., whose operations include
oilseed and sugar production and trading. Syngenta is second.  Jochum also likes Mosaic as farmers rotate fertilizers,
returning to phosphates and potash. Mosaic shares have risen 118
percent since June.  The Plymouth, Minnesota-based company is one of several in
the fund subject to takeover speculation. Cargill Inc., the
grain distributor and largest closely held company in the U.S.,
said in January it would divest its 64 percent stake in Mosaic.  “It’s possible for Mosaic to be acquired,” Chief
Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko said last month on a conference
call.    Mead Johnson Nutrition Co ., mentioned by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. on Feb. 4 as a potential acquisition, is the one most
likely to be bought, Jochum said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net 
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  