-- 
U.A.E. Central Bank Issues Guidelines for Personal Loans, Fees

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-02-28T12:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/u-a-e-central-bank-issues-guidelines-for-personal-loans-fees.html
The United Arab Emirates central
bank issued new guidelines on retail loans and fees as well as
capped personal loans at 20 times a borrower’s monthly salary in
a bid to control lending and curb excessive charges.  The repayment period for personal loans can’t exceed 48
months, the regulator said in a  circular  posted on its website.
Overall installments for all loans, including personal, car,
housing loans and credit cards, must not exceed 50 percent of a
borrowers’ gross salary and any regular income, the bank said.  “In terms of limiting how much you can lend to an
individual client, it’s probably a good thing for the system as
a whole,” Raj Madha, an analyst at Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd.
in Dubai, said in a telephone interview. “It is difficult to
say what this means on the fees front for banks, but certainly
in Qatar, which announced similar regulations, it made a small
but not insignificant impact on banks’ fee and commission
income.”  Bank lending in the U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab
economy, grew 1.3 percent in 2010 following a 2.4 percent rise
in 2009, according to  central bank data . Lending expanded by
more than 30 percent annually from 2005 to 2008 as high  oil
prices  and a construction and housing boom spurred lending.  The U.A.E. has 51 operating banks, 23 local and 28 foreign,
including the local units of  Citigroup Inc .,  HSBC Holdings Plc 
and  Standard Chartered Plc . Their combined personal loans
increased 3.9 percent in 2010 to 247.1 billion dirhams ($67.3
billion). Personal loans made up 24 percent of overall loans.  Fee Schedule  Car loans given out by banks will not exceed 80 percent of
the value of the vehicle and not be for longer than five years,
according to the circular. Banks may also not issue credit cards
to those with a monthly salary of less than 5,000 dirhams.  The central bank also prescribed maximum fees for banking
transactions, including 50 dirhams for setting up standing
instructions and 25 dirhams to get an additional check book. The
central bank said it would review fees annually.  Loan defaults in the U.A.E. have risen since the onset of
the global credit crisis and as the economy slowed. Bank
provisions for problem loans in the country surged 36 percent in
December from a year earlier to 44.3 billion dirhams, according
to central bank data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  