-- 
Pound Strengthens as Oil Surge Boosts Bets BOE Will Increase Interest Rate

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-28T16:30:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/u-k-10-year-gilts-rise-as-middle-east-unrest-curbs-risk-demand.html
The pound advanced against the
dollar and euro as oil trading near a 29-month high stoked bets
the  Bank of England  will be forced to raise  interest rates  this
year to curb above-target inflation.  The British currency appreciated against a basket of nine
developed-nation peers measured by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. Unrest that cut  Libya ’s crude output
and pushed prices to more than $100 a barrel in  New York  for the
first time since October 2008 spread to Oman, raising concern
Middle East production may be disrupted.  “Rate-hike expectations are still taking the front seat
and that’s being priced into sterling,” said Chris Walker, a
currency strategist at UBS AG in London. “The key theme we’re
seeing right now is that currencies of countries where rate
hikes are expected are being rewarded.”  The pound appreciated 0.9 percent to $1.6260 as of
4:28 p.m. in  London , snapping a two-day decline. Sterling
strengthened 0.5 percent to 84.90 pence per euro.  Britain’s currency advanced 1.4 percent against the dollar
this month and 4 percent this year amid mounting pressure on the
U.K.’s central bank to raise its key interest rate from a record
low 0.5 percent. Consumer-price growth accelerated to 4 percent
in January, a Feb. 15 report showed, the 14th consecutive month
above the Bank of England’s 2 percent goal.  Rate-Rise Bets  Money markets signal policy makers will probably raise the
key rate by about 65 basis points by year-end, according to
sterling overnight index average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc
data show. So-called Sonia rates indicate an increase of about
21 basis points in May.  Benchmark 10-year gilts rose for a sixth day, pushing
yields to the lowest in a month, as political turmoil in the
Middle East and North Africa boosted demand for the relative
safety of the debt.  The 10-year yield fell two basis points to 3.6 percent
after earlier declining to 3.59 percent, the lowest since Jan.
25. The 4.75 percent security due March 2020 rose 0.18, or 1.8
pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,623) face amount, to 108.84. Two-year
note yields, typically more sensitive to interest-rate
expectations, were one basis point lower at 1.4 percent.  “It’s a watch-and-wait situation with the Middle East,”
said Gavin Friend, a markets strategist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in London. “People still aren’t sure which way things
are going to go and that’s pushing yields just a little bit
lower.”  The 10-year breakeven rate, an indication of investors’
inflation expectations over the life of the securities, derived
from the yield gap between conventional and index-linked bonds,
was steady at 3.24 percent. That equaled the two previous
closing levels, which were the highest since Feb. 11.  The rise in gilts was due to “a classic flight to
quality,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist in
Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for banks and
investors. “The concern is that what’s happening in Libya is
going to spread right across the Middle East so you’re seeing
more demand for safe-haven assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  