-- 
U.S. Asks to Destroy Guns Owned by Blogger in Prison for Threats to Judges

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-02-28T23:11:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/u-s-asks-to-destroy-guns-owned-by-blogger-in-prison-for-threats-to-judges.html
Federal prosecutors told a judge
they want to destroy four firearms, including a Mossberg 12-
gauge shotgun, owned by Hal Turner, the Internet radio host and
blogger sentenced to 33 months in prison for threatening the
lives of three U.S. appeals-court judges.  U.S. District Judge Donald E. Walter  Brooklyn , New York,
ordered the weapons returned to someone of Turner’s
“designation who is licensed to have them” when he imposed the
sentence Dec. 21. Turner asked that they go to his mother.  In a court filing today, prosecutors asked Walter to
reconsider his order, in part because e-mails show it appears
Turner plans to pursue judicial and law-enforcement officials
after he’s released from prison.  “The government requests permission to destroy the
firearms, rather than turn them over to Turner’s mother, and to
compensate Turner for their fair market value,” prosecutors
wrote in the filing.  Turner, 48, was convicted in August of threatening the
judges because of their ruling upholding a gun ban. A jury found
him guilty of a single count of threatening in Internet postings
to assault and murder the three Chicago-based appeals judges.
That was the only count he faced. Two previous trials ended in
hung juries. Turner has appealed his conviction.  Semiautomatic Handguns  In addition to the  shotgun , the government seized three
semiautomatic handguns: a  Sig Sauer  Model P-229.40, a  Star 
Firestar 9mm and a  Walther  PPK .380, according to the court
filing.  Ronald G. Russo , a lawyer for Turner at Schlam Stone &
Dolan LLP in  Manhattan , didn’t immediately return a call for
comment.  Turner told his mother in a Feb. 2 e-mail, written from
prison, that “when I get out, I’m gonna go after some
‘problems’ and take care of them in a manner that will be
horrific,” according to the filing. He made similar threats to
his mother and an unidentified family member in other e-mails,
prosecutors said.  In another Feb. 2 e-mail, Turner asked two unidentified
family members to send him the personal information such as home
addresses on “all the key members in my case,” including
prosecutors and other judicial and law-enforcement officials, he
had bought from an Internet site called Intelius, according to
the court filing.  ‘Law-Enforcement Individuals’  “Turner has expressed his plans for the future, some of
which appear to be violent, in e-mails to his mother -- the very
person whom Turner has designated to receive the firearms, and
Turner has taken steps to receive personal information about the
judicial and law-enforcement individuals involved in his case,”
prosecutors wrote.  Lawyers from U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald’s office in  Chicago  prosecuted Turner, with Assistant U.S. Attorneys Diane
MacArthur and William Ridgway handling the trial. MacArthur
signed today’s court filing.  Turner’s case was moved from  Illinois  to Brooklyn to ensure
a fair trial. Two earlier trials in Brooklyn ended with hung
juries in March 2010 and December 2009. Walter is a senior judge
in federal court in Shreveport,  Louisiana .  Prosecutors said Turner, of  North Bergen ,  New Jersey ,
threatened judges Frank Easterbrook,  Richard Posner  and William Bauer because of their June 2009 ruling upholding handgun bans
in Chicago and Oak Park, Illinois. A lower court previously
dismissed a legal challenge to the ordinances by the  National
Rifle Association . The U.S. Supreme Court overturned the handgun
bans on June 28.  ‘Tree of Liberty’  “Let me be the first to say this plainly: These judges
deserve to be killed,” Turner wrote in a Web posting. “Their
blood will replenish the tree of liberty. A small price to pay
to assure freedom for millions.” Turner also posted the judges’
names, photographs and work addresses, and a map of their
courthouse.  Turner has already served about 13 months of his sentence,
before and after being convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Turner, 09-cr-00650, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn), and Turner’s
appeal is U.S. v. Turner, 11-196, Second U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 