-- 
U.S. 3-Year Notes Rise as Federal Reserve Buys Debt Amid Mideast Turmoil

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-02-28T22:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/u-s-treasuries-advance-on-concern-oil-surge-will-derail-economic-recovery.html
Treasuries rose, with three-year
notes rallying for a third day, as the  Federal Reserve  bought
$6.7 billion in U.S. notes, the first of five purchases this
week as part of its plan to sustain the expansion.  Ten-year notes reached the highest level in almost a month
as unrest in Libya drove investors to the safety of  U.S. debt 
and raised concern that higher  oil prices  will dent the economic
recovery. U.S. securities also rose as investors purchased
longer-term debt to increase the duration of their portfolios to
match benchmarks at the end of the month, such as the Barclays
U.S. Treasury Index.  “The market is bid given the Middle East news, month-end
buying and with the Fed purchases taking supply out of the
market,” said  John Spinello , chief technical strategist in New
York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “There is a lot of data and events to get
through this week and the market doesn’t want to be short
heading into them.”  Three-year notes yields fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.17 percent at 5:20 p.m. in New York. The
1.25 percent security maturing in February 2014 rose 3/32, or 94
cents per $1,000 0f face value to 100 1/4. Ten-year yields rose
two basis points to 3.43 percent after reaching 3.39 percent,
the least since Feb. 1.  Fed Buys  Shorter-term Treasury yields dropped amid speculation Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will repeat his pledge to keep interest
rates at record lows. The Fed bought notes due from September
2013 to July 2014 today. The Fed will buy as much as $26.2
billion this week.    U.S. government debt  extension is expected to increase by
0.13 years for February, compared with 0.08 years for January,
according to Barclays Plc, a primary dealer.  Treasuries were headed for a loss this month on speculation
central bank efforts to spur growth will boost the economy in
2011. An index of returns on U.S. government debt fell 0.22
percent as of Feb. 25, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, matching the 0.22 percent decline in government debt for
the year.  Oil traded near a 29-month high in New York as turmoil that
has cut  Libya ’s output spread to Oman. Crude for April delivery
rose as much as $2.08, or 2.1 percent, to $99.96 a barrel in New
York before trading at $96.87. It reached $103.41 on Feb. 24.  The U.S. said it will assist Libyan rebels trying to force  Muammar Qaddafi  from power, as pro-democracy protests that have
swept the Middle East spread to Oman and reignited in  Tunisia .  “We’ve been reaching out to many different Libyans who are
attempting to organize in the east and, as the revolution moves
westward, there as well,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said en route to Geneva, where she met today with officials from
the European Union and  Russia  to discuss the crisis.  Headline Watch  “The flight-to-quality bid and month-end buying are
keeping the market relatively bid,” said  Martin Mitchell , head
government bond trader at the Baltimore unit of Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., a St. Louis-based brokerage firm. “Any kind of headline
out of the Middle East and  Africa  still trumps anything else
this week to the extent that any more worrisome headlines come
out.”  Bernanke is scheduled to give testimony to the Senate
Banking Committee tomorrow, at which he may repeat that the
central bank plans to keep  interest rates  near a record low. The
U.S. central bank first lowered its target interest rate to a
range of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008 and, in March
2009, it began saying it would keep rates low “for an extended
period.”  ‘Closes the Door’  “It seems every time the other Fed members come out and
says something positive about the data he comes in and closes
the door on that idea, so the market will be looking to see if
there has been any change in his stance,” said  Sean Murphy ,
Treasury trader in New York at  Societe Generale , a primary
dealer.  Employment increased by 190,000 workers this month, the
most since May, after a 36,000 gain in January, according to the
median forecast of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before Labor Department data on March 4. The report may also
show the jobless rate increased to 9.1 percent from 9 percent.  Fed Bank of  New York  President  William Dudley  said the
“considerably brighter” economic outlook isn’t yet reason for
the central bank to withdraw its record monetary stimulus.  “We provided additional monetary policy stimulus via the
asset purchase program in order to help ensure the recovery did
regain momentum,” Dudley said in a speech in New York today.
“A stronger recovery with more rapid progress toward our dual
mandate objectives is what we have been seeking. This is welcome
and not a reason to reverse course.”  Personal Spending  Growth in U.S. personal spending slowed to 0.2 percent last
month, from 0.7 percent in December, lower than the 0.4 percent
median estimate of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously
owned homes fell in January in a sign the industry that
triggered the recession was struggling at the start of 2011. The
index of pending home resales dropped 2.8 percent after a
revised 3.2 percent decrease the prior month that was initially
reported as a gain, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  