-- 
U.S. Backs Health-Care Reform Act in Appeals Court Briefing

-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-02-28T23:48:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/u-s-backs-health-care-reform-act-in-appeals-court-briefing-1-.html
A U.S. appeals court should reverse
a federal judge’s decision to strike down as unconstitutional a
requirement that citizens obtain health-insurance coverage as
part of the Obama administration’s health-care reform law.  The  Justice Department , in a 62-page brief submitted to the
4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Virginia, today
defended what it has called a linchpin provision in legislation
intended to create the first U.S. universal health-care law.  President  Barack Obama  signed the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act into law on March 23. That day then-Florida
Attorney General  Bill McCollum  and Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli filed legal challenges to the measure.  “The minimum coverage requirement is ‘essential’ to the
act’s insurance reforms that prevent insurers from denying
coverage or charging higher premiums because of an individual’s
medical condition or history,” the U.S. said in its brief.  The federal government is seeking to overturn U.S. District
Judge Henry Hudson’s Dec. 13 ruling in Richmond striking down
the mandate.  Ruling in Cuccinelli’s case, Hudson held the law improperly
requires Americans to maintain a minimum level of health
insurance, going beyond Congress’s powers to regulate interstate
commerce. The judge left the rest of the law intact.  The U.S. has also said it will appeal a ruling by U.S.
District Judge C. Roger Vinson last month which also found the
purchase provision to be unconstitutional. Finding the provision
inextricable from the remainder of the act, he invalidated the
legislation in its entirety.  25 Other States  Vinson’s decision was rendered in the Florida attorney
general’s case, in which 25 other states have joined as party
plaintiffs. Vinson was appointed to the bench by U.S. President  Ronald Reagan , a Republican, in 1983.  Hudson was named to the bench by Republican President  George W. Bush  in 2002.  Three U.S. judges, each appointed by President  Bill Clinton 
-- a Democrat -- have upheld the legislation as lawful.  The Richmond-based appeals court will hear argument during
its May 10 to May 13 session in Cuccinelli’s case and on the
appeal filed by the evangelical Liberty University, whose bid to
invalidate the law was rejected by one of the Clinton nominees,
U.S. District Judge Norman K. Moon in Lynchburg, Virginia.  The Cuccinelli case is Commonwealth of Virginia v.
Sebelius, 10-cv-00188, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Richmond). The Liberty case is Liberty University v.
Geithner, 6:10-cv-00015, U.S. District Court, Western District
of  Virginia  (Lynchburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  