-- 
U.S. Recovery Might Need Public-Sector Unions: Tom Juravich

-- B y   T o m   J u r a v i c h
-- 
2011-02-28T00:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/u-s-recovery-might-need-public-sector-unions-commentary-by-tom-juravich.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  is
wrong. The way to fix his state’s fiscal crisis isn’t by
destroying public-sector unions and the half-century tradition
of collective bargaining among teachers and state employees.  Walker argues that given the growing state deficit, there
is no other choice than to slash the wages and benefits of
public-sector workers whose compensation, he suggests, far
exceeds that of workers in the private sector. He says he needs
to gut collective bargaining because he and political leaders at
the local level need flexibility to institute further cuts if
necessary. Upon examination, his position is rooted more in the
rhetoric of the Tea Party than in economic reality.  There is no evidence that public-sector  workers  in  Wisconsin  have higher total compensation than their counterparts
in the private sector. It is true that a  gross comparison  shows
many public-sector workers earn more, but they are significantly
better-educated than most workers in the private sector. When
one compares Wisconsin public-sector workers with their real
counterparts, as the  Economic Policy Institute  has done,
Wisconsin pays its public-sector workers 14.2 percent less than
workers in the private sector.  Walker and other Republican leaders in the state have made
a big deal of the “gold-plated pensions” of state workers, yet
median state and local pensions in Wisconsin are less than
$23,000. Fewer than 2 percent receive pensions of $100,000, the
threshold bantered around in the press as commonplace. These
pensions are most likely the managers and top administrators, as
well as senior police and firefighters, who, coincidentally, are
excluded from Walker’s draconian legislation.  Fiscal Responsibility  Given these modest wages and benefits, political leaders in
the state haven’t been fiscally irresponsible, as Walker has
suggested.  However, little has been made of Walker’s own fiscal
frivolity. The  Legislative Fiscal Bureau  of the Wisconsin
Legislature released a report in January indicating the state
should have a surplus of $124 million on June 30, which instead
would turn into a $137 million deficit because of some twists in
the budget process. Walker, in a special session in January,
went on to grant $117 million in tax cuts to business. Clearly
it’s not the state pensioners at $23,000 a year who are the real
problem in Wisconsin. These corporate tax cuts should be
reversed immediately.  Responsive Unions  Union leaders in the state haven’t been unresponsive to
this fiscal crisis. They have already agreed to significant wage
and benefit reductions, yet Walker hasn’t budged on the savaging
of collective bargaining and refusing to allow unions to collect
dues automatically. The manner in which union dues are collected
has absolutely no impact on the state budget, but can only be
seen as a political move by the governor to eviscerate his
political rivals.  If Walker is successful, the wreckage of labor relations in
Wisconsin will drag down the state budget for years to come.
What will happen to the productivity and commitment of workers
who not only have their wages and benefits slashed, but have no
union to file grievances on their behalf when their supervision
is unfair or abusive? Walker will have created perhaps one of
the most agitated and least productive workforces in the
country.  If the governor is serious about creating a more productive
public sector, he should negotiate with the democratically
elected representatives of the workers. After all, it’s the
teachers and the public-sector workers, not the governor, who
know their jobs best and where the waste is.  ‘Line in the Sand’  Instead, the governor talks about “drawing a line in the
sand” to balance the budget. Without collective bargaining and
with an open season on public-sector workers, state and
municipal services may well descend into chaos.  Maybe this is what Walker had in mind all along. Destroy
the unions and underfund the public sector so that it truly
becomes ineffective, and then try to justify wide-scale
privatization. While Republicans like Walker see privatization
as the magic bullet, Walker’s own botched experiment with
 privatizing  union courthouse security guards in  Milwaukee 
illustrates just how disastrous it can be.  Besides the workers, the real losers in Wisconsin are its
citizens. If Walker is successful in underfunding and
undermining pride and dignity in the public sector, there will
be long-lasting harm done to education and public services
across the state. No matter what Walker believes, we know that
people care passionately about their schools, their streets and
their neighborhoods. These aren’t political abstractions.  While we can drive wages and benefits in the public sector
down to Wal-Mart levels, it won’t deliver the kinds of public
services we have come to expect. Following the low-road approach
in the private sector brought us to economic ruin. Decent union
jobs in the public sector can be a fundamental part of our
economic recovery.  (Tom Juravich is professor of labor studies and sociology
at the University of  Massachusetts , Amherst. His latest book is
“At the Altar of the Bottom Line: The Degradation of Work in
the 21st Century.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Tom Juravich in Amherst, Massachusetts:  juravich@lrrc.umass.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  