-- 
U.S. Scraps Automatic-Reverse Window Rule That Was Opposed by Automakers

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-02-28T23:55:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/u-s-scraps-proposed-automatic-reverse-window-rule-opposed-by-automakers.html
U.S. auto-safety regulators said
they’ll scrap a proposed rule to require some car windows to
automatically reverse if something such as a hand or head is in
their way.  Kids and Cars, an auto-safety group that had pushed for the
rule, criticized the decision on the measure that they said
would cost $6 to $8 a window. The U.S. National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration announced the decision in a Federal
Register notice today.  “When there’s a solution to this problem, why aren’t we
implementing it?” Janette Fennell, the group’s president, said
in an interview. “I understand that none of these solutions
come for free. Should people have to continue to suffer these
injuries to be hurt in this way by a mechanism that could be
prevented?”  The proposal NHTSA set aside would have required automatic-
reversal only on windows that can be raised and lowered with one
touch of a switch. The rule wouldn’t have changed standard
practice, because manufacturers already have automatic reverse
on those types of windows voluntarily, according to Fennell.  Her group and other safety organizations had asked for
automatic reverse on all power windows.  Requiring the feature on all power windows would cost about
$6 a window, and save two lives and help prevent 850 injuries a
year, NHTSA said in 2009.  Already Safer  Today’s automatic window switches are safer than the
previous generation, which were levers that could be moved to
one side or the other and were more prone to causing child
injuries, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a letter
to Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who had
sponsored legislation requiring the Transportation Department to
consider a window rule.  “There is considerable uncertainty about benefits
estimates, particularly with respect to preventing or mitigating
the less serious, mostly minor, injuries involving a power
window closing on a person’s finger or hand,” LaHood wrote in
the Feb. 25 letter.  Automakers had asked regulators not to require automatic-
reverse features on all automatic windows. Gloria Bergquist, a
spokeswoman for the  Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers , a
group that represents companies including  Ford Motor Co . and  Toyota Motor Corp ., didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Automakers were concerned that the rule would have
unintended consequences with regard to security, said Greg Martin, a spokesman for  General Motors Co . The rule would have
made it easier for thieves and other felons to enter a vehicle,
he said in a telephone interview. Costs were also a concern, he
said.  The industry and the government need to focus on more
pressing safety issues, such as distracted driving, Martin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  