-- 
Baidu, Taobao Identified as `Notorious Markets' by U.S. for Helping Piracy

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-01T05:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/u-s-says-baidu-a-notorious-market-for-pirated-materials-1-.html
Baidu Inc. and Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd.’s Taobao,  China ’s biggest Internet search engine and
retailer, were named  “notorious markets”  by the U.S. Trade
Representative for helping sustain piracy and counterfeiting.  The two Chinese companies were among more than 30 Internet
and physical markets worldwide identified by the USTR for
helping the illegal sale of goods or materials protected by
copyright or patents. Others on the list include the Pirate Bay
file-sharing website in Sweden and the Silk Market in Beijing,
according to the statement.  The U.S. agency called on regulators overseeing the markets
included in its list to pursue possible legal action and step up
efforts to combat the violations. The spread of global piracy
and counterfeiting hurts entrepreneurs and industries worldwide,
said Ron Kirk, the trade representative.  “There’s always some concern on investors’ minds about
fraud,” said  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in  San Francisco . “That’s existed in China to a larger degree than
with U.S. companies.”  Zhao Xianquan, a spokesman at China’s Ministry of Commerce,
didn’t immediately return two calls to his office telephone
seeking comment.  Baidu, China’s most visited website, provides “deep
linking” to items on sites that are being sold without the
copyright holders’ permission, according to the statement.
Taobao has a “long way to go” to stamp out the availability of
infringing goods on its website, though the company is making
“significant efforts” to resolve the problem, according to the
statement.  Physical Markets  “We will continue to work closely with brand owners and
others to further enhance the level of trust and integrity in
our online marketplaces,” John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based
spokesman at Alibaba, said in an e-mail today. Kaiser Kuo, a
spokesman at Baidu in Beijing, declined to comment.  Other websites listed include torrentz.com; ThePirateBay,
which has been the target of “notable criminal prosecution” in  Sweden ; 91.com; and Rutracker based in  Russia , according to the
statement.  “The  United States  urges the responsible authorities to
intensify efforts to combat piracy and counterfeiting in these
and similar markets, and to use the information contained in the
Notorious Markets List to pursue legal action,” according to
the U.S. report.  The report also listed 17 physical markets, including the
Silk Market in Beijing, which it called a “particularly
prominent example of the counterfeiting of commercial and
industrial products that is endemic in many retail and wholesale
markets throughout China.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  