-- 
U.S.'s Best Mideast Policy Is Through Israel: Daniel Kurtzer

-- B y   D a n i e l   K u r t z e r
-- 
2011-02-28T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/u-s-s-best-mideast-policy-is-through-israel-commentary-by-daniel-kurtzer.html
Does the U.S. have the assets,
influence and will to affect the course of Middle East politics?  At first glance, the answer appears self-evident given the
extent of the country’s involvement in the region. Since the
1970s, the U.S. has been seized with Arab-Israeli peacemaking
and has given  Egypt  more than $70 billion in aid. The U.S. has
deployed military assets in the  Persian Gulf  to secure oil
exports at a cost of $6.27 trillion from 1980 through 2007.
Adding the wars and development in Iraq and  Afghanistan , the
total rises to $6.8 trillion.  After all this investment, U.S. standing among the region’s
populations is not high. The perception on the Arab “street”
is that U.S. assistance has lined the pockets of now-deposed
leaders. U.S. naval activities in the region are seen as
protecting the oil interests of American companies. And U.S.
diplomacy in the Arab-Israeli conflict is criticized as
providing cover for Israeli occupation practices.  In other words, U.S. investments in the Middle East over
the past three decades had value when they were made and
continuing value tied to the political fortunes of the rulers in
power. With the departure of these leaders, such as  Hosni
Mubarak  in Egypt and Zine el Abidine Ben Ali in  Tunisia , there
is almost no present value for U.S. investments in the region.  In assessing U.S. influence, a second factor is the fact
that Egypt’s revolution is nationalistic at its core. Egyptians
rose up against Mubarak not only because of the
authoritarianism, crony capitalism and corruption that marked
his tenure, but also as an expression of pride and determination
to “take their country back.”  Limited Potential  In this respect, the possibility of influence from the
outside is not only limited, but trying to exert it can be
counterproductive. Even well-intentioned offers of assistance
could be seen as an effort to exercise control over Egypt.  During the 18 days of protests preceding Mubarak’s ouster,
many of these elements were evident in U.S. relations with
Egypt.  Statements by the Obama administration were examined by
both the regime and the demonstrators for evidence of U.S.
thinking and support. However, neither the public statements nor
the messages conveyed in daily phone calls to Egypt’s leadership
had any discernible effect on the substance or timing of events
on the ground. The protestors were intent on this being an
Egyptian uprising and that determination has carried over into
the more nuanced political maneuvering now underway.  Military Push  Similarly, the military and political establishments made
decisions based on their own assessments of internal affairs and
the prospect of stability. The generals seemed to understand
earlier than most that Mubarak could not remain aloof from the
demands of the demonstrators.  The military tried first to make a persuasive case for
resolving the crisis with the appointment of a vice president
and the announcement that Mubarak would not run for reelection.
When this gambit proved to be too little, too late, it was the
military that ultimately pushed Mubarak from office. Their
calculations derived from internal analysis, with little or no
apparent influence from outsiders.  This analysis suggests that the U.S. will not have much
sway over the outcome of the Egyptian upheaval, and that it
would be wise for the U.S. to avoid pushing ideas or aid on
Egypt, unless these are solicited by the next government.  For sure, more assertive policies -- even if well-
intentioned -- must be avoided. These would include a U.S. or
international plan for Egyptian economic development; a U.S.
demand for Egypt to reaffirm its peace treaty with  Israel ; or
some new linkage that Congress or the administration attaches to
existing aid to Egypt. Each of these steps would be perceived as
cutting across the central nationalist message of the uprising.  Best Strategy  Does this mean the U.S. must sit by idly while Egypt and
the region undergo potentially revolutionary change? Not
necessarily.  There is one set of U.S. policies that would impact
positively on developments in Egypt and elsewhere and draw the
collective breath of the Arab street: a determined, pro-active,
aggressive effort to achieve a breakthrough in Israeli-
Palestinian peace negotiations. The Obama administration is
already on record as committed to this goal; two years of
sustained effort without results prove the need for a more
coherent and encompassing strategy.  The time is right for agile, creative and sustained U.S.
peace diplomacy. American-led advances in the  peace process  will
not determine the future of Arab democracy, but such activity
will reassert the U.S.’s leadership role in the one area where
its influence can make a difference.  (Daniel Kurtzer is a lecturer and visiting professor of
Middle East policy studies at  Princeton University ’s Woodrow
Wilson School of Public and International Affairs.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Daniel Kurtzer at  dkurtzer@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  