-- 
U.S. Misused Research in Truck Rulemaking, Trade Group Says

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-02-28T21:45:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/u-s-misused-research-in-truck-rulemaking-trade-group-says-1-.html
The U.S.  Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration  misapplied research underpinning its
proposed rules to limit the length of truck drivers’ shifts,
according to a statement from the scientist responsible, the
American Trucking Associations said.  The trucking regulator shouldn’t conclude that slightly
longer sleep periods would translate into fewer traffic
fatalities, Francesco Cappuccio, a sleep researcher and
professor at Warwick Medical School in the  United Kingdom , said
in a  statement  released by the Arlington, Virginia-based trade
group today.  “There is no evidence to date to support the view that a
few minutes of increased sleep time per day would exert a
beneficial effect on mortality risk,” Cappuccio said in the
statement.  The U.S. Transportation Department agency proposed rules
Dec. 23 to cut an hour of driving time per day for the nation’s
1.6 million long-haul truck drivers. Truckers also would have to
take breaks after driving seven consecutive hours, and wouldn’t
be allowed to work as many consecutive days of long shifts as
they can now.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration “looks
forward to receiving all public comments and addressing them in
the final rule,” Candice Tolliver, an agency spokeswoman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The trucking industry says the rules would cost $2.2
billion a year. A Bloomberg Government analysis showed the
proposal may cost as much as $1.8 billion. The trucking
regulator estimated an annual expense of $1 billion, or 0.5
percent of the industry’s annual revenue.  “The fact that this prominent physician and sleep
researcher clearly states the agency is wrong to use his and
others work in this way clearly exposes the serious flaws in
this proposal,” Bill Graves, president and chief executive
officer of the American Trucking Associations, said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  