-- 
Tunisian Industry Minister Resigns After Renewed Violence

-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-28T16:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/tunisian-industry-minister-resigns-after-renewed-violence.html
Tunisia’s industry and technology
minister resigned, a day after Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi
quit following renewed violence in the capital Tunis.  Afif Chelbi handed in his resignation today, the state-run
Agence Tunis Afrique Presse  reported , without saying how it got
the information or providing further details. Yesterday, hours
after Ghannouchi stepped down, interim President Fouad Mebazaa
 named  an octogenarian former foreign minister, Beji Caid
Essebsi, as the new prime minister.  Demonstrators had repeatedly called for the departure of
Ghannouchi, who served under ousted President Zine El Abidine
Ben Ali and created an interim government on Jan. 18, four days
after Ben Ali fled the country. It wasn’t immediately clear if
the resignations would appease the demands of the various
protesters. At least two groups indicated they wanted more.  “We want the resignation of all the government members and
the establishment of a council to re-draft the constitution,”
Zouhair Maghzaouin, a member of the Secondary Education General
Syndicate union, said in an interview today.  The mass protests that forced Ben Ali to flee to  Saudi
Arabia  inspired a wave of unrest throughout the region. Since
Jan. 14, the benchmark Tunindex stock has fallen 11 percent and
rallies have continued as demonstrators say the interim
government includes too many former regime members.  Essebsi, who was born in 1926, served as foreign minister
under late President Habib Bourguiba from 1981 until 1986, the
year before Ben Ali became president.  Clashes  Security forces surrounded the Interior Ministry with
barbed-wire barriers today after three protesters were killed in
clashes with security forces on Feb. 26, TAP said. The  Associated Press  reported that as many as five people may have
died. The violence led youths to join police patrols to help
keep peace, AP said, citing unidentified opposition leaders.  More than 3,000 protesters had rallied in central Tunis on
Feb. 20 to demand Ghannouchi’s resignation, TAP said.  “This resignation is a service to  Tunisia ’s revolution,”
Ghannouchi said at a news conference yesterday. “I am not
prepared to be someone who makes decisions that result in
victims.”  Ghannouchi announced changes on Jan. 18 including the
dissolution of the Communications Ministry, the release of all
political prisoners and the formation of a committee to
investigate corruption and abuse of power and aimed at moving
the nation toward a system of elected institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden  at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 