-- 
Urban Outfitters’ Revamp Draws Chic Humans, Happy Dogs: Review

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/urban-outfitters-revamp-draws-chic-humans-happy-dogs-review.html
At the Urban Outfitters headquarters
in Philadelphia, a salvaged decompression chamber stands at the
entrance and dogs romp on a lawn fronting a lagoon.  The clothing and accessory retailer is carving out its
future in the defunct 1,200-acre Philadelphia Navy  Yard , where
mothballed aircraft carriers loom over the Delaware River
waterfront and a neighboring business fabricates high-tech
submarine propellers.  The company has spent $120 million so far to overhaul
330,000 square feet in six buildings, and it’s planning to
convert two more. Far from ordinary warehouses, these are sturdy
tile-roofed buildings. They’re all historic landmarks, low-slung
Roman palaces with intricate brickwork and high arched windows.  Urban Outfitters was founded in Philadelphia in 1970 by
Richard A. Hayne, 63, who is still president. As it grew, Hayne
created other lines to expand the brand beyond the original
college-age target, including  Anthropologie  and  Free People .  While other fashion retailers have shrunk, Urban Outfitters
has grown, rolling out  Leifsdottir  two years ago and working up
a chain of house and garden stores called  Terrain .  It continued expanding through the recession by cleverly
channeling consumers’ fickle tastes. The company credits the
navy yard architecture’s melange of old and new with helping
attract staffers who know what works.  After it bought the buildings from the  Philadelphia
Industrial Development Corporation  for just a dollar, the
company confronted abandoned, often-altered structures covered
in rust, mold, flaking paint and graffiti.  Part of the secret to converting them was not doing too
much.  Hint of Danger  The untidy evidence of decades of human use spoke to the
Urban Outfitter ethos of eclectically layering esthetic ideas: a
little geeky vintage, a little sexy rock ‘n’ roll, a hint of
danger.  “They didn’t want everything cleaned up and made pure,”
said Jeffrey Scherer of the Minneapolis architecture firm  Meyer
Scherer & Rockcastle .  “With Hayne, we worked through an aesthetic that the new
thing should not interfere with the old thing,” Scherer said,
“so that many periods of time could coexist.”  It was a painstaking process that has created a haunting
grandeur bathed in daylight perfect for comparing fabric colors,
textures and workmanship.  In converting the first buildings, Hayne and Scherer met
weekly to decide what idiosyncrasies to keep, what to let go,
and when to stop scraping paint and start stabilizing it.
Scherer had to teach sandblasters to “treat their nozzles like
a paintbrush not a scrub brush.”  Rorschach Blotches  Layers of paint and rust form Rorschach blotches across the
steel beams and interior walls. Floors are reclaimed wood, with
gouges, stains, and scratches intact. Massive, corroded anchor
chains were turned into an artwork. Landscape architect Julie
Bargmann shaped the sidewalks to trace old rail tracks and built
self-draining plazas from broken concrete chunks.  In building 25, the newest addition to the campus, I
crossed a wooden bridge over a sunken moss garden sprouting
tropical plants. A long couch was covered with throw pillows in
a variety of patterns and embroidery inspired by  India , the
signature of the company’s Free People brand.  Contractors had opened up the full 500-foot length of the
building, revealing 18-foot ceilings, spidery roof trusswork,
and clerestory windows that aim bands of light across the rows
of open workstations.  Artful dishevelment reigns. Bolts of fabric overflow from
desks not covered by scavenged knickknacks and idea-tweaking
photos ripped from magazines. Clothes racks crowd the aisles and
samples hang in window light from gauze-covered fiberboard
partitions.  Flea-Market Chic  For a business whose stores are styled in flea-market chic,
it’s not a stretch to locate in derelict workshops dating from
the early 1900s at the bedraggled southern edge of the city.  Still, it’s rare for companies to avoid the brain-deadening
cube farm and try to build their ethos so thoroughly into their
workplace.  It’s too bad that the Urban Outfitters complex is far too
messy and freewheeling a place for most companies. And the outre
location? I can hear the condescending dismissal: it’s OK for a
“creative” business.  Who can afford not to be creative these days?  As for the dogs out front, a key reason the company moved
to the navy yard was to accommodate dog-owning staff. When
they’re inside, the dogs curl up in soft beds under desks.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 