-- 
Hutchison Seeks Up to $5.8 Billion in Singapore Port Trust IPO, Terms Show

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-02-28T10:10:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/hutchison-seeks-up-to-5-8-billion-in-singapore-port-trust-ipo-terms-show.html
  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd ., controlled
by billionaire  Li Ka-shing , is seeking $5.83 billion from the
sale of Chinese port assets in what may be  Singapore ’s biggest
initial public offering.  The world’s largest operator of container terminals is
offering about 5.4 billion units in a trust at a price of 91
cents to $1.08 each, according to a term sheet. Hong Kong-based
Hutchison announced plans for the sale last month.  Cornerstone investors led by Capital Research & Management
Co. and Paulson & Co. will invest $1.62 billion in the IPO,
Hutchison said in a statement today, as  China ’s growing exports
fuel container-shipping volumes. The sale could surpass the $4
billion raised in  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd .’s 1993 IPO
and the total amount raised in Singapore IPOs last year.  “The asset held by the trust are good because of the
increasing trade that will come globally and within  Asia ,” said  Daphne Roth , head of Asian equity research at ABN Amro Private
Banking, which oversees about $14 billion in the region.  Hutchison Port Holdings Trust will own assets including
container terminals in Hong Kong and neighboring Guangdong
province. Hutchison will manage the trust and retain a 25
percent stake, according to a Jan. 18 statement. The trust will
have a total market value of as much as $9.4 billion, according
to today’s statement.    DBS Group Holdings Ltd ., Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. are managing the sale.  Cornerstone Investors  Capital Research will invest $634 million in the offering,
according to the term sheet. Paulson & Co., managed by  John Paulson , will buy a $350 million stake and Lone Pine Capital LCC
will invest $186 million, it said.  Jenkin Hui and family, Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte.,
Cathay Life Insurance Co. and Metropolitan Financial Services
Ltd. will each invest $100 million, and Ally Holding Ltd. will
buy a $50 million stake.  Hutchison rose 1.9 percent to HK$91.70 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong. The company, which also invests in real
estate, oil and gas, drugstores and mobile-phone services, has
jumped 15 percent this year, outperforming the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index ’s 1.3 percent gain.  Singapore Slump  Singapore’s benchmark Straits Times Index has fallen 5.6
percent this year as political instability in the Middle East
and North Africa boosts  oil prices . The share slump may damp
investor demand for the Hutchison trust sale, said Francis Lun,
general manager at Fulbright Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.  “It may be a little too big for the current market
conditions,” he said. “Rising oil prices have been causing
global markets to fall.”  China Hongqiao Group Ltd., the country’s largest privately
owned aluminum producer, scrapped plans for an IPO in Hong Kong
last month because of a “deterioration in market conditions.”  Perennial China Retail Trust, which owns Chinese malls, is
pushing ahead with plans to raise as much as S$1.1 billion ($863
million) in a Singapore IPO.  IPO proceeds in Singapore last year totaled $5.7 billion,
led by  Global Logistic Properties Ltd .’s S$3.45 billion offering,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg that excludes
overallotment options. By comparison, Hong Kong IPOs raised
$49.5 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  Hutchison opted to sell the port assets in Singapore as
business trusts can’t be listed in Hong Kong. The company chose
a trust structure because of the assets’ stable cashflow and
growth potential, it said last month.  PSA International Pte, the terminal operator controlled by
Singapore’s Temasek, also owns a stake in Hutchison’s main port
arm, Hutchison Port Holdings Ltd. The port unit has interests in
308 berths in 51 ports across 25 countries, according to the Jan.
18 statement.  Asia-U.S. container volumes may grow 8 percent this year
following a jump of more than 15 percent last year as consumers
resume purchases of Chinese-made goods following the end of the
global recession, the Transpacific Stabilization Agreement, a
shipping line group, said in a Feb. 4  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 