-- 
Luxottica Targets Growth in Emerging Markets, Raises Dividend

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-02-28T16:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/luxottica-targets-growth-in-emerging-markets-raises-dividend.html
  Luxottica Group SpA , the world’s
largest maker of eyeglasses, predicted it will increase revenue
and profitability this year as consumer demand for branded goods
rises.  The company is in “an ideal position to continue throughout
2011 with solid, stable growth in net sales and a more than
proportionate increase in profitability,” Milan-based Luxottica
said in a statement today.  The owner of the Ray-Ban and Oakley sunglasses brands
generates about 60 percent of its sales in North America and has
tripled sales in emerging markets in the past six years.
Luxottica said it aims to increase sales in emerging markets by
about 20 percent this year and “significantly” boost revenue
at Sunglass Hut stores. It’s targeting growth in its U.S.
business and the Oakley brand, and premium and luxury-brands may
continue “double-digit” growth, Luxottica said.  Sales in the wholesale division rose more than 15 percent
in January and February, while comparable-store sales in  North
America  advanced about 6 percent, Luxottica said.  Volumes sold in the larger Asian emerging markets such as
China and  India  should grow by 120 percent over the next three
years, Luxottica said. The company said it expects to have about
500 stores in  China  by 2013.  “There are many great opportunities to ensure solid growth
for Luxottica, both in emerging and more mature markets,”
Chief Executive Officer Andrea Guerra said in the statement. He
predicted “a year filled with great success.”  Raises Dividend  The company plans to raise its dividend payment for last
year by 26 percent to 44 euro cents a share, higher than the
41.9-cent average of 21 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Luxottica today reported a 34.5 percent increase in 2010
net income to 402.2 million euros ($555 million), in line with
the forecast it reiterated last month. The Italian company,
which also makes eyewear under license for Prada and Chanel,
reported on Jan. 24 that sales rose 14 percent last year to 5.8
billion euros.  Fourth-quarter net income climbed 88 percent to 55.1
million euros from a restated 29.3 million euros a year earlier,
the company said. That was the biggest increase in a quarter in
six years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Luxottica has risen 14 percent over the past year in Milan
trading, giving the company a market value of 10.5 billion
euros.  The company is holding an investor day in  London  tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  