-- 
Vanguard Topping Fidelity Highlights Power Shift to Independent Advisers

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/vanguard-topping-fidelity-shows-shift-to-independent-advisers.html
David O’Brien, a 46-year-old
financial adviser in the Richmond, Virginia, suburb of
Midlothian, has made Vanguard Group Inc. the world’s largest
mutual-fund manager. Just not by himself.  O’Brien visits clients at their homes and, at kitchen
tables and on front porches, counsels them on how best to invest
their savings. Almost half of the $17 million he oversees has
landed in mutual funds and exchange-traded funds sold by  Valley
Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, the company that pioneered
low-cost index investing for individuals in the mid-1970s.  While O’Brien is a drop in Vanguard’s $1.6 trillion bucket
of assets, he is part of a surge in fee-only consultants who
have changed the way Americans invest. Assets overseen by
registered investment advisers such as O’Brien more than tripled
in the decade ended Dec. 31, 2009, to $1.7 trillion, according
to researcher Cerulli Associates. The trend forced mutual-fund
firms and broker-dealers to change how they sell funds and
helped propel the ETF, an index-fund offshoot that trades like a
stock, into the fastest-growing investment product.  “The single biggest driver of ETF sales through financial
intermediaries has been the huge shift to fee-based advice,”
said Anthony Rochte, a senior managing director at Boston-based  State Street Corp .’s money-management unit, the world’s second-
largest provider of ETFs, after  New York ’s  BlackRock Inc . “The
fee-only adviser has an incentive to keep overall costs low and
that makes ETFs much more competitive.”  Challenging Brokers  The RIAs emerged to challenge stockbrokers in the first
half of the 1990s, when mutual-fund assets almost tripled and
individual investors sought out affordable and reliable guidance
as the number of choices grew.  The advisers, who must register with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission or state regulators, carry the legal
duty to put clients’ interests first. Brokers need only promise
to sell products that are “suitable” for customers, according
to  SEC rules . All RIAs, except those dually registered as a
broker-dealer, are barred from taking sales commissions or other
payments from the fund companies whose products they pick for
investors. Most charge a fixed annual percentage of the client’s
money, typically 1 percent to 2 percent, so their incomes rise
and fall with the fortunes of their customers.  “I have no incentive to sell someone’s product,” O’Brien
said in a telephone interview. “From a consumer-protection
standpoint, that’s a sea change.”  ‘Niche Piece’  The advisers are the fastest-growing competitor to the four
largest broker-dealers, or wire houses --  Morgan Stanley  Smith
Barney LLC,  Bank of America Corp .’s Merrill Lynch,  Wells Fargo &
Co . and UBS Financial Services Inc. Assets overseen by the
brokers declined 17 percent to $4.75 trillion in the two years
through 2009, according to Aite Group LLC in Boston.  “More than five years ago, RIAs were a niche piece at
best,” said Scott Smith, associate director at Boston-based
Cerulli.  Advisers range from thousands of small firms, such as
O’Brien’s, to GenSpring Family Offices LLC, based in  Palm Beach
Gardens , Florida, with more than $20 billion under advisement.  “Clients never liked paying commissions, which come across
as hidden fees,” Christopher Battifarano, senior investment
partner at GenSpring, said in an interview. “The change to the
fee-only model doesn’t guarantee you’re going to get better  investment performance , but we do sit on the same side of the
table as the client.”  Broker-dealers took notice in the early to mid-1990s as
customers began leaving for fee-only advisers, Ben Phillips, a
partner at consulting firm Casey, Quirk & Associates LLC in
Darien, Connecticut, said in an interview. They encouraged their
representatives to switch clients to a fee-based model.  Tech Bust  That push wasn’t aimed only at stemming customer
defections, Phillips said. Companies wanted the steadier revenue
associated with asset-based fees, instead of the peaks and
troughs produced by sales commissions linked to market rallies
and declines. The technology-stock bust of 2000-2002 helped
firms convert brokers in growing numbers to the fee-based model
when commissions plunged.  Companies also were responding to the growth in online
trading offered by discount brokers such as  Charles Schwab
Corp ., Christine Pollak, a spokeswoman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, said in an e-mail.  The firm holds $470 billion, or 28 percent of customer
money, in fee-based accounts, compared with 18 percent in 2001.
Of the $14.1 billion its brokers gathered in new individual
investor assets last year, 89 percent went to fee-based
accounts.  “Fee-only advisers are no threat to our business because
we can and do offer more options than they do,” Pollak said.  ‘Grossly Overstated’  Competition from RIAs is “grossly overstated,” Matt Card,
a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America,
said in an interview. “We continue to read about it but we’re
not seeing it in our business.”  Rachelle Rowe, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, said the San
Francisco-based firm “has long encouraged advisers to adopt”
fee-based client relationships. She declined to comment on how
strong a competitor the company viewed fee-only advisers to be.    Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for New York-based UBS
Financial Services, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Fund managers including Capital Group Cos., owner of the
American Funds, and  Fidelity Investments  reacted to the shift by
lowering and waiving commissions or creating share classes
without the charges.  American Funds , which has never allowed the
public to make direct purchases, now levies a full upfront
commission on less than 5 percent of sales, said Chuck Freadhoff, a spokesman for the Los Angeles-based company.  ‘Open Architecture’  “There has been a very significant move to open
architecture,” said Robert Pozen, chairman emeritus at  Boston ’s
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. and a Bloomberg
contributing editor.  With brokers less reliant on commissions, performance and
cost became more important in determining what funds were sold.
That created opportunities for firms with good track records
that had refused to charge commissions and relied on direct
sales to individual investors. No-load fund families such as
Vanguard and Baltimore’s T. Rowe Price Inc. were well-positioned
for the shift.  “We had no opportunity to play in 70 percent of the retail
market in the U.S.,” Edward Bernard, vice chairman at T. Rowe
Price, said in an interview. “All of a sudden we were totally
compatible, not just in pricing but with our proposition of
providing consistent performance.”  Passing Fidelity  Vanguard’s mutual-fund assets rose to $1.45 trillion at the
end of 2010 from $564 billion in 2000. The firm passed Fidelity
last year to become the biggest mutual-fund manager.  Dimensional Fund Advisors LP in Austin, Texas, increased
its individual investor assets almost 11-fold in the past decade
while selling through RIAs. That vaulted the firm to 10th-
largest among mutual fund and ETF families at the end of 2010
with $127 billion, according to Financial Research Corp. in
Boston. The company didn’t appear in FRC’s top 25 in 2000.  The growth of fee-based advice has benefited ETFs because
they tend to be low-priced, tax-efficient and easily traded.
RIAs allocate an average of 16 percent of their clients’ assets
to ETFs, more than double the proportion among other advisers,
according to Cerulli.  “You can get into the index areas that you want and create
an efficient portfolio,” said Kent Addis of Addis & Hill Inc.,
an RIA in Wayne, Pennsylvania, a Philadelphia suburb. All of his
firm’s $30 million in assets under advisement is in ETFs, almost
half with Vanguard. Addis uses funds that invest in major stock
and bond indexes, as well as  U.S. Treasuries , high-yield debt,
emerging-market equities and gold.  ETF Surge  ETF industry assets in the U.S. surged 15-fold to $992
billion in the decade ended Dec. 31, data from the  Investment
Company Institute  in  Washington  show. Stock and bond mutual
funds rose 76 percent to $9.01 trillion in the same span,
according to the trade group. Vanguard, with more than $35
billion in ETF deposits in 2010, is the fastest-growing provider
of the product.  The link between adviser compensation and ETF growth will
be underscored over the next 5 to 10 years outside the U.S.,
said Scott Burns, director of ETF research at Chicago’s
Morningstar Inc. Regulators in the U.K. have barred payments
from fund and insurance companies to financial advisers for
recommending their products starting in 2013.  Australia  passed a
similar ban effective next year.  “We definitely see ETFs being embraced more because of
this,”  Deborah Fuhr , BlackRock’s global head of ETF research,
said in an interview from  London . “We’re already seeing firms
launched to help financial advisers select ETFs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  