-- 
Ventas to Purchase Nationwide Health for $5.7 Billion as REIT Mergers Rise

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-02-28T21:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/ventas-to-purchase-nationwide-health-in-transaction-valued-at-7-4-billion.html
  Ventas Inc ., the owner of more than
600 senior-care and medical properties, agreed to buy  Nationwide
Health Properties Inc . for about $5.7 billion in the biggest
deal ever among health-care real estate investment trusts.  Ventas will pay 0.7866 of its stock for each Nationwide
share, the Chicago-based company said today in a statement.
That’s equal to about $44.99 as of Ventas’s closing share price
on Feb. 25, a 15 percent premium to Nationwide’s close that day.
The  Newport Beach , California-based company has about 126.3
million shares outstanding.  The deal will form the largest health-care REIT in the
U.S., according to the statement. Property deals are rising in
the industry as real estate values recover.  HCP Inc ., currently
the biggest U.S. health-care REIT by market value, agreed in
December to buy 338 properties from  Carlyle Group ’s HCR
ManorCare Inc. for $6.1 billion.  “The really big growth driver in health care is
acquisitions,” Craig Guttenplan, an analyst at CreditSights in  London , said in a telephone interview. “This is kind of a one-
off deal to make them more competitive in the private market.”  Health Care REIT    Health Care REIT Inc ., a Toledo, Ohio-based owner of senior
housing and health-care properties, said after the close of
trading today that it will pay $2.4 billion for most of the real
estate assets of Genesis HealthCare. The company will acquire
147 post-acute, skilled nursing and assisted-living facilities
in 11 states, according to a statement.  Health care is the single-largest industry in the U.S.
based on contribution to gross domestic product, HCP said on its
 website . The industry will account for about 20 percent of the
economy by 2019, Ventas said in a January  presentation .  Nationwide shares climbed $3.78, or 9.7 percent, to $42.74
as of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Ventas shares dropped 3.1 percent to $55.42  Ventas shareholders will own about 65 percent of the
combined company when the deal is completed, and Nationwide
shareholders will have about 35 percent, according to the
statement. The deal is expected to close in the third quarter.  The transaction will boost earnings and will help the
company reduce debt costs, Ventas Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Debra Cafaro said in a telephone interview. She will
lead the combined company.  “It improves our balance sheet,” Cafaro said. “It
improves our credit profile. We think it will create positive
ratings momentum.”  Senior Housing  Ventas announced almost $4 billion in acquisitions in 2010,
Cafaro said in a conference call with investors on Feb. 17.
Those deals, which included the purchase of almost all the real
estate assets of Atria Senior Living Inc., made Ventas the
largest U.S. owner of senior housing in the U.S., Cafaro said.  “With respect to the investment environment, 2010 was a
banner year for investments by health-care REITs,” Raymond
Lewis, president of Ventas, said on the Feb. 17 call. “Many
factors contributed to this record performance including capital
access and liquidity advantages for public REITs over private
buyers, positive investments spreads over our cost of capital,
and private-equity funds monetizing their health-care assets to
create liquidity for their investors.”  Ventas saw “bigger fish to go after” in 2011, as well as
“middle-sized opportunities” ranging from $300 million to $600
million, Lewis said.  “Health-care real estate is an over $700 billion market,”
Cafaro said. “The REITs themselves own less than 10 percent of
that market.”  Ventas expects $15 million in savings from the Nationwide
deal in the first year, the company said today on a conference
call with investors. The combined company will have about $1.3
billion of net operating income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  