-- 
Vietnam Reserves to Grow, Supporting Dong, Viet Capital Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-28T11:26:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/vietnam-s-reserves-to-climb-supporting-dong-viet-capital-says.html
  Vietnam ’s state-controlled companies
are expected to increase the amount of overseas currency they
sell to the central bank, boosting the nation’s foreign-exchange
reserves and supporting the dong, Viet Capital Securities said.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung asked state companies last
week how they could “hoard U.S. dollars when we are in this
difficult situation.” The  International Monetary Fund   said in
December  that Vietnam has a low level of foreign reserves, which  Citigroup Inc . estimated at $13.6 billion at the end of 2010,
down from $23.9 billion two years earlier.  The official exchange rate of the dong was devalued by
about 7 percent on Feb. 11 and the currency’s official value as
of 5:45 p.m. Hanoi time was 20,878 per dollar. The currency
traded as low as 22,080 per dollar on the black market on Feb.
25 and strengthened to 21,960 today, according to a telephone
service run by state-owned Vietnam Posts & Telecommunications.  “Sentiment improved on the foreign-exchange market on
expectations that Vietnam’s forex reserves will increase once
state-owned companies sell their dollars to the  state bank ,”
Marc Djandji, the Ho Chi Minh City-based head of research at
Viet Capital, wrote in a note dated today.  “We saw the Vietnamese dong strengthen somewhat on the  interbank market  by the end of the day on Friday,” he wrote,
citing an exchange rate of 21,315 per dollar without giving a
comparable previous figure.  Confidence ‘Fragile’  Confidence in the dong is “fragile” and may be undermined
unless Vietnam’s central bank tightens monetary policy more
aggressively, said Citigroup, which predicted last month that
the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves would total $13.8 billion
at the end of this year and rise to $17.1 billion in 2012.  Vietnam’s monthly trade deficits have “come off from the
recent highs late last year,” Hong Kong-based Johanna Chua and
Ben Wei of Citigroup wrote in a note dated Feb. 25. Still, the
trade shortfalls are “not yet narrow enough to meaningfully
restore confidence in the dong,” they said.  Vietnam recorded a trade deficit of $950 million this
month, up from $877 million in January, based on preliminary
figures released on Feb. 25 by the General Statistics Office in
Hanoi. The deficit for the first two months of 2011 is $1.83
billion, according to the report, down from about $2.4 billion
for the same period in 2010, calculations by Bloomberg show.  The government faces a “pressing need to narrow the  trade
gap  and ease depreciation pressures on the local currency,”
Sherman Chan, a Hong Kong-based economist at  HSBC Holdings Plc ,
wrote on Feb. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  