-- 
VW Pushes Peugeot Into Price War as Europe Market Contracts

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-01T16:07:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/vw-pushes-peugeot-into-european-price-war-as-market-contracts.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen,  Renault SA  and  Fiat SpA , the automakers relying the most on European sales, are
being pushed by market leader  Volkswagen AG  into a price war
that threatens their pledges to increase profits.  Fiat is offering French customers 4,000 euros ($5,500) off
the 17,000-euro price of a  Sedici  sport-utility vehicle, while
Renault has slashed the advertised U.K. price of a Clio model by
22 percent to 9,995 pounds ($16,200). VW’s new Passat,
introduced in November, was priced 675 euros less than the
previous version of the mid-sized car.  Volkswagen is “lowering prices from a position of
strength,” said  Max Warburton , a London-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein. “Pricing took a hammering in the
recession and apparently got worse in the fourth quarter,
despite the tentative economic recovery.”  The European auto market is set to shrink for the fourth
consecutive year in 2011 following the end of government
incentives that boosted sales during the recession. Last year,
Renault sold 63 percent of its cars in  Europe , compared with 61
percent for Peugeot and Fiat’s 46 percent.  Of the 7.14 million vehicles Volkswagen sold last year,
3.31 million, or 46 percent, were delivered in Europe.
Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW last week reported 2010 net income
of 6.84 billion euros, the highest in the  auto industry .  Ford, Peugeot  The European car market contracted the last three years,
declining 14 percent to 13.8 million deliveries in 2010 from 16
million in 2007, according to the  European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association . It may shrink as much as 2 percent
this year, Renault forecast Feb. 10. The French market may
contract 8 percent, Peugeot Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Varin  said at the Geneva auto show today.  Carmakers that are holding back from discounts are already
losing ground, Warburton said, citing market-share losses at  Ford Motor Co . and Peugeot. In January, Ford’s European market
share fell 0.7 percentage point to 8 percent, data from the
Brussels-based industry group showed. Peugeot’s market share
slid 0.3 percentage point to 13.6 percent. Fiat’s share tumbled
1.7 percentage points to 7.5 percent.  Volkswagen added 1.5 percentage points for a share of 22.1
percent, including Seat, Skoda and the Audi luxury brand.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, predicts average
prices may fall by 1 percent after last year’s 2.2 percent
decline, sales chief Jean-Marc Gales said in an interview.  Fleet Deals  Paris-based Peugeot may abandon its target for sales to
European fleet operators as discounts reach “the 20 percent
order of magnitude,” he said. The carmaker is three percentage
points away from an 18 percent fleet market-share goal set for
2012.  “There are fleet deals I’ve turned down because they would
have harmed profitability,” Gales said. “If I have to choose
between hitting the 18 percent target and profitability, I’ll
choose profitability.”  The company may set up an online-only sales outlet for a
new low-cost vehicle brand it’s looking at developing for
Europe, Gales said today in Geneva.  Last month, Peugeot raised the target for savings and
additional earnings for the three years through 2012. Renault
gave a 2013 operating-margin target of 5 percent by 2013, a
level it last achieved in 2004. Based on the higher end of
Fiat’s forecasts confirmed Jan. 27, trading profit for the
company, which no longer includes truck and tractor operations,
may rise as much as 7.9 percent.  Tough Pricing  “Price deterioration has the potential to make 2011 even
tougher than 2010,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group in  London . “It leaves us skeptical about
volume carmakers’ expectations of rising profitability.”  Credit Suisse has an “underperform” rating on Peugeot and
Fiat shares and “neutral” for Renault. In 2010, Renault and
Peugeot were the worst performers on the Bloomberg EMEA Auto
Manufacturers Index, rising 20 percent each while the benchmark
added 29 percent. This year, Peugeot and Renault have each risen
2.1 percent before today. Fiat, which separated its industrial
operations in January, climbed 0.4 percent.  Peugeot fell 1.1 percent to 28.69 euros at 5:05 p.m. in
Paris. Renault lost 1.7 percent to 43.67 euros. Fiat slipped 0.5
percent in Milan, while Volkswagen’s preferred shares dropped
1.6 percent in  Frankfurt .  Excess Capacity  Europe’s failure to shut factories during the crisis is in
part to blame for the tough pricing environment, said  Jeff Schuster , a J.D. Power & Associates analyst in Troy,  Michigan .  U.S. carmakers have taken out capacity of 1.5 million
vehicles since 2006, putting their recovery two years ahead of
European rivals that used state-backed crisis loans and
subsidies to avoid closures, Schuster said. “By relying on
scrappage programs, Europe has avoided looking in the mirror and
dealing with the fundamental issues,” he said.  Discounting is most aggressive in Spain and  Italy , where
carmakers continue to plug the gap left by the expiry of
scrapping bonuses, according to JATO, a Harrow, England-based
automotive consulting firm.  In  Germany , Europe’s biggest auto market, average discounts
climbed to 11.1 percent in January from 10.7 percent in
December, according to a report by  Autohaus Pulsschlag , a motor
trade publication. Fiat, Renault, Ford and Peugeot were among
the biggest discounters identified in that study.  Market Recovery?  “Europe is a very difficult, competitive market,” Philippe
Klein, Renault’s executive vice president of product planning,
said in an interview in Geneva. “We’re working to improve our
brand image and pricing in the medium term.”  Some executives are more optimistic about the market
outlook. Fiat expects a recovery in the European market starting
in April, head of sales Andrea Formica told reporters in Geneva.  Ford said it doesn’t plan to match competitors’ excessive
discounts to buy share or volume in Europe.  “It’s still going to be tough, there’s still going to be a
discount,” said Stephen Odell, CEO of Ford’s European unit. “I
don’t think you can sit there and say we’re not going to
discount because we’re a large-scale manufacturer. But as you
saw last year, we won’t discount to the levels of destruction
where it doesn’t make sense to chase share.”  Discounts are also becoming harder to track as carmakers
shift from cash rebates to less tangible incentives such as
extended warranties, free servicing and special editions that
bundle optional extras at a knock-down price. Manufacturers are
keen to move away from cash discounts because they hurt second-
hand values, thereby increasing financing costs for new
vehicles, said Gareth Hession, JATO’s vice president for
research.  “It’s not uncommon to have six or seven incentives, with
different possible combinations -- to the point where they are
getting too complex for customers,” he said. “Even the dealers
need daylong meetings just to understand what the new program
is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Geneva via 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Geneva via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  