-- 
Walker's Push to Curtail Union Rights Makes Him an Outlier Among Governors

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/walker-s-push-to-curtail-union-rights-makes-him-an-outlier-among-governors.html
 Iowa Governor Terry Branstad,
elected in the November wave that put Republicans in command of
most U.S. states, says a contract that grants government
employees 15 percent raises and free health care is squeezing
taxpayers.  If the union won’t renegotiate, Branstad plans to fire
state workers. Yet he’s not following the lead of Wisconsin
Governor  Scott Walker  by trying to circumscribe the benefits for
which members can bargain, a move workers say would break the
union.  “Every state’s got its own unique situation,” Branstad,
64, said in an interview in  Washington , where the National
Governors Association met during the weekend. “We don’t control
the Legislature like they do in Wisconsin.”  The power of public-employee unions has become a flashpoint
in budget disputes nationwide. Some polls show the public
opposes moves by governors such as Walker,  Ohio ’s John Kasich
and Indiana’s Mitch Daniels to limit collective-bargaining
rights. Labor groups call the measures part of an assault on the
middle class. The struggle has exposed fissures among
Republicans and drawn scorn from Democrats, even as governors
from both parties seek union concessions without challenging
their legal standing.  Democrats, who have enjoyed union campaign support, said in
interviews that they are negotiating give-backs to ease
financial strains. While voicing support for Walker,
Republicans, including  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  and
Michigan Governor Rick Snyder, haven’t moved to strip unions of
the ability to negotiate salaries, pensions or health-care
benefits.  New Jersey’s Way  Christie, 48, who has been a vocal opponent of unions
representing teachers, last week proposed in his $29.4 billion
budget making public workers cover 30 percent of health-care
premiums, about what their private-sector counterparts pay.  His plans have drawn fire from Democrats who control the
Legislature, and he hasn’t sought to strip unions of bargaining
power. In New Jersey, 17 percent of employees belong to unions,
compared with 12 percent in the nation overall, according to the
 U.S. Labor Department .  “Every governor will approach those problems in different
ways,” he told reporters at the National Governors Association
meeting. “If I wanted to do something, I think everyone who has
gotten to know me over the past two years knows I wouldn’t be
shy about it.”    Wisconsin ’s Fight  Amid the debate, the $2.9 trillion market for municipal
debt has gained. Tax-exempt municipal bonds this month returned
1.59 percent through Feb. 25 after five months of losses,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Municipal Master
index. The risk of major default is “close to zero,”  Mark Zandi , chief economist for Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said at the Washington meeting.  The conflicts are a result of financial pressure in the
wake of the 18-month recession, the longest since the 43-month
Great Depression in the 1930s. States are expected to have $175
billion less than they will need to pay their bills during the
next two years, according to the  National Governors Association .
Financial market losses and rising employee-care costs have also
meant less spending on programs such as public education.  In Wisconsin, Walker, 43, sworn in last month as
Republicans also took control of the Legislature, is seeking to
change the law to restrict public-employee unions’ bargaining to
wages alone. He says that would give cash-strapped governments
flexibility to balance their books.  No Premeditation  In Ohio, Kasich, 58, supports similar legislation. While
public employees should be able to negotiate wages and some
working conditions, they shouldn’t be able to bargain for
pensions and health-care coverage because of the cost, he said.  Similarities between the efforts to restrict collective
bargaining in Ohio, Wisconsin and other states are because of
“happenstance, not coordination,” he said.  Such bills are also under consideration in Michigan,
Tennessee and  Idaho , according to Steven Kreisberg, collective
bargaining director of the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees.  In  Indiana , Daniels, a potential Republican presidential
candidate, issued an executive order on his first day in office
in 2005 that ended collective bargaining for state employees.  Union contracts have limited states’ ability to respond to
the fallout from the economic rout, Daniels said.  ‘Death Grip’  “The death grip that the public-employee unions have had
on the process in many states and sometimes nationally is a very
big part of the deficit and debt problem that we’re facing at
both levels,” Daniels told reporters in Washington.  Bids to advance legislation rolling back public unions’
powers in Wisconsin and Ohio triggered protests by union members
and allies who said the bills were opening shots in a Republican
move to crush the core of the labor movement, a pillar of
financial support for Democrats.  Some surveys indicate unions have the public on their side.
A Feb. 21  USA Today/Gallup  poll found that 61 percent of adults
oppose efforts to eliminate collective bargaining for public
unions, outnumbering those in favor nearly 2 to 1. In a
Quinnipiac University poll of Ohio voters last month, 51 percent
opposed similar efforts there, while 34 percent were in favor.  By contrast, in New Jersey, where Christie has challenged
workers’ pay and benefits but not their right to bargain, his
first year has been judged a success by 54 percent of voters,
according to a Quinnipiac poll released this month.  Ideological Attack  The public perceives Walker’s effort as an ideological
attack, says Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley, the head of the
Democratic Governors Association.  “One of the reasons you see the public pushback on the
extremism and the ideology that’s trumping problem-solving in
Wisconsin is because people see it as fundamentally mean-
spirited, ideological and fundamentally unfair,” he said at a
Feb. 25 panel discussion hosted by Politico.  Democrats haven’t given unions a pass. California Governor  Jerry Brown  has proposed slashing public employees’ pay by as
much as 10 percent in the face of a $25 billion deficit. In  New
York , Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s budget may result in as many as
9,800 employees losing their jobs.  The Bogeyman  Massachusetts has worked with unions to agree on salary and
pension reductions, said Governor Deval Patrick, a Democrat
elected to a second term last year.  “We haven’t needed to turn the public-employee unions into
the bogeyman in order to make progress,” Patrick told reporters
Feb. 26 at the governors’ meeting. “In times like this, we
should turn to each other, and not on each other.”  Some of the 29 Republican governors have shied from
confrontation like that roiling the Capitol in Madison,
Wisconsin, where Senate Democrats have fled the state to prevent
the Legislature from passing the collective-bargaining bill and
protesters have swarmed the grounds.  A website set up by the Republican Governors Association,
dubbed “ Stand with Scott ,” yesterday had comments in support
of Walker only from governors in  Texas ,  Mississippi ,  Virginia ,  Louisiana  and Idaho, all so called right-to-work states where
employees cannot be forced to join a union as a condition of
employment.    Michigan ’s Snyder, a Republican businessman in an
industrial state where 17 percent of workers are unionized, is
seeking benefit concessions from public employees. Unlike Walker
and Kasich, he said he isn’t seeking to change collective
bargaining and plans to negotiate for those concessions.  “We’ve got an existing system that’s worked in the past,
and we’re going to try to work through that,” Snyder said in an
interview yesterday. “I’ve had good relations in terms of
talking to people, and before I get in a situation of getting in
a fight, my view is, I’m there to solve problems.”  Asked about the argument by Walker and Kasich that changes
to collective bargaining are needed to give state and local
governments the flexibility to control costs in the long term,
Snyder replied, “That’s why we have 50 states.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Washington at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 