-- 
Warner Music Said to Receive More Than 10 Bids in Asset Sale

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-02-28T22:03:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/warner-music-said-to-receive-more-than-10-bids-in-asset-auction.html
  Warner Music Group Corp ., which put
itself up for sale in January, has received more than 10 bids
for its businesses, people with knowledge of the process said.  Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC, a joint venture between  Sony
Corp . and the estate of Michael Jackson, and KKR & Co.’s BMG
Rights Management, bid for the company’s Warner/Chappell
publishing business, the people said. Billionaire Len Blavatnik,
a former director of  Warner Music , is seeking most of the
company, they said.  Warner Music’s board plans to review proposals this week
and discuss narrowing the field to six to eight candidates, said
the people. The record company, which had originally planned to
sell its music-publishing unit and bid for EMI Group Ltd., hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . in January to explore takeover offers
for all or part of the company.  A sale of the publishing assets is still the most likely
outcome so Warner Music can bid for EMI, two of the people said.  Selling more than Warner/Chappell publishing may end Warner
Music’s pursuit of a merger with EMI, the London-based record
company seized this month by  Citigroup Inc . after breaching debt
covenants. Warner Music received offers for both U.S. and non-
U.S. recorded-music units, the people said.  Amanda Collins, a Warner Music spokeswoman, declined to
comment, as did  Andrea Rachman  at New York-based Goldman Sachs.  AGM Partners  AGM Partners LLC, a Warner Music adviser on its 2007 effort
to buy EMI Group, is also representing Warner on the sale, Alan Mnuchin, managing director of the New York-based company, said
in an interview. He declined to comment further.  Jimmy Asci, a spokesman for Sony ATV, declined to comment.
Michael Sitrick, a press contact for Blavatnik, who owns 2.6
percent of New York-based Warner Music, declined to comment. BMG
Rights CEO Hartwig Masuch declined to comment.    Universal Music  Group, the world’s biggest record company,
didn’t bid due to antitrust concerns and may seek parts of the
recorded music business, people said.  Universal Music Chief Executive Officer Lucian Grainge, who
determined regulators wouldn’t allow the company to buy
Warner/Chappell, is in talks with Goldman Sachs bankers for
Warner Music’s recorded music assets in Japan and territories
outside  Europe , one person said. Universal Music, a unit of
Paris-based  Vivendi SA , is also discussing a U.S. distribution
agreement, the person said.  Grainge was unavailable for comment, said Universal Music
spokesman Peter Lofrumento.  Warner Music, whose artists include Cee Lo Green and The
Black Keys, closed unchanged at $6.01 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 6.8
percent this year.  Eight out of Warner Music’s 13 directors are executives of
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Bain Capital LLC, two Boston-based
private equity firms that together hold 51 percent of the
company’s shares. Edgar Bronfman Jr., who holds about 7 percent,
is chairman and CEO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  