-- 
Roach Fires West Indies to Cricket World Cup Victory; Zimbabwe Tops Canada

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-02-28T22:02:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/windies-bowler-roach-gets-hat-trick-in-win-over-netherlands-zimbabwe-wins.html
West Indies bowler Kemar Roach
finished off the Netherlands with a hat-trick to lead his team
to a record 215-run victory at the Cricket  World Cup . Zimbabwe
beat  Canada  by 175 runs in yesterday’s other group match.  West Indies totaled 330-8 in its 50 overs in New Delhi,
including 80 by Chris Gayle, 60 by Kieron Pollard in 27 balls,
53 by Devon Smith and 49 by Ramnaresh Sarwan.  The Dutch were bowled out for 115 in 31.3 overs as West
Indies sealed its  biggest  victory margin in one-day
internationals. Seam-bowler Roach finished with 6-27 after
dismissing Pieter Seelaar, Bernard Loots and Berend Westdijk in
the last three balls. It was the sixth World Cup hat-trick and
first at this edition.  “It was a brilliant effort from Roach,” West Indies
captain Darren Sammy said at the post-match presentation
ceremony. “We had come to show our worth, and win convincingly.
Roach put his hands up.”  Zimbabwe defeated Canada in a Group A match in Nagpur,  India . Zimbabwe made 298-9, with 98 by Tatenda Taibu and 85 by
Craig Ervine. Canada was all out for 123 in 42.1 overs.  Canadian schoolboy Nitish Kumar became the youngest player
at the World Cup, aged 16 and 283 days. He was out for one run.  Pakistan and Australia lead Group A with four points
through two of six round-robin games ahead of Sri Lanka, New
Zealand and Zimbabwe, who each have two. Canada and Kenya have
no points after two losses.  India and England lead Group B with three points, one ahead
of West Indies,  South Africa  and  Bangladesh . Ireland and the
Netherlands have no points.  Kenya plays  Sri Lanka  in Group A today in Colombo.  The top four teams from each of the two seven-team groups
advance to the quarterfinals. The tournament, co-hosted by India,
Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, ends April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  