-- 
World's Biggest Stock Losses in Egypt to Widen When Bourse Opens Next Week

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-03-01T15:54:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/world-s-biggest-stock-losses-in-egypt-to-widen-as-bourse-opens-after-halt.html
Egypt’s benchmark stock index may
extend losses that made it the world’s worst performer this year
after a monthlong suspension ends on March 6 amid political
unrest in the Middle East.  The  EGX 30 Index  slid 16 percent in the week before the
bourse stopped trading on Jan. 27 because of a popular revolt
that ended the 30-year rule of President  Hosni Mubarak  two weeks
later. That brought the drop for the year to 21 percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s benchmark stock index plunged 6.8 percent today,
the most since November 2008. The Bloomberg GCC200 Index of
companies in the  Persian Gulf  lost 6.3 percent in February.  Tourists fled Egypt as protests turned violent, companies
closed and the government’s borrowing costs rose. Corporate
profits may drop, meaning the EGX 30 needs to fall a further 13
percent to trade in line with the average price-to-earnings
ratio of Middle East and North Africa markets, investment bank
AlembicHC said in a report yesterday. The regulator is seeking
to stem a slide by limiting daily share moves.  “The region’s growing instability over the last month and
information disclosed locally to investors regarding corruption
and the impact of the revolution on listed companies will weigh
on the whole market,” said Wael Ziada, head of research at EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE.    Egypt ’s bourse delayed the opening of the stock exchange
after speaking to brokerages, Chairman Khaled Seyam said today.
“Investor confidence is a big concern for us,” he said. “We
are going through exceptional circumstances and are trying to
give equal opportunity to all investors to prepare for the
opening.”  Remittances  Egypt’s revolt, inspired by  Tunisia ’s uprising that ousted
its president in January, has spread to Libya, Bahrain, Oman,  Algeria ,  Morocco  and Yemen. Deadly clashes in neighboring  Libya ,
where leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has lost the eastern part of the
country to the opposition, have forced thousands of Egyptian
workers, whose remittances contribute to the economy, to flee.  Finance Minister Samir Radwan said Feb. 12 Egypt’s crisis
may slow economic growth this fiscal year through June to about
4 percent compared with an earlier estimate of 6 percent. Radwan
said last month the budget deficit may widen to 8.4 percent of
gross domestic product from a previous target of 7.9 percent.  Ahmed Ezz, chairman of  Ezz Steel , and Ahmed El Maghraby,
former housing minister and a shareholder of real-estate company
Palm Hills Development SAE, are among businessmen with links to
Mubarak standing trial on corruption charges. Palm Hills’
Chairman Yassin Mansour has also been referred to trial. Ezz and  Palm Hills  said last month their operations are run
independently of the chairmen.  GDRs Fall  Ezz Steel, the country’s biggest producer of the metal, was
cut to “sell” from “neutral” at investment bank EFG-Hermes,
which also lowered Palm Hills to “neutral” from “buy.”
Ghabbour Auto, Credit Agricole Egypt SAE, National Societe
Generale Bank SAE and  Paints & Chemical Industry Co . had their
recommendations reduced on Feb. 15 at Egypt’s largest investment
bank. EFG-Hermes itself was cut to “neutral” from
“overweight” at HSBC Holdings Plc on Feb. 18.  EFG-Hermes’ global depository receipts lost 2.4 percent
today, bring the tumble since Jan. 27 to 9.9 percent. Those of  Orascom Construction Industries , Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
builder, fell 1 percent today, bringing the slump in the period
to 10 percent, while  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE , North Africa’s
largest mobile network operator by subscribers, lost 0.5 percent
today.  Juhayna Food Industries, the nation’s biggest producer of
packaged milk, said on Feb. 13 it had met only 75 percent of
demand during the unrest. Cairo Poultry Co., the second-biggest
publicly traded Egyptian chicken producer, said sales declined
in January and expenses increased as a result of the protests.  Stemming the Slide  Egypt’s  Financial Supervisory Authority , the market
regulator, said on Feb. 19 trading will be halted for 30 minutes
if the EGX 100 Index falls more than 5 percent. If the drop
extends to 10 percent trading will be suspended for a period to
be set by the bourse chairman. Daily share price movements will
also be limited to 10 percent and trading hours reduced to three
from four.  The expected slowdown in economic growth and investors’
need to free cash that has been locked in for more than a month
will likely trump the regulator’s efforts to stem the market
decline, Walaa Hazem, who helps oversee about $1 billion in
Egypt’s equities and fixed-income assets at HC Securities &
Investment, said on Feb. 27.  The crisis has raised borrowing costs, with yields on
treasury bills hovering around two-year highs since Mubarak’s
Feb. 11 resignation. Egypt sold 2 billion pounds ($340 million)
in 91-day bills and 3 billion pounds in 273-day notes in an
auction on Feb. 27. The nine-month sale fell short of its 3.5
billion pound goal, according to finance ministry data.  Economic Issues  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond due 2020 has
dropped 32 basis points to 6.89 percent since reaching a high of
7.21 percent on Jan. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares to a yield of 5.16 percent at the
beginning of the year.  “Economically, the country has many issues,” said Oliver Bell, who helps oversee about $10 billion of emerging markets
assets as a London-based senior investment manager at Pictet
Asset Management. “The country relied heavily on foreign direct
investment, tourism, remittances and the  Suez Canal . The first
three now are very problematic.”  Inflation accelerated to an annual 10.8 percent in January
from 10.3 percent in the previous month according to the state-
run statistics agency. The pound skidded to a six-year low of
5.9615 per dollar last month. It traded at 5.8895 yesterday.  A combination of high  budget deficit  and capital outflows
will weaken the pound, which will “not help their inflation
issue,” Bell said. “Whilst the protesters may have the right
to oust their autocratic leader, it’s not going to be an easy
economic path from here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  