-- 
IFC Extends Program to Boost South Sudan Investment Climate

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-02-28T11:34:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/world-bank-extends-program-to-improve-investment-climate-in-southern-sudan.html
The International Finance Corp., the  World Bank ’s private investment arm, extended a program to
improve the investment climate in Southern  Sudan , which will
become an independent country on July 9.  Donors have committed funding of about $9 million for the
project, which is entering its second phase, the Washington-
based organization said in an e-mailed statement today. The
program aims to attract investors, develop small and medium-
sized businesses and increase credit availability to companies,
it said.  “We aim to prove that South Sudan is a good place for
investment by investing ourselves,” Rachel Kyte, the IFC’s vice
president for business advisory services, told reporters in the
capital, Juba, today.  Almost 99 percent of Southern Sudanese voters chose
independence last month in a referendum that was the central
element of a 2005 peace agreement that ended a two-decade war
northern Sudan.  Southern Sudan  accounts for about three quarters
of Sudan’s 490,000 barrels of daily oil production, and is sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, after Angola and
Nigeria.  Southern Sudan is one of the poorest regions in Africa.
Half the population lives on less than $1 a day and 85 percent
of the adult population is illiterate, according to the  United
Nations . The  International Monetary Fund  said in its October
Regional Economic Outlook that economic growth in Sudan
accelerated to an estimated 5.5 percent last year from 4.5
percent in 2009.  Southern Sudan in the “medium term” will probably secure
investments to bolster the agricultural industry and to boost
hydropower production, Kyte said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg
at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 