-- 
World Bank Says U.S. Should Invest in Infrastructure, Consumer Nations

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-02-28T20:25:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/world-bank-says-u-s-should-invest-in-infrastructure-consumer-nations.html
The U.S. and other developed
countries can stoke growth and reduce excess industrial capacity
by investing in infrastructure at home and in potential consumer
nations abroad, the  World Bank ’s chief economist, Justin Lin,
said in  New York  today.  Developed countries can create a “new new normal” by
creating incentives in low-income countries to “digest” the
excess capacity in developed countries, Lin said in a talk at
the Council on Foreign Relations, a private foreign policy
institute, in New York.  China averaged 9.6 percent economic growth from 1979 to
2002, as it quintupled the size of the country’s highway system
to 25,000 kilometers (15,000 miles), he said. The U.S. could
profit from following China’s lead, Lin said, noting the fastest
train in the U.S., Amtrak’s Acela, took 2 hours and 46 minutes
to bring him from  Washington  to New York this morning. In  China ,
he said, a high-speed train would make the trip in an hour.  Lin, who defected from  Taiwan  to China in 1979, also
likened utility reliability in Washington to a less-developed
China.  “Whenever we have a strong wind, we have a blackout. It
reminds me of the situation we had in China in the 1980s,”
said Lin, who lives in the Washington area.  Developing economies will need $900 billion in investment
by 2020, and they can only provide half of that themselves, Lin
said.  ‘Investment Opportunity’  “This is a good investment opportunity,” said Lin, 59.
“If we seize this opportunity, we can turn from the new normal
to the new new normal.”  He said that East Asia “faces some concerns about
inflation.” Lin, who was the founder and director of the China
Center for Economic Research at  Peking University  before
appointed to the World Bank, said he was “confident” about
Asian growth.  “I am still confident that East Asia and  South Asia  will
still be the highest growth region in the world, but if we want
to generate enough demand for investment goods in the world, we
need to have growth in high-income countries,” he said.  Turning to the recent turmoil in the Middle East, Lin said
creating jobs and improving governance were the keys to
maintaining stability in the region, and meeting the
expectations of citizens who have wrested change from
governments in Egypt and Tunisia.  Middle East shares tumbled today, sending Dubai’s stock
index to the lowest level in almost seven years, as political
unrest in the region, spread to the Sultanate of Oman and
reignited in  Tunisia , prompting investors to trim riskier
assets. In  Libya , clashes were reported near the capital of
Tripoli and the international community intensified pressure on
Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi to quit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 