-- 
YRC Falls After Reaching Deal With Union That Dilutes Equity

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-02-28T22:14:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-28/yrc-worldwide-achieves-agreement-in-principle-restructuring.html
  YRC Worldwide Inc . fell the most
since September after the money-losing trucking company, some of
its lenders and union employees agreed to a restructuring that
may avoid bankruptcy by diluting shareholders.  YRC tumbled 74 cents, or 22 percent, to $2.68 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the biggest decline since
September 30. The non-binding agreement improves YRC’s capital,
boosts liquidity and creates “substantial dilution of existing
equity holders,” the  Overland Park , Kansas-based company said
in a statement.  YRC, which has posted annual losses since 2006, took on
debt last decade when it expanded through acquisitions. YRC,
then called Yellow Corp., bought Roadway Corp. in 2003, and
acquired USF Corp. in 2005. The company has suffered as lower-
priced entrants took market share during the U.S. recession when
demand for freight-hauling services declined.  “The success and viability of YRC is greatly enhanced by
this announcement today,” John Lamar, YRC’s chief restructuring
officer and lead director, said in an interview. Lamar declined
to say how much capital YRC is raising or how many shares it
plans to issue.  YRC said in the statement than it can’t provide assurances
that it won’t be required "to implement the restructuring under
the supervision of a  bankruptcy court ," which may change the
terms.  The deal will provide “meaningful” equity ownership in
the company for employees belonging to the Teamsters, the union
said in a separate statement.  YRC said it expects to close the transaction by July and
will further extend a deferral of interest and fees until then.
In December, YRC had agreed to extend the payments until the
middle of May. The December agreement had required YRC to agree
to recapitalize its balance sheet by today. The company also
said its lenders waived its first-quarter profit covenant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  