-- Aegerion Rare-Disease Drug Wins U.S. Regulatory Approval
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-12-24T18:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/aegerion-drug-wins-approval-to-treat-rare-cholesterol-illness.html
Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AEGR) ’s drug
to treat the most life-threatening forms of high cholesterol won
U.S. approval, and will carry a label warning about risk of
liver toxicity.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the treatment
known as lomitapide for use in patients with a rare genetic
disease that causes extreme elevation of blood cholesterol
levels, the company said today in a statement. The drug is
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Aegerion’s first on the market.  The once-daily pill called Juxtapid is designed to treat
homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a condition that
causes abnormalities in liver cells responsible for clearing
LDL, so-called bad cholesterol, from the blood. The disease can
lead to heart attack or death at an early age, according to the
 National Institutes of Health .  “We are excited that Juxtapid will become a new treatment
option for patients with HoFH,” Marc Beer, chief executive
officer at Aegerion, said in the statement. “The approval of
our first product also marks an important corporate milestone
for Aegerion and reflects our commitment to help patients in
need.”  Juxtapid will carry a boxed warning, the FDA’s strictest
caution, alerting patients to the risk of liver toxicity. Of the
29 patients in a clinical trial, 34 percent had at least one
elevation in an enzyme that indicates liver damage, according to
the boxed warning.  Shares Fall  Aegerion fell 1.8 percent to $25.25 at today's 1 p.m. close
ahead of the Christmas holiday. The company has  gained  52 percent
this year.  Aegerion will make the drug available to physicians and
pharmacies the company certifies as educated about the risk of
liver toxicity and the need to monitor patients who use the
product.  The market for the treatment could total as many as 3,000
patients in the U.S., Beer said today on a conference call. The
drug will cost between $200,000 and $300,000 per patient per
year, he said. Aegerion plans to offer more details on pricing
at the JPMorgan Healthcare Conference beginning Jan. 7 in  San
Francisco .  When added to existing lipid-lowering therapy, Juxtapid
helped reduce LDL cholesterol by about 50 percent in a trial of
23 patients after 26 weeks, according to the statement.  The FDA is expected to decide on approval by the end of
January of a similar drug developed by  Sanofi (SAN)  and  Isis
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  