-- Lanco Griffin Unit Defeats Bid to Block Sale of Assets
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-12-24T03:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/lanco-griffin-unit-defeats-bid-to-block-sale-of-assets.html
Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) ’s Australian
coal-mining unit defeated a bid by a fertilizer maker in a A$5.8
billion ($6 billion) suit to block the sale of energy assets
needed to move the miner to profitability.  Perdaman Chemicals & Fertilisers Pty, based in  Western
Australia , claimed that Griffin Coal Mining illegally terminated
a coal-supply agreement after it was acquired by Lanco in 2011.
Perdaman sued Lanco,  India ’s second-biggest non-state power
utility, and Griffin, seeking the damages because it said the
termination prevented it from getting financing for the
construction of a urea plant in Western  Australia .  Lanco has subsidized the operations of the coal unit whose
loss totaled A$43 million in the year ended March 31, providing
A$132 million from July 14, 2011, to Oct. 23 this year,
according to court documents. A proposed sale of the Bluewaters
power stations, operated by insolvent units of Griffin Coal,
would let the miner operate without financial support from the
parent, according to James Riordan, Griffin Coal’s chief
financial controller.  “There is a real prospect that the Bluewaters transaction
will have the effect that Griffin Coal will no longer need to
rely upon Lanco India for financial support,” Supreme Court of
Western Australia Justice  James Joshua Edelman  wrote in a Dec.
21  ruling , denying Perdaman’s request for an injunction to block
the sale.  Purchase Terms  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  and  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  agreed to buy
the Bluewaters plants on April 8, 2011. The purchase conditions
included the two companies receiving security in Griffin Coal
that can be exercised in the event of an insolvency, if there is
a default in the supply of coal, or if the coal doesn’t meet
certain specifications, according to the  ruling .  “The Bluewaters transaction is said to be imminent,”
Edelman wrote. “The transaction is very large.”  The sale price was more than A$1 billion, the Australian
Financial Review reported in 2011, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the situation. The judge said the tax on the sale
is likely to exceed A$20 million.  Perdaman argued the buyers’ rights will take priority if it
is successful in its lawsuit and Griffin Coal is forced into
bankruptcy as a result.  The state of Western Australia also urged the judge to
reject Perdaman’s request, saying cessation of operations at
Bluewaters would risk the reliability of the power supply,
removing 431.8 megawatts of generating capacity from the grid.  The case is Perdaman Chemicals and Fertilisers Pty v. The
Griffin Coal Mining Co. 2012/WASC502.  Supreme Court  of Western
Australia (Perth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  