-- Tarantino’s ‘Django’; ‘Les Miz’; Memphis Justice: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-12-24T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/tarantino-s-django-les-miz-memphis-justice-movies.html
Revenge fantasies don’t get any more
fantastical than  “Django Unchained,”   Quentin Tarantino ’s
dazzlingly violent and outlandishly funny spin on Spaghetti
Westerns, blaxploitation films and America’s original sin.  Slavery is to “Django” what the Holocaust was to
Tarantino’s  “Inglourious Basterds”  -- a colossal wrong to be
righted by a film geek’s best weapons: artistry, imagination and
wicked humor.  The director’s latest homage to film’s good, bad and ugly
most specifically bows to  “Django,”  Sergio Corbucci’s 1966 many-
sequelled Italian shoot-’em-up.  (Franco Nero, the original Django, has a cameo here, along
with just about every other god in Tarantino’s B-list pantheon,
including  Don Johnson , Michael Parks and Tom Wopat).  But Tarantino’s ransacking doesn’t end with the grindhouse,
or America for that matter. Norse mythology and German opera get
shout-outs alongside  “Shaft”  and  “Mandingo.”   Recruited by German bounty hunter Dr. King Schultz
(Christoph Waltz), freed slave Django (Jamie Foxx) joins his
oddly ethical new buddy in the lucrative, bloody dead-or-alive
trade.  “Kill white folks and they pay you for it?” Django says.
“What’s not to like?”  Sadistic Leo  After wreaking vengeance on various murderers and racists
(including Klansmen who argue, Mel Brooks-style, over the proper
size of eyeholes for their pointy hoods), Django and Schultz
head to Candyland, an infamously hellish plantation where
Django’s wife Hildy (short for Broomhilda von Shaft, and played
by  Kerry Washington ) is owned by decadent, sadistic Calvin
Candie ( Leonardo DiCaprio ).  Even if the bounty hungers’ ruse to infiltrate Candyland
feels strained, Tarantino uses it to good effect. He amps up the
behind-enemy-lines tension until the only way out is the violent
catharsis we know (and dread) is coming.  Fair warning: “Django Unchained” is gruesome even for
Tarantino, with whippings, shootings and a vicious “Mandingo
fight” (think human pit bulls). Even  “Reservoir Dogs”  fanatics
might wonder if he’s gone too far.  But few directors can wrestle performances this good from
actors who’ve been known to coast. DiCaprio is a revelation in
his nastiest role ever and Foxx rises to the challenge of
morphing from beaten-down slave to fastest gun in the South.  Most Unnerving  Waltz, a smiling scene-stealer, tops his Oscar-winning
performance from “Basterds.” But the most unnerving
characterization goes to Samuel L. Jackson.  Almost unrecognizable as an elderly house slave whose
allegiance to the master is absolute, Jackson’s bone-tired
Stephen isn’t quite like anything I’ve seen before. He’s a
traitor too mean to ask for pity, and “Django Unchained” is
happy to oblige.  “Django Unchained,” from The Weinstein Co., opens tomorrow
across the U.S. Rating: ****1/2 (Evans)  ‘Les Miz’  Coarse, cloying, grandiose and insanely long: Victor Hugo’s
1862 novel  “Les Miserables”  is guilty on every count. And so the
international musical megahit that premiered in 1980 comes by
its defects honestly.  Whether the songs (by Claude-Michel Schonberg, with English
lyrics by Herbert Kretzmer) are up to the level of Hugo’s
majestic prose is a question it’s doubtful that the millions of
people who adore them and I are ever going to agree on.  So I’ll simply acknowledge that  Tom Hooper ’s movie version
is an almost ideal realization of the musical and is likely to
transport anyone who can stand it in the first place.  During the first hour,  Hugh Jackman ,  Russell Crowe  and  Anne Hathaway  -- as the parole-breaking ex-convict Jean Valjean, his
relentless pursuer Javert and the luckless mother Fantine --
sing (it’s all sung) with fantastically intense conviction.  Hathaway, with her hair chopped off (desperate to support
her child, Fantine has sold it for 10 francs), recalls Maria
Falconetti’s Joan of Arc bound for the stake -- a resemblance
that can’t be accidental.  Then Sacha Baron Cohen and Helena Bonham Carter show up as
the comically villainous M. and Mme. Thenardier, and that’s it
for the magic. Audiences with a soft spot for these two
performers may not care that their big number, the busy “Master
of the House,” isn’t all that funny.  Lovelorn Eponine  During the succeeding hours, the younger generation --
principally Eddie Redmayne as the idealistic revolutionary
Marius, Amanda Seyfried as Fantine’s daughter, Cosette, and
Samantha Barks as the lovelorn Eponine -- sing their hearts out,
but they simply aren’t as involving as their elders.  They aren’t in the novel, either.  There’s a problem more specific to the movie, though.
Theater and film move at different rhythms, and the big,
heartfelt numbers designed to be showstoppers under the
spotlight bring the movie, again and again, to a dead halt.  “Les Miz” is far from terrible, but intensity and
conviction can take it only so far. The novel is big, square and
overwhelming. The movie is big and square.  “Les Miserables,” from Universal, opens tomorrow across the
U.S. Rating: *** (Seligman)  ‘Memphis’ Conclusion  Even after three HBO documentaries convinced us of the so-
called West  Memphis  Three’s innocence, Amy Berg’s new feature
 “West of Memphis”  is essential, a vital and invigorating work of
social justice and one of the year’s most powerful movies.  The details of the notorious Arkansas case are familiar by
now: In 1993, teenage outcasts Damien Echols, Jason Baldwin and
Jessie Misskelly were arrested for the horrific murders of three
eight-year-old boys.  Largely on the basis of a coerced confession from the
borderline mentally handicapped Misskelley, the West Memphis
Three were convicted.  Baldwin and Misskelley were sentenced to life in prison;
Echols, with his Goth style and teenager’s fascination with the
occult, was sent to death row.  All three were freed in 2011 after agreeing to Alford
Pleas, a mind-bending bit of legalese that simultaneously
asserts innocence while accepting the state’s claim of guilt.  Berg’s film, produced by  Peter Jackson  and Fran Walsh,
revisits the case with a meticulous investigation and a
convincing conclusion about the identity of the real killer.  “West of Memphis” argues, with devastating persuasiveness,
that the stepfather of one of the murdered boys committed the
crime. (At the time of the film’s release, no criminal charges
had been brought or were planned).  Berg lays out her case with the logic of a first-rate
prosecutor and the theatricality of a born storyteller.  “West of Memphis,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , opens
tomorrow in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: *****  (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  James S.
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 