-- Australian Dollar Remains Lower on Fiscal Cliff Concerns
-- B y   A m i n a   M o b l e y
-- 2012-12-24T06:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/australian-dollar-remains-lower-on-fiscal-cliff-concerns.html
Australia ’s dollar remained lower as
an impasse on talks to avert the so-called fiscal cliff in the
U.S. sapped demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars held losses against
most major peers from last week after House Speaker  John Boehner 
failed to garner support for a plan that would have extended tax
cuts on incomes below $1 million. The so-called Aussie gained
against the yen after  Japan ’s incoming prime minister Shinzo Abe
reiterated calls for the central bank to set an inflation target
of 2 percent.  “The only real guidance that we have is this sort of
uncertainty associated with the fiscal cliff, and so that seems
to be taking control of the Aussie dollar,” said Gavin Stacey,
chief interest-rate strategist in Sydney at Barclays Plc.  The Australian dollar fetched $1.0408 as of 4:54 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0396 at the close on Dec. 21, when it dropped 0.8
percent. The Aussie rose 0.3 percent to 87.79 yen.  New Zealand ’s
dollar, known as the kiwi, weakened 0.1 percent to 82.23 U.S.
cents and was little changed at 69.36 yen.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield added two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.35 percent.  In  Washington , political leaders are debating how to avoid
the fiscal cliff: more than $600 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts that will take effect in January
unless Congress acts. Failing to gather enough support to pass
the measure, House Republican leaders canceled a vote on
Boehner’s “Plan B” that would have allowed higher tax rates
for annual income above $1 million last week.  BOJ Law  “We do still have the fiscal cliff issues in the U.S.
hanging over the market,”  Todd Elmer , head of Group of 10
foreign exchange strategy for  Asia  excluding Japan at Citigroup
Inc. in  Singapore , said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “However, I think if you do see lower levels in the
Aussie it’s a great buying opportunity.”  Australia’s budget should return to surplus in 2014, the
country’s trade minister said yesterday. The original target of
a surplus in the fiscal year ending June 2013 could be achieved
if positive signs around household spending continue, Craig
Emerson said in an interview on Sky News television.  In Japan, Abe said on Fuji Television yesterday that he
will consider revising the law governing the central bank if it
fails to increase its inflation target to 2 percent at its
January meeting. Abe has called for unlimited easing from the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  to stimulate growth, and he is poised to become
prime minister after elections on Dec. 16 returned his  Liberal
Democratic Party  to power.  Investor funds may flow from Japan to Australia’s bond
market as “putting some money to work here is probably not a
bad idea given these potential depreciations in the yen,” said
Barclay’s Stacey.  Credit-default swaps protecting Australia’s government debt
for five years have risen seven basis points this month to 45.37
basis points, according to data provider CMA. A drop signals
improving perceptions of creditworthiness, while an increase
suggests the opposite.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amina Mobley in Tokyo at 
 amobley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  