-- Baht Touches One-Week Low on U.S. Budget Deadlock; Bonds Advance
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-12-24T08:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/baht-touches-one-week-low-on-u-s-budget-deadlock-bonds-advance.html
Thailand ’s baht touched a one-week
low as concern U.S. lawmakers will fail to avert spending cuts
and tax increases due early next year damped demand for riskier
assets. Government bonds rose.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks declined for a third
day after House Republican leaders canceled a vote on Speaker
 John Boehner ’s plan to allow higher tax rates for annual income
above $1 million. Senator  Joseph Lieberman  said on CNN the odds
are that Republicans and Democrats won’t be able to agree on
budget revisions required to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.
Overseas funds  sold  1.2 billion baht ($39 million) more Thai
government debt than they bought last week, official data show.  “Concern over the U.S budget talks is the main factor
that’s damping demand for Asian currencies,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd. “The baht will likely move in a tight range with an upside
bias in the near term.”  The baht was steady at 30.63 against the greenback as of
3:38 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 30.68 earlier, matching last week’s low that was the
weakest level since Dec. 12, and has gained 3.1 percent this
year. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, was little changed at
3.91 percent.  Government bonds advanced for a fourth day. The yield on
the 3.125 percent securities due June 2023 decreased one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.55 percent, the lowest
level since Dec. 11, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield
climbed 15 basis points this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  