-- Bank of Israel May Hold Rate as House Prices Rise
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-12-24T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/bank-of-israel-may-hold-rate-as-house-prices-rise.html
The  Bank of Israel  may leave its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at its meeting today as  house
prices  and mortgages rise, a Bloomberg survey of economists
showed.  Governor  Stanley Fischer  and the monetary policy panel may
hold the rate at 2 percent for a second month, according to 14
of the 23 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . Eight forecast a
quarter-point cut, and one a half-point reduction. The decision
is due at 5:30 p.m. Jerusalem time.  “The Bank of  Israel  will prefer to wait with the rate cut
until the coming months, in order to make sure that the housing
market has calmed,” said Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at
DS Securities & Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “If it wasn’t for
the real-estate market, the state of the economy would justify
continuing the rate reduction.”  The Bank of Israel has gradually reduced the borrowing rate
from 3.25 percent in 2011 in an effort to shore up the economy
amid the  European debt crisis . The committee left the rate
unchanged at the end of November, after an unexpected quarter-
point cut the previous month.  House prices rose by 0.5 percent in September-October,
bringing the 12 month increase to about 4 percent, the  Central
Bureau of Statistics  reported Dec. 14. Mortgage credit granted
for housing purchases jumped 21 percent in November from the
previous month to 4.1 billion shekels ($1.1 billion), the Bank
of Israel reported Dec. 11.  Loan Limits  The central bank announced housing-loan limits at the end
of October, the same day it reduced the benchmark rate to the
lowest in 22 months. The directives set a maximum loan-to-value
for the first time, restricting mortgages to 50 percent for
investors, 75 percent for those who have never purchased a home
before and 70 percent for everyone else.  “Activity in the housing market has remained lively,” Ron Eichel, said chief economist at Meitav Mutual Fund Management in
 Tel Aviv . “Apparently, the mortgage market hasn’t responded to
the macro-prudential steps taken by the Bank of Israel.”  Growth eased to an annualized 2.9 percent in the third
quarter, the slowest in three years, from 3.4 percent the
previous three months. Inflation declined to 1.4 percent in
November, the lowest since July. The government’s price-rise
target is 1 percent to 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  