-- Bank of Ayudhya Gains on Report of GE Stake Sale: Bangkok Mover
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-12-24T05:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/bank-of-ayudhya-gains-on-report-of-ge-stake-sale-bangkok-mover.html
Bank of Ayudhya Pcl (BAY) ,  Thailand ’s
fifth-largest lender by assets, rose to the highest level in
three months after Kao Hoon newspaper reported Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group, Inc. will buy a stake from General Electric Co.  The shares  climbed  as much as 4.7 percent to 33.50 baht and
traded at 32.75 baht as of 12:14 p.m. in Bangkok, heading for
the highest close since Sept. 25. The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  fell
0.1 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ,  Japan ’s biggest bank, placed the winning
bid to acquire 25.3 percent in Bank of Ayudhya from  General
Electric Co. (GE) , Kao Hoon reported today, without saying where it
obtained the information. GE will announce the buyer by Dec. 26,
the newspaper said.  “Most investors speculate that the buyer may have to pay a
high price in the bidding to satisfy GE,” Sasikorn Charoensuwan, head of research at Phillip Securities (Thailand)
Pcl in Bangkok, said by phone today. “Still, we have to be
cautious because the risk surrounding the negotiations and share
price remains.”  GE sold 7.6 percent of Bank of Ayudhya to institutional
investors in September and said it would review “strategic”
options for its remaining holding. Including brokerage fees, GE
sold the Thai bank’s shares at 31.46 baht each, a 5.4 percent
discount to the previous closing price.  Eric Lee, a Singapore-based spokesman for GE, declined to
comment on the Kao Hoon report when contacted by Bloomberg on
his mobile phone. A phone call to Mitsubishi UFJ’s headquarters
went unanswered on a public holiday in Japan.  Stock Doubles  The Thai lender’s stock has doubled since GE first invested
$584 million in January 2007, paying 16 baht a share. Since GE’s
investment, Bank of Ayudhya has expanded its retail banking
business by acquiring  credit card  and consumer loan businesses
from  GE Capital , American International Group Inc. and HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Shares of Bank of Ayudhya have gained 49 percent this year
compared with a 34 percent advance in the benchmark SET Index.
The bank’s  net income  jumped 24 percent to 10.9 billion baht
($356 million) in the first nine months from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  