-- Britons Struggle to Get Home for Holiday on Rail Flooding
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-12-24T10:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/britons-struggle-to-get-home-for-christmas-as-rail-lines-flooded.html
Travel plans  for thousands of
Britons were thrown into disarray as flooding damaged or
disrupted railway lines operated by seven companies.  The Great Western route between Exeter and Tiverton was
closed until Dec. 28 after a deluge washed away ballast, while
track further south was hit by a landslip, hindering travel from
London Paddington station to tourist towns in Devon and Cornwall.  “First Great Western advises passengers not to attempt
travel,” the Association of Train Operating Companies’ National
Rail website said. “Flooding is causing disruption and poor road
conditions mean that buses are not able to run on many routes.”  Long-distance CrossCountry services were also affected, and
 FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  suspended trains on local lines to Newquay,
Barnstaple and Looe. Elsewhere in the country, East Midlands
Trains and First TransPennine reported “major delays” and London
Midland, Northern Rail and ScotRail suffered some disruption.  Rail travelers from Paddington faced delays even before
reaching western  England , with flooding in the Swindon area
causing 45-minute diversions. Passengers from London were able
to take an alternative route to Exeter from Waterloo station.  Met Office  forecasts show rain continuing this afternoon
and overnight before abating on Christmas Day.  Booms  At Cowley Bridge, between Exeter and Tiverton, the River
Creedy burst its banks at its confluence with the Exe and left
tracks without ballast. Network Rail erected three water-filled
booms to stop water reaching a control box and shorting out
signaling for as long as a week, according to its twitter feed.  The  Environment Agency  website shows the Creedy’s water
levels stood at 1.65 meters (5.4 feet) as of 9 a.m. today,
versus a norm of no more than 88 centimeters and a recent peak
in excess of 3.4 meters on Dec. 22.  “The railway has been seriously damaged there but because
of the efforts we’ve made we’re confident that when the flood
water does go down it will take us only two or three days to get
the line reopened,” Network Rail spokesman Chris Denham said.
Diggers are also working on the landslip at Teignmouth and that
section could be restored as early as today, he added.  No trains are scheduled to run anywhere in Britain tomorrow
and there is a limited service on Dec. 26.  London Heathrow (FER)  airport’s main rail link to the capital
reopened on Dec. 22 after floods damaged line-side transformer
equipment, closing the route for 2 1/2 days, including Dec. 21,
the busiest day of the Christmas period for  Europe ’s top hub.  Transport for London  said today that the Tube subway
service is likely to suffer “significant disruption” on Dec. 26
as the  ASLEF  train drivers’ union stages a strike over pay
awards for working on public holidays.  “We will be running as many trains as possible but some
lines may only have a very limited service and some sections
will be closed,” TfL said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in  London  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  