-- Budget Showdown Leaves Taxpayers in Limbo Before Year End
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-12-24T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/budget-showdown-leaves-taxpayers-in-limbo-before-year-end.html
Negotiations over a U.S. budget deal
are stalled after congressional leaders headed home for the
Christmas holiday without a resolution.  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner 
haven’t reached an agreement to avoid more than $600 billion in
tax increases and spending cuts set to start taking effect in
January.  Here are questions and answers about the so-called fiscal
cliff and where talks stand:  Where do the negotiations stand now?  It’s not clear. Until Dec. 17, Boehner and Obama were
edging closer to a deal that would have included about $1
trillion each in spending cuts and tax increases over the next
decade.  Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , declared Obama’s last offer
unacceptable because it lacked enough spending cuts and then
tried to advance his own plan through the House. The House voted
215-209 Dec. 20 to pass a bill that cut $314.5 billion in
spending and delayed most of the automatic cuts.  Then, the same day, Boehner scrapped a plan to allow higher
tax rates on annual income above $1 million and permanently
extend the rest of the income tax cuts. He yielded to anti-tax
resistance within his party, saying he didn’t have enough votes
to pass the bill.  What happens next?  Each side wants the other to act.  Boehner said the Democratic-controlled Senate and Obama
should come up with a plan they can send to the House.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
Boehner should allow a vote on a Senate-passed bill that would
extend tax rates on income of married couples up to $250,000.  Obama urged leaders of both parties to work out an interim
measure to prevent taxes from rising on middle-income Americans
as they work on a more comprehensive package.  Lawmakers in the Senate and House headed home for the
Christmas holiday and aren’t scheduled to return until Dec. 27,
with less than a week to act before the so-called fiscal cliff.  What is the fiscal cliff and who created it?  Congress and Obama did it on purpose, creating a confluence
of events that were designed to put pressure on themselves to
act on taxes, spending and the  budget deficit .  In 2010, they extended the George W. Bush-era  tax  cuts for
two years, meaning that breaks on income, capital gains,
dividends and estates will lapse at the end of this year. In
2011, as part of a deal to raise the U.S. debt ceiling, they set
up $1.2 trillion in spending cuts to occur over nine years,
starting in January 2013. This year, they extended a two-
percentage-point reduction in the payroll tax through Dec. 31.  What has the House passed?  The House, controlled by Republicans, passed a bill in
August that would extend for one year the expiring tax cuts and
begin a process for overhauling the  tax code . It was silent on
extending tax credits from the 2009 stimulus law for low-income
families and college students. The House has also passed bills
that would delay automatic spending cuts by replacing them with
other cuts.  What has the Senate passed?  The Senate passed a bill in July that would extend the tax
cuts for one year on income up to $200,000 for individuals and
$250,000 for married couples. It also extended tax credits from
the 2009 stimulus law for low-income families and college
students. It was silent on the estate tax because of
disagreements among Democrats, and it doesn’t address the
automatic spending cuts.  What issues has neither side dealt with?  Neither the House nor the Senate has addressed the expiring
 payroll tax  cut, dozens of lapsed miscellaneous tax breaks,
expanded  unemployment insurance  that’s expiring or a scheduled
payment cut to doctors under Medicare.  What was Obama’s latest offer?  Obama’s latest offer reduced his revenue demand to $1.2
trillion from $1.4 trillion, made a concession on future Social
Security benefit increases and spared households with between
$250,000 and $400,000 in annual income from tax-rate increases.  What has changed in the talks over setting higher tax rates?  This month, Boehner offered to raise taxes for the first
time, marking the threshold for higher rates at those earning
more than $1 million. Obama’s latest proposal would increase
levies on households making more than $400,000 compared with the
$200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for couples that he has
campaigned on since 2007.  Will households making $250,000 to $400,000 see any tax
increases?  It’s unclear. Republicans and Democrats have talked about
raising revenue by limiting deductions many taxpayers take to
reduce their taxable income. Households earning between $250,000
and $400,000 a year would face limits on their tax breaks under
Obama’s latest budget offer even though they wouldn’t face
higher income-tax rates.  Obama’s latest plan would begin phasing out personal
exemptions and limiting itemized deductions at about $250,000 in
annual income.  Boehner’s Plan B legislation would have repealed limits on
itemized deductions and personal exemptions for top earners.
Those limits would be reinstated Jan. 1 if Congress doesn’t act
and the Bush tax cuts expire.  What questions remain about the latest administration proposal?  Obama hasn’t released text outlining his current proposal.  The president’s latest offer would set the top tax rates on
dividends and  capital gains  at 20 percent compared with the
current 15 percent, according to a person familiar with the
talks who requested anonymity to describe the private offer.
Combined with tax increases from the 2010 health-care law
scheduled to take effect in January, the top rates would be 23.8
percent. Obama had previously called for taxing dividends as
ordinary income, which would increase the top rate to as much as
43.4 percent.  Obama has proposed reducing the exemption for the estate
tax to 2009 levels of $3.5 million per individual and a top rate
of 45 percent. Republicans would have extended the current
estate-and-gift-tax limits at $5.12 million a person, indexed
for inflation, with a 35 percent top rate.  Isn’t this Congress almost over?  Yes. The new Congress elected Nov. 6 will take office on
Jan. 3.  What does that mean?  That means the legislative process must start over and all
bills proposed or acted on this year will die. Democrats will
gain seats in the House and Senate. Republicans will still
control the House and have procedural power to block action in
the Senate.  Is the debt ceiling part of the negotiations?  Yes. The U.S. will reach the $16.4 trillion debt ceiling
this year, and Treasury can use so-called extraordinary measures
to extend the deadline until at least mid-February, according to
the  Congressional Budget Office . Republicans say they want
spending cuts equal to the size of a debt-limit increase. The
administration wants to remove the requirement that Congress
approve future increases.  Does anything have to happen before Dec. 31?  As many as 100 million U.S. households, or two-thirds of
the total, may not be able to file their tax returns until at
least late March 2013 if Congress doesn’t reach an end-of-year
budget agreement, according to the  Internal Revenue Service . The
alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax system once designed to
affect the wealthy, is scheduled to affect about 28 million
additional households for tax year 2012, up from about 4 million
otherwise. Without legislation to prevent that, the IRS would
have to delay the start of tax filing season in January. The IRS
has said there is no “magic time” by which the agency needs an
answer from Congress.  What happens if the U.S. goes “over” the cliff?  The Congressional Budget Office projects that the economy
would go into recession in the first half of 2013 if the tax
increases and spending cuts occur and aren’t retroactively
resolved.  How will markets react if no agreement is reached by Jan. 1?  On Dec. 21, stocks sank around the world after House
Republican leaders scrapped Boehner’s plan to allow higher taxes
and budget talks stalled. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
retreated 0.9 percent to 1,430.15 in  New York . The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  slid 120.88 points, or 0.9 percent, to
13,190.84. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield dropped
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.76 percent at
5 p.m. New York time on Dec. 21, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data.  What is sequestration and how does it work?  Sequestration is the official name for the automatic
spending cuts, half of which would be in defense programs. The
cuts are across-the-board, giving agency officials little
discretion on how to achieve them. Defense programs would face a
9.4 percent cut and most other agencies would be cut by 8.2
percent, the administration said earlier this year.  Is it really a cliff or is it more of a slope?  A slope may be a better metaphor. Most of the effects --the
higher income tax rates and the spending cuts -- would occur
gradually during 2013 and not deliver an immediate economic
shock. For example, the Treasury Department has at least some
authority to freeze paycheck withholding even if higher tax
rates are in place. The IRS said Dec. 21 that it will issue
guidance to employers by Dec. 31.  Are there some changes that won’t depend on negotiations?  Yes. A 3.8 percent increase on income earned from
investments, rents and so-called passive activities is set to
take effect Jan. 1 as a result of the 2010 health-care law. That
means U.S. income tax rates for top earners and investors will
go up for the first time since 1993.  Republicans opposed the health-care law and wanted to
repeal it if Obama was defeated for re-election. The law also
imposes a 0.9 percent additional tax increase on wages next
year. Both surtaxes apply to individuals earning more than
$200,000 a year or couples earning more than $250,000. An excise
tax on medical devices also will take effect.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  