-- CAR Rebels Seize Ninth Town; African Leaders Urge End to Clashes
-- B y   C r i s p i n   D e m b a s s a - K e t t e
-- 2012-12-24T10:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/car-rebels-seize-ninth-town-african-leaders-urge-end-to-clashes.html
Rebels in  Central African Republic 
captured a ninth town since resuming a rebellion on Dec. 10 to
force the government to renegotiate a 2008 peace deal.  The fighters seized the town of Bambari, about 281
kilometers (174 miles) northeast of the capital, yesterday,
Edouard Mathos, the bishop of the town, said in a phone
interview. The northern towns of Ippy and Ndassima were taken by
the rebel forces, known as Seleka, they said in a statement
published on the website of  Centrafrique-Presse , a news website.  At least two CAR soldiers have been killed and 25 have been
captured since the rebellion began, Seleka said in a statement
published in the Bangui-based Centrafrique Matin newspaper
today. Seleka consists of the Democratic Front of the Central
African People, the Convention of Patriots for Justice and
Justice, the Union of Democratic Forces for Unity and the
Patriotic Convention for National Salvation.  Rebel forces want the terms of the four-year-old, so-called
Libreville Comprehensive Peace Agreement renegotiated after
accusing President Francois Bozize of failing to implement terms
of the accord. The renegade fighters also oppose plans by Bozize
to alter the constitution to seek a third term, according to the
statement published on Centrafrique-Presse and signed by Justin
Mambissi Matar, secretary-general of Seleka.  The Economic Community of Central African States on Dec. 22
called for an end to hostilities and urged all parties to
immediately enter talks, following a meeting of regional leaders
in neighboring  Chad . They also demanded that the rebels withdraw
to their previous positions within a week.  Central African Republic was the world’s 12th-largest
producer of rough diamonds by value in 2010, when output was
250,000 carats, according to data on the U.S. Geological
Survey’s  website . A carat is equal to a fifth of a gram. The
country also produces gold and has undeveloped resources of
copper, iron, manganese and uranium, the USGS said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crispin Dembassa-Kette in Bangui via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 