-- CBQ Will Start Talks to Buy Alternatifbank of Turkey
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-12-24T14:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/cbq-will-start-talks-to-buy-alternatifbank-of-turkey.html
Commercial Bank of Qatar QSC , the
Persian Gulf country’s second-biggest bank, will begin talks to
buy  Alternatifbank (ALNTF)  AS of  Turkey , said Anadolu Group,
Alternatifbank’s owner.  The negotiations with Doha-based CBQ are over the sale of a
majority stake, Anadolu Group said in a filing to the  Istanbul
Stock Exchange  today. The talks are expected to last about 2.5
months and the group, which owns 96 percent of the bank, will
retain a minority shareholding, chairman Tuncay Ozilhan told
Bloomberg HT television.  Investors from the  Middle East ,  Russia  and the  Far East  are
seeking to boost their presence in Turkey with acquisitions and
licenses, attracted by rising profit and growth in loans as
troubled European banks exit. The Middle East’s biggest lender
 Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK)  said this month it may target stakes in
Turkey’s major banks. Dubai-based  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  has also
expressed interest in acquisitions, while Russia’s  OAO Sberbank (SBER) 
bought  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  from Belgium’s  Dexia SA (DEXB)  in June.  Alternatifbank surged 16 percent to 1.69 liras at 4:04 p.m.
in Istanbul, the biggest gain since February and valuing the
company at 709.8 million liras ($400 million). Ranked 15th of 16
listed Turkish banks in terms of market value, Alternatifbank
trades at 1.14 times book value compared with an average 1.65
for the 16-member  Istanbul Stock Exchange National-Banks Index. (XBANK)   Last month, Alternatifbank, which has 63 branches, reported
nine-month profit of 57.4 million liras, five times greater than
the year-ago figure. Loans in Turkey’s banking industry
increased an annual 16 percent to 791 billion liras in the year
to Dec. 14, according to data published by the banking regulator
in Ankara.  Yazicilar Holding AS (YAZIC) , which owns Anadolu Group, climbed 1.9
percent to 15.90 liras in Istanbul trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  