-- Chavez Could Be Sworn in Before Supreme Court, Maduro Says
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-12-24T21:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/chavez-could-be-sworn-in-before-supreme-court-maduro-says-1-.html
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez
could be sworn in before the Supreme Court if his absence for
medical reasons extends past the Jan. 10 inauguration date, Vice
President Nicolas Maduro said.  Chavez’s health is improving and the constitution will be
applied Jan. 10 in one way or another, Maduro said today on
state television. Maduro didn’t provide further details on
Chavez’s health, or say whether he could be sworn in from Cuba,
where he is recovering from his fourth operation for cancer.  “If his permission needs to be extended past Jan. 10, the
constitution goes into action and, surely, he’d have to be sworn
in before the Supreme Court,” Maduro said after a Christmas Eve
mass held in Caracas to pray for Chavez’s health. “In any case,
there will be continuity because the people on Oct. 7 re-elected
a president and ratified a path.”  National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello said on Dec.
18 that the inauguration date was not set in stone. Under
Venezuelan law, if Chavez, 58, steps down before Jan. 10, Maduro
would see out the rest of the current term and then hand over
power to Cabello, who must call for an election within 30 days.
If Chavez is unable to start his new term Jan. 10, but doesn’t
step down, the National Assembly president must determine if the
absence is temporary or absolute.  Venezuela  will only hold new elections if Chavez said he
was unable to take office and voluntarily stepped down, Cabello
said Dec. 22.  Chavez Improving  Chavez, who has been told by doctors to rest, is
experiencing a “slight improvement” in his condition,
Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said. The Venezuelan
leader has been communicating with family members, analyzing the
results of regional elections held Dec. 16 and keeping up with
events in the South American country, Villegas said.  “The patient is experiencing a slight improvement in his
condition with a progressive tendency,” Villegas said today in
a national address broadcast on radio and television.  The leader of Venezuela’s opposition, Miranda state
Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski, said today that Chavez can
remain the president of the Latin American nation, at least
temporarily, even if he isn’t sworn in for a new term Jan. 10.  “If the president can’t present himself Jan. 10 before the
National Assembly to take office as president-elect, the
constitution has the answers,” Radonski, whom Chavez defeated
in the October presidential elections, said on the Globovision
network. “Initially, the temporary absence applies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  