-- Chevron Buys Encana, EOG Stake in Kitimat LNG Terminal
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-12-24T19:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/chevron-buys-encana-eog-stakes-in-kitimat-lng-terminal-1-.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. oil company, agreed to buy a 50 percent stake in the
proposed Kitimat liquefied natural gas terminal from  Encana
Corp. (ECA)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) , joining the competition to ship
the fuel from  North America  to Asian markets.  Chevron will also acquire 50 percent of a pipeline serving
the Canadian project and drilling rights for 644,000 acres in
British Columbia’s Horn River and Liard basins, according to a
statement from the  San Ramon , California-based company today. It
will operate the LNG terminal and pipeline, and project partner
 Apache Corp. (APA)  will handle the acreage.  Chevron joins  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd in pursuing gas exports from western
Canada to Asian markets, where the heating and power plant fuel
sells at a premium to North American prices. The Kitimat project
has a license from Canadian regulators to export 10 million
metric tons a year of the liquefied fuel.  The involvement by Chevron in Kitimat LNG “elevates the
probability of this project going ahead and expedites the
timeframe,” said Daniel Cheng, a portfolio manager who helps
oversee C$375 million ($378 million) at Matco Financial Inc. in
Calgary, including Encana and EOG shares. “The partners in that
project were stalling because they were having a hard time
securing long-term, oil-linked price customers.”  Chevron will probably pay a total of $1.3 billion, William Featherston, an analyst for UBS AG in  New York , wrote in a note
today. All of the companies involved declined to provide terms
of the deal.  LNG Costs  Apache Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steven Farris
estimated in March the Kitimat project would cost $15 billion,
including the terminal, pipeline and investment in related
drilling wells.  The cost of building LNG terminals, which chill gas to -260
degrees Fahrenheit (-160 Celsius) to make it a liquid that can
be shipped on tankers, has surged in recent years as competition
for materials and workers has increased, James T. Jensen,
president of Jensen Associates, said in a phone interview today.  Apache is still completing the design process that will
help develop cost estimates, Paul Wyke, a spokesman for the
Houston-based company, said in an e-mail today. Chevron hasn’t
set a schedule for a final  investment decision  on the projects
or for when exports will begin, Gareth Johnstone, a company
spokesman, said in a phone interview.  Chevron and Apache are already partners in the Wheatstone
LNG export project in  Australia . Chevron also is developing the
Gorgon LNG project in Australia, an effort that may cost as much
as A$52 billion ($54 billion) and begin first shipments in 2015.  Australian Competition  “The British Columbia projects are trying very hard to
compete with Australia,” Jensen said. “The fact that Chevron
is getting in suggests that they’ve found it interesting
compared to what else they have.”  The Kitimat project is 400 miles (650 kilometers) north of
 Vancouver . The Pacific Trail pipeline would stretch 290 miles,
connecting the terminal to a pipeline system owned by  Spectra
Energy Corp. (SE)   The project “is ideally situated to meet rapidly growing
demand for reliable, secure and cleaner-burning fuels in  Asia ,
which are projected to approximately double from current levels
by 2025,” Chevron Vice Chairman George Kirkland said in the
statement. The transaction, subject to approval from Canadian
regulators, is expected to close by the end of March.  Apache Net  The Horn River and Liard shale basins hold an estimated 50
trillion cubic feet of potential gas, Farris said in a separate
statement today.  Apache expects to net about $400 million on the
transaction, according to the statement. It will sell a 50
percent stake in the Liard acreage to Chevron for $500 million
and pay Chevron to raise its stake in the terminal, the pipeline
and the other producing areas to 50 percent from 40 percent.  “Chevron is the premier LNG developer with longstanding
relationships in key Asian markets,”Farris said.  Both EOG and Encana held 30 percent stakes in the Kitimat
project. Apache said it and Chevron will explore sales of stakes
in the terminal and acreage to customers.  EOG, based in Houston, is selling to focus on onshore crude
oil production, “which is generating more immediate
reinvestment opportunities,” Chairman and CEO Mark Papa said in
a separate release. K Leonard, a spokeswoman for the company,
didn’t immediately return voicemail messages seeking comment.  ‘Global Player’  For Encana,  Canada ’s largest gas producer, “we do not have
former experience in LNG projects and Chevron does,” Jay Averill, a spokesman for the Calgary-based company, said by
phone today. “Bringing in a global player like Chevron, which
does have the experience and the financial ability to bring this
to fruition, takes the project to the next step.”  Chevron fell 1 percent to close at $108.63 in New York.
Apache dropped 1.7 percent to $78.68 and EOG dropped 0.7 percent
to $122.77. Encana declined 2.3 percent to C$19.66 in Toronto.  Chevron was “one of a fairly short list of natural
buyers,” Menno Hulshof, an analyst at TD Securities in Calgary,
said in a note to clients today.  RBC Capital Markets  acted as financial adviser for Apache,
Encana and EOG on the Horn River acreage sale.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is the largest U.S. oil company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  