-- China’s New Leaders Burnish Image by Revealing Personal Details
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-24T08:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/china-s-new-leaders-burnish-image-by-revealing-personal-details.html
China ’s next president sometimes
stays up late to watch sports on television, and the country’s
next premier is a fan of American economist Jeremy Rifkin.  Xi Jinping, named general secretary of the Communist Party
last month, fell in love  with his wife, the folk singer Peng Liyuan, at first sight in 1986, the official Xinhua  News Agency 
said in a profile of him today.  Li Keqiang , the No. 2 leader,
married an English literature professor named Cheng Hong, the
news agency said in a separate profile also published today.  The Xinhua profiles -- which labeled Xi as a “man of the
people” and Li as “a man who puts people first” -- come as
the Communist Party makes efforts to burnish its leaders’ image
amid a widening wealth gap and dissatisfaction over corruption.
The party recently announced an anti-corruption drive and has
sought to limit extravagance such as lavish banquets,
ostentatious welcome ceremonies and excessive floral arrangements.  “The top leadership has been very much detached from the
people, so they want to give them a human face to show that this
generation is a little different, a little bit closer to the
people,” Bo Zhiyue, senior research fellow at the  National
University  of  Singapore ’s East Asia Institute. “Whether this
will be successful is really a big question mark. The reputation
of the Communist Party is really suffering from a huge deficit
as a result of corruption.”  The profile of Xi, titled “Man of the people, statesman of
vision,” details the time he spent living in China’s
countryside, and describes how he once built a methane tank.
“It might be Xi’s earliest attempt to change China’s
countryside,” the profile said, noting that his daily tasks
included farming, carrying coal and collecting dung.  Dauntless Look  “His dauntless, self-assured look, much like it is now,
offers hints of his down-to-earth style,” Xinhua said of Xi,
describing a photograph of him at 16 years old.  Xi likes to drink “a bit” during parties with friends,
and enjoys swimming, mountaineering and watching basketball,
soccer and boxing, Xinhua said.  Many of the details in the profiles have been published
overseas and not in China’s domestic media. The story mentioned
his daughter, Xi Mingze, whom Xi and his wife hope will lead an
honest life. The story contrasted with standard policy that
treats details of Chinese leaders’ personal lives as state
secrets.  Searching names of Zhang Beili, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao’s wife, and Hu Haifeng, the son of Chinese President  Hu Jintao , on the Chinese search engine Baidu results in a notice
saying that “in accordance with relevant laws, regulations and
policies, some search results are not shown.”  Reform Signal  “It’s a signal of reform worth attention -- China’s top
leaders are making a starting step in transparency,” Cao Lin, a
columnist working for the China Youth Daily, tweeted in his
verified Weibo account. “Reform, political reform, must be
started from the top.”  Li reads English works in his spare time and monitors the
world’s economic development closely, Xinhua said. When Rifkin,
the president of the Foundation on Economic Trends, wrote his
book “ The Third Industrial Revolution ,” Li told his state
scholars to pay close attention to it.  Li even noticed an article about combustible ice, or frozen
natural gas, and instructed the Ministry of Land and Resources
to follow the research.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  