-- China May Require Web Users to Register Real Names, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-24T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/china-may-require-web-users-to-register-real-names-xinhua-says.html
China, the world’s largest Internet
market by users, may require by law that Web users provide their
real identities when signing contracts with  Internet service
providers , the official Xinhua  News Agency  reported.  The Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress,
which has the power to enact law, will this week decide on
proposed legislation that would require Web users to register
their real names to gain fixed-line and mobile Internet access,
the news agency reported yesterday. The proposed legislation,
once approved, would be the second China has passed on Internet
management since 2000, when it passed a law on Web security
maintenance, Xinhua said.  The proposal has sparked concern China is stepping up
censorship efforts across various platforms, including
microblogs such as Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like weibo service, said
Zhan Jiang, a journalism professor at Beijing Foreign Studies
University. The People’s Daily newspaper, published by the
ruling Communist Party, has this past week featured front-page
editorials calling for more regulation of the Web because people
want the “chaotic Internet” controlled.  China , which censors the Web by blocking pornography,
gambling and content critical of the ruling Communist Party,
began requiring microblog users to register their real names at
the start of this year. In April, police detained six microblog
users for spreading rumors of a coup in Beijing and ordered Sina
and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  to suspend the comments function on
their microblog services for three days.  “It is unreasonable to only restrict and not set up
related laws to protect rights” relating to freedom of
expression, Zhan said. The timing of this new legislation
doesn’t necessarily hint at the attitude of the party’s new
leadership on the Internet, he said.  Xi Jinping last month replaced  Hu Jintao  as head of the
Communist Party and the military, putting him in line to also
become China’s president in March 2012.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  