-- Citic Trust Misses Payment for Product Based on Steelmaker Loan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-24T06:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/citic-trust-misses-payment-for-product-based-on-steelmaker-loan.html
Citic Trust Co., a unit of  China ’s
biggest state-owned investment company, missed a bi-annual
payment to investors in one of its products after a steel
company missed interest payments on the underlying loan.  A sustained fall in  steel  prices and losses sustained by
 Yichang Three Gorges Quantong Coated and Galvanized Plate Co. 
caused the company to miss 74.6 million  yuan  ($12 million) in
interest payments, according to a statement on Citic Trust’s
website Dec. 21. As a result, Citic Trust won’t be able to pay
investors the latest installment of the trust product payment
that was due Dec. 20, it said.  Trusts, which target people with at least 1 million yuan to
invest, have grown to account for more than a quarter of China’s
estimated $3.35 trillion in lending outside the banking system,
according to an Oct. 16 UBS AG report. More loosely regulated
than banks because they don’t hold deposits, trusts have lured
investors with promises of high  returns , and invest in
everything from metals to real estate, as well as make loans.  Yichang raised 1.33 billion yuan in January 2012 via the
trust product sold by Citic Trust and used the money to buy raw
materials, according to the statement. The underlying loan now
faces the risk of default, it said.  Citic Group Corp., parent of the trust company, was
established to support former leader  Deng Xiaoping ’s market
reforms in 1979 by Rong Yiren, who later went on to become a
vice president of China. Its businesses now span banking to real
estate and oil exploration, with the group reporting directly to
China’s cabinet.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  