-- Colts Coach Pagano Rejoins Team Following Leukemia Treatment
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-24T17:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/colts-coach-pagano-returns-to-team-following-leukemia-treatment.html
Indianapolis Colts coach Chuck Pagano returned to work with the National Football League team
today, about three months after he was diagnosed with a
treatable form of leukemia.  Pagano’s return came a day after the Colts clinched a
playoff berth with a 20-13 win over the  Kansas City Chiefs .
Indianapolis has a 10-5 record heading into its Dec. 30 regular-
season finale against the Houston Texans.  Pagano thanked his family, his doctors, the team and Colts
owner  Jim Irsay  in a tearful news conference, calling today the
second-happiest of his life, after his wedding.  “I can’t tell you how thankful my family and I are to
everybody who reached out,” Pagano said. “I’ll be forever in
debt to each and every one of you. There’s no better place.”  Pagano returned to the team’s offices this morning, Colts
spokesman Avis Roper said in an e-mail. The coach hosted a team
meeting and said he joked with offensive coordinator Bruce Arians, who has served as interim coach, that he wished Arians
had set the bar a little lower.  “Mission accomplished,” Arians said. “It’s a fantastic
feeling, without getting emotional again, knowing that he’s
going to be back and the work week shouldn’t be as stressful.”  Pagano is in his first season coaching the Colts after
replacing  Jim Caldwell , who was fired after a 2-14 campaign.  Pagano, 52, left the team in late September to undergo
treatment after being diagnosed with acute promyelocyctic
leukemia, a cancer of the bone marrow.  His return makes for “an extra special Christmas,” Colts
rookie quarterback  Andrew Luck  told reporters yesterday.  “We really wanted for his return to know we were going to
have the postseason,” he said. “We didn’t want to slide in the
back door and put that extra stress on a man having to win that
next game. So we are very glad that we are going to the
postseason and knowing that coach is coming back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  