-- Copper Declines in New York on Concerns Over U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-12-24T11:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/copper-gains-in-london-as-hedge-funds-boost-bets-on-china-demand.html
Copper declined in New York amid
growing speculation American lawmakers will miss a year-end
budget deadline.  Time is running out for U.S. lawmakers and President  Barack
Obama  to agree on a budget deal by year-end to avoid triggering
more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts,
Senator Joseph Lieberman said. U.S. House Speaker John Boehner
failed to garner support from his caucus for “Plan B,” which
would have extended tax cuts on incomes below $1 million.  “I presume the main focus will be on the fiscal cliff,”
Nic Brown, head of commodity research at Natixis SA in London,
said by e-mail today. “It looks very bad the way that we went
from almost having a deal, to having a plan-B, to having
nothing.”  Copper for March delivery dropped 0.2 percent to $3.559 a
pound by 6:42 a.m. on the Comex in New York. The metal is up 3.6
percent this year. Copper for delivery in three months was
little changed at $7,825 a metric ton on the  London  Metal
Exchange. Electronic trading on the bourse will shut at 4 p.m.
local time.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the LME rose for a 13th day,
climbing 1.6 percent to 317,350 tons, the highest since Feb. 7,
bourse data show. They’ve fallen 14 percent this year. Orders to
withdraw the metal, known as canceled warrants, slid 3.1 percent
to 51,600 tons today.  An improvement in end-user demand in  China  may take longer
to “feed through” as accumulated stockpiles gradually run
down, according to Brown of Natixis.  Hedge funds boosted bets on a rally on speculation demand
in China, the biggest user, will improve next year. Money
managers raised net-long  positions , or wagers on rising prices,
by 11 percent to 24,531 U.S. futures and options in the week to
Dec. 18, the highest level since August 2011, according to the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Aluminum, lead and zinc rose in London. Nickel and tin
fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  