-- Draghi’s Cash Triggers Unprecedented Drop in Bank Lending Stress
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-12-24T10:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/draghi-s-cash-triggers-unprecedented-drop-in-bank-lending-stress.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi’s $1.3 trillion of cheap loans and pledge to do
whatever it takes to stand behind the euro helped push
indicators of stress in the continent’s money markets down by an
unprecedented degree this year.  The difference between the euro interbank offered rate and
overnight index swaps, a measure of European banks’ reluctance
to make unsecured loans to one another known as the Euribor-OIS
spread, contracted a record 0.85 percentage point this year to
0.12 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Frankfurt-based ECB has lent financial institutions
more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) under its longer-term
refinancing operations since December and is committed to
providing cheap, unlimited cash for lenders to boost the
economy. Draghi’s pledge to stand behind the currency of the 17-
nation euro area in July eased stresses in money markets, where
banks fund their day-to-day business.  “The key catalyst behind this year’s contraction has been
Mario Draghi and the ECB,” said Chris Clark, a London-based
interest-rate strategist at ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
interdealer broker. “First through the three-year LTROs and
later with Draghi’s commitment to do whatever it takes and
subsequent announcement of the outright monetary transactions.”  Euribor-OIS  The Euribor-OIS spread narrowed from as much as 2.07
percent four years ago, and is now little more than twice its
typical level before the financial crisis broke. The spread
widened in 2011 and 2010 and this year’s contraction is poised
to beat the 84.5 basis-point drop in 2009. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Low interest rates also helped spur a drop in money-market
stress indicators. The ECB held its main refinancing rate at an
all-time low of  0.75 percent  on Dec. 6, a month after Draghi
fueled speculation he would put reductions back on the agenda,
saying the euro debt crisis was starting to hurt  Germany  and
that inflation risks were “very low.”  While low interest rates were beneficial for banks’
borrowing costs, they meant trouble for money-market funds
investing in  Europe .  Because they’re designed to be haven investments that
return members’ cash intact rather than make huge profits, the
ECB’s zero-percent  deposit rate , as well as the negative yields
on some of the safest European government bonds, narrowed the
field of investments for these funds.  Fidelity’s Response  Fidelity Worldwide Investment, an affiliate of the second-
largest mutual-fund company in the U.S., extended the average
maturity of its holdings to boost yields earlier this year,
while Ignis Asset Management Ltd. responded to the record-low
interest rates by broadening its range of investments.  Chicago-based  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-largest U.S.
independent custody bank, waived fees and offered clients
tailored investments.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  either closed funds or turned away investors because of a
lack of safe assets.  The cost of insuring against a default on European bank
bonds has also declined by the most ever this year. The Markit
iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps tied to the
senior debt of 25 banks and insurers fell 141 basis points since
Dec. 30, 2011, to 138 basis points.  The gauge had risen every year since the start of the
global financial crisis apart from 2009, when it narrowed by 43
basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Euribor Falls  Three-month Euribor, a loan rate reported by banks, fell
117 basis points this year to 0.186 percent. The benchmark,
derived from a daily survey of banks for the European Banking
Federation, is set for the first annual decline since 2009, when
it tumbled 219 basis points.  The EBF’s euro overnight index average, or Eonia, of
unsecured lending deals fell 57 basis points to 0.06 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Eonia swap, an
estimate of overnight borrowing costs over the next three
months, dropped 31.5 basis points to 6.5 basis points.  The cost for banks to borrow in dollars and swap the
proceeds to euros fell this year by the most since at least
2009. The three-month cross-currency basis swap was 26 basis
points below Euribor, compared with minus 114 basis points on
Dec. 30, 2011, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  