-- Canadian Dollar Gains as Optimism Trumps Cliff Concern
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-12-24T22:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/the-canadian-dollar-falls-with-no-u-s-budget-deal.html
Canada ’s dollar had the biggest
intraday jump in almost two weeks against its U.S. counterpart
amid investor optimism about the country’s economic prospects
even with the risk that the nation’s largest trading partner may
enter a recession.  The Canadian currency, called the loonie for the image of
the bird on the C$1 coin, fluctuated after U.S. lawmakers left
for the Christmas holiday with only a week remaining to avoid
automatic tax increases and spending reductions. The measures,
set to take effect Jan. 1, might trigger an economic
contraction. Even with the U.S. budget debate, figures released
late last week show traders remain favorable on the longer-term
prospects of the Canadian currency.  “Friday’s CFTC data suggested there was build in the net-
long CAD position, so still sentiment is bullish,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , by
telephone from Toronto. “However, the very-near-term risk is
certainly fiscal-cliff negotiations, and then the holiday-type
less-liquid markets.”  The loonie gained as much as 0.3 percent, the most since
Dec. 12, to 99.07 cents per  U.S. dollar  before trading little
changed at 99.30 cents at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0071.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds  fell , pushing
yields up one basis point, or 0.1 percentage point, to 1.82
percent. The 2.75 percent security due in June 2022 declined 13
cents to C$108.05.  Crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, fell 0.1 percent to
$88.61 a barrel in New York, and the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index
of stocks ended the day down 0.2 percent.  Dollar Bets  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
74,278 on Dec. 18, compared with net longs of 62,533 a week
earlier, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission showed Dec. 21.  The loonie’s drop below 99.05 cents per U.S. dollar last
week may signal Canadian currency reached a high this month and
more losses are to come, according to  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)   “We’ll see C$1.03 by the end of the first quarter,”
Osborne said by phone from Toronto. “Which is definitely more
bearish than the market.”  The Canadian dollar has declined against the majority of
its global peers this quarter on signs the economy is slowing
and concern over the U.S.’ economic prospects. Canada’s gross
domestic product  rose  0.1 percent in October, after stalling in
September and shrinking 0.1 percent in August.  Housing Outlook  The housing boom that helped power Canada out of 2009’s
recession showed signs of fading with housing starts falling for
a third month in November and existing home sales falling for a
second month.  Consumer debt , which Bank of Canada Governor  Mark
Carney  has characterized as a danger to the economy rose in the
third quarter, with the ratio of debt to disposable income
reaching a record 164.6 percent from 163.3 in the previous
three-month period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  