-- Egypt Rating Cut to Same Level as Greece at S&P Amid Unrest
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-12-24T15:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/egypt-rating-cut-to-same-junk-level-as-greece-at-s-p-amid-unrest.html
Egypt’s long-term credit rating was
cut to the same junk level as  Greece  by  Standard & Poor’s  as
escalating political tension in the North African nation may
render aid from the International Monetary Fund “inactive.”  The most-populous Arab country’s rating was lowered by one
level to B-, six steps below investment grade, with a negative
outlook, S&P said today. The rating, which is also on par with
 Pakistan , may face more downgrades should political instability
result “in a sharp deterioration of economic indicators such as
foreign exchange reserves or the government’s deficit,” S&P
said. Egypt’s benchmark bonds were little changed.  S&P has reduced Egypt’s rating five times since the start
of a popular revolt almost two years ago. The country’s credit
risk jumped this month before a constitutional vote that has
intensified divisions between the ruling Islamists and their
opponents. The unrest led President Mohamed Mursi’s government
to ask the IMF to delay a decision on a $4.8 billion loan, after
getting the initial go-ahead last month.  “The increased polarization between the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party and sections of the
population is likely to weaken the sovereign’s ability to
deliver sustainable public finances, promote balanced growth and
respond to further economic or political shocks,” S&P said.  Riskiest Credits  The cost of protecting Egypt’s debt against default for
five years using credit default swaps surged 99 basis points
this month to 490, according to CMA, which is owned by  McGraw-
Hill Cos. (MHP)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That ranks it among the world’s 10 riskiest
borrowers, ahead of Iraq and Lebanon.  The rating cut “should serve as an alarm for politicians
from both sides that we need stability and clarity for the
economy in order for Egypt to move on,” Khalil El Bawab,
director of Egypt fixed income at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said
by phone.  Stable Outcome  Still, investors often ignore such rating actions. Bond
spreads have moved in the opposite direction from what the
companies suggested in 53 percent of rating or outlook changes
for countries including  France  and  South Korea  since February,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past 38 years,
yields have gone the opposite way about half the time for more
than 300 issues.  Egypt ’s 5.75 percent dollar-denominated bonds due in April
2020 were little changed at 5.99 percent as of 4:45 p.m. in
Cairo, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The yield is
up 81 basis points, or 0.81 percentage point, this month.  The S&P rating cut “is pretty hard to justify; it doesn’t
seem at all sensible that Greece should have the same rating as
Egypt,” Gabriel Sterne, a fixed income economist at Exotix
Holdings Ltd. in  London , said by phone today. “Egypt got the
government and constitution it voted for. So like it or not, the
most-stable outcome is reflected in the will of the people. But
going forward, it remains a worry whether they will get an IMF
program and if they be able to implement conventional IMF fiscal
adjustments.”  IMF Delay  As part of a plan backed by the IMF, Egypt will strive to
cut its  budget deficit  to 10.4 percent of economic output in the
year that ends next June and bring it to 8.5 percent the
following year. The deficit was 11 percent of gross domestic
product last year.  The government asked the Washington-based IMF to delay its
decision on the loan by one month to give it time to hold public
dialogue on policies including a plan to raise taxes. Moody’s
Investors Service last week said the delay was “credit
negative” and threatened the nation’s financial stability.  If political rifts continue, the broad consensus Egypt
needs to implement an IMF program “could remain out of reach
and the program inactive,” S&P said. Egyptian opposition
leaders prepared the ground for renewed unrest with vows to
revoke an Islamist-backed constitution that appears to have won
a majority of votes.  The  premium investors demand  to hold Egyptian debt over
similar-maturity U.S. securities has climbed 44 basis points, or
0.44 of a percentage point, to 452 since Mursi sparked the
constitutional dispute on Nov. 22, when he issued a decree
granting himself more powers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  