-- Egypt Opposition Vows to Overturn Islamist Constitution
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-12-24T09:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/egypt-opposition-vows-to-overturn-islamist-constitution.html
Egyptian opposition leaders set the
ground for renewed unrest with vows to revoke an Islamist-backed
constitution that appears to have won a majority of votes in the
most-populous Arab nation.  Supporters of President Mohamed Mursi, who pushed the
charter to a vote ignoring opposition calls to delay the
referendum, say the process is key to restoring order as the
country struggles with a faltering economy, high unemployment
and a flight of foreign capital. Mursi’s opponents, a mix of
Christians, youth activists and secular groups, say the bill
bolsters the influence of Islam in state affairs and fails to
protect some freedoms.  Opposition groups “are committed to continuing our
collective, peaceful struggle to bring down this constitution as
soon as possible through legitimate means,” former presidential
candidate Hamdeen Sabahi told reporters in Cairo yesterday. “We
trust that the door of peaceful protests and peaceful civic
resistance is open to Egyptians to topple this constitution.”  Unofficial results released after the Dec. 22 final stage
of the referendum showed the charter passed with about 64
percent of votes in a turnout of about 33 percent, according to
postings on the website of the Muslim Brotherhood, the country’s
largest political organization. The elections committee is yet
to say when it will announce the result.  Feeding Families  Farah el-Naggar, a 37-year-old maid and mother of three,
didn’t vote even though she backed Mursi in the June
presidential election.  “I live day by day, and each day, life gets harder,” el-
Naggar said in an interview. “People like me don’t have time to
think about constitutions any more. We need to feed our
families. We need stability in this country, and all we’ve
gotten are broken promises.”  The unrest since last year’s uprising that ousted  Hosni
Mubarak  sent foreign reserves down by almost 60 percent below
pre-revolt levels. A request for a $4.8 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  had been cited by officials as key
to winning broader backing from international lenders, donors
and restoring investor confidence. The government has asked the
IMF for a delay. The country’s budget deficit increased 38
percent to 80.7 billion pounds ($13.1 billion) for the period
between July and November 2012, compared with the year earlier,
Finance Ministry figures show.  Costly Debt  The premium investors demand to hold Egyptian debt over
similar-maturity U.S. securities has climbed 44 basis points, or
0.44 of a percentage point, to 452 since Mursi sparked the
constitutional dispute Nov. 22 by granting himself extra powers.  The cost of protecting the country’s debt against default
for five years surged to 490, according to CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That ranks it among the world’s 10
riskiest borrowers, ahead of Iraq and Lebanon.  Egypt ’s benchmark
EGX 30 Index fell 0.4 percent at 11:02 am after closed down 1.5
percent yesterday.  Mursi may temporarily transfer his legislative powers to
the so far powerless upper house of parliament after the result
of the vote is released, the state-run Al-Ahram reported, citing
unidentified officials in the presidency. Mursi, who assumed the
powers because the lower house had been disbanded earlier in the
year by court order, has appointed 90 new members to the upper
legislative chamber.  New Parliament  The move would mean the Islamist, who was fielded by the
Brotherhood for the presidency, may be able to deflect some of
the criticism he faced for holding legislative and executive
powers. After the adoption of the charter, he is also expected
to call for parliamentary elections that could offer Islamists a
chance to recapture the solid majority they held in the
dissolved legislature.  The vote indicates Islamists could do well in the run for
parliament, according to Emad Mostaque, a London-based
investment strategist at Noah Capital Markets.  “With the presidency, parliamentary and upper house
majority and the army now onside, the fractured opposition will
be unable to block any motions or major moves, with amendments
to the constitution requiring a majority vote in parliament,”
Mostaque said in an e-mailed note today.  Tax Increase  Before the vote on the charter, and amid clashes between
Islamists and the opposition, Mursi’s government earlier this
month suspended a decision on tax hikes after the move sparked
broad outrage among the impoverished.  “We anticipate one of the first moves that will be made
will be to pass the currently suspended taxation increases and
subsidy cuts allowing the IMF and EU aid of over $10 billion to
come through, stabilizing the economy,” Mostaque said.  Even so, the potential for unrest was reflected in the
local media, with the independent Al-Masry Al-Youm’s headline
today reading: “The Minority’s Constitution.” The sub-headline
said that 11 million of the 51 million eligible voters cast
“yes” votes.  Responding to claims of vote-rigging and other violations,
Essam el-Erian, vice chairman of the Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice Party, said “all accusations against the referendum
process are untrue,” the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
reported. He said the will of voters must be respected and
called for a national dialogue to end divisions, it reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  