-- Evans Won New Fed Consensus Linking Rates to Unemployment
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-12-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/evans-won-new-fed-consensus-linking-rates-to-unemployment.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s  Charles Evans 
entered the lion’s den of monetary orthodoxy to make his pitch:
unemployment must come down, even at the cost of temporarily
higher inflation.  Among those at the March European Central Bank symposium in
Frankfurt was Otmar Issing, the former top economist at the ECB
and one of Europe’s fiercest inflation fighters. Some months
before, the idea of tolerating rising prices had been branded
“irresponsible” by  Paul Volcker , who as Fed chairman in the
1980s induced a recession to protect the value of money.  “With Otmar in the audience, I was nervous,” Evans,
president of the Chicago Fed, recalled later. Yet he pressed on,
telling his audience, “monetary policy can and should take
additional steps to facilitate a more robust economic
expansion.”  Evans’s appearance in Frankfurt was one of 13 stops in a
more than yearlong odyssey that took him from Detroit to Bangkok
to push an untested policy tool: linking the outlook for
 interest rates  to unemployment and inflation. The Fed finally
heeded his call on Dec. 12, deciding to keep rates near zero as
long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent, inflation is no
more than 2.5 percent and long-term inflation expectations are
well anchored.  It’s “a strategy that we believe will help support
household and business confidence and spending,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after a meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  that day.  Build Consensus  The decision was a testament to what former colleagues call
Evans’s ability to build consensus. It also shows how one of the
Fed’s 12 regional bank presidents can influence policy that is
usually made by the central bank’s Washington-based board of
governors, led by Bernanke.  “Through the power of his ideas and his powers of
persuasion, President Evans was gradually able to gain some
momentum behind this idea in the Fed,” said Carl Tannenbaum,
chief economist at Northern Trust Corp. in Chicago, where he was
an economist and supervisor for the central bank.  Evans’s campaign wasn’t the first time he has pushed
against accepted economic ideas. Evans in his doctoral
dissertation at Carnegie Mellon University argued that
economists  Edward Prescott  and Finn Kydland had overstated the
impact of technology in driving the business cycle, research
that later won them the Nobel Prize in economics. Monetary
policy also plays a part, Evans said.  “Even then, you could see that Charlie was struggling to
get out of the mainstream view at Carnegie if not the world,”
said Martin Eichenbaum, who was Evans’ thesis adviser and is now
a professor at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois.
“He was questioning conventional wisdom back then and that’s
what he’s doing now.”  ECB Event  Evans declined a request for an interview, according to
Chicago Fed spokeswoman Laura Labarbera. He described the ECB’s
March event at a gathering later that month at the Brookings
Institution in Washington.  The adoption of Evans’s proposal to link rates to
unemployment was another foray into unprecedented measures for
Bernanke’s Fed. Since 2008, Bernanke has cut the main interest
rate to zero and bought more than $2.3 trillion in securities to
fuel growth. Yet more than three years after the recession
ended, unemployment remains at 7.7 percent, far above the Fed’s
estimate of long-run unemployment at no more than 6 percent.  Dissatisfied with the results, Bernanke this month embraced
Evans’s plan and said the Fed will also buy $45 billion in
Treasuries in addition to the $40 billion of mortgage backed
securities it was already purchasing each month.  Reduce Unemployment  The Fed chairman, who as a scholar of the Great Depression
focused on the costs from central bank inaction, has shown he is
willing to seize on any tool that may bring down joblessness,
said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC in
Austin, Texas.  “The Fed is really throwing the kitchen sink at this,” he
said. “And the crazy thing is they could still do more.”  Bernanke’s accommodation has helped stoke a 13.7 percent
gain this year in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which has
weathered a slowdown in the global economy, Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis and lackluster U.S. job growth. Fed stimulus has
also spurred demand for  government bonds , with the yield on 10-
year Treasuries declining 11 basis points in 2012.  The stock index closed at 1,430.15 on Dec. 21 and the yield
on the benchmark Treasury note closed at 1.76 percent.  Most Controversial  Evans started advocating his approach a month after one of
the most controversial FOMC decisions under Bernanke’s
chairmanship. In August 2011, as the recovery showed signs of
faltering, the committee said it would hold the main interest
rate near zero through at least mid-2013, tying policy to a
calendar date for the first time.  The statement prompted dissents from Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser , Dallas’s  Richard Fisher  and
Minneapolis’s Narayana Kocherlakota -- the most opposition in 18
years.  The disagreements highlighted the FOMC’s aversion to fixing
monetary policy to a date, and the challenge the chairman would
face in achieving consensus on altering the date as the economy
evolved. Since Bernanke favored using forward guidance as a way
to keep interest rates low and spur the recovery, policy makers
needed to find a new benchmark.  While Evans supported the August 2011 decision, he wanted
to go further. The next month he made his first public call for
Fed officials to step up accommodation by pledging to keep rates
at zero until reaching a certain level of unemployment.  Research by economists such as  Michael Woodford , now at
Columbia University in New York, had shown that when the short-
term interest rate is already near zero, a central bank can ease
policy further by committing to keep stimulus in place.  Ticking Clock  The  unemployment rate , at 9 percent at that time, should
“have our hair on fire,” Evans said in London in September
2011. “The clock is ticking -- the longer we wait, the more
likely it is that unutilized skills diminish to the point that
more permanent damage takes hold.”  Volcker was quick to respond. After becoming Fed chairman
in 1979, he had pushed the federal funds rate to as high as 20
percent to throttle inflation in 1980.  “Remarkably, at least one member of the Fed’s policy
making committee recently departed from the  price-stability 
script,” he wrote in the New York Times two weeks after Evans’
speech. Once central bankers allow for higher inflation, “the
instinct will be to do a little more -- a seemingly temporary
and ‘reasonable’ 4 percent becomes 5, and then 6.” Volcker
declined to be interviewed for this story.  Cool Reception  Evans’s plan also received a cool reception among current
policy makers. Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  in an October 2011
speech said it was “potentially promising” while “not without
pitfalls.”  At the November 2011 FOMC meeting, Evans’s approach won
some support. It also drew fire from several participants who
said it may be “confusing,” according to minutes of the
gathering.  The Chicago official was undeterred and cast his first
dissent, asserting the economy needed a stronger jolt from a
clearer policy pledge. He dissented again the following month.  Now 54, Evans has spent more than a third of his life
inside the Fed system. Born in Greenville, South Carolina, Evans
studied economics at the University of Virginia in
Charlottesville and received his doctorate in 1989 at
Pittsburgh-based Carnegie Mellon.  In 1991, after briefly teaching at the University of South
Carolina, the young economist was recruited to the Chicago Fed’s
research department by Eichenbaum, his former professor and a
consultant to the district bank.  ’Perfect Fit’  Evans, a natural consensus-builder capable of explaining
complex ideas to non-economists, was the “perfect fit” for the
job, Eichenbaum said. He rose through the ranks, becoming
director of research in 2003 and president in 2007.  A little more than four years since he took the helm, Evans
partook in a historic FOMC meeting that opened up U.S. central
banking to public view. On Jan. 25, the Fed adopted a 2 percent
inflation target and released each official’s projections for
the benchmark interest rate.  The committee also pushed the date back to late 2014 for
keeping rates near zero because the economy was weakening. A
discussion over adopting thresholds failed to move the proposal
forward.  Evans didn’t stop. In March, he flew to the ECB conference
in Frankfurt. His speech followed a panel discussion featuring
Issing.  Underlying Math  The following week he traveled to the Brookings Institution
and presented a 47-page paper that he co-authored laying out the
math underlying his plan.  Meanwhile, data ranging from job growth to manufacturing
flashed signals the economy was faltering. While Evans still had
no public backers, some of his colleagues were beginning to
favor more easing in the form of expanded purchases of bonds, or
quantitative easing.  Evans was among the central bankers who gathered in August
at the Kansas City Fed’s annual symposium in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming. Columbia’s Woodford said the Fed may be sending a
negative signal about the economic outlook each time it said it
expects to keep rates at zero for longer. Evans’s proposal
offered “an important improvement” over such date-based
guidance, Woodford said.  At the Sept. 12-13 meeting the FOMC again pushed back its
forecast for an interest-rate increase, this time to mid-2015.
The committee also said it expects to keep rates low “for a
considerable time after the economic recovery strengthens,”
taking the first step toward linking policy to economic
conditions.  First Call  “Many participants” said numerical thresholds tied to
economic data would offer better guidance to the markets,
according to minutes of the gathering.  Seven days later, Evans won an ally in the Minneapolis
Fed’s Kocherlakota, who became the first  Fed official  to
publicly endorse the Chicago chief’s proposal. It was a year and
13 days after Evans made his first call for thresholds in
London.  Kocherlakota advocated keeping rates at zero until
unemployment falls below 5.5 percent as long as inflation
remained below 2.25 percent. It was a complete turnabout: In May
he said rate increases may be needed by the end of 2012.  “My thinking has been greatly influenced by his,”
Kocherlakota said of Evans’s proposal.  Public View  The debate on policy thresholds burst into public view.
Plosser and Fisher warned that the Fed can’t target
unemployment.  James Bullard  of  St. Louis  said it would be a
“mistake” to base policy on “a fickle variable” like the
jobless rate.  In November, Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  said he favored an
unemployment benchmark of 6.5 percent, and Yellen said she was
“strongly supportive” of the concept of a thresholds-linked
pledge. Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  signaled he may
support the approach as well.  Evans shifted his benchmarks closer to Kocherlakota’s,
proposing levels of 6.5 percent joblessness and 2.5 percent
inflation.  Still, there were few signs the policy makers would back a
policy threshold at its last meeting of the year. FOMC
participants believe that before taking such a step, the Fed
“would need to resolve a number of practical issues,”
according to minutes of the committee’s October meeting.  Set Guidelines  Only one of the 49 economists in a Dec. 7-10 Bloomberg
survey predicted policy makers would set such guidelines in the
gathering. The FOMC would probably wait until its March 19-20
meeting before taking such a step, according to the median
estimate of surveyed economists.  On Dec. 12, the committee endorsed the benchmarks with
Evans’s new numbers, saying the commitment hinges on whether
“longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well
anchored.” The FOMC vote was 11-1 for an innovation the Fed had
never attempted before, with Richmond’s  Jeffrey Lacker 
dissenting.  More than three years of recovery hadn’t erased the
“enormous waste of human and economic potential” from high
unemployment, Bernanke said in a press conference after the FOMC
released its statement.  Policy makers at the December meeting deemed that using
Evans’s threshold for forward guidance is “superior” and
“more transparent” than a calendar date because it would
signal how the committee would alter policy in line with changes
in the economy, Bernanke said.  Benefit Earlier  “We decided, since we were ready to go, why not make the
change earlier and get the benefit earlier?” Bernanke said.  A tab on the Chicago district bank’s homepage links to two
charts for inflation and unemployment underlying Evans’s 15-
month campaign. Dotted lines show the Fed’s estimate for full
employment and its target for price increases. The message:
inflation is too low; joblessness too high.  “What Charlie would say is, ‘There’s risks of doing
nothing and there’s risks of doing this, and it’s worth taking a
little extra chance because in the end we have this dual
mandate,”’ Eichenbaum said, referring to the Fed’s obligation
to ensure price stability and full employment. To Evans, “8
percent unemployment is unacceptable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  