-- Fed Flummoxed by Mortgage Yield Gap Refusing to Shrink: Economy
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e ,   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-12-24T13:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/fed-flummoxed-by-mortgage-yield-gap-refusing-to-shrink-economy.html
Record-low mortgage rates aren’t
cheap enough for Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke as he
tries to spur economic growth and create jobs.  Policy makers are disappointed that lower yields on
mortgage-backed securities haven’t led to more savings on home
loans after the Fed expanded its balance sheet to an all-time
high of almost $3 trillion through bond purchases. Bernanke this
month called the trend “unfortunate,” and the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York held a workshop to examine the issue.  The gap  between the bond yields and home-loan rates is
blunting the economic benefits of the Fed’s record
accommodation, New York Fed President William C. Dudley said in
a speech in New York this month. Among the reasons for the
spread: banks are reluctant to take on the expensive fixed costs
of new staff to process the paperwork and tougher capital
requirements are making it less attractive to service loans.  “The Fed is pushing really hard to try to get the mortgage
rate down,” said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut. “There just doesn’t
seem to be much of an inclination on the part of banks to get
out there and beat the bushes.”  Central bankers have been examining how to reduce the
spread to increase the impact of their existing stimulus as
options for further easing dwindle.  The Fed has kept its  benchmark interest rate  near zero
since 2008. The central bank eased policy this month by saying
the rate would stay low “at least as long” as unemployment
remains above 6.5 percent and inflation projections are for no
more than 2.5 percent.  Fed Easing  At the same Dec. 11-12 meeting, the Fed expanded its
quantitative easing program by adding $45 billion of Treasury
security purchases each month to the $40 billion of monthly
government-backed mortgage bond  buying  it began in September.  Bernanke’s latest steps have helped make it cheaper to buy
a home. The average  fixed rate  on new 30-year loans was 3.37
percent in the week ended Dec. 20, down from 3.55 percent on
Sept. 13, the day the Fed announced its third round of bond
buying, according to Freddie Mac data.  That has left the spread, or difference, between so-called
primary and  secondary  rates at about 1.1 percentage points,
compared with less 0.7 percentage point in March and an average
of about 0.5 percentage point in years before the credit crisis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lower mortgage rates have helped fuel a rebound in housing,
the industry whose collapse sparked the financial crisis.
Purchases of existing houses increased 5.9 percent in November
to a 5.04 million annual rate, the most since November 2009,
according to figures from the National Association of Realtors.  Home Prices  The median home price increased 10.1 percent to $180,600
from $164,000 in November 2011, the group said. Higher home
prices are bolstering household finances, spurring the consumer
spending that accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “It is imperative that the key channels of the monetary
policy transmission mechanism are operating as effectively as
possible,” Dudley said in Dec. 3 remarks in New York. “To the
extent that the primary-secondary rate spread widens, the
reduction in pass-through limits the full impact of the policy
actions.”  The spread arises because lenders package home loans into
bonds and sell them to investors, giving them fresh cash to make
more loans. Lenders set aside a portion of the interest income
to pay insurance premiums, and they keep another portion to
service the debt.  Sales of government-backed mortgage securities now form the
lifeblood of the home-loan market, representing about 90 percent
of originations, with those guaranteed by taxpayer-supported
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac accounting for almost 70 percent.  More Originations  Total originations may rise 21.6 percent this year to $1.75
trillion, the highest since 2009, amid a 33.9 percent gain in
 refinancing  to $1.25 trillion, according to Washington-based
Mortgage Bankers Association.  “Under any other historic circumstances, a wide spread had
been enough to cause lenders to modify their rate sheets lower
to increase volume,” Merrill Ross, an analyst with Baltimore-
based Wunderlich Securities Inc., said in a report last week.  One reason mortgage rates aren’t falling more: Fannie and
Freddie, under pressure from their regulator to behave more like
private firms, have raised their annual insurance premiums by an
average of 0.2 percentage point since April.  For 30-year loans at large lenders, the premiums have
increased by about 0.25 percentage point, Garry Cipponeri, a
senior vice president at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s second-ranked
home-loan unit, said at a Dec. 6 conference in New York.
Mortgage rates have climbed to cover those costs, he said.  Increased Regulation  Tighter regulation may also be to blame. Prices for
contracts to service loans have fallen since last year, when the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision drafted rules requiring
banks with concentrations in these assets to hold more capital.  With lenders making less money creating service contracts,
they must charge more on home loans. The Fed, as regulator for
banks, enforces the capital requirements in the U.S.  “The Fed has been taking the capacity out of the market by
punishing people that own large portfolios of servicing
contracts,” Paul Miller, managing director at brokerage FBR
Capital Markets, said in a telephone interview.  Andrea Priest, a spokeswoman for the New York Fed, declined
to comment.  At the same time, staff shortages make it harder for banks
to make more home loans, limiting supply and keeping mortgage
rates higher than they otherwise would be.  Rate Outlook  Banks are reluctant to hire because they know that record-
low borrowing costs can’t last, said David Cannon, global co-
head of mortgage trading at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s
securities arm.  “Everyone knows rates are going to go higher eventually,”
Cannon said in an interview at the unit’s offices in Stamford,
 Connecticut .  It’s also tough to find and train workers, and harder for
new mortgage companies to gain approval to enter the business as
oversight becomes more stringent in the wake of the financial
crisis, said Willie Newman, head of Taylor Capital Group Inc.’s
home-loan unit, which originated $1.4 billion of mortgages last
quarter.  U.S.-backed mortgages still account for about 90 percent of
new lending and Fannie Mae and Ginnie Mae are seeking to protect
taxpayers as new originators apply to do business with them.
Fannie Mae has begun limiting how many loans it will guarantee
annually or buy from certain firms. Ginnie Mae has gotten
tougher this year about approving lenders even as it’s signed up
about 50, Ginnie Mae President Ted Tozer said in an October
interview.  Part-Time Help  To handle higher demand, Newman’s Ann Arbor, Michigan-based
unit started running night shifts employing 30 to 45 part-
timers, mostly college students and graduates from the three
universities in its area. The eight-month-old effort also helps
groom full-time workers, he said.  “We’re really happy with how the program’s gone and
anticipate expanding it next year,” Newman said.  Lenders say their existing staff must spend more time
scrutinizing loans in the aftermath of the credit crisis, after
being reminded how underwriting errors or incomplete
documentation can expose them to being forced to repurchase
 soured debt . Bondholder claims that the mortgages backing
Countrywide Financial Corp.’s securities never matched their
promised quality led to a pending $8.5 billion settlement with
parent company  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Quality Checks  Bank of America, which has added about 5,000 mortgage-
origination workers to the roughly 18,000 it had 18 months ago,
does quality checks on mortgages three times, Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said Dec. 14 in response to questions
after a speech at the Brookings Institution in  Washington .  “We have to make sure the loan we originate is ironclad,”
Moynihan said. “It’s frustrating to me because we can’t get our
loans closed fast enough for our customers.”  To reduce the yield spread, the Fed can “encourage good
policy” that “will reduce the perceived risk and cost to the
banks in making mortgage loans,” Bernanke said at a Dec. 12
press conference in Washington. Policy makers could take steps
to limit banks’ concerns that they could be forced to buy back
loans after defaults, he said.  Relief may be in sight. Next year, home-loan volumes are
projected by Mortgage Bankers Association to decline 23 percent
because a lot of the  refinancing  activity has already occurred,
potentially providing lenders with more resources and reason to
compete in ways that would narrow the gap in yields between
mortgage-backed securities and home loans.  Higher Fees  Still, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s regulator is at the
same time pledging further increases in their guarantee fees
that would expand the spread.  Bernanke says he’s optimistic retail borrowers will get the
“full benefit,” or “most of the benefit,” of the Fed’s
mortgage-buying.  “It does seem to be the case that, over a period of time -
-not immediately, but over a period of time -- most of the
declines in MBS yields do find their way through to mortgage
customers and, thereby, strengthen the housing market,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 perlberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net  