-- Fortress Says Co-Founder Robert Kauffman to Retire
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-12-24T18:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/fortress-investment-says-co-founder-robert-kauffman-to-retire.html
Robert Kauffman, one of three co-
founders of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , retired after 15
years at the New York-based investment firm, a decision made in
part to avoid higher tax rates next year.  “It was a confluence of events with Fortress, myself and
the tax code,” Kauffman, 49, said in a telephone interview
today. “The capital-gains tax rate now is known,” he said,
making it more attractive to sell now rather than wait for rates
to go up.  Fortress will redeem about 51.3 million Class A shares
owned by Kauffman at $3.50 each, reducing the amount of
 dividend-paying  shares by about 10 percent, the hedge-fund and
private-equity firm said today in a statement. The top rate on
long-term capital gains, now 15 percent, may rise to 20 percent
in 2013, according to President  Barack Obama ’s budget proposal
earlier this year.  Kauffman, who most recently oversaw Fortress’s long-only
fixed-income business Logan Circle Partners, said he’s also
leaving to have more time to devote to his passion for cars. He
owns a 50 percent stake in Nascar’s Michael Waltrip Racing and
has a car-restoration business.  Kauffman, along with Wesley R. Edens and Randal A. Nardone,
started Fortress in 1998. The company, which in February 2007
became the first large U.S. alternative-asset manager to go
 public , manages more than $50 billion in assets. Fortress shares
have slumped about 77 percent since the IPO.  Kauffman said today he still has at least a $100 million
investment in Fortress funds and related investments, so will
remain aligned with the firm’s partners. The first substantial
discussions about stepping down occurred last week, he said.  Prior to Fortress, Kauffman was a managing director of UBS
AG from May 1997 to May 1998, and before that, was a principal
of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , according to a biography posted on Fortress’s
website. Kauffman has held a variety of roles at Fortress and
previously led its European private-equity business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  