-- French Eyeglass Magnate Afflelou Calls New Taxes ‘Confiscatory’
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-12-24T08:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/french-eyeglass-magnate-afflelou-calls-new-taxes-confiscatory-.html
President  Francois Hollande ’s
government has denigrated  France ’s entrepreneurs with its
attitude toward business and its “confiscatory taxation,” said
Alain Afflelou, the founder of a chain of eyeglass stores.  “We must stop saying that company chiefs are dishonest
people and thieves,” Afflelou, who’s moving to London, told RTL
Radio Dec. 22.  Afflelou is relocating for “two to three years,” though
he says he’s moving to work more closely with his eponymous
company’s new British shareholder,  Lion Capital , and to expand
the chain into Northern Europe, not to shrink his tax bill.  Hollande, elected in May, is imposing a 75 percent tax on
income of more than 1 million euros, keeping a campaign pledge.
The millionaire tax has been followed by new levies on  capital
gains , an increased tax on wealth, an increased  tax rate  for
income of 150,000 euros or more, a boost to inheritance charges
and an exit tax for entrepreneurs selling companies.  Though there are no official statistics yet, tax lawyers
say they’ve seen an increase in French people moving to Britain,
Belgium or Switzerland to avoid the new taxes.  The government is seeking to bolster revenue through taxes
on large companies, Internet startups and private fortunes to
make its budget-deficit target of 3 percent of gross domestic
product next year. Hollande, the first Socialist president in
France since 1995, has called on those “with the most to show
patriotism” in tough economic times.  Arnault, Depardieu  French billionaire  Bernard Arnault , chief executive officer
of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , filed an application for
Belgian nationality in September. While he promised to continue
paying taxes in France, the action prompted fierce criticism
from Hollande and his supporters.  This month, actor  Gerard Depardieu , who played Obelix in
films on one of France’s most beloved fictional characters, said
he’s moving to Belgium and selling his Paris home. Prime
Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault called Depardieu’s actions
“pathetic,” drawing a protest from the actor.  “I am leaving because you consider success, creativity,
talent, anything different are grounds for sanction,” the movie
star, known for such classic French roles as Cyrano de Bergerac
and the musketeer Porthos, wrote in correspondence to Ayrault
published in Le Journal du Dimanche. “I don’t expect to be
pitied or praised but I reject the word pathetic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  