-- German Utilities Pay Power Users as Warm, Windy Christmas Looms
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2012-12-24T12:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/german-utilities-pay-power-users-as-warm-windy-christmas-looms.html
Day-ahead power in  Germany  turned
negative for the first time in at least five years as utilities
prefer to pay users rather than halt plants amid low demand,
mild temperatures and higher-than-average wind generation.  Baseload next-day power, for supplies delivered around the
clock, fell as low as minus 15 euros (minus $19.84) a megawatt-
hour, compared with 22 euros a megawatt-hour on Dec. 21 for
power delivered today, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the first time the day-ahead contract has been
negative since Bloomberg started collecting the data in 2007.  Germany seeks to generate more than a third of its
electricity from renewables as the country exits nuclear energy.
Utilities including EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  may prefer to pay users
rather than halt fossil fuel-fed plants when turbines and solar
cells push power supply above demand.  “Operators may just decide to accept that they are giving
away power and money during the Christmas week for a few hours
rather than putting up with even higher costs for switching
their units off,” Juergen Rogalla, head of power plant
operations at Stadtwerke Bielefeld GmbH, a regional utility
supplying 280,000 households with power and gas, said Dec. 21.  Wind output in Germany  is predicted to rise to about 15
gigawatts tomorrow, Meteologica SA, a Madrid-based weather
forecaster, said on its website. That compares with an average
level of 5 gigawatts, according to data from Leipzig, Germany-
based European Energy Exchange AG on Bloomberg.  Hourly Prices  The maximum temperature in Frankfurt tomorrow will be 10
degrees Celsius (50 Fahrenheit) versus a five-year average of 3
degrees, CustomWeather Inc. data show. The nation can expect
“exceptionally mild weather,” according to a forecast by
Deutscher Wetterdienst.  Renewable power use rose 8 percent this year, boosting its
share to 12 percent of total consumption, according to
preliminary data from Arbeitsgemeinschaft Energiebilanzen e.V.,
an industry lobby.  Intraday trading has increased in Germany as renewable
energy creates more variability in the supply, and sources, of
electricity throughout the day. Hourly prices have been negative
depending on how much capacity is available when renewable
generation peaks and there’s a surplus of power.  “Negative prices are not so much of an issue for traders
who are used to negative within-day prices and know the risks,”
Mark Owen-Lloyd, co-founder of Leap Trading Ltd., said today by
e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  