-- Ghana Cocoa Target in Reach as Rains Curb Dry Wind Impact
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-12-24T11:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/ghana-cocoa-target-in-reach-as-rains-curb-dry-wind-impact.html
Ghana ’s cocoa-industry regulator
expects to achieve its harvest target of 800,000 metric tons
this season after weather patterns improved in November and
December, said Deputy Chief Executive Officer Yaw Adu-Ampomah.  “The rains delayed but have come in,” he said in an
interview in Accra, the capital, on Dec. 20. “We could
replicate last season’s performance, the difference is not
significant,” he said, citing reports to the Ghana Cocoa Board
from farms. He declined to give figures.  Cocoa output, Ghana’s third-biggest export, fell 21 percent
to 347,000 tons in the season to Dec. 6, according to
KnowledgeCharts, a unit of Commodities Risk Analysis in
Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania . After reaching a record of more than 1
million tons in the 2010-11 crop season, production slowed and
the board cut its outlook for the current harvest on concern of
poor weather.  “The season was bad from the beginning, but in the last
three weeks the rains have been good,” Theophilus Agyare Asare,
general manager of operations at Akuafo Adamfo Marketing Co.,
the second-biggest cocoa buyer, said by phone on Dec. 21.  “We are improving and catching up with our figures from
last year,” he said. The Kumasi, Ashanti region-based company
bought 14 percent of the national total last season and has
targeted 15 percent for 2012-13, Asare said.  Harmattan Coming  “There is enough soil moisture, but the dryness of the
harmattan is coming,” said Charles York, principal
meteorologist at the Ghana Meteorological Agency, in an
interview in the capital, Accra. The harmattan brings dry, dusty
wind from the  Sahara desert  over southern West Africa, including
 Ivory Coast  and Ghana, the world’s biggest cocoa growers.  In Bogoso, a cocoa-growing town in the Western region which
accounts for 55 percent of national production, 33 millimeters
(1.3 inches) of rain was recorded in the first 10 days of
December from 70 millimeters in the preceding 10 days, according
to the weather agency. In Kumasi, the capital of Ashanti where
18 percent of total output is grown, rainfall was 42 millimeters
in the last 10 days of November and about 58 millimeters in
early December.  While Adu-Ampomah said production would benefit “if we get
at least two major rains in January,” York said that’s
unlikely.  Southern Ghana, which includes cocoa-growing regions such
as Western and Ashanti, “has a very low probability of high
rains between now and February,” he said.  March delivery cocoa declined for a fourth day, falling 0.8
percent to 1,457 ($2,358) by 11:06 a.m. on the NYSE Liffe market
in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  