-- Giants Given 6% Chance of Making Playoffs After Loss to Ravens
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-24T13:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/giants-given-6-chance-of-making-playoffs-after-loss-to-ravens.html
The  New York Giants  have about a 6
percent chance of making the National Football League playoffs,
according to  MakeNFLplayoffs.com , needing a victory over the
 Philadelphia Eagles  and losses by three other teams on the last
day of the season.  The defending Super Bowl champions had their postseason
chances almost dashed with yesterday’s 33-14 loss in Baltimore.
It was the Giants’ fifth loss in seven games.  With an 8-7 record, New York needs to beat the Philadelphia
Eagles at home on Dec. 30 and have the  Dallas Cowboys ,  Minnesota
Vikings  and  Chicago Bears  all lose. Giants coach  Tom Coughlin 
said yesterday his team’s playoff chances are “very remote,”
having blown a chance to earn a guaranteed postseason spot by
winning its final two games.  “We were sitting where we could determine our own fate and
we let that get away from us,” Coughlin told reporters. “It’s
very disappointing.”  The Cowboys visit the  Washington Redskins  to decide the
National Football Conference East division title. The Redskins
(9-6) may also have an outside chance for a wild-card playoff
berth with a loss, while the only way the Cowboys (8-7) can make
the postseason is with a victory.  Washington is given about a 63 percent chance of making the
playoffs, with the Cowboys at almost 50 percent, according to
 MakeNFLplayoffs.com .  The Redskins have won six straight games and are favored by
3 1/2 points, according to Las Vegas oddsmakers.  Giants Favored  The Giants are listed as 9-point favorites at home against
the Eagles (4-11).  New York  was outgained by the Ravens 533-186
in total yards.  The Vikings (9-6) are 3-point underdogs at home against the
Green Bay Packers, who are 11-4 and are seeking to lock up the
No. 2 seed in the NFC and a first-round bye in the playoffs. The
Bears (9-6) are 3-point favorites in Detroit against the 4-11
Lions.  Minnesota is given a 56 percent chance of making the
playoffs as the NFC’s last wild-card team, followed by the Bears
at 25 percent, MakeNFLplayoffs.com said. Wild-card berths go to
the two non-division winners with the best records in each
conference.  “Hopefully, we can get a win, and if we make it into the
playoffs, that would be great,” Giants quarterback Eli Manning
said. “But whatever happens is what’s going to happen. We can
only focus on us, and we just want to play better football.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  