-- Icahn Paring Greenbrier Stake Sends Stock to Third Drop
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-12-24T18:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/icahn-paring-greenbrier-stake-sends-stock-to-third-drop.html
Carl Icahn ’s failed bid for
 Greenbrier Cos. (GBX)  and the sale of most of his shares sent the
stock to its biggest three-day drop in 16 months on concern the
price may retreat to its level before acquisition talks started.  The shares may tumble to about $14, near Greenbrier’s
closing price before Icahn reported his 9.99 percent stake on
Nov. 13 and began negotiations on a takeover by his American
Railcar Industries Inc., Michael Baudendistel, an analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a report today.  “Our hold ratings on both Greenbrier and  American Railcar
Industries (ARII)  reflect our view that it is best to stay on the
sidelines until the dust from the past week’s flurry of news
settles,” Baudendistel wrote. Icahn’s role buoyed the prices
with a “significant activist premium,” he wrote.  Greenbrier  fell  3.1 percent to $15.64 at the close in New
York after plunging 22 percent in the previous two trading days.
The three-day decline was the largest since August 2011. Icahn
disclosed on Dec. 21 he cut his Greenbrier stake to 3.41 percent
after the  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based company rejected American
Railcar’s sweetened offer of $22 a share.  American Railcar dropped 3.5 percent to $31.12. The St.
Charles, Missouri-based company said last week that the higher
bid, up from $20, was final and wouldn’t be extended. Greenbrier
said the offer was too low and urged more talks, saying a tie-up
could benefit both manufacturers.  Icahn attempted to acquire Greenbrier four years ago only
to have that deal fell through as well. The combination of
Greenbrier and American Railcar would form the U.S.’s largest
railcar producer, surpassing  Trinity Industries Inc. (TRN)   “The latest ownership disclosure will give investors added
clarity that Icahn was not bluffing,” Baudendistel said. “It
would not surprise us if Icahn sold out of his remaining shares
in short order.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  