-- Ice in N.Y. Forecast for Christmas as Strong Storm Sweeps South
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-12-24T17:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/ice-in-n-y-forecast-for-christmas-as-strong-storm-sweeps-south.html
A weak winter storm may coat roads
west and north of New York City with a layer of ice by Christmas
morning and leave an inch of snow in higher elevations.  A much more powerful system will sweep across the southern
and central U.S. tomorrow with severe thunderstorms and the
potential for isolated tornadoes from eastern  Texas  to the
Florida Panhandle, said Rob Carolan, founder of Hometown
Forecast Services in Nashua, New Hampshire.  The eastern storm, currently bringing rain to  Virginia ,
will move south of New York City overnight, Carolan said. Ice
will probably coat roads from  Newark , New Jersey, to New York
and into southern  Massachusetts  along the Interstate 95
corridor. In New York City, the storm will bring rain.  “It doesn’t look to be a big deal; it looks to be more of
a nuisance,” Carolan said by telephone.  A winter weather advisory warning of ice and as much as 1
inch (2.5 centimeters) of snow stretches from eastern
Pennsylvania to southeastern Massachusetts, according to the
 National Weather Service .  In  Pennsylvania , New Jersey and New York the advisory is in
place from 7 p.m. until 7 a.m. tomorrow. In New England, the
warning is in effect from 10 p.m. to 10 a.m.  The more powerful system may leave 6 to 8 inches of snow
across  Oklahoma  and Arkansas, and as much as 15 inches from
Missouri to southern Illinois, according to the weather service.
Snow is also forecast for parts of Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio.  Winter storm warnings and advisories for that storm stretch
from Oklahoma to western Ohio. The snow across Oklahoma, which
will start overnight, will be accompanied by 20- to 30-mile-per-
hour winds with gusts as high as 45 mph (72 kilometers per
hour).  The system will bring rain and sleet to the New York City
area later this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  