-- Microsoft’s Mundie Shifts to New Role Before Retirement
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-12-24T17:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/microsoft-says-mundie-shifts-to-new-role-will-retire-in-2014.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said Chief Research
and Strategy Officer Craig Mundie plans to retire in 2014 after
two decades and has shifted to a new role as a senior adviser to
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer .  Eric Rudder, chief technical strategy officer, is taking
over some of Mundie’s duties overseeing research, privacy and
security, as well as technology policy, Ballmer said in an e-
mail to staff on Dec. 14 that Microsoft, the world’s largest
software maker, made public today.  Mundie’s job switch marks the second change to Microsoft’s
senior leadership team within the past two months. On Nov. 12,
the company announced that Windows chief Steven Sinofsky was
leaving. After releasing the latest version of its flagship
operating system in October, Ballmer is putting in place a new
team to start planning the next upgrade to help Microsoft
compete in a market that has shifted to mobile devices and
computing over the Internet.  The team led by Rudder “continues to help shape the long-
term technology-policy landscape in ways that will give our
future products a clear path in the marketplace,” Ballmer wrote
in the memo.  During his time at Microsoft, Mundie, 63, was responsible
for the company’s early efforts in software for handheld
organizers, cars and televisions. He also developed technology
policy in areas such as privacy and security, oversaw the
Microsoft Research unit and the company’s technology policy
relationships with governments such as China and  Russia .  Rudder previously served as senior vice president for
servers and tools and oversaw Microsoft’s relationship with
software developers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  