-- India’s Stock-Index Futures Rise, Signaling Gains for Equities
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-12-24T02:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/india-s-stock-index-futures-rise-signaling-gains-for-equities.html
Indian stock-index futures rose,
signaling gains for equities.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures  for December delivery added
0.2 percent to 5,861 at 9:46 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying
S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
lost 1.2 percent to 5,847.70 on Dec. 21. The BSE India Sensitive
Index, or Sensex, fell 1.1 percent to 19,242. The gauge dropped
0.4 percent last week.  Stocks retreated last week amid concern U.S. lawmakers and
President  Barack Obama  will fail to agree on a budget deal by
year-end, thereby triggering more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts. The Sensex has risen 25 percent
this year, headed for its biggest annual jump since 2009, as
government steps to open the economy to offshore investment
lured foreign funds.  “We expect the markets to go up,” Kishor Ostwal, managing
director of CNI Research Ltd., said in a phone interview. “The
correction in the past two days has been sharp. It will give a
buying opportunity to those investors who were waiting on the
sidelines to invest. The U.S. fiscal cliff issue is likely to
remain in focus over the next few days.”  Indian (SENSEX)  markets will be closed tomorrow.  The Sensex is valued at 15.2 times estimated earnings,
compared with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 12 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Overseas funds were net  buyers  of domestic stocks on Dec.
20, taking net purchases in 2012 to $23.2 billion, the highest
among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding  China ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Net Sales  Indian mutual funds have been net sellers of stocks for
five straight months even as foreign funds have been net buyers
for six consecutive months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The steady increase in the past six months “is giving
mutual-fund investors a chance to exit,” Dhirendra Kumar, chief
executive officer at Value Research India Pvt., which has been
tracking funds for more than two decades, said in a phone
interview from  New Delhi . “Indian funds are a slave of investor
action, and the redemption pressure is showing.”  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s administration, striving to
avert a credit-rating downgrade and revive economic growth,
ended two years of policy paralysis in September by opening the
retail industry to overseas companies such as Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. and cutting fuel subsidies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  