-- India, Pakistan to Play First Cricket Series Since Mumbai Attack
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-12-24T03:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/india-pakistan-to-play-first-cricket-series-since-mumbai-attack.html
India  and  Pakistan  will embark on
their first cricket series since snapping sporting ties
following the 2008 terrorist attack on Mumbai, building on a
 peace process  that has already transformed trade relations.  Cricket is the most popular sport in both countries and
Pakistan kicks off its tour of India with a Twenty20 game in the
southern Indian city of Bangalore. The countries will play four
other matches around India over the next two weeks.  “This is the most interesting sporting rivalry in the
world,” said Boria Majumdar, a cricket historian and author.
“It is war minus the shooting. Because of the history of
partition, every match is a test of national supremacy.”  Tomorrow’s match is the latest step in recent efforts by
the nuclear-armed neighbors and rivals to restore ties that were
shattered by the guerrilla raid on India’s financial center four
years ago. Earlier this month, India and Pakistan agreed on a
new  visa regime  that will make travel between the two countries
easier, a measure meant to spur regional trade and establish
trust between the nations that have fought three wars.  Leaders of the two countries have in the past tried to use
cricket before to grease the diplomatic process. The prime
ministers of India and Pakistan watched their nations contest
last year’s semi-final of the sport’s  World Cup  in the
subcontinent.  India will give 3,000 visas to Pakistani fans and an
additional 300 permits to dignitaries for the matches, the
Indian government said in parliament this month.  Pakistan hasn’t been able to play cricket at home because
of security concerns after terrorists attacked the Sri Lanka
team bus in Lahore in 2009 with guns, grenades and rocket
launchers.  In a move aimed at normalizing economic ties, India and
Pakistan said this month businessmen from both nations can
obtain one-year, multiple-entry visas, while people over 65 will
be issued travel permits at the main border crossing point
between the two countries.  India broke off talks with its neighbor after Pakistani
militants killed 166 people in the attack on Mumbai. India says
the strike was carried out by the Lashkar-e-Taiba guerrilla
group with the support of some members of Pakistan’s security
establishment. The government in  New Delhi  has criticized
Pakistan for failing to prosecute those it holds responsible for
the carnage.  Pakistan was carved out of India in 1947 after winning
independence from the British and the two have fought two wars
over the territory of Kashmir.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  