-- Iran Ends Fuel Subsidies for Passenger Cars With 1,800cc Engines
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-12-24T12:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/iran-ends-fuel-subsidies-for-passenger-cars-with-1-800cc-engines.html
Iranians driving cars with engines of
1,800cc and bigger will stop benefiting from a rationing plan
that supplies subsidized gasoline,  Iran ’s Oil Ministry news
website reported, citing an energy official.  Iran will stop supplying fuel at a cheaper price to “all
new locally produced as well as imported passenger cars” with
engines of that size, Mohammad Royanian, head of Iran’s
transportation and fuel management office, said in today’s  Shana 
report. Iranians with cars pay 4,000 rials (33 cents) a liter
for a monthly allowance of 60 liters and 7,000 rials a liter for
larger volumes.  Royanian didn’t elaborate on the reason for the change and
said it will come into effect from the Iranian month of Bahman,
which begins on Jan. 20. Previously cars with engines as
powerful as 2,000cc were included in the rationing plan,
according to the report.  Officials of the Persian Gulf country have said it has
become self-sufficient in gasoline production since domestic use
decreased following a phase-out out of energy subsidies that
began in December 2010. Iranian officials have said their
country, which is grappling with international trade, financial
and energy sanctions over its nuclear program, aims to become a
“major” gasoline exporter.  Gasoline at a subsidized price will no longer be available
in Iran’s border area, Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi was cited as
saying in today’s Tehran-based  Resalat  newspaper. The fuel will
instead be sold at the market price to curb smuggling, Qasemi
was cited as saying.  Gasoil and gasoline smuggled from Iran was being sold at
prices as much as eight times higher in neighboring countries,
Deputy Oil Minister Alireza Zeighami said in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  