-- Iraq Kurds Halt Crude Exports, Central Government Official Says
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-12-24T14:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/iraq-kurds-halt-crude-exports-central-government-official-says.html
Iraq ’s semi-autonomous Kurdistan
Regional Government stopped oil exports two days ago, according
to an official of the central government.  “Kurdish authorities halted completely crude shipments
from fields in the Kurdish region in northern Iraq through the
Turkish terminal of Ceyhan” on the Mediterranean, Abdel Ilah
Qassem, adviser to Deputy Prime Minister for Energy Affairs
Hussain al-Shahristani, said by phone from  Baghdad  today.  Kurds, feuding with the Iraqi central government over
disputed land, crude sale revenue and energy contracts terms,
have repeatedly halted exports and plan to complete separate
export pipelines direct to Turkey in next two years, KRG Natural
Resources Minister  Ashti Hawrami  said Dec. 3. Kurdish
authorities have angered the administration in Baghdad by
signing agreements with foreign companies such as  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  Total SA (FP)  without permission.  Before the closure, crude exports from the Kurdish region
had dropped to 6,000 barrels a day from 180,000 barrels earlier
this month, Qassem said. “I don’t think that the halt to crude
exports is due to technical faults or problems because it is a
total halt,” he said without wishing to specify the reason for
the stoppage.  Iraq exports 2.6 million barrels a day of crude and will
increase this to 2.9 million next year, he said. The nation’s
average crude output is 3.2 million while oil capacity is 3.4
million barrels and will increase to more than 3.5 million in
2013, Qassem said.  Friction has intensified between the central government and
Kurdish authorities since the U.S. withdrew its last combat
troops from the country at the end of last year. Government
soldiers clashed for the first time with Kurdish forces on Nov.
16, leaving one person dead.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-biggest crude reserves,
according to  BP Plc (BP/)  statistics that include Canada’s oil sands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  