-- Jack Klugman, Sloppy Half of TV’s ‘The Odd Couple,’ Dies at 90
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-12-25T06:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/jack-klugman-sloppy-half-of-tv-s-the-odd-couple-dies-at-90.html
Jack Klugman, who played the sports-
loving, slobby-living Oscar Madison on television and stage in
“The Odd Couple” across from his close friend Tony Randall,
has died. He was 90.  Klugman, a resident of Malibu,  California , died yesterday
in Los Angeles, the  Associated Press  reported, citing his son
Adam. He had surgery for throat cancer in 1989, then worked to
rehabilitate his acting voice.  Raised in a rough Philadelphia neighborhood, Klugman
carried a no-nonsense persona into roles as an agonized juror in
the movie “12 Angry Men,” as a headstrong medical examiner in
the TV series “Quincy, M.E.” and, most famously, as half of
“ The Odd Couple ,” which ran on ABC from 1970 to 1975.  Klugman played the divorced, cigar-chomping, laundry-
tossing sports columnist who, in a moment of charity, opened his
apartment to his precise, finicky, hypochondriac photographer
friend, Felix Unger, who needs a home after being expelled by
his wife. They clashed -- over women and money, food and
furniture, habits and style -- through five seasons and 114
episodes.  Klugman said the fact that he and Randall resembled their
characters in real life helped the show succeed, as did their
training as stage actors. Many of the show’s funniest scenes
were improvised.  “Tony and I never saw the show as merely a frolic, but
rather as a portrait of friendship,” Klugman wrote in his 2005
 memoir , “Tony and Me.”  Friendship With Randall  Randall’s death in 2004, ending a 35-year friendship and
collaboration, prompted Klugman to write his book. He credited
Randall with helping him survive throat cancer in 1989 and in
making him a more open person and a better father.  For each of the five seasons of “The Odd Couple,” Klugman
and Randall both received nominations for  Emmy Awards  as best
leading actor. Klugman won in 1973 and 1971. Randall won in
1975.  The series was facing a quick demise after the first 15
episodes, all but one of which “stunk,” Klugman said.  He and Randall argued for three cameras instead of one, and
a live audience instead of a laugh track, and their public pleas
produced an outpouring of letters to the network. The effort
saved the show, although it always drew poor ratings and risked
cancellation before each of its five seasons, Klugman said.  Klugman won his first Emmy for his role in a 1964 episode
of “The Defenders.”  He also was nominated four times for Emmys for his starring
role in “ Quincy, M.E. ,” which ran on NBC from 1976 to 1983.
Klugman played the title character, a  Los Angeles  medical
examiner who did his own detective work.  ‘My Best Friend’  “Acting is my best friend,” Klugman said on CNN’s “Larry
King Live” in 2001. “It always has been. It got me out of
where I was living, got me an education. I met wonderful people,
I got respect, I got identity.”  Jacob Klugman was born April 27, 1922, in Philadelphia, the
youngest of six children. He was called “Jake” while growing
up in what he described as “a pretty tough neighborhood.”  “I was the only Jew in an all-Italian neighborhood and
spoke as if I had just left the company of Tony Soprano,” he
wrote in his memoir.  In 1945, back home after serving in the U.S. Army, Klugman
lost $3,000, his entire savings, betting on baseball. To escape
the “thugs” trying to collect on the debt, Klugman wrote, he
drove to Pittsburgh to apply for acting school at Carnegie Tech
( now Carnegie Mellon University ), figuring he could make money
as a waiter or busboy while learning to act.  Bronson as Roommate  Short of male actors due to the war, the school accepted
him. He stayed two years, then moved to  New York City  to break
into the business. There, he and his roommate -- another
struggling actor who would hit it big,  Charles Bronson  -- went
to blood banks to earn cash for food.  Klugman made his Broadway debut in “Golden Boy” (1952)
and landed roles on television shows, including “Actor’s
Studio.”  He and Randall worked together for the first time on a 1955
episode of CBS’s “Appointment With Adventure,” which
foreshadowed their later odd coupling: Randall played a
professor, Klugman a gangster. (“Gangsters were my bread and
butter for years,” he later wrote.)  Klugman played one of  Henry Fonda ’s fellow jurors in the
Sidney Lumet-directed “ 12 Angry Men ” (1957), which was
nominated for an Academy Award for best picture. Mirroring real
life, Klugman played a juror who relates to the defendant’s
upbringing in a tough neighborhood.  He received a Tony Award nomination for his role as a
theatrical agent opposite Ethel Merman in “ Gypsy ” (1959).
Klugman also appeared in four episodes of the hit TV series
“The Twilight Zone” from 1960 to 1963, tying with Burgess Meredith for the most appearances by any actor on the show.  Broadway Version  The Neil Simon comedy “ The Odd Couple ” opened on Broadway
in 1965 starring Walter Matthau and Art Carney. When Matthau
took leave to film a movie, Klugman temporarily filled the Oscar
Madison role.  Klugman reprised the role four years later in  London ,
across from Victor Spinetti. Randall, meantime, played the Felix
Unger role in summer stock across from Mickey Rooney.  Klugman and Randall finally coupled in 1970 to shoot the TV
pilot of the play. During the four-month hiatus between each
season, Klugman and Randall returned to the stage, taking “The
Odd Couple” on tour.  A longtime, repentant smoker, Klugman received radiation
treatment for the early stages of larynx cancer in the 1970s and
suffered a recurrence in 1989 that required the surgical removal
of his right vocal cord.  His inspiration for six months of intensive voice therapy
after the surgery was Randall’s idea of a one-night benefit
performance of “The Odd Couple” to support the National Actors
Theater, which Randall had founded in  New York .  ‘Most Glorious Night’  Klugman recalled that performance -- on June 23, 1991 -- as
“the most glorious night of my life.” It raised $1.2 million
for Randall’s theater.  His voice continuing to mend, he performed with Randall in
“ Three Men on a Horse ,” a 1993 production by the National
Actors Theater, and in Simon’s “ The Sunshine Boys ” in 1997.  His last play with Randall was Tom Stoppard’s “Rough
Crossing” at the Coconut Grove Playhouse in  Florida  in 1999.  Klugman’s other movies include “Days of Wine and Roses”
(1962), “Goodbye Columbus” (1969) and “Dear God” (1996).  Klugman had two sons -- Adam and David -- with actress
Brett Somers before the couple separated in 1974. Somers, known
for her role on the 1970s quiz show “Match Game,” died in
2007. Klugman and his companion of 20 years, Peggy Crosby,
married in February 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  