-- Kazakh Wealth Fund Said to Weigh Acquisition of Kazzinc Stake
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-12-24T12:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/kazakh-wealth-fund-said-to-weigh-acquisition-of-kazzinc-stake.html
Kazakhstan ’s sovereign wealth fund
is considering buying into metals producer Kazzinc after
Glencore International AG cut a planned purchase by half this
year, according to two people with knowledge of talks.  Samruk-Kazyna, as the wealth fund is known, hasn’t decided
on bidding for the remaining shares that Glencore doesn’t hold,
the people said, without giving price guidance and asking not to
be identified because the talks are private. Astana-based
Samruk-Kazyna didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment 
by phone or e-mail. Kazzinc shareholder  Verny Capital , in which 
billionaire Bulat Utemuratov is an investor, declined to comment.  The deal would give Kazakhstan ownership in the only
domestic non-ferrous metals producer fully controlled by private
investors, following its entry this year into the  BG Group Plc (BG/) 
and Eni SpA-led Karachaganak venture, which had been the only
major oil development without state participation. Samruk-Kazyna
gained assets accounting for about half of Kazakhstan’s economic
output after bailing out banks and companies hurt by a financial
crisis in 2007 to 2009.  Glencore, planning a $33 billion takeover of  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  in
 South Africa , renegotiated a deal to increase its holding in
Kazzinc in September. The Swiss trader agreed to buy 18.9
percent of Kazzinc from co-owner, Verny Capital, for $1.4
billion, raising its stake to 69.6 percent. That is less than
half the 48.7 percent it initially agreed to acquire from Verny
in April last year.  Following the close of the deal, Verny Capital held almost
2.5 percent of Glencore and got $400 million in cash, JSC Halyk
Finance  said  in October.  Utemuratov, a former senior official in the presidential
administration, has a fortune of about $1.5 billion based on his
Kazzinc, real estate and banking holdings, Forbes magazine
 estimated  in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  