-- KBC to Sell Absolut Bank to Russian Pension Asset Managers
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-12-24T15:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/kbc-to-sell-absolut-bank-to-russian-companies-for-1-3-billion.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Belgium ’s largest bank
and insurer by market value, agreed to sell Absolut Bank for 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) to a group of companies managing
the assets of  Russia ’s second-largest non-state pension fund as
part of a disposal program agreed with European regulators.  Under the agreement, KBC will receive 300 million euros as
well as repayment of all funding currently placed in Absolut
Bank of 700 million euros, the Brussels-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today. The sale, which will probably be
completed in the second quarter, will lead to a 100 million-euro
charge, while freeing up about 300 million euros in capital.  KBC has cut risk-weighted assets by at least 32 percent
since the end of 2008 as part of a disposal program agreed with
European Union regulators in exchange for approval of state aid.
Chief Executive Officer Johan Thijs has sold more than 20
entities since 2009, including the private bank and Polish
banking and insurance assets, as he focused on KBC’s most
profitable businesses.  “Any progress in the divestment program reduces the risk”
for investors, said Jan Willem Weidema, an Amsterdam-based
analyst at ABN Amro Group NV, who has a buy rating on shares.
“Any negative reaction in the stock today is probably profit
taking toward the end of the year after KBC shares soared.”  Mortgage Lenders  KBC shares fell 0.6 percent to 25.86 euros in Brussels. The
market closed at 2 p.m. today. The bank has increased 166
percent this year, making it the biggest gainer among the 46
companies on the  Stoxx 600 Banks Index (SX7P) , which is up 24 percent.  Absolut is among the 10 largest mortgage lenders in Russia
with about 3,000 employees, KBC said. It reported a profit of
1.6 billion rubles ($52.3 million) in the first 11 months of the
year, Absolut Bank CEO Nikolai Sidorov said in the statement.  “Already today the buyer has confirmed that Absolut Bank’s
brand and team will be preserved,” Nikolay Sidorov, chairman of
Absolut’s management board, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “The bank remains universal, while the bank’s
development strategy will be defined after the deal is closed.”  KBC will continue to support Absolut until the deal’s
complete, he said.  Rail Monopoly  Investors in Moscow-based Blagosostoyanie, which means
welfare and was founded in 1996, include OAO Russian Railways,
the country’s rail monopoly, and  TransCreditBank OAO (TCBN) , according
to its  website . It has 6.5 billion euros in assets and 2.9
million customers, today’s statement showed.  Olga Ocheretina, TransCreditBank’s head of press service,
declined to comment on today’s announcement by phone.  KBC earlier this year agreed to sell  Towarzystwo
Ubezpieczen i Reasekuracji Warta SA , Poland’s second-largest
insurer, and its 80 percent stake in  Kredyt Bank SA. (KRB)  It still
seeks to sell banking units in Serbia, Germany and Slovenia, and
its Antwerp Diamond Bank in Belgium.  The bank said earlier this month it will repay a remaining
3 billion euros of federal government rescue funds received
during the financial crisis at a premium of 15 percent before
year-end. It also plans to reimburse 1.17 billion euros of
Flemish state aid plus a 50 percent penalty before the end of
June. That’s at least six months before an EU deadline for
repayment expires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  