-- Kenya’s New Police Chief to Curb Terrorism, Secure Election
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-12-24T13:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/kenya-s-new-police-chief-vows-to-curb-terrorism-secure-election.html
Kenya  swore in its first inspector-
general of police, who vowed to fight terrorism and help prevent
a repeat of ethnic violence that erupted in the country after
the last general elections in 2007.  David Kimaiyo, a 32-year veteran of the force, takes over
from Mathew Iteere, the police commissioner, Kenya’s Chief
Justice Willy Mutunga said today in Nairobi, the capital.  “We shall spare no effort in our quest to restore security
in our country,” Kimaiyo said at a ceremony in Mutunga’s
office. “I promise the Kenyan people that the National Police
Service shall deal very firmly with any person attempting to
sabotage the holding of peaceful elections in Kenya.”  Kenya,  East Africa ’s largest economy, is preparing for
general elections in March, the first since a vote five years
ago in which allegations of rigging sparked two months of ethnic
clashes that left 1,100 people dead. Growth plunged to 1.5
percent in 2008 from 7 percent a year earlier, as farmers who
generate a quarter of gross domestic product left their fields
and tourists fled. The shilling weakened 8.5 percent against the
dollar and the NSE 20 equity index fell 11 percent during the 60
days of violence.  Calm returned to the country after President Mwai Kibaki
signed a peace deal with then-opposition leader  Raila Odinga .
The accord included a commitment to enact a new constitution
that came into force in August 2010, and to overhaul the police
and courts. The constitution created a National Police Service,
headed by an inspector-general, who is vetted by an independent
commission and serves a fixed four-year, single term overseeing
three units including the paramilitary wing. Previously, the
president selected the head of national police.  ‘Fig Leaf’  “The inspector-general of police is independent and takes
neither instruction nor direction from anyone, except on policy
matters and even then, only in writing,” said Mutunga, the
chief justice. “In short, the Kenyan fig leaf called ‘orders
from above’ has been shredded.”  Kimaiyo takes the helm as increased inter-clan fighting
this year in the Tana Delta between ethnic Orma livestock
herders and Pokomo crop farmers has sparked condemnation from
the U.S. and the U.K. In the latest incident, at least 39
people, including children and women, were killed in a Dec. 21
raid by Ormas on a Pokomo community near the Kenyan coast.  The  United Nations  says the groups are jostling for power
as constituency boundaries are redrawn and the introduction of a
devolved system of government creates more political seats for
people to fight over.  Islamist Militants  The country is also facing an increased threat of terrorism
after sending troops a year ago into neighboring  Somalia  to
drive out al-Qaeda-linked rebels. The Islamist al-Shabaab
militia vowed to retaliate and a string of deadly grenade and
bombing attacks that have killed dozens of people since the
incursion have highlighted the growing security risk.  Kimaiyo faces the task of improving the police’s image and
boosting morale. He pledged to increase salaries and move
officers from behind desks or at posts guarding prominent people
back to the streets. Police abuses run the gamut from arbitrary
arrest and detention, excessive use of force and reports of
 torture , most commonly beatings, as well as the unexplained
deaths of suspects in custody, according a 2011 human rights
report on the U.S. State Department’s website.  Bribery Prone  The Kenyan police force is perceived as the country’s most
bribery prone organization, with officers receiving an average
pay off of 3,557 shillings ($41.70) per incident, according to
Transparency International’s annual corruption index for 2011.  Low-paid Kenyan police experience “deplorable living and
working conditions,” harming morale and resulting in poor
service, Irene Ndungu, a consultant researcher with the
Pretoria-based Institute for  Security Studies , wrote in an
October 2011 research paper. Any changes to top management must
be accompanied by salary increases, refurbishments to police
stations, new equipment and skills training, Ndungu wrote.  Philip Alston, a UN human rights investigator, in 2009
accused Kenya’s police force of extra-judicial killings during
the 2007-08 post-election violence.  Former Kenyan police Commissioner Mohammed Hussein Ali was
one of six Kenyans investigated by the  International Criminal
Court  on charges of directing murder, rape, forcible transfer
and persecution during the clashes. Prosecutors at the ICC
gathered evidence they said showed Ali upheld orders by
politicians to ignore attacks by their sympathizers. The charges
against him were dropped after a pre-trial hearing.  There are frequent news reports of police gunning down
criminals in broad daylight, while fed up citizens lacking
confidence in the police often try to protect the community
through vigilante justice. At least 49 police officers were
killed in attacks last month in the remote northern districts of
Kenya, an area that’s been the site of banditry, smuggling and
lawlessness for decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  