-- Kenya Third-Quarter GDP Rises Amid Lower Interest Rates
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-12-24T12:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/kenya-third-quarter-gdp-rises-to-4-7-amid-lower-interest-rates.html
Kenyan  economic growth  accelerated
in the third quarter as the central bank cut  interest rates  to
support the expansion of  East Africa ’s biggest economy.  Gross domestic product rose 4.7 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a revised 3.3 percent in the previous
three-month period, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said
today in a statement e-mailed from the capital, Nairobi.  The effects of the central bank’s interest-rate cuts
“started to trickle through the economy in the third quarter,”
Peter Mutuku, head of trading at Nairobi-based Bank of Africa
Ltd., said by phone before the data was released. “The banks
didn’t react very quickly to the central-bank cuts with cheaper
lending rates and we should see the wider effects of those cuts
early next year or possibly after March elections.”  Kenya  is
scheduled to hold general elections on March 4.  Kenya’s central bank raised  borrowing costs  by a record
12.25 percentage points in 2011 to help bolster the shilling
after it fell to a record low against the dollar and to curb
price pressures following a regional drought. This year, slowing
inflation gave the central bank leeway to cut its benchmark
lending rate for the first time in 18 months on July 5, followed
by two more reductions which have lowered it to 11 percent.  Ample rainfall boosted agricultural production, which
expanded 6.9 percent in the third quarter from 1.9 percent three
months earlier, and filled hydropower dams, improving growth in
electricity to 13.7 percent from 7.4 percent. Kenya is the
world’s largest exporter of black tea.  The expansion was 2.2 percent between July and September
from 0.5 percent in the second quarter on a seasonally adjusted
basis, according to the statistics bureau.  Kenya’s shilling climbed less than 0.1 percent to 85.90 a
dollar by 1:49 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi, paring its loss
this year to 1 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  