-- Natural Gas Falls on Outlook for Warmer Weather in January
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-12-24T19:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/natural-gas-falls-on-outlook-for-warmer-weather-in-january.html
Natural gas futures declined in New
York for the third time in four days as forecasts for a warmer
start to January signaled reduced demand for heating fuels.  Gas fell 3 percent, the biggest one-day drop since Dec. 7,
as MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , predicted
above-normal temperatures for the middle third of the U.S. from
Jan. 3 through Jan. 7. Floor trading closed an hour early and
will be shut tomorrow for Christmas.  “It looks like the 11- to 15-day forecast is warming up
here a little bit,” said Tom Saal, senior vice president of
energy trading at INTL Hencorp Futures LLC in Miami. “You’ve
got to be cautious. It’s the weather and because of the
abundance of the supply.”  Natural gas for January delivery fell 10.5 cents to settle
at $3.346 per million British thermal units on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Gas is up 12 percent this year, heading for
the first annual gain since 2007. Futures volume was 47 percent
below the average of the past 100 days at 1:41 p.m.  February $2.85 puts were the most active options in
electronic trading on the Nymex. They rose 0.3 cent to 1.3 cents
on volume of 1,224 lots as of 1:41 p.m.  Gas futures extended losses after Frontier Weather Inc.
said a midday update from a government weather model was
somewhat warmer across the middle of the country for the next
six to 15 days.  Weather Outlook  The low temperature in  Detroit  on Jan. 4 may be 24 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 4 Celsius), 3 above normal, and Kansas City,
 Missouri , may be 6 above normal at 29 degrees, said AccuWeather
Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania .  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Department.  Moderating temperatures at the beginning of January may
result in below-average stockpile declines, Saal said.  Gas inventories  fell 82 billion cubic feet to 3.724
trillion during the week ended Dec. 14, below the five-year
average drop of 144 billion, department data show. Supplies were
10.2 percent  above  the historical average for the seven-day
period, up from 8 percent the previous week.  The next weekly gas storage report, scheduled for release
Dec. 28, “is going to be soft again,” given temperatures,
which may push gas prices toward $3 per million Btu, Drew Wozniak, vice president of market research at United-ICAP, a
brokerage in Jersey City, New Jersey, said in a note to clients
today. He expects the spread between the two front-month
contracts to widen again.  Futures Spread  The  discount  of January gas futures to the February
contract widened by 0.1 cent to 3.2 cents, the first increase in
three days.  Money managers decreased net-long positions, or wagers on
four U.S. natural gas contracts, to the lowest level since May,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Dec. 21
Commitments of Traders report. Net-long wagers shrank by 19,492
futures equivalents, or 21 percent, to 72,627 in the week ended
Dec. 18, CFTC data show.  The measure includes an index of four contracts adjusted to
futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas futures, Nymex Henry Hub
Swap Futures, Nymex ClearPort Henry Hub Penultimate Swaps and
the ICE Futures U.S. Henry Hub contract. Henry Hub, in Erath,
 Louisiana , is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark
price for the fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  