-- Obama Picks El-Erian to Lead Global Development Council
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-12-24T15:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/obama-picks-el-erian-to-lead-global-development-council.html
President  Barack Obama  will appoint
Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., to head the U.S. global development
council.  El-Erian, who shares the title of co-chief investment
officer of Newport Beach, California-based Pimco with  Bill
Gross , will be chairman of Obama’s global development council,
which was created earlier this year to advise the president on
ways to promote economic development and good governance in
countries all over the world, according to a Dec. 21 statement
from the White House. El-Erian, 54, will head the council as a
member of the private sector and his role at Pimco won’t change.  El-Erian, the son of an Egyptian diplomat who’s fluent in
English, French and Arabic, joined Pimco in 1999 as a senior
member of the portfolio management and investment strategy
group. He left in 2006 to serve as CEO of Harvard Management Co.
and revamp the university’s endowment before rejoining Pimco in
2007. He also worked at the  International Monetary Fund  for 15
years, and served as the IMF’s deputy director from 1995 to
1997. El-Erian received a bachelor’s and master’s degree in
economics from  Cambridge University  as well as a Ph.D. from
Oxford University.  He coined the “new normal” phrase in 2009, which
describes an era of lower returns, heightened  government
regulation , diminishing U.S. clout in the world economy and a
bigger role for developing nations. El-Erian wrote a book “When
Markets Collide” in 2008 that was a New York Times bestseller,
and regularly writes commentaries for newspapers and websites on
topics ranging from the global economy to education.  Other members appointed to the global development council
by Obama include Richard Blum, chairman of investment firm Blum
Capital Partners, and Sarah Beardsley Degnan Kambou, president
of the International Center for Research on Women.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  