-- Crude Declines a Third Day Amid U.S. Budget Talk Impasse
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-24T13:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/oil-trades-near-lowest-level-in-a-week-on-u-s-budget-concern.html
Oil slipped for a third day in
 London  because of concern that U.S. lawmakers may fail to avert
automatic spending cuts and tax increases that threaten the
economy of the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Brent crude fell as much as 0.8 percent, while futures in
 New York  traded near their lowest level in almost a week.
Republicans and Democrats probably won’t reach an agreement on a
budget deal by year-end to avoid triggering more than $600
billion in measures known as the fiscal cliff, Senator  Joseph Lieberman  said on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program.  “Commodity markets are likely to remain exposed on the
downside to the risks associated with going over the fiscal
cliff,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC in Austin,  Texas .  Brent for February settlement was at $108.30 a barrel, down
67 cents, on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at 12:58 p.m.
London time. The number of contracts changing hands was about 68
percent less than the 100-day average. The European benchmark
crude was at a premium of $19.85 a barrel to New York-traded
West Texas Intermediate, from $20.31 on Dec. 21.  Crude for February delivery was at $88.45 a barrel, down 21
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices fell $1.47 to $88.66 a barrel on Dec. 21, the
biggest decline since Dec. 6. The volume for all WTI futures
traded was about 75 percent lower than the 100-day average.  Brent-WTI Spread  Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting
Countries estimate that prices will stabilize above $100 a
barrel in 2013 and OPEC will hold an emergency meeting if they
fall below that level,  Iran ’s oil ministry said on its website
yesterday, citing Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi.  WTI has dropped 11 percent in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom
deepened the glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s largest
storage hub and the delivery point for New York futures. That
has left it at an average discount of $17.45 a barrel to Brent
this year, compared with a premium of about 7 cents in the five
years through 2010. Brent, the benchmark grade for more than
half the world’s crude, has climbed 1 percent this year.  “I would imagine the spread between Brent and WTI to
continue to diminish,” said  Gavin Wendt , a senior resource
analyst and founder of Mine Life Pty in Sydney, who forecast it
could go as low as $10 a barrel next year.  Failing to avoid the fiscal cliff would push the U.S. into
recession for the first half of 2013, according to the
nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office . President  Barack Obama 
on Dec. 21 urged leaders of both parties to put together an
interim bill to keep taxes from rising on middle-income
Americans as they work on a more comprehensive package. House
Speaker  John Boehner  failed to win support from his caucus for
his proposal that would have extended tax cuts on incomes below
$1 million.  Funds Bet  “Investors are just nervous about exposure to anything at
the present time and hence are selling things like oil,” said
Mine Life’s Wendt. “Oil is an industrial commodity and
potentially once the situation with the fiscal cliff is
resolved, we may see an increase.”  Hedge funds  boosted bullish bets on WTI by the most in more
than four months before the budget talks stalled. Money managers
raised net-long positions by 19 percent in the seven days ended
Dec. 18, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Dec. 21 Commitments of Traders report. It was the largest gain
since the week ended Aug. 7.  Resistance Levels  Oil in New York has technical resistance along its upper
Bollinger Band, around $90 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures fell on Dec. 21 after settling
above the indicator the previous day, signaling prices are
overbought. Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-
resistance levels.  In London, hedge funds and other money managers raised
bullish bets on  Brent crude  by the most in three weeks,
 according to data from ICE Futures Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 106,138 lots in
the week to Dec. 18, the London-based exchange said today in its
weekly Commitment of Traders report. The increase of 10,691
contracts, or 11.2 percent, is the biggest since Nov. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  