-- Hong Kong to Tender Six Sites for 3,000 Apartments Next Quarter
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-12-24T05:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/hong-kong-to-tender-six-sites-for-3-000-apartments-next-quarter.html
Hong Kong’s government will sell six
residential sites next quarter that can provide about 3,000
apartments, as it seeks to raise new housing supply to help cool
the world’s most expensive home market.  A commercial site and one for building a hotel will also be
put up for tender during the last quarter of the government’s
2012 to 2013 fiscal year, Development Secretary Paul Chan told
reporters today at a briefing in Hong Kong. The government plans
to provide land where more than 20,000 residential units can be
built in the current fiscal year ending March 2013, he said.  Government measures to cool the market have so far failed
to ease  home prices  in Hong Kong, which has doubled in four
years, surpassing a previous peak in 1997. Chief Executive Leung
Chun-ying has imposed extra taxes and further tightened mortgage
lending since taking over in July. Hong Kong is also the world’s
most expensive place to lease office space, according to CBRE
Group Inc., the world’s biggest commercial realtor.  Three of the sites being tendered in the next quarter will
include clauses requiring developers to build a minimum number
of apartments, Chan said. Apartments at two of the sites can
only be sold to permanent Hong Kong residents, he said.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said in its quarterly
report this month the city’s overheated property market is
increasingly disconnected from the rest of the economy and poses
“macro-financial risks,” while the International Monetary Fund
warned Dec. 12 that property is “the main source of domestic
economic risk” for Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net  