-- People Hate Losses and That Affects U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-24T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/people-hate-losses-and-that-affects-u-s-budget-talks.html
Human beings dislike losses. In
fact, they dislike losses a lot more than they like equivalent
gains.  This simple point helps to explain what kinds of economic
incentives are most likely to have an impact. It also places a
bright spotlight on an overlooked obstacle to fiscal reform.  Let’s start with some evidence. Many people have been
interested in giving teachers an economic incentive to teach
better, by telling them that if their students improve their
test scores, they will get some extra money.  Unfortunately, the record is pretty mixed; if teachers are
 promised  bonuses, students don’t seem to do a lot better.  But consider an ingenious study by Harvard economist Roland
Fryer and his colleagues, tweaking the usual way of creating
incentives. Instead of promising teachers a bonus, researchers
 gave  teachers the money in advance, and told them if their
students didn’t improve, they would have to give it back. The
result? Student math scores shot up.  Why does a threatened loss of an advance payment have such
a big effect, when teachers aren’t much influenced by the
promise of a bonus? The answer lies in one of the central
findings of behavioral economics, which goes by the unlovely
name of “loss aversion.” In short, the prospect of a loss
focuses the human mind. Even if people don’t care a whole lot
about gains, they will work hard, and possibly fight, to avoid
comparable losses.  Golf Lesson  Research shows that even professional golfers  display  loss
aversion. They do significantly better when putting to save par
than when putting to make a birdie. Indeed, neuroscientists have
 found  that loss aversion is wired into the human brain. And not
just the human brain -- monkeys  are averse  to losses, as well.  An appreciation of loss aversion offers some important
lessons for public policy. Consider recent efforts to decrease
people’s use of grocery bags. In the District of Columbia, one
approach was to offer a 5 cent bonus to customers who brought
reusable bags. It had essentially  no effect . People didn’t much
care about the bonus, so they ignored it.  Starting in 2010, the district tried another approach,
which is to impose a 5 cent tax on those who ask for a grocery
bag. Five cents isn’t a lot of money, but many people don’t want
to pay it. The new approach, enlisting loss aversion, has had a
major effect in reducing the use of grocery bags.  The general point is that if a company or a government
wants to discourage behavior, a fee is likely to have a much
bigger effect than an equivalent reward. Even small or nominal
fees can have a big impact. It follows that a subsidy, including
a tax credit, is likely to be far less effective than a tax --
and that even a pretty large economic subsidy may have a weaker
impact than a relatively smaller tax.  For the same reason that people are influenced by the
prospect of losses, they strenuously resist efforts to impose
them. If companies or governments want to change human behavior
with a new surcharge, they will get a lot more opposition than
if they enlist bonuses or discounts instead. The less effective
approach is also the more popular one.  We should now be able to see the role of loss aversion in
the current U.S. fiscal debates. Any effort to raise revenue, or
to cut programs, will impose losses. Consider, for example, tax
deductions for mortgage interest, charitable contributions,
state taxes and retirement savings. Imagine that these
deductions didn’t now exist, and the question was solemnly
asked: In the current economic environment, should we create
them in their current form?  I am not denying that the right answer might be yes, but
the whole discussion would be different from what it is today,
when many people are resisting losses from the status quo. Loss
aversion helps to entrench existing programs, making them seem
like entitlements, simply because they establish the reference
point against which losses and gains are measured.  Three Strategies  Can anything be done to overcome loss aversion? There are
three possibilities.  First, we might try to convince people that however
painful, some losses are justified.  Second, we might make loss aversion less relevant by
 bundling  two or more reforms, ensuring that those who lose in
one area gain in another.  Third, we might focus people’s attention on the question,
not whether we should eliminate or scale back a program, but
whether we would now create it in the first instance.  That question has the important advantage of ensuring that
if we keep it, we do so because it is a good idea -- and not
just because of the intense desires of those who resist losses
from the status quo.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at Harvard University, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” forthcoming in 2013. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 