-- Petroceltic Plans Oil Exploration in Greece, CEO O’Cathain Says
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-12-24T08:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/petroceltic-plans-oil-exploration-in-greece-ceo-o-cathain-says.html
Petroceltic International Plc (PCI) , an
oil and gas company with operations in Egypt and eastern Europe,
plans to explore for oil in  Greece .  The company has made an application in the country for
onshore and offshore blocks with  Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE)  and
Edison SpA, Brian O’Cathain, chief executive officer of
Petroceltic, said in a Dec. 21 telephone interview from Dublin.  “We made the application as a consortium,” Vasilis Tsaitas, an Athens-based spokesman for Hellenic, said by phone.
Each partner has equal shares, he said, adding the government is
reviewing the bids.  The onshore block is in Ipiros in the northwest of mainland
Greece and the offshore field will be in Patraikos in the west,
Tsaitas said. If the bid is successful, Hellenic will become the
operator, he said.  Petroceltic, which in August bought Melrose Resources Plc
for 165 million pounds ($267 million), plans to move to the main
board of the London Stock Exchange in May, O’Cathain said. It is
currently listed on AIM.  The company said last week it won approval from  Algeria  to
develop the Ain Tsila gas and condensate field, which is
expected to start production in 2017. It’s in talks for the sale
of an 18 percent stake, O’Cathain said, declining to identify
the potential buyers.  In Kurdistan, Petroceltic expects to start drilling at the
Shakrok field in July and at Dinarta in October or November,
O’Cathain said. The company has a 16 percent share in the
blocks. The explorer is awaiting environmental approval for its
project in Italy that may come early next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  