-- TPG-Axon Accuses SandRidge CEO Ward and Son of Impropriety
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-12-24T19:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/tpg-axon-accuses-sandridge-ceo-ward-and-son-of-impropriety-1-.html
TPG-Axon Capital Management LP,
owner of 6.7 percent of  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD) ’s outstanding
shares, requested the company’s board investigate whether Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Ward  and his son acted improperly with
regard to acquiring mineral rights.  Ward and his son, Trent Ward, acquired mineral rights from
third parties and then leased those rights to Oklahoma City-
based SandRidge “just weeks or months later” for profit, TPG-
Axon said in a letter sent to the company’s board today. Greg
Dewey, a spokesman for SandRidge, did not immediately respond to
messages seeking comment.  “It is our understanding that Mr. Ward and his son, Trent
Ward, actively compete with the company, and in addition, have
also engaged in repeated transactions in which they ‘front-run’
the company,”  Dinakar Singh , chief executive officer of TPG-
Axon, wrote in the letter.  SandRidge has disclosed several transactions with Ward in
its annual federal filing in March, including that it bought a
working interest in leases from WCT Resources LLC, which is
owned by trusts that are for the benefit of the CEO’s children.  TPG-Axon sued Sandridge and its directors today in Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington, asking a judge to stop any
interference by Sandridge and to extend the start of the 60-day
period of consent solicitation.  TPG-Axon has previously called for a shareholder vote on
replacing SandRidge’s board of directors.  Ward founded SandRidge after leaving  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK)  in 2006 and owns 5.2 percent of the company’s shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  