-- Pimco’s Gross Savors Free Lunch as Peso Bonds Beat Stocks
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-12-24T19:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/pimco-s-gross-savors-free-lunch-as-peso-bonds-beat-stocks.html
Mexican bonds are giving investors
led by Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  the best
chance to profit from the nation’s economic growth and its bid
to open the  energy industry  to private investment.  Government peso notes gained 2.8 percent this year after
adjusting for price swings, the most since 2005, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of America Corp. The
benchmark IPC index of 35 Mexican stocks posted risk-adjusted
returns of 1.7 percent in the period, while emerging-market debt
gained 2.1 percent. Mexican bonds, which have outperformed
stocks for three straight years, also beat the peso in 2012.  Foreign investors poured a record $7.36 billion into
Mexican debt securities this year to take advantage of economic
growth that is four times Brazil’s and yields that are still
triple those for U.S. Treasuries. Yields on government peso
bonds due in 2024 have fallen 1.19 percentage points to 5.48
percent this year as investors gained confidence that President
Enrique Pena Nieto, who took office Dec. 1, will push through
reforms of the country’s tax and energy policies to bolster the
expansion in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy.  “Adjusted for volatility, the truth is the bonds have been
the best asset class in  Mexico ,” said Mexico City-based Luis de la Cerda, the chief investment officer of Afore Sura, which has
about 21 percent of its 252 billion pesos ($19.5 billion) in
peso bonds and 7 percent in Mexican equities. “Looking ahead,
foreigners are not going to leave the bonds. They came to stay.”  ‘Attractive’ Bonds  In the U.S., the  Standard & Poor’s (SPX)  500 Index has delivered
larger risk-adjusted returns than 10-year Treasuries since 2009,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gross, Pimco’s co-chief investment officer, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television on Dec. 13 that Mexico’s bonds
are “attractive” because they offer higher yields than U.S.
and European debt and because the Latin American nation has
lower debt levels.  “With inflation well behaved, a strong government balance
sheet, and steady growth prospects, Mexico has exhibited a sound
macro policy mix, and has navigated well headwinds from the
developed world,”  Michael Gomez , managing director and co-head
of  emerging markets  at Pimco, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Dec. 21.  Pimco, the biggest holder of Mexican fixed-rate bonds due
in 2021, 2022 and 2024, also said the country’s debt was one of
its favorites on Oct. 3.  Foreign Investment  The firm’s holdings have helped push foreign investment in
Mexico’s $146 billion fixed-rate peso  bond market  to as high as
54 percent earlier this month, the highest proportion since
February 2000, according to regulatory filings and central bank
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexican bonds due in 2022 yield 3.66 percentage points  more
than  similar-maturity Treasuries and 4.04 percentage points more
than German bunds. Mexico’s 4.5 percent interest rate compares
with benchmarks of less than 1 percent in the U.S. and  Europe .  The  International Monetary Fund  forecast in April Mexico’s
government debt will equal 43 percent of gross domestic product
next year, versus 110 percent for the U.S., 77 percent in
 Germany , 91 percent for the euro area and 77 percent overall for
the Group of 20 nations.  Foreign investors have also been piling into Mexican fixed-
rate bonds in anticipation of Pena Nieto’s policy overhauls,
according to Alejandro Urbina, who helps oversee about $800
million of emerging-market assets at Silva Capital.  Relative Value  “There’s been a rush to invest in Mexican bonds,” Urbina
said by phone from Wilmette,  Illinois . “That’s made the curve
compress in yield terms significantly because of this large
amount of foreign interest.”  Mexico will probably grow 3.8 percent this year, versus 1
percent in  Brazil  and 2.2 percent in the U.S., according to the
median of forecasts in Bloomberg surveys.  Carlos Fritsch, a strategist and president of Prognosis
Economia Finanzas e Inversiones in Mexico City, says equities
are the best pick next year even after accounting for risk
because stocks are more economically sensitive and will provide
outsized returns as growth accelerates.  “Sell bonds and buy stocks,” Fritsch said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. It’s time to “move from defensive
positions into more cyclical and aggressive positions.”  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose one basis point to 97 basis points at 1:29 p.m.
in Mexico City. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the
issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.6 percent to 13.0098 per dollar.  Afore Sura’s de la Cerda says Mexican equities are already
expensive relative to corporate earnings.  Mexico’s IPC index soared to a record on Dec. 18, and
prices have climbed to 18.7  times  trailing earnings as of Dec.
21. That’s more than 50 percent higher than the average 12.3
times earnings for the MSCI  Emerging Markets (MXEF)  index. The IPC also
traded at 3.1 times net assets, double the valuation in
developing nations.  “The performance of the Mexican bond market has been
superior to other local investments,” Urbina said. “There are
people from outside Mexico that want a clean play on the idea of
Mexico being a good investment. This is via the Mexican
sovereign bond market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  