-- Plan to Limit Fed’s Mandate Is Folly
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-12-24T23:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/plan-to-limit-fed-s-mandate-is-folly.html
Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas
Republican, wants the Federal Reserve to be single-minded.  In 1977, Congress required the central bank to serve three
masters: It is supposed to promote stable prices, maximum
employment and moderate long-term interest rates. Brady, who
will be chairman of the Joint Economic Committee in the new
Congress, wants to eliminate those last two missions. His “Sound
Dollar Act” would make the Fed responsible for price stability,
period.  The congressman believes that the Fed’s current “dual
mandate” (that’s what Fed watchers call it, ignoring the
statute’s mention of interest rates) gives it too much
discretion. “Over the last several years, the Federal Reserve’s
actions have become unpredictable,” he said in a telephone
interview. He finds the Fed’s Dec. 12 statement -- in which it
said it wouldn’t tighten monetary policy until unemployment fell
to 6.5 percent or inflation accelerated to 2.5 percent --
“particularly troubling.”  The best thing the Fed can do to reduce unemployment in the
long run, he says, is to foster price stability. The bill has
garnered support from conservatives as their concern over the
Fed’s quantitative easing has grown.  Washington  Post columnist
George Will and the editors of the Wall Street Journal have
written in favor of the bill, and Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida
Republican, is a co-sponsor. The Stanford University monetary
economist John Taylor and St. Louis Fed President James Bullard
favor it, as well.  Serious Downsides  It seems unlikely, however, that the bill would accomplish
what its supporters want, and it comes with a serious political
downside for Republicans who embrace it.  It’s not clear, first of all, that the Fed’s current
mandate has distorted its behavior in the ways Brady thinks. The
Fed has done a much better job at fostering price stability
since it got its dual mandate than it did before then. There has
been no deflation like that of the 1930s and no inflation like
that of the 1970s. Since the 2008-2009 recession, the Fed has
often refrained from loosening monetary policy even when
unemployment forecasts have been above its target and inflation
forecasts below it. So how much has the dual mandate really
influenced its decisions?  Nor would Brady’s bill do much to reduce the Fed’s
discretion. Earlier this year, Brady applauded the central bank
for defining price stability as 2 percent annual inflation. He
says it is long-term stability that matters: If inflation comes
in below the target one year, it should rise above it the next,
to keep prices on as predictable a long-term path as possible.
But during the past few years inflation and  expectations  of
future inflation have at times fallen below 2 percent. Concern
about a sudden drop in inflation, or of outright deflation, has
partly motivated the Fed’s rounds of quantitative easing. And
making up for past below-target inflation could easily justify
letting it accelerate temporarily to 2.5 percent.  If Brady’s bill were law, in other words, the Fed could
have pursued the same basic monetary policy that has alarmed so
many conservatives. It would merely have had to describe what it
was doing a bit differently.  Supporters of the bill respond to this criticism by  noting 
that the Fed started taking unorthodox steps, such as
quantitative easing, at the same time that it began mentioning
unemployment in justifying its decisions. Thus, they say, the
dual mandate is affecting Fed policy. What they are ignoring is
something else that happened around the same time: a financial
crisis and severe recession. Inflation slowed, unemployment
soared and interest rates were so low that unorthodox moves were
the only way to loosen monetary policy. A Fed afraid of
deflation and blind to unemployment could, and probably would,
have taken the same steps.  Political Problems  The bill also has two political vulnerabilities, and each
makes the other worse. Its supporters, mostly Republicans, will
be on record as saying the unemployed are no concern of the
Fed’s -- indeed, as saying that the Fed should be banned from
doing anything to help them. All 27 Democrats on the House
Committee on Financial Services have  written a letter  raising
this issue.  The presidents of the regional Feds would also get
permanent voting status under the bill. Those presidents are
chosen by boards that include commercial banks. The rationale
for this move is that the Fed is dominated by New York and
Washington. Democrats and Tea Partiers may, however, see this
reform as a favor to bankers. Giving bankers more power while
stiffing the unemployed doesn’t seem like a good strategy for
Republicans.  Brady is right to think that clearer statutory guidance
could make monetary policy more predictable and credible. To
achieve those goals, however, he will have to go back to the
drawing board.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  