-- Treasury Yields in Tightest Range in 2 Weeks as Deadline Looms
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-12-24T19:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/treasury-futures-remain-higher-amid-u-s-fiscal-cliff-concern.html
Treasury 10-year note yields traded
in the narrowest range in two weeks as the year-end deadline
approached in a budget-deficit showdown that may push the
world’s biggest economy into recession.  Bonds slipped for the first time in four days amid
speculation President  Barack Obama  and Republicans may reach an
agreement to avert more than $600 billion in automatic tax
boosts and spending cuts set to begin in January. Treasuries
fell for three straight weeks this month as lawmakers worked to
end the stalemate. House Speaker  John Boehner  scrapped a plan
last week to allow higher tax rates on income above $1 million,
and lawmakers left  Washington  for the Christmas holiday.  “A lot of participants are trying to avoid having much to
do at the end of the year because of fiscal-cliff worries,” said
 David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in  New York  at
Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional investors.
“This seems to be an even quieter Christmas week than usual.”  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  increased one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.77 percent at 2 p.m. New York time.
They advanced earlier as much as three basis points to 1.79
percent. The price of the 1.625 percent security due in November
2022 declined 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 98
21/32, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The yields traded in a 3.05 basis-point  range , the tightest
since Dec. 10.  The 30-year bond yield was little changed at 2.94 percent
after rising one basis point earlier.  Holiday Schedule  Trading in Treasuries ended at 2 p.m. New York time and
will stay closed Dec. 25 for Christmas, according to the  website 
of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.  Treasury  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest inter-
dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , was $32 billion for the
partial day. It was the lowest for any trading day since March
2009. The average full-day volume this year is $240 billion.  U.S. government securities have returned 2.1 percent this
year on an annualized basis, set for the worst performance since
a 3.7 percent loss in 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Indexes. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares
has returned 16 percent on a similar basis, including reinvested
dividends, amid signs the  U.S. economy  is improving.  Treasuries have lost 0.2 percent this quarter and 0.6
percent in December, Merrill Lynch index data show.  The Senate will reconvene on Dec. 27 to discuss ways to
avoid the automatic austerity measures. The  Congressional Budget
Office  has said the spending reductions and tax increases may
cause a  recession  next year.  Market Driver  “The fiscal cliff is the driver of the market, and the
assumption is that something will get done,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors. “They
may get certain parts of the fiscal issue taken care of, and
then they may kick the can down the road.”  In the aftermath of Boehner’s failure to garner House
Republican support from his caucus for “Plan B,” which would
have extended tax cuts on incomes below $1 million, Senator
 Joseph Lieberman  said Senate leaders now must take charge of
resolving the budget stalemate.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, “have
the ability to put this together again and pass something,”
Lieberman, a retiring Connecticut independent, said yesterday on
 CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” program.  Odds Increase  “As we get closer to the end of the year, the odds that we
are going to go off the fiscal cliff increase,”  Adrian Miller ,
director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “No one is making any big
moves at this point. The market direction is in the hands of
policy makers.”  The world’s biggest bond dealers are growing more reluctant
to give up their record holdings of Treasuries, providing
support for a rally in the world’s most-liquid debt market that
is entering its fourth year.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the rest
of the 21 primary dealers of U.S. government securities have
reduced the amount of bonds they offered to the Fed to average
of $8.04 billion a day in the past two weeks, from the $11.6
billion in September 2011, when the central bank began its
Operation Twist stimulus program, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At the same time, Wall Street’s holdings of
Treasuries more than doubled since March.  “The market continues to be held hostage by politics and
the economic numbers aren’t that strong,” Matthew Duch, a  fund
manager  in Bethesda, Maryland, at Calvert Investments, which
oversees more than $12 billion in assets, said in a telephone
interview Dec. 20. “In this environment, where you have fewer
and fewer options, you have to align yourself with what the Fed
is doing. You can’t afford not to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  