-- Rosneft Clinches Oil Deal, $16.8 Billion Loans for TNK-BP
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-12-24T15:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/rosneft-agrees-to-five-year-oil-supply-deal-with-glencore-vitol.html
OAO Rosneft agreed on a prepaid oil
supply deal with traders  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and Vitol
Group and raised loans from global banks as the Russian crude
producer seeks funds for its $55 billion acquisition of TNK-BP.  Rosneft signed two loan agreements for $16.8 billion with
international banks to buy  BP Plc (BP/) ’s half of TNK-BP, the state-
run company said in a statement. The five-year supply deal may
be worth $50 billion with  oil prices  at $100 a barrel, according
to Alexei Kokin, a senior energy analyst at UralSib Capital.  BP and its billionaire partners in the TNK-BP venture
signed binding agreements this quarter with Rosneft for the
biggest sale ever in  Russia , ending their fractious decade-long
partnership. The deal will vault Rosneft past PetroChina Co. to
become the world’s largest publicly traded oil producer with
output of more than 4 million barrels a day, based on third-
quarter results.  “It’s not a coincidence that we’re hearing about these at
the same time,” Kokin said by phone today in Moscow. “Rosneft
is interested in trade financing and can use these contracts to
secure additional bank loans.”  Rosneft’s shares rose as much as 2.3 percent after
announcing the deals, and closed up 1.1 percent at 265.09 rubles
in Moscow, the highest since April 2011.  Oil Prepayment  Supplies to Glencore and Vitol will reach as much as 67
million metric tons of crude over five years from the start of
next year, according to a joint statement. That’s 270,000
barrels a day or about 11 percent of the its current output.  “The price formula is in line with the prices that Rosneft
receives for crude at medium-term tenders,” Rosneft Chief
Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  said in the statement.  Rosneft’s press service didn’t immediately comment on the
size of the prepayment from the oil contract and whether it will
be used to fund the TNK-BP acquistion.  The supply deal is expected to start in 2013 and may allow
Rosneft to replace crude volumes with oil products, according to
the statement. A 100 percent prepayment is unlikely, Kokin said.  BP agreed to sell its half of TNK-BP for $17.1 billion and
12.8 percent of Rosneft, while also pledging to spend $4.8
billion of the proceeds to buy more Rosneft stock from the
government. AAR, which represents the owners of the other half
of the venture, said it will get $28 billion in cash. Both deals
will close in the first half of next year.  Putin, Billionaires  Billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg , a partner in the AAR group,
said today the shareholders are considering new oil projects
after the TNK sale to Rosneft. President  Vladimir Putin  said
last week he “hoped” they would invest their proceeds in
Russia’s economy.  A group of 15 international banks is lending $4.1 billion
for five years and $12.7 billion for two years, Rosneft said.
The lenders are  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas
SA, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., Citigroup Inc., Credit
Agricole SA, ING Groep NV, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., Natixis, Nordea Bank AB,
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., Societe Generale SA and UniCredit
SpA.  Rosneft proposed a margin of 210 basis points over
benchmark rates for a five-year syndicated loan and 175 basis
points on a two-year bridge facility, two people with knowledge
of the matter said Dec. 4, asking not to be identified because
the terms are private. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  