-- Rubenstein, Greenspan, Arsht, Elle: Scene in D.C. 2012
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/rubenstein-greenspan-arsht-elle-scene-in-d-c-2012.html
Scene in D.C. encountered dogs in
black tie, rock stars mingling with crusty legislators, and
lobbyists admiring Renaissance sculpture. Here are this year’s
Scene superlatives.  Most Likely  Among those most likely to be “Scene,” the Carlyle Group
LP’s  David Rubenstein  stands out. The billionaire was a fixture
at the Kennedy Center’s marquee events and the National Book
Festival on the National Mall.  He faces competition from Washington’s renaissance woman,
Supreme Court Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , 79. In 2012, she took
in the drama at the Shakespeare Theatre Company, opera at the
Kennedy Center and Michelangelo’s David-Apollo at the National
Gallery of Art.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan , 86, hit the
dance floor with his wife, Andrea Mitchell, at fancy events and
turned up at a “Downton Abbey” cast party.  Senator Roy Blunt, Missouri Republican, and his wife,
Abigail, attended the choicest events in Washington, including
the Art in Embassies Gala last month and the White House
Correspondents’ Association weekend events earlier in the year.  Best Dressed  Chief of Protocol Capricia Penavic Marshall and arts patron
Adrienne Arsht carry the banner for Oscar de la Renta in D.C.
Arsht wore the designer to the Sondheim Award Gala in April
while Marshall donned backless de la Renta for the Ambassadors
Ball in September.  Lobbyist Heather Podesta’s sartorial choices reflect her
edgy taste in art. An Alexander McQueen and Prada devotee, she
holds her McQueen skull-logo evening bag while networking at
cocktail parties.  British Ambassador  Peter Westmacott  dresses the part of the
English gentleman with double breasted suits and beige trench
coats. The bright red socks worn for his guest appearance on
“The Colbert Report” earned him serious style cred.  Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi thinks outside the ball
gown with elegant trouser suits, like the one she wore to the
Freer Sackler anniversary gala in November and the red ensemble
she rocked at a National Gallery reception earlier this month.  Biggest Givers  Jay Johnson, the chief executive officer of  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD) , is stepping down soon, but he went out with a
bang on the D.C. philanthropy circuit. He was co-chairman of the
Meridian Ball and his company sponsored the National Symphony
Orchestra’s season. He attended the NSO’s season-opening gala.  His counterparts at  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
got behind the Kennedy Center Honors and the Phillips Collection
galas, writing big checks for these big events.  General Motors
Co. (GM) ’s Dan Akerson revealed that he gives away his salary and
donated an extra check to So Others Might Eat so it could make
its fundraising goal.  Best Surprises  From towering supermodel  Elle Macpherson  to the pint-sized
Jack Russell Uggie from “The Artist,” the White House
Correspondents’ Association had its fair share of unusual
suspects.  At another event, I got lost in the lobby of the Ronald
Reagan Building with artist  Jeff Koons  and found him to be as
funny and cheerful as his work.  Guitar god Jimmy Page, a Kennedy Center honoree along with
his bandmates from Led Zeppelin, asked to inspect my photo of
him. I happily obliged.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 