-- Russia Opens Third Probe of Putin Opponent Navalny
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-12-24T08:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/russia-opens-third-probe-of-putin-opponent-navalny.html
Russia opened a third criminal case,
the biggest so far, against Alexey Navalny, an anti-corruption
activist who helped lead protests against President  Vladimir Putin .  Investigators allege Navalny embezzled 100 million rubles
($3.25 million) from the Union of Right Forces, a pro-business
political party, according to a statement posted on the
committee’s website today.  “This is a signal to me and to anyone else who expresses
public dissatisfaction with the government,” Navalny said by
phone today, calling the accusations against him “absurd.”  In July, Navalny, 36, was charged with embezzling 16
million rubles from a state timber company in the Kirov region.
Fresh charges were announced last week against the activist and
his brother relating to a separate fraud of 55 million rubles
involving mail deliveries.  Investigators are checking whether there are grounds for
charging Navalny over the political party fraud, the
investigative committee said. A company headed by the anti-
corruption activist received 100 million rubles for advertising
services, it said.  Navalny, a lawyer who campaigns to expose fraud and waste
at state companies, faces as much as 10 years in prison in the
three cases, according to the criminal code.  “Putin seems to get pleasure from the fact that he can
decide the fate of a person,” said Navalny. “If he decides
that these cases will go to court, they will go to court.”  Putin, 60, who extended his 12-year rule in March
elections, faced unprecedented protests a year ago after tens of
thousands of people took to the streets to denounce the Russian
leader and alleged parliamentary election fraud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  