-- Samsung, EFF, Winnie the Pooh, NFL, Disney:Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/samsung-eff-winnie-the-pooh-nfl-disney-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
biggest maker of smartphones, was sent an antitrust complaint
from the European Union accusing the company of abusing its
dominant market position in legal disputes with Apple Inc.  Samsung’s use of court injunctions seeking to block Apple’s
products in relation to so-called standard-essential patents
violates antitrust rules in the 27-nation bloc, the European
Commission said Dec. 21 in an e-mailed statement.  While such injunctions can generally be challenged fairly
in court, Samsung may be violating EU rules by seeking them in
relation to essential patents when Apple has “shown itself to
be willing to negotiate,” the Brussels-based commission said in
the statement. EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia
signaled that he would send the complaint by the end of this
year.  “We are studying the statement and will firmly defend
ourselves against any misconceived allegations,” Samsung, based
in Suwon, South Korea, said in an e-mailed statement. “We will
continue to fully cooperate with the commission.”  The company is “confident that in due course the
commission will conclude that we have acted in compliance with
European Union competition laws.”  Samsung failed to deflect the EU complaint when it
announced on Dec. 18 it plans to withdraw injunctions in Europe
that seek to block sales of Apple products.  Almunia said that such a move wasn’t enough to prevent
regulators from sending a so-called statement of objections to
the company, a formal charge sheet that may precede antitrust
fines of as much as 10 percent of yearly sales.  The EU is probing whether Samsung violated agreements to
license key patents to other mobile-phone manufacturers on fair
terms.  Under phone industry agreements on standards, companies
owning the rights to essential technology must usually license
it to competitors on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms, known as FRAND.  When the disputed mobile-phone technology was adopted in
Europe as a standard, Samsung “gave a commitment that it would
license the patents which it had declared essential to the
standard on FRAND terms,” the commission said.  Samsung began seeking injunctions against Apple in courts
in EU member countries in 2011, based on alleged infringement of
patents for 3G technology, according to the Commission’s
statement.  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple in London, declined to
comment on the EU complaint against Samsung.  Samsung is withdrawing injunction requests against Apple in
Germany, U.K., France, Italy and Netherlands involving key
patents it holds for wireless communications, citing “the
interest of protecting consumer choice.” The company will
continue litigation that seeks damages in intellectual property
disputes.  Cuban, Persson Donate $500,000 to EFF to ‘Fix’ Patent System  Mark Cuban, the owner of the  Dallas Mavericks  National
Basketball Association team, and Swedish game developer  Markus
“Notche” Persson  have donated $500,000 to a digital rights
advocacy group to “fix” what Cuban says is a broken patent
system.  The San Francisco-based  Electronic Frontier Foundation  said
in a  statement  that the donations would provide “a major new
boost” to the organization’s patent work.  Cuban ’s donation funds the hiring of a new attorney
experienced in patent reform and high profile patent litigation
and a new title for EFF staff attorney Julie Samuels, “ The Mark
Cuban Chair to Eliminate Stupid Patents .”  Persson’s donation is aimed at “the systematic problem
with software patents,” according to the EFF statement. The
organization has already developed its “ Defend Innovation ”
project, which promotes what the group says are seven
improvements to the American patent system.  The Defend Innovation projects aims to shorten the term for
software patents, allowing winning parties in litigation to
recover fees and costs, and protect inventors who independently
arrive at a patented idea.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Disney Wins U.S. Appeals Court Ruling Over Pooh Trademark  Walt Disney Co., (DIS)  the world’s largest entertainment company,
won an appeals court ruling that protects its trademark rights
to the Winnie-the-Pooh characters.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office was correct to throw
out challenges to the trademark ownership filed by Stephen
Slesinger Inc., which has waged a decades-long battle with
Disney over ownership of the Pooh characters, an appeals court
in Washington said Dec. 21. Slesinger had already litigated the
issue and lost in district court, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit said in an opinion posted on its website.  A.A. Milne, who wrote the Pooh books, transferred
merchandising rights to Stephen Slesinger in 1930, and his widow
licensed the rights to Disney in 1961. The Slesinger company and
Disney have been fighting in court over royalties since at least
1991.  In 2009, a federal court ruled that Slesinger had
transferred all of its rights in the Pooh works to Burbank,
California-based Disney. The Federal Circuit on Dec. 21 said
that, based on that 2009 ruling, the trademark office was right
to bar Slesinger from seeking to cancel the Disney trademarks.  The case is Stephen Slesinger Inc. v. Disney Enterprises
Inc., 2011-1593, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  NFL’s Scouting Report Copyright Not Infringed, Court Rules  The scouting arm of the National Football League lost a
copyright case against a Washington State resident who wrote
about its annual scouting reports for a sports-oriented website.  National Football Scouting Inc. filed suit in federal court
in Tacoma, Washington, in September 2011, objecting to Rob
Rang’s use of information from its Scouting Report for stories
he wrote that were published on a blog operated by Sports X-
change. The league also accused him of trade-secret
misappropriation.  The court rejected the copyright claims. While the reports
did constitute protectable subject matter, U.S. District Judge
Robert B. Leighton said Rang’s work fell into copyright law’s
area of permitted fair use. His use of the NFL information was
sufficiently transformative, the court found.  The NFL had argued that the information Rang used
constituted the “heart” of the reports. The court found it was
a small amount of copyright and he used it as a jumping off
point to provide original commentary on the players and their
draft prospects. His stories weren’t in any meaningful sense a
“market replacement” for the NFL reports, the court said.  The NFL’s trade secrets claim wasn’t dismissed. The court
said a factual dispute exists over whether or not the NFL made
reasonable attempts to protect the secrecy of its scouting-
report information.  The case is National Football Scouting Inc. v. Rob Rang,
3:11-cv-05762-RBL, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Washington (Tacoma).  Disney Wins EU Approval to Buy ‘Star Wars’ Producer Lucasfilm  Walt Disney Co. won European Union approval to buy George Lucas’s Lucasfilm Ltd. for $4.05 billion in cash and stock,
combining two of Hollywood’s most lucrative film franchises.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, said
overlaps were “very limited” for the two companies’ activities
in home entertainment, gaming software, film production and
distribution and licensing for both broadcast rights and
merchandise, according to an e-mailed statement.  “The commission therefore concluded that the transaction
would not significantly impede effective competition” in
Europe, the Brussels-based authority said in the statement.  The deal, announced in October, will add “Star Wars” and
“Indiana Jones” to Disney’s roster of film hits including
“The Avengers” and “Finding Nemo.” The “Star Wars” films
have generated $4.54 billion in worldwide ticket sales, second
to Warner Bros.’ “Harry Potter,” according to Box Office Mojo.
“Indiana Jones” pictures have collected $1.95 billion.  The acquisition complements Disney Chief Executive Officer
Robert Iger’s focus on sequels and film franchises, fitting the
same profile as its purchase of Marvel three years ago. Disney
paid a combined $11 billion for Pixar and Marvel in the past
decade.  Lucas, 68, the sole owner of Lucasfilm, will receive half
of the purchase price in cash and the balance in stock, becoming
a major investor in the film, theme-park and TV company,
according to an Oct. 31 statement from Burbank, California-based
Disney. Lucas will receive about 40 million Disney shares,
becoming the second-largest non-institutional shareholder with
about 2.2 percent of the company, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The largest is the trust of late  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder
Steve Jobs, who sold Pixar to Disney in 2006.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Yarbrough Law Group Adds Two Practitioners to IP Practice  The  Yarbrough Law Group PC  expanded its IP practice group
with two new hires, the Dallas-based firm said in a  statement .  Victor C. Johnson and Todd W. Shadle are new to the firm.  Johnson , who joins from Boston’s Fish & Richardson PC, does
IP-related litigation involving trademarks, copyrights, anti-
counterfeiting, brand protection, trade secrets and unfair
competition.  He has an undergraduate degree from the University of New
Mexico and a law degree from Loyola University New Orleans.  Shadle  does trade-secrets and general corporate defense
work. He has an undergraduate degree from Emory University and a
law degree from Sothern Methodist University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 