-- Senate Republicans Agree With NRA, Oppose New Gun Laws
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-24T16:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/senate-republicans-back-nra-in-opposing-gun-ban.html
U.S. Senate Republicans said bans on
assault weapons and high-capacity magazines aren’t the proper
response to the Dec. 14 killing of 20 elementary school children
and six adults in Newtown, Connecticut.  “We need real solutions to a significant problem in our
country, and I’m not sure passing another law in  Washington  is
going to actually find a real solution,” Senator  John Barrasso ,
a Wyoming Republican, said on “Fox News Sunday.”  Senator Lindsey Graham , a  South Carolina  Republican, said
yesterday he opposed reinstating a ban on assault weapons. “I
don’t want to say we’re one law away from solving this
problem,” he said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” A ban “didn’t
work before and it won’t work in the future.”  Their comments came as National Rifle Association Chief
Executive Officer Wayne LaPierre, NRA President  David Keene  and
former Representative Asa Hutchinson, an Arkansas Republican
leading the gun-rights group’s efforts to improve school safety,
rejected calls for new legislation restricting guns. They
suggested instead stationing armed guards in schools, tracking
mentally ill people and addressing violent video games and other
forms of entertainment.  “This town wants to argue about  gun control ,” LaPierre
said on NBC. “I don’t think it’s what will work.”  Armed Guards  LaPierre said Congress should immediately vote to spend
money to put armed guards in schools.  “If it’s crazy to call for putting police and armed
security in our schools to protect our children, then call me
crazy,” LaPierre said on NBC. “I think the American people
think it’s crazy not to do it. It’s the one thing that would
keep people safe, and the NRA is going to try to do that.”  The Fairfax, Virginia-based NRA’s opposition will make it
harder to enact any restrictions on guns, Senator  Joe Lieberman ,
a Connecticut independent, said on CNN’s “ State of the Union .”  “It’s going to be a battle,” said Lieberman, who is
retiring. “But the president, I think, and vice president, are
really ready to lead the fight. It’s going to take the American
people getting organized, agitated and talking to their members
of Congress.”  Task Force  President  Barack Obama  has named Vice President  Joe Biden 
to head a task force to look at gun regulations, mental health
treatment, violence in society and other issues in the wake of
the Connecticut shootings. Adam Lanza, 20, used a semiautomatic
rifle to gun down the children and adults at Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown. Lanza, who also killed his mother,
Nancy, then turned the gun on himself, police said.  Obama and Democratic lawmakers, including some with top
ratings from the NRA, have called for considering bans on
military-style assault weapons and high-capacity ammunition
magazines, as well as requiring background checks for gun
purchasers, including at gun shows.  An assault weapons ban enacted in 1994 by President  Bill Clinton  and a Democratic Congress was allowed to expire 10 years
later by President  George W. Bush  and congressional Republicans.  In a Dec. 17-18 CNN/ORC International poll, 62 percent of
respondents supported a ban on military-style assault weapons
and a prohibition against high-capacity ammunition magazines.
Another 95 percent favored mandatory background checks on gun
buyers. The survey of 620 adults had a margin of error of plus
or minus 4 percentage points.  Commission Welcomed  Two Republicans appearing on Sunday talk shows, Senator
 Johnny Isakson  of  Georgia  and Representative  Tim Scott  of South
Carolina, didn’t immediately reject new gun laws.  “I’m happy for a commission to look into every aspect,”
Isakson said on ABC’s “This Week.”  Lieberman said the NRA should be willing to discuss “the
availability of guns,” which he said is a contributing factor
to violence. “I had hoped they’d come to the table and say
everything is on the table,” he said.  LaPierre said the NRA was unlikely to get involved in the
administration’s  task force .  “If it’s a panel that’s just going to be made up of a
bunch of people that, for the last 20 years, have been trying to
destroy the Second Amendment, I’m not interested in sitting on
that panel,” LaPierre said on NBC.  ‘Wrong Debate’  Keene said the NRA is turning its attention to what
officials consider better ways to keep school children safe,
such as armed guards.  “If we’re looking at things that are effective, let’s talk
about them,” Keene said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “But
first, let’s talk about protecting our kids.”  Hutchinson, a former Homeland Security Department
undersecretary, said debating gun control “is really the wrong
debate to have” since it would divert attention from making
schools more secure.  He said armed federal air marshals have improved airline
safety without turning planes into armed camps.  “Are our children less important to protect than our air
transportation?” Hutchinson said. “I don’t think so. So I
think it’s a very reasonable approach.”  Senator  Mark Warner , a Virginia Democrat, said on CBS that
the Newtown deaths highlight the need to impose some new rules.  “Simply saying existing gun laws are enough, the status
quo’s acceptable, didn’t pass my gut check as a father,” Warner
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  