-- Shearman & Sterling, Freshfields, MoFo, Cravath: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/shearman-sterling-freshfields-mofo-cravath-business-of-law.html
Shearman & Sterling LLP is
representing  General Electric Co. (GE) , the biggest maker of  jet
engines , which agreed to buy the aerospace-parts business of
Avio SpA for $4.3 billion, tightening control over its supply
chain as plane makers boost output. Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer LLP is advising Avio.  “We are extremely pleased to have represented GE on this
deal, which required us to put together a team of lawyers from
across our offices in  Europe  and the U.S., including Milan,
 Rome , London, Paris and  New York ,” Michael McGuinness, a
Shearman & Sterling New York-based mergers and acquisitions
partner said in a statement. “Supporting GE and GE Aviation in
structuring and negotiating this complex transaction required
the full use of our platform -- a platform built to support
corporates like GE in the U.S. and internationally.”  The Shearman & Sterling global mergers and acquisitions
team advising GE on the transaction was led by partners  Fabio
Fauceglia , Laurence Levy and  Michael McGuinness . Additional
partners included: Creighton Condon,  Jeremy Kutner  and  Guillaume
Isautier , mergers & Acquisitions; Don J. Lonczak, tax;  Clare
Breeze , real estate; and  Philip Urofsky , litigation.  Also advising GE were Italian counsel Gianni, Origoni,
Grippo, Cappelli & Partners’ Chiara Gianni and Italian
environmental counsel, Maschietto Maggiore’s Eva Maschietto,
Shearman & Sterling said.  Freshfields London corporate partners  Adrian Maguire  and
 David Sonter , together with Milan corporate partner  Nicola Asti 
led the team advising on the transaction.  The purchase from Cinven Ltd. and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  values
Turin-based Avio at 8.5 times estimated earnings for 2012 before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, according to GE,
which won’t be acquiring the Italian company’s space assets.  For more, click here.  MoFo Advises Pinnacle on Buying Ameristar for $900 Million  Morrison & Foerster LLP  is advising  Pinnacle Entertainment
Inc. (PNK)  on its agreement to buy  Ameristar Casinos Inc. (ASCA)  for about
$900 million, making its biggest acquisition to more than double
in size to 17 casino resorts. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP’s
represents Ameristar.  MoFo’s deal team is led by San Francisco corporate partner
Robert Townsend, co-chair of the firm’s global M&A practice.
Additional partners include San Francisco partner Eric T.
McCrath,  Washington  partners David P. Slotkin and Roxann Henry,
and New York partners Domnick Bozzetti and Peter C. Dopsch.  Gibson Dunn ’s core corporate team includes partners
Jonathan Layne and Mark Lahive. Specialists include Sean Feller,
executive compensation/employee benefits; Paul Issler, tax; and
David Kennedy, IP.  Robert Knauss of Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP represents
Lazard and  Centerview Partners , which acted as financial
advisers to Ameristar.  Latham & Watkins LLP is representing Goldman Sachs & Co. as
financial adviser to Pinnacle in the transaction with a
corporate deal team led by Los Angeles partner  Steven B. Stokdyk 
and Chicago partner Michael Pucker.  Ameristar will bring eight properties in gambling cities
including St. Charles, near  St. Louis ;  Kansas City ,  Missouri ;
Council Bluffs,  Iowa ; Black Hawk,  Colorado ; and Jackpot,  Nevada .
Pinnacle is paying about 8 times Ameristar’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, less than a
median of 11 for similar deals compiled by Bloomberg.  Pinnacle expects the deal to close by the end of the third
quarter of 2013. The Las Vegas-based gaming company said it has
obtained committed financing for the transaction from JPMorgan &
Chase Co. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   For more, click here.  Prudential Capital Raises $1.15 Billion for Mezzanine Offering  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP advised Prudential Capital
Partners, the middle-market mezzanine fund business of the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, which has exceeded the
$1 billion goal for its latest fund that will provide financing
to mid-sized companies.  The Debevoise team was led by partner Erica Berthou and
included partner Adele M. Karig.  Prudential Capital IV LP, which will invest primarily in
North American companies, raised $1.15 billion, the Chicago-
based unit said Dec. 21 in a statement.  Prudential Capital’s fourth fund will deploy $10 million to
$100 million per deal, investing as part of acquisitions,
recapitalizations and growth financings. The firm expects to
make investments over the next three to five years.  The mezzanine unit is part of Prudential Capital Group, the
private fixed-income investment business of  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU) , which manages a portfolio of more than $65 billion as of
Sept. 30.  For more, click here.  Moves  Corporate Partner Joins Sheppard Mullin in Orange County  Megan N. Gess joined Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP
as a partner in the firm’s corporate practice group, in the
Orange County, California, office. Gess joins from  O’Melveny &
Myers LLP  in  Newport Beach , the firm said.  Gess represents public and private clients in mergers and
acquisitions, dispositions, public offerings and private
placements. She also counsels clients on securities law
reporting and compliance, corporate governance and general
contract matters.  Sheppard Mullin has 60 attorneys based in its Orange County
office. The firm’s corporate practice group includes 150
attorneys firmwide. The firm has more than 600 attorneys in 16
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Lowenstein Adds Specialty Finance Partner from McDermott  Lowenstein Sandler PC hired  Seth T. Goldsamt  as a partner
in its specialty finance practice in the firm’s New York office.
He was previously at McDermott Will & Emery LLP, where he was a
partner, the firm said.  Goldsamt focuses his practice on public and private
securities offerings as well as private equity and mergers and
acquisitions. He has served as lead counsel in international
corporate transactions, including public and private mergers and
acquisitions, equity bridges, and venture capital investments.  Lowenstein Sandler has about 270 attorneys at three U.S.
offices.  Litigation  IBM Judge Refuses to Rubber Stamp SEC Foreign Bribery Deal  A federal judge said he won’t “rubber stamp” the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s settlement of foreign
bribery allegations brought last year against  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   U.S. District Judge Richard Leon, during a hearing Dec. 20
in Washington, criticized the SEC and IBM for opposing his
proposed reporting requirements for the company. He said IBM and
the SEC need to prove statistically that his disclosure
obligations are too burdensome.  “I’m not just going to roll over like the SEC has,” Leon
told IBM’s lawyer, Peter Barbur, of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP,
during the 25-minute hearing. “You’re going to need data to
satisfy me.”  Leon, who has had the case under review for 22 months,
wants reporting on a broader range of possible wrongdoing than
the company is willing to turn over. There is a growing
awareness among federal judges of the need for more rigorous
review of corporate settlement agreements, he said.  Leon, who spoke loudly and angrily, asked why the regulator
would agree to limit such requirements for a company with a
history of books-and-records violations. He threatened to hold
Barbur in contempt for talking over him.  Barbur didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
hearing.  IBM and the SEC submitted a “reasonable resolution” and
“both parties continue to urge the court to approve the
settlement,” Robert Weber, IBM’s general counsel, said in an
e-mailed statement. “The parties have previously told the court
that they are opposed to certain reporting provisions that are
unrelated to the allegations in the complaint.”  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, said in March 2011 that it
had settled with U.S. regulators over allegations that it bribed
Chinese and South Korean officials to win at least $54 million
in government contracts.  The company, without admitting or denying wrongdoing,
agreed in 2011 to pay $10 million in disgorgement and penalties
to settle alleged violations of the books-and-records and
internal-control provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act.  The judge scheduled a hearing for Feb. 4.  The case is SEC v. International Business Machines Corp.,
11-cv-00563, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Fees  Lehman’s Year-End Fees, Filings Match Up With Biggest Bankruptcy  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which aims to pay creditors
$65 billion by 2016 or so, enters the New Year with statistics
to match the biggest-ever bankruptcy it filed more than four
years ago.  The defunct investment bank added 10,000 filings to its
court docket in 2012, bringing the total toward 33,000, as it
slashed 67,000 payment demands for $1.2 trillion by almost 70
percent to $370 billion. It paid advisers $600 million in its
last year of bankruptcy, or a total of $1.8 billion since 2008.  By contrast,  Bernard Madoff ’s brokerage, which also
collapsed in 2008, counts 5,162 filings and 16,519 claims for
$17.3 billion of lost principal; its advisers took $646 million.
AMR Corp., the American Airlines parent that filed for
bankruptcy a year ago, has more than 5,800 filings and accrues
professional fees of about $15 million to $20 million a month.  “The Lehman case is and was the most unique and different
bankruptcy/restructuring case to emerge since the inception of a
bankruptcy law in the U.S.,” said  Harvey Miller , the Weil
Gotshal & Manges LLP partner who has been Lehman’s lead lawyer
since the bankruptcy. “It was the case of a lifetime, both
frustrating and gratifying, sometimes almost concurrently.”  Lehman’s fee bills are “not excessive,” Miller said,
considering the “almost miraculous result” of the case, which
ended with Lehman winning creditors’ backing for its liquidation
plan.  The U.S. Trustee who supervises bankruptcies for the
 Justice Department , Tracy Hope Davis, has objected to the Lehman
fee bonanza. Using Gleacher & Co. as an adviser for months
without officially hiring the firm, Lehman ran up fees that were
“not reasonable,” Davis said. She criticized creditors such as
Goldman Sachs, who fought Lehman to improve their own payout,
then asked the bankrupt estate to pay their lawyers.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 