-- Siemens, Korea Electric May List Nigeria Units, Oteh Says
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2012-12-24T12:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/siemens-korea-electric-may-list-units-in-nigeria-oteh-says.html
Nigeria’s sold-off state power
companies may be required to list on the nation’s stock exchange
within five years, the head of the market regulator said, as the
bourse targets a $1 trillion market value by 2016.  The government approved bids this year by companies
including  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP)  and
 Transnational Corp. (TRANSCOR)  to buy stakes in utilities as  Africa ’s
biggest oil producer seeks private investment to curb power cuts
which are a daily occurrence. Requiring the companies to list
shares would make the exchange more representative of the
country’s economy, Securities and Exchange Commission Director
General Arunma Oteh said in a Dec. 21 interview in her office in
the capital, Abuja.  Only about 17 percent of Nigeria’s economy is reflected on
the market, according to Oteh. The Nigerian Stock Exchange, sub-
Saharan Africa’s second largest bourse, has attempted to
encourage listings and bring bigger trading volumes by
introducing short selling, market making and  securities lending 
this year. The bourse has a current value of $54.6 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Within a five year period these companies will be
expected to list,” said Oteh, citing discussions with the
Bureau of Public Enterprises, which is responsible for the
privatization process. “We cannot make the mistake that we made
with telecoms” which were granted cellular licenses in 2001 and
weren’t required to list their shares, she said.  MTN, Shell  None of the main four telecommunications companies,
including Africa’s largest operator  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , are listed
on the Nigerian exchange. Oteh said she wasn’t looking to have
listing made compulsory for them now.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s local unit, which is the West
African country’s biggest private oil company, isn’t represented
on the market either. Oteh said it makes “good business sense”
to be on the bourse.  “They need to invest and invest aggressively, so I don’t
even agree that there’s sufficient  cash flow  that they need
financing, but more importantly people can have empathy for
these companies,” she said. “We’ve had vandalization of
pipelines, we’ve had base stations being blown up. If people in
those neighborhoods had even one or two shares in these
companies they would protect these base stations or pipelines
like hawks.”  Oil Theft  Oil theft and spills are common in Nigeria, where Shell
said last month it removed 135 illegal connections from its
pipelines in the first 10 months of the year. The country loses
150,000 barrels a day from theft, Shell Chief Financial Officer
Simon Henry said last month.  Telephone companies, including MTN,  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and
 Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  have had offices and
transmission towers bombed and attacked since September in the
country’s mostly Muslim north where the government is fighting
an Islamist militant group Boko Haram.  The SEC will probably approve rules for Islamic-compliant
Sukuk bonds in the first quarter of next year, with a number of
Nigerian states including south-western Osun waiting to issue
debt, Oteh said.  While states have been selling conventional bonds to
finance projects such as infrastructure development, roughly
half of Nigeria’s 160 million population are Muslim and so
unable to participate, Oteh said.  “For me it’s a financial inclusion issue, you have a very
high population of Muslims in  Nigeria  and it will just ensure we
comply with some of their religious requirements,” she said.  Bond Sales  Lagos state, home to Nigeria’s commercial capital and
largest city, issued its biggest bond of 80 billion naira ($509
million) in November at a coupon price of 14.5 percent. Rivers
state, in the oil-producing south, may sell a 100 billion-naira
bond next year to fund its  budget deficit ,  Standard & Poor’s 
said Dec. 19.  Three trading groups either have or are about receiving SEC
approval to start retail bonds trading next year, to give the
general public access to fixed income securities now dominated
by institutional buyers, according to Oteh. These are the Lagos
bourse, the Financial Market Dealers Association, which groups
banks, and the National Association of Security Dealers.  “What we want is that most trading, including over-the-
counter, is within our purview,” she said. “We’re very excited
because it certainly brings more transparency to the market, it
brings more depth.”  Options, Futures  The introduction of the  NASDAQ OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  trading
platform to the  Nigerian Stock Exchange  will probably take all
of 2013 to become functional, Oteh said. English-speaking West
African countries led by Ghana are pushing Nigeria to make the
platform a common regional market, she said, with
representatives of the countries exchanges and regulators
meeting in Nigeria to discuss the idea.  “It’s large enough of a platform and in West Africa there
is a move toward integration of the markets and it’s not being
driven by Nigeria its being driven by the other smaller
markets,” she said. “Nigeria’s market is big, so the
opportunities for cross listing for companies from West Africa
to list on the NSE and vice versa is very, very important.”  The Nasdaq platform, which was signed in April, will allow
the bourse to have options in 2014 and futures in 2015 to help
deepen the market, said Oteh.  A restarting of the Abuja Securities & Commodities Exchange
may be ready within 12 months, Oteh said.  “We’re prepared to give licenses to other people and we’ve
had three companies approach us,” she said. “If you don’t have
a commodities exchange you will not be able to leverage
subsistence small-holder farmers” and provide consistency in
pricing and quality, she said. terms of trying to aggregate,
standardize, ensure that the quality is what it should be.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  