-- Singapore’s Inflation Rate Eased to Two-Year Low in November
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-12-24T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/singapore-s-inflation-rate-eased-to-two-year-low-in-november.html
Singapore’s inflation slowed to a
two-year low in November as gains in housing and transportation 
costs eased.  The  consumer price index  rose 3.6 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 4 percent in October, the Department of
Statistics said in a statement today. The median estimate of 15
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 3.8 percent
increase. The November core inflation rate was 2 percent.  The Southeast Asian nation tightened monetary policy in
2012 while neighbors from  Thailand  to the  Philippines  cut
interest rates, spurring gains in the currency even as the
government predicts gross domestic product will rise at the
slowest pace in three years. The Monetary Authority of Singapore
forecasts inflation will average more than 4.5 percent this year
and will be in a 3.5 percent-to-4.5 percent range in 2013.  “We expect goods price inflation to remain benign,
including food prices,” Joey Chew, a Singapore-based regional
economist at Barclays Plc, said before the report. While price
gains are expected to slow next year, “given MAS’s bias to
stabilize inflation and manage inflation expectations, the bar
for loosening policy is higher than it is for tightening.”  The island’s economy may expand about 1.5 percent this year,
at the lower end of the government’s previous forecast, as
faltering demand for goods weighs on its economy, the Trade
Ministry said last month.  “Given continued weakness in the global economy, imported
inflation will be generally benign,” the Trade Ministry and the
central bank said in a statement today. “Meanwhile, the
persistent tightness in the labor market will support wage
increases in 2013, some of which will continue to be passed
through to consumer prices.”  The Singapore dollar has risen more than 5.5 percent in the
past 12 months, the second-best performer among 11 Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices  rose 0.1 percent last month from October,
today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  