-- Sky Gardens Add Drama to $750 Million Park Avenue Tower
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/sky-gardens-add-drama-to-750-million-park-avenue-tower.html
The  office tower  proposed for 425
Park Avenue by the London architecture firm Foster & Partners
injects some desperately needed life into the Manhattan
commercial high-rise.  The $750 million design features diagonal sinews of steel
that suspend blocks of glass-clad floors above two lushly
gardened terraces.  Skyscrapers were once the crucible of U.S. architectural
and engineering innovation. Nowadays you find towers with urbane
forms and innovative engineering in support of evolving work
processes mainly in Europe and  Asia .  New York tenants wonder why they pay so much for dreary
boxes intended for idea-killing cube farms.  The Park Avenue tower rises from a monumental covered plaza
to two setbacks, where the 42-foot-high garden levels expose
those massive, dramatic building supports. The top two floors of
the tower, tentatively planned to rise 49 stories, form a glass-
roofed garden. Elevator shafts morph into glowing blades that
slice the sky above the roof.  Gardens in skyscrapers aren’t just a romantic idea, they
are a reflection of the evolving nature of work, according to
David Levinson, chairman and CEO of L&L Holding Co. L&L has
partnered with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Airy Gardens  “People need to work together and collaborate
differently,” he said.  The airy garden floors -- each with bars, lounges and a
rentable mezzanine suspended within -- will host formal meetings
and informal gatherings where people can hone new ideas and
relationships. Planted outdoor terraces will offer views through
nearby skyscrapers.  Levinson, who met me in L&L’s light-filled midtown offices
wearing a villain’s beard and impeccable blue shirt, wants to
attract  hedge funds  and other financial firms comfortable with
floors as large as 29,600 square feet or as small as 13,250
square feet.  Foster & Partners offers up the bespoke-suit version of the
raw industrial loft that appeals to designers and software
geeks. Levinson is after tenants who must collaborate in
extraordinarily intense ways, he said.  “It’s about how to beat the competition and pursue the
deal.”  Ceilings are a foot or two higher than the 9-foot standard.
Daylight slants farther into the core through high glass walls,
a spaciousness that’s crucial as companies abandon enclosed
offices in favor of meeting rooms and dense, trading-floor
hubbub.  New Zoning  The largest, lower floors reach a spectacular 22 feet in
height, thanks to a zoning quirk that rewards the developers for
encasing alternate floors of the obsolete 1957 building that
today occupies the site.  425 Park reveals potential pitfalls in the new zoning
proposed by  New York  City’s Department of City Planning. The
plan intends to keep Midtown competitive by promoting larger and
more innovative buildings in the blocks extending north and east
of Grand Central Terminal.  Buildings could be as much as twice as large as the base
zoning permitted today if they offer distinctive, publicly
amenable architecture. 425 Park is certainly distinctive. It
engages the zoning’s aspiration to make more room for
pedestrians with a 50-foot-high covered entry plaza, but I fear
the space will appeal only on summer’s most searing days.  Because of its unusually lofty ceilings, 425 Park will loom
much higher over Park Avenue than an older building of the same
square footage.  The wide boulevard can handle the behemoth scale, but it
will plunge the mid-block deeper into shadow. And that includes
some lower, beefier older buildings of high architectural value.  What Matters  Levinson’s tower can’t take advantage of the planned zoning
because of its 2015 completion, but a qualifying building on its
site could rise almost as high as the Chrysler building,
according to my calculations.  If they are relatively slim, as 425 Park is, and they are
limited in number (as the zoning intends), very tall buildings
needn’t wreck the scale of the streetscape. However, the street
is not all that matters.  Midtown needs more light and fresh air, not less.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on
 movies .  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 