-- South Korea to Buy $1.2 Billion in Drones Under U.S. Plan
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-12-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/south-korea-to-buy-1-2-billion-in-drones-under-u-s-plan.html
The U.S. Defense Department proposed
selling  South Korea  four Global Hawk surveillance drones made by
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  in an order valued at $1.2 billion.  The Pentagon’s Defense Security Cooperation Agency said
yesterday that it notified Congress of the proposed sale, which
includes infrared and electro-optical sensors, imagery analysis
systems and moving target indicators on board the Global Hawk
Block-30 unmanned aircraft.  The proposed sale would be the first order in the Asia-
Pacific region for the high-altitude surveillance drones that
have been used by the U.S. Air Force in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Australia, which has expressed an interest in buying the
aircraft since 2008, has yet to place an order.  Wes Bush, chairman and chief executive officer of  Falls
Church , Virginia-based Northrop Grumman, has been advocating
easing U.S. export restrictions to enable foreign sales of the
drones. Earlier this year, the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization  agreed to buy  five Global Hawk drones.  The Pentagon has proposed canceling the Block-30 version of
the Global Hawk drone. Its fiscal 2013 budget proposal called
for truncating purchases of the drone and putting those it had
already bought into storage to save $2.5 billion over five
years. The Pentagon sought to continue buying the more advanced
Block-40 model instead.  Congress Intervenes  Congress disagreed with that plan, and the final version of
this year’s defense authorization bill, approved this month,
would block the Air Force from retiring the Block-30 drones at
least until the end of 2014.  In January, General Norton Schwartz, who was at the time
the  Air Force  chief of staff, said the Block-30 version wasn’t
as capable as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s older, manned U-2 spy
plane.  Separately, the Pentagon yesterday proposed selling 117 of
 Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s AIM-9X Sidewinder missiles to Turkey valued at
about $140 million; $125 million of satellite ground stations
made by  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)  and 3Di Technologies,
to Iraq; and $406 million of artillery rockets made by Lockheed
Martin to Qatar.  The notifications are the first step in the potential
purchases. The requests become firm orders if they aren’t
challenged by Congress and the countries sign contracts with the
Pentagon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  