-- Wheat Rises as Cold Wave in Russia May Cause Winter-Grain Damage
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-24T14:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/soybeans-rise-a-second-day-on-tight-supply-before-brazil-s-crop.html
Wheat futures rose for a second day
in Chicago as freezing temperatures may have damaged some winter
grain in  Russia  and on speculation three weeks of declines have
made U.S. supplies more competitive.  Temperatures dropped to minus 25.8 degrees Celsius (-14.4
Fahrenheit) in the city of Samara in the Volga region overnight,
 data  from the U.K. Met Office show. Russia’s black earth region
and the lower Volga region had light and spotty snow cover,
threatening winter kill in areas with little protective snow
layer, Telvent DTN wrote today.  “In Russia, the extremely cold temperatures could have
caused some frost damage in the regions with a lack of snow
cover, such as those in the south of the country,” Paris-based
farm adviser Agritel wrote in a market comment.  Wheat for March delivery advanced as much as 0.5 percent to
$7.9625 a bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, and was at
$7.945 at 2:42 p.m. Paris time. Milling wheat traded on NYSE
Liffe in the French capital for delivery the same month rose 0.4
percent to close at 254.50 euros ($336.47) a metric ton.  The Volga region accounts for about 26 percent of Russia’s
wheat production, while the Southern District region grows about
28 percent of the country’s crop, U.S. Department of Agriculture
 data  show.  Chicago wheat futures fell 2.7 percent last week and have
slumped 8.1 percent this month, on track for the biggest monthly
slide since September 2011. Wheat in Chicago has still gained 22
percent this year, the best performance on the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Index of 24 commodities this year, as drought in Russia and
 Ukraine  reduced export supplies.  U.S. Wheat  “U.S. wheat prices are extremely competitive and
increasing export sales activity is likely to develop and
buying interest is likely to shift to the U.S.,” wrote Duane Lowry, publisher of Early Market News in Maynard,  Iowa .  Soybeans rose 0.2 percent to $14.3175 a bushel. The oilseed
lost 4.2 percent last week, the first drop in five.  “It is difficult to build conviction and interest during
the last trading week of the year,” Lowry said. “All markets
are poised for full recovery of recent declines during the next
several weeks, but speed of recovery is in question.’  CBOT grain-futures trading will end at noon local time
today ahead of the  Christmas holiday  and remain closed tomorrow.
Derivatives trading on NYSE Liffe halted early today and markets
will remain closed on Dec. 25 and 26 before trading resumes on
Dec. 27.  Corn for March delivery increased 0.5 percent to $7.0525 a
bushel, set for a 6.3 percent drop this month, which would be a
fifth consecutive loss. Corn, which surged to a record in
August, has advanced 9.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  