-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Climb as Fiscal Cliff Deadline Looms
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-24T16:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-hold-as-fiscal-cliff-deadline-looms.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for a second day as the year-end deadline approached
with no progress on a deal to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, gained 0.7
basis point to a mid-price of 93.5 basis points at 11:55 a.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The index rose the most in more than a month on Dec. 21 as
House Speaker  John Boehner  dropped a plan to allow higher tax
rates on annual income above $1 million. Senator  Joseph Lieberman , the retiring  Connecticut  independent, said yesterday
on  CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” program he feels “it’s more
likely that we will go off the cliff.” The lack of a resolution
on a deal is increasing concern that failure to do so will slow
the economy and hinder companies’ ability to repay debt.  “The politicians always play this 11th-and-a-half-hour
game; hopefully they realize they can’t play that too much
anymore,” Adrian Helfert, a Boulder, Colorado-based senior vice
president at Smith Breeden Associates who helps oversee $6.5
billion, said in a telephone interview. “It’s highly likely
that something gets done. It’s a matter of how much volatility
we have to go through to get there.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt declined 2
basis points to 5.12 percentage points, led by spreads on the
bonds of industrial companies, which narrowed 6 basis points to
5.32 percentage points. The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North
America High Yield Index advanced 2.8 basis points to 475.5
basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommends trading in dollar-denominated fixed-income securities
ends at 2 p.m. New York time today and a full-market close Dec.
25, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  