-- U.S. Northeast May Start 2013 Colder Than Normal, Rogers Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-12-24T13:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/u-s-northeast-may-start-2013-colder-than-normal-rogers-says.html
The U.S. Northeast and mid-Atlantic
states will start January with below-normal temperatures, said
 Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Temperatures will be 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 2.8
Celsius) lower than the norm from the Rocky Mountains to the
East Coast from Dec. 29 to Jan. 2, Rogers said. The colder air
will be concentrated in the East from the Canadian Maritimes to
 North Carolina  from Jan. 3 to Jan. 7, he said.  “We continue to see a cold-prevailing variable pattern
dominating the next two weeks,” Rogers, who’s based in
Bethesda,  Maryland , wrote today in a note to clients. “The
biggest challenge continues to be managing a cavalcade of storm
systems that affect temperature forecast details.”  Energy traders look to long-range forecasts to gauge
potential fuel use. Below-normal temperatures in the large
cities of the Midwest and Northeast may increase demand for
energy to warm homes and businesses, pushing up natural gas and
heating oil prices.  Rogers said snow from a series of storms expected to cross
the U.S. in the next two weeks may influence how cold it gets.  “These storms also start laying down more extensive snow
pack that could add some colder feedback mechanisms, especially
in the Midwest, and by this weekend or next week, in the East
too,” Rogers wrote.  In  New York , the normal average temperature for Dec. 25 is
about 36 degrees, according to MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. It’s 32 in  Boston ; 25 in Chicago; 32 in
St. Louis; 53 in Houston; 19 in Calgary, Alberta; 35 in Seattle;
and 49 in Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  