-- UBS Gets Loan While Connecticut Economy Falters: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/ubs-gets-loan-while-connecticut-economy-falters-muni-credit.html
Last year,  UBS AG (UBSN)  began exploring
moving back to  Manhattan  from Stamford,  Connecticut , where more
than a decade ago the Zurich-based bank had consolidated U.S.
operations and moved thousands of employees.  Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy, the former mayor of
Stamford, persuaded UBS to stay by giving it a $20 million loan
that won’t have to be repaid if the bank keeps at least 2,000
workers in Stamford until 2017. The deal represents the dilemma
facing the Democratic governor, who in his first two years in
office gave companies a record amount of tax incentives, only to
see the economy stall and the state budget fall into deficit.  “Connecticut doesn’t seem to be yet fully on top of what
the competitive world looks like,” said Fred Carstensen,
director of the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis at the
 University of Connecticut  in Storrs. “Financial services is
like manufacturing. It’s not a sector that’s going to be a job
creator.”  Connecticut, shaken by a mass shooting Dec. 14 that left 28
dead, faced a  budget deficit  even as it is among 25 states where
 tax revenue  has either matched previous peaks or will do so by
this fiscal year.  Deficit Challenge  Overspending on health care has contributed to a $365
million gap in its $20 billion spending plan less than halfway
through the fiscal year that began July 1.  Malloy, 57, and the Democratic-controlled state
Legislature, which last year passed the biggest tax increase in
Connecticut history, on Dec. 19 agreed to use mostly spending
cuts to close the gap. The largest reductions are aimed at those
without health insurance and the Medicaid program for the poor.  The state economy that has one of the nation’s highest
jobless rates, at  8.8 percent  in November, compared with the 7.7
percent U.S. average. It had 87,000 fewer jobs last month
compared with  the peak  in 2008 after the 18-month recession
began. According to the state Labor Department, among the
weakest areas has been  finance , which includes banks and
insurers. The industry lost 3,000 jobs in the last year, even
with the governor’s efforts.  “We’re struggling to come out of this one,” said Kevin
Lembo, Connecticut’s comptroller, who said in a  report  this
month that the deficit might be even larger, at $415 million.
“The volatility of the situation would argue that the worst is
not over yet.”  Bond Reward  Even with the budget challenge, investors are rewarding the
state with lower relative borrowing costs.  The state on Dec. 12 sold tax-exempt bonds repaid with gas
taxes. A 10-year portion priced to yield 1.82 percent, or 0.36
percentage point above benchmark munis, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That spread is down from 0.42 percentage point
when Connecticut last sold similar debt on Dec. 1, 2011.  While Hartford, the state capital, has long suffered
through a decline from its status as the insurance capital of
the world, Fairfield County bordering  New York  to the south has
emerged over the last two decades as a center for  hedge funds .  Financiers such as  Paul Tudor Jones  and  Steven A. Cohen  set
up shop in wealthy enclaves such as Greenwich. Residents in the
county, many of whom commute to  Wall Street , account for more
than half the state’s income-tax revenue.  Fueling Fairfield  Swiss Bank Corp. helped fuel the county’s emergence in
1994, when it agreed to move its U.S. headquarters to Stamford
in exchange for $120 million of tax incentives. It built the
world’s largest trading floor -- the size of two football fields
-- downtown next to Interstate 95. The bank agreed to merge with
UBS in 1997 and other financial services companies  followed  it
to the city, including the Royal Bank of  Scotland ’s Greenwich
Capital unit.  As financial institutions have been cutting back globally,
losing more than 300,000 jobs since the beginning of last year,
Connecticut hasn’t been spared.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  said in a
filing to the state labor department in June it was letting go
about 150 workers in the state. The same month, ESL Investments
Inc., the hedge fund run by  Edward Lampert , said it was
relocating to Miami from Greenwich.  “The proximity to New York and the reliance on the
financial industry for high-paying jobs is something that needs
to be watched,” said Michael Pietronico, who manages $860
million of municipal securities as chief executive officer of
Miller Tabak Asset Management in New York. “The hedge-fund
community continues to be a vital part of their tax base.”  UBS Workers  UBS had more than 3,000 workers in Stamford when the global
credit crisis peaked in 2008 and had expanded outside of its
headquarters into offices that the bank has either since left or
put on the market seeking to sublet, according to Steven
Greenbush, a broker at CBRE in  Stamford .  The bank in October said it would cut 10,000 people around
the world, about 15 percent of its staff, as it seeks to reduce
expenses by $3.6 billion. It declines to say how many will lose
their jobs or be relocated from Connecticut.  “UBS intends to honor its 2,000-person threshold contained
by our agreement with the state of Connecticut, which is far
below our present employee and contractor levels statewide,”
Megan Stinson, a spokesman for UBS in New York, said by e-mail.  State Incentives  Malloy in his 2010 campaign for governor said he helped
create thousands of jobs in his 14 years as Stamford mayor.
Since he took office at the beginning of last year, the state
has almost doubled business incentives compared with the prior
eight years, giving out more than $800 million of tax credits,
loans and grants to 365 companies in exchange for promises to
create or retain almost 32,000 jobs.  “These are focused investments in growth industries,”
said Andrew Doba, a spokesman for Malloy. “We’re confident it
will achieve a good net return on investment.”  In the largest  deal  to date, the state last year gave $291
million to Bar Harbor, Maine-based Jackson Laboratory to expand
in Farmington. In August, Malloy announced that Bridgewater
Associates, the hedge fund that paid its founder Raymond Dalio
$3.9 billion last year, would get more than $100 million of tax
incentives and forgivable loans to move to Stamford from
Westport, Connecticut, and build a $750 million headquarters.  The effectiveness of the deals may become a political issue
if Malloy runs for re-election in two years.  Election Ahead  Ben Zimmer, executive director of the Connecticut Policy
Institute, called the incentives a “straight-up redistribution
of income from middle-class people to politically connected
corporations.”  The institute was founded by  Tom Foley , the Republican who
lost the election for governor in 2010 and has been telling
reporters he will run again.  “Connecticut has been a poorly run state for a long time,
and that includes Republican governors and Democratic
Legislatures,” Zimmer said. “What he’s done is to largely
continue that.”  In muni trading last week, yields on 10-year benchmark tax-
exempts reached  1.81 percent , the highest since August, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The  interest rate  touched 1.4
percent Dec. 6, the lowest for a Bloomberg Valuation index that
began in January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 