-- Vietnam Grows at Slowest Pace Since ’99 on Credit Slump: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-25T05:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/vietnam-economy-grows-5-03-this-year-slowest-pace-since-1999.html
Vietnam ’s economy expanded at the
slowest pace in 13 years in 2012 as a slump in bank lending
damped domestic demand, adding pressure on the government to
revamp the financial system and attract more foreign investment.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.03 percent this year, down
from 5.89 percent in 2011 and the least since 4.77 percent in
1999, the General Statistics Office said in Hanoi yesterday. GDP
increased 5.44 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
up from a revised 5.05 percent in July-to-September.  Foreign investment pledges fell 14 percent this year and
Vietnam’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service as
mounting bad debt and weakened state-owned enterprises limited
room for policy makers to boost growth. The government has said
it may form an asset manager to clean up lenders, and the World
Bank and  International Monetary Fund  are preparing their first
review of the banking system as a blueprint for the sector.  “It was only explosive credit growth that allowed for the
level of economic growth that Vietnam had previously been
achieving,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , a portfolio manager at
Aberdeen Asset Management in  London , which manages about $11
billion in emerging-market debt, including Vietnamese bonds.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said on Dec. 10 growth may
reach 5.2 percent this year, down from earlier targets of as
much as 6.5 percent. The country averaged expansion of 6.5
percent in the five years to 2011 and 7.8 percent in the five
years before that. The pace has slowed due to falling
productivity linked to inefficiencies in state-owned companies,
banks and public investments, the World Bank said last week.  Bad Debt  Moody’s cut Vietnam’s credit rating in September, citing
“more pronounced weaknesses in the banking system” and costs
related to recapitalizing banks. Concerns about the sector are
increasing, the  World Bank  said this month, even as the
government said it averted risks to the safety of the lenders.  Banks have reported bad debt to be about 4.5 percent of
outstanding loans, while the central bank’s estimate is about
8.75 percent, the IMF has said. Credit growth this year was 6.45
percent, the planning ministry said today. That compares with 14
percent last year and 32 percent in 2010, according to the IMF.  The real-estate market “stays stagnant” and shows no sign
of recovery, while the number of insolvent businesses continues
to rise, the government said on Dec. 10. About 58,000 companies,
or about 71 percent, in Hanoi posted losses in 2012, Cong An
Nhan Dan newspaper said, citing the Hanoi People’s committee.  Vietnam’s monetary authority this month cut benchmark
 interest rates  for a sixth time even as the World Bank warned
against easing too soon, to help companies “cope with
difficulties in production and business.”  Structural Issues  “We are not going to go back to 6 percent, 7 percent
growth, until we fix some of the structural issues, banking
being perhaps the most important of them,” Deepak Mishra, the
Hanoi-based lead economist for the World Bank, said on Dec. 10.
“The point is whether the banks are ready to cut, even if
policy rates are coming down.”  Industry and construction, which made up 40.7 percent of
the economy, grew 4.52 percent in 2012, while the sub-category
consisting of construction alone expanded 2.09 percent, the
statistics office said. Services, which accounted for 37.7
percent of GDP, grew 6.42 percent this year, while agriculture,
forestry and fisheries, which made up 21.7 percent of the
economy, expanded 2.72 percent, the data showed.  Pledged foreign direct investment fell to $12.7 billion
this year from $14.7 billion in 2011, while disbursed FDI
slipped 4.9 percent, according to the ministry of planning and
investment. Still, stronger  exports  helped prevent an even
sharper slowdown, as the country posted its first annual  trade
surplus  in two decades. Overseas shipments of goods including
electronics increased from companies such as  Intel Corp .,
Samsung Electronics Co. and Jabil Circuit Inc.  Stronger Exports  The  trade surplus  for the year was $284 million, based on
preliminary figures from the statistics office. The last time
Vietnam recorded a positive balance was 1992, data on its
website show. Exports gained 18.3 percent to $114.6 billion in
2012, while imports advanced 7.1 percent to $114.3 billion.  “Exports made up for what was probably sluggish domestic
demand,” said Jonathan Pincus, a Ho Chi Minh City-based
economist with the Harvard Kennedy School’s Vietnam program.
“It’s not a bad outcome considering all the deleveraging that’s
going on, though in the long run this is not the type of growth
that Vietnam would hope to attain.”  The surplus helped the dong advance almost 1 percent versus
the dollar this year. The benchmark VN Index of stocks has risen
nearly 14 percent, poised for its first annual gain since 2009.  Stocks Advance  Asian stocks advanced, with the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) 
gaining 0.3 percent as of 1:42 p.m. in  Tokyo , snapping three
days of losses. Most bourses in the region are closed today for
Christmas, with Japan and  China  the only major markets open.  China will keep home-purchase restrictions and “strictly”
curb speculative housing demand in 2013, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported, citing the Ministry of Housing and Urban-
Rural Development. The economy will continue to recover in
December, and may grow 7.7 percent this year and 7.8 percent in
2013, Shenyin & Wanguo Securities said in a report today.  Vietnam’s growth this year “is good enough given that we
made curbing inflation our top priority for the year,” said Do
Thuc, general director of the General Statistics Office.  Inflation slowed for the first time in four months in
December, with consumer prices rising 6.81 percent from a year
earlier after climbing 7.08 percent in November, a report showed.  “The government is hoping that if inflation remains under
control, they’ll be able to ease monetary policy and growth will
accelerate back to the 6 percent range,” said Pincus. “But
it’s entirely possible that if the banks don’t get fixed, that
when they loosen monetary policy we’ll come right back to a
period of inflation and then they’ll have to tighten up again.”  ‘Difficult’ Year  Vietnam may expand about 5.5 percent next year, the
government said on Dec. 10. The IMF and World Bank expect to
conclude next year their first analysis of Vietnam’s financial
system, which may bolster government efforts to strengthen the
banking sector and boost investor confidence.  “Next year will still be a very difficult year for the
economy,” Le Xuan Nghia, a member of Vietnam’s National
Financial and Monetary Policy Advisory Council, said today in
Hanoi. “Economic growth will probably be at the same level as
this year, or slightly higher.”  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . With assistance from
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi, Minh Bui in Sydney and Sunil Jagtiani in  New Delhi . Editors: Rina Chandran, Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  