-- Web Stocks Sink on State Rules as E-House Jumps: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-12-24T19:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/web-stocks-sink-on-state-rules-as-e-house-jumps-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities fell in  New York ,
after posting the longest stretch of weekly gains since October,
as concern the government will take stricter measures to control
the nation’s online access sent Internet stocks lower.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares lost 0.7 percent to 95.72 in New York, after a
shortened trading day yesterday for the Christmas holiday. The
measure has climbed 6.3 percent this year.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of
the Twitter-like Weibo service in China, dropped the most in
three weeks and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  retreated from a six-month high.
 E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  surged the most in two weeks.  The Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress,
China’s lawmaking body, will decide this week on proposed
legislation that would require Web users to register their real
names to gain  Internet access , the Xinhua news agency reported
yesterday. The People’s Daily newspaper, published by the ruling
Communist Party, has featured during the past week front-page
editorials calling for more regulation of the Web, saying the
“chaotic Internet” needs to be controlled.  “Investors showed fear in the past whenever talks about
such Internet restrictions came up,” Jeff Papp, a senior
analyst at Oberweis Asset Management, which invests in Chinese
companies, said by phone from Lisle, Illinois yesterday. “Those
Chinese Internet company’s products like Weibo have become so
mainstream, it’s hard to imagine the government would want to
adversely impact the business.”  ETF Slips  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined 0.3 percent to
$39.14. The ETF has risen 12 percent this year. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.2 percent to 1,426.66 on concern
President  Barack Obama  and Congress will fail to agree on a
budget by the end of the year.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 0.4 percent
yesterday to 11,270.94, extending the gauge’s rally in 2012 to
13 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.3 percent to
2,159.05, trimming its loss this year to 1.8 percent.  Shares of Shanghai-based Sina dropped 1.6 percent to
$47.31, the steepest slump since Dec. 4. A three-day decline has
sent the company’s stock down 9 percent this year.  Sohu.com, which runs China’s fifth-most visited website,
fell 2.3 percent to $43.47 for the biggest retreat since Dec. 7.
The Beijing-based company has declined 13 percent in 2012.
 21Vianet Group Inc. (VNET) , China’s biggest independent Internet data-
center operator, slid 4.3 percent to $8.83 in its third day of
losses, down 3.5 percent this year.  E-House Surges  E-House, a real estate brokerage based in  Shanghai , jumped
14 percent to $4.16, the steepest rally in two weeks, after
sinking 13 percent on Dec. 21.  It’s the company’s policy not to comment on the movement of
its stock price, Jessica Barist Cohen, a New York-based
spokeswoman for E-House, said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday.  The company will sell as many as 17.8 million new shares
for $3.52 each to its executives, using the funds to repurchase
the company’s American depositary receipts on the open market at
a later date, it said in a Dec. 10 statement.  Ella Ji, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, said
by e-mail yesterday the company’s share repurchase plan is still
going on. She rates the shares the equivalent of buy.  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP) , a Beijing-based digital map content
provider, slumped 5.5 percent to a two-week low of $10.88,
posting the biggest decline on the Bloomberg China-US index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  