-- Yen Rises From 20-Month Low on Speculation Drop Overdone
-- B y   A m i n a   M o b l e y   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-12-25T07:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/yen-touches-20-month-low-on-boj-easing-prospects.html
The yen rallied from a 20-month low
against the dollar on speculation that monetary easing bets had
driven the Japanese currency down too rapidly.  The yen earlier weakened to the brink of 85 per dollar
after  Japan ’s incoming prime minister said he may change the law
governing the central bank unless it boosts its inflation
target. Demand for the dollar was supported as investors sought
the safety of the world’s reserve currency amid concern that
U.S. lawmakers will fail to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.
Japan reopened after a holiday yesterday while most other
markets are closed for Christmas.  “Dollar-yen rose to try 85 on the back of Abe’s comments,
but it was sold off in front of key resistance levels,” said
Michiyoshi Kato, the senior vice president of foreign-currency
sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “The yen moves
are probably caused by limited liquidity in the market.”  The Japanese currency touched 84.96 per dollar, the weakest
since April 11, 2011, before trading at 84.85 at 4:17 p.m. in
Tokyo, 0.1 percent stronger than the New York close. It gained
0.1 percent to 111.86 per euro, following a 0.8 percent slide
yesterday. The dollar was little changed at $1.3183.  Shinzo Abe said on Fuji Television on Dec. 23 that he’ll
consider revising the central bank law if the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
fails to increase its inflation target to 2 percent from 1
percent at its January meeting. Abe has called for unlimited
monetary easing from the BOJ to spur inflation and growth.  LDP Partner  Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party, which swept to power in
lower house elections this month, today reached an agreement
with the New Komeito Party on a policy package that includes the
2 percent inflation goal. The LDP lacks a majority in the upper
house, and backing from New Komeito increases the chance the
package will become law.  Japan’s consumer prices excluding fresh food probably slid
0.1 percent in November from a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
the data on Dec. 28. The so-called core inflation rate has
fallen an average of 0.2 percent every month in the past decade.  “Japan’s Abe means business this time,”  Bill Gross , who
runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in a Twitter post. “Trillions of yen to be
printed. Weak yen, positive inflation.”  The yen’s 14-day relative strength index against the euro
was at 23 yesterday and has been below the 30 level that
suggests an asset is about to change direction since Dec. 12.
The RSI against the U.S. currency fell to 22.  The dollar-yen rate “has been consolidating,” BNP Paribas
SA’s currency strategy team led by  Steven Saywell  wrote in a
research note yesterday. “Further gains for the pair are likely
to slow considerably as the dovish BOJ view is already well
priced in. We suspect that both overstretched technicals and
positioning are playing a sizable role.”  Volatility Rises  The yen has tumbled 13 percent this year, including a 3.6
percent drop in the past month, making it the worst performer
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has weakened 2.7
percent in 2012 and the euro has dropped 0.9 percent.  The  implied volatility  of three-month options for Group of
Seven currencies rose to 7.91 percent yesterday, the highest
since Oct. 1, according to the JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index. An
increase makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark
lending rates less attractive as the risk in such trades is that
market moves will erase profits.  “Liquidity is limited in the markets amid the holiday
season,” said Yuki Sakasai, a foreign-exchange strategist in
New York at Barclays Plc. “A small flow of money can cause a
big move in the yen. The market will be volatile until investors
return.”  Fiscal Cliff  In the U.S., lawmakers said they were losing confidence
that Congress and President  Barack Obama  can reach a deal within
a week to avoid more the fiscal cliff. The $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts due to take effect in January could
cause a recession in the world’s largest economy.  “For the first time I feel it’s more likely that we will
go off the cliff,” Senator Joseph Lieberman, a retiring
 Connecticut  independent, said Dec. 23 on  CNN ’s “ State of the
Union ” program about the fiscal cliff.  In the aftermath of House Speaker John Boehner’s failure to
garner support from his caucus for his “Plan B,” which would
have extended tax cuts on incomes below $1 million, Lieberman
said Senate leaders now must take charge of resolving the budget
stalemate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amina Mobley in  Tokyo  at 
 amobley1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  