-- Zimbabwe’s Mugabe to Call Election If Negotiations Stall
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2012-12-24T12:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/zimbabwe-s-mugabe-to-call-election-if-negotiations-stall.html
Zimbabwe’s President  Robert Mugabe 
will call an election if there is no progress in resolving a
dispute over constitutional reforms this month, a negotiator for
his party said.  An agreement brokered by the 15-nation  Southern African
Development Community  in 2009 led to a coalition government
between Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
and the Movement for Democratic Change of Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai . Under that pact a referendum on a new constitution
must be held before elections can be called.  “There are about 30 outstanding issues that haven’t been
resolved so Zanu-PF has resolved that an election will be called
by President Robert Mugabe if no progress is made this month,”
Paul Munyaradzi Mangwana, a negotiator for the party, said in a
Dec. 19 interview from the capital, Harare.  Negotiations over the elections have stalled over issues
including dual citizenship as well as security sector and land
reform. The impasse is hampering the country’s economic recovery
from a decade-long recession as Mugabe’s party pushes ahead with
a program to force foreign and white-owned companies to cede or
sell 51 percent of their local assets to black Zimbabweans while
the MDC tries to lure foreign investment.  The country has the world’s second-biggest platinum and
chrome deposits after  South Africa  and also has reserves of
coal, diamonds and gold.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  operate platinum mines in the country
while  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  runs a diamond mine. Units of Barclays Plc
and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  operate in the country.  People’s Choice  “It isn’t up to Mugabe, it is up to the people of
Zimbabwe,” Tsvangirai said in a Dec. 20 interview from Harare.
“It’s their constitution and they own it. Leaders of political
parties don’t own it.”  Mugabe, 88, and Tsvangirai, 60, have fought a series of
elections since 2000, all of which have been judged by observers
including those from the European Union as having been marred by
violence, largely against Tsvangirai’s supporters, and electoral
irregularities.  Mugabe has repeatedly said he will call elections as soon
as March, whether the country has voted on a new constitution or
not.  “That he cannot do,” Tsvangirai said. “The election date
has to be agreed by all parties and SADC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net . 