-- Adoboli Encouraged by UBS Superiors to Exceed Limit, Lawyer Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-11-09T15:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/adoboli-blamed-for-ubs-layoffs-bad-reputation-lawyer-says.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
trader on trial over a $2.3 billion loss, was encouraged by
superiors to exceed risk limits as he made record profits from
unauthorized trades, his lawyer said.  Adoboli, 32, shared the process he used for such trades
with his teammates and bosses on the exchange-traded funds desk,
showing he didn’t think it was dishonest, his lawyer Charles
Sherrard told a London jury in closing arguments today.  “You can’t make $6 million profit in one day by not being
massively in excess of risk limits,” Sherrard said. “In the
end, did he lose control and miscalculate? Yes, he did. He got
it wrong and he apologized.”  Adoboli, originally from  Ghana , is accused of fraud and
false accounting for the $2.3 billion trading loss. Prosecutors
say he hid the risk of his trades by booking fake hedges at the
 Swiss bank  and then hiding profit to cover future losses before
market fluctuations made his positions untenable.  Prosecutors are “trying desperately to paint this man as a
rogue trader” who worked alone, like  Jerome Kerviel , the former
Societe Generale SA trader convicted over a 4.9 billion-euro
($6.23 billion) loss, Sherrard said. The bank ignored evidence
that others, particularly Adoboli colleague John Hughes,
participated in the trading to blame Adoboli alone, Sherrard
said.  Falls Apart  “The minute you see it’s the whole desk working as a
team,” the prosecution falls apart, Sherrard said. “That’s why
they’re so anxious to protect  John Hughes .”  Sherrard said Adoboli initially lied to protect Hughes and
the other traders on the desk. The other men, who deny
involvement, have “amnesia,” Sherrard said.  Hughes testified for the prosecution and cried on the stand
when he read a Sept. 14, 2011, e-mail in which Adoboli told his
bosses about the trades and took full responsibility.  Sherrard also read excerpts from internal reviews and
descriptions of Adoboli before the scandal erupted, including a
comment that “too many people take his good nature for granted”
and that he works too hard.  Adoboli is also being wrongfully blamed for the bank’s
layoffs and poor reputation, as well as a drop in the bank’s
 shares  after the loss that quickly recovered, Sherrard said.  “He has had to bear the brunt of the problems at UBS,”
Sherrard said. The prosecution made false claims about Adoboli
because it “can’t get around the evidence.”  Prosecution Closings  Prosecutor Sasha Wass ended her closing argument today by
saying Adoboli is arrogant, reckless and dishonest. She said he
lied to his colleagues to cover his crime, and then lied in the
trial using “long-winded, convoluted answers” to explain
himself.  “We invite you to see through those lies and convict Mr.
Adoboli,” Wass said to the jury as Adoboli shook his head back
and forth.  Wass compared his actions to those of shoplifters,
pedophiles and rapists who admit their crimes and then blame
their victims.  “Isn’t that just a little bit much?” Sherrard said to the
jury, referring to Wass’s comparison to rape.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  