-- Aga Shares Streak Upward as Fired Earth Tiles Sell: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-11-09T12:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/aga-shares-streak-upward-as-fired-earth-tiles-sell-london-mover.html
Aga Rangemaster Plc (AGA) , the inventor of
the range cooker in the early 1800s, rose for a seventh day in
the longest streak in six years, as investors bet that trading
will improve at the Fired Earth tile unit and in the U.S.  The  shares  advanced 0.4 percent to 60.25 pence at 11:52
a.m., extending their gain to 11 percent since falling to a
record low closing price of 54.25 pence on Oct. 11. The volume
of shares traded was almost nine times the daily three-month
average.  “They are reaching a turning point,”  Matthew McEachran ,
an analyst at N+1 Singer Ltd. with a  buy recommendation  on the
stock, said in a telephone interview. “It is very operationally
geared so it wouldn’t require much revenue growth to see a big
improvement in profit.”  Aga shares have suffered this year while the U.K. endured a
double-dip recession, crimping sales of its luxury ovens, though
the Fired Earth tile unit reported in August that first-half
revenue rose 7 percent. The Warwickshire, England-based company
has introduced a five-door oven and an application to allow its
Aga cookers to be controlled remotely.  Aga may announce this month in a trading update that it has
signed an agreement to restructure the financing arrangements of
its pension fund, giving it a three-year contributions holiday,
McEachran said. The company reached agreement in principle in
August with the fund trustees.  “They have had the pension issue weighing over them for
several years,” McEachran said. An accord “will allow them
some breathing space to focus on the business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net  