-- Ageless ‘Annie’ Delights Broadway; ‘Sorry’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/ageless-annie-delights-broadway-sorry-jeremy-gerard.html
Beware the child who says “Aw,
gee!” with a plaintive sigh. There’s cunning at work behind
those words that can reduce even a hard-shell capitalist like
Oliver Warbucks to mush.  The words are uttered by orphan Annie, in the person of
Lilla Crawford, a spindle-legged trouper with a Merman-size
voice and an irresistible glint of show-biz hunger in her eyes.  In the extraordinarily entertaining revival of “ Annie ”
that has now opened on Broadway, Daddy Warbucks (the gruffly
charming Australian star Anthony Warlow) has met his match.  Annie has just been shuttled from the grim city orphanage
ruled by the demented Miss Hannigan of Katie Finneran to
Warbucks’s Fifth Avenue palazzo for the Christmas holiday. It’s
the heart of the Great Depression.  Warbucks has been advised to soften his image by renting a
cute kid for a couple of weeks. He fully expects to hand off
care of the girl to his faithful amanuensis, Grace (the
ingratiating Brynn O’Malley).  But when he proposes that Grace take her to a movie, Annie
lets loose with that, “Aw, gee!” in a moan that’s almost a
howl, and Warbucks is a goner. He decides not only to take her
himself, but that it’s a great night for a brisk, 40-block walk
through his favorite town. As they stroll, he sings “NYC,”
Charles Strouse and Martin Charnin’s unheralded paean to the
city.  Not Sinatra  It’s neither as bombastic as Kander and Ebb’s “New York,
New York” nor as clever as Bernstein, Comden and Green’s
earlier ode of the same name (“The Bronx is up but the
Battery’s down/The people ride in a hole in the ground”).  But in the aftermath of  Hurricane Sandy  and the shadow of a
brutal election, “NYC” -- like the show that surrounds it --is
a tonic: “The shadows at sundown, the roofs that touch the
sky/The rich and the rundown, the parade that goes by.”  You may curse Strouse for melodies that refuse to leave
your head for days after the show -- especially the wretched
“Tomorrow” but also such winners as the ones about a hard-
knock life and the plaintive “Maybe.”  But what I took away from “Annie” 35 years after first
seeing it, in addition to the perfect chemistry of a terrific
ensemble, is director James Lapine’s seamless weaving of visual
and aural effects.  Comic Strip  The brilliant designer David Korins pays homage to the
story’s comic-strip roots with Constructivist sets that swing
open like the pages of an album, and adds such enchanting
touches as a chandelier that unfolds into a Christmas tree
before our eyes. Donald Holder’s lighting favors boldness over
shadow and Susan Hilferty’s restrained costumes give personality
to each character while avoiding parody.  Lapine and choreographer Andy Blankenbuehler avoid
overpopulated production numbers that sweeten the syrup; the
show has a welcome, slightly citric tang. Finneran is more Mrs.
Lovett then the jolly drunk of previous Miss Hannigans. Mess
with her and you might just end up in a meat pie. And that was
just fine by me.  Have I mentioned the canine actor? At the performance I
saw, Sandy, played by a mutt named Sunny, definitely had his own
ideas about blocking his part. That was fine by me, too.  At the Palace Theatre, Broadway at 47th Street.
Information: +1-877-250-2929;  http://www.ticketmaster.com .
Rating: ****  Apple Family  I spent election night with the Apple family in the Hudson
Valley hamlet of Rhinebeck, New York. I’d last been with them on
Sept. 11, 2011. Playwright Richard Nelson’s fictional siblings -
- three sisters and a brother, just like Chekhov -- appear at
the  Public Theater  on important nights and in real time.  “Sorry” is Nelson’s almost unbearably poignant reflection
on the inseparably intertwined states of a family’s and a
nation’s existential misgivings. The long single act takes place
between 5 a.m. and 7 a.m. on the morning of the election.  There are up-to-the-minute references to Hurricane Sandy
and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand as the Apples gather around the
breakfast table.  But the task of “Sorry” is in revealing how Barbara
(Maryann Plunkett), Marian (Laila Robins), Jane (J. Smith-
Cameron) and Richard (Jay O. Sanders) will deal with committing
their Uncle Benjamin (the astonishing Jon DeVries), a onetime
actor whose dementia is leading into dangerous territory -- to a
home.  Politics barely snuck in until the end, when Richard, a  New
York  City lawyer, said of the campaign, “The way I see it now
is that most people seem to just want somebody who can
articulate their hatreds.”  You only have one more week to eavesdrop on the thoughtful,
moving conversations imagined by one of our most gifted
playwrights, directing an unparalleled ensemble. It will cost
you $15. Don’t miss them.  Through Nov. 18 at the Public Theater Lab, 425 Lafayette
St. Information: +1-212-967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org .
Rating: *****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 