-- Malaysia IPO Spree Set to Continue in 2013, Bursa Says
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   Z e b   E c k e r t
-- 2012-11-09T03:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/malaysia-ipo-spree-set-to-continue-in-2013-bursa-says.html
Bursa Malaysia (BURSA)  Bhd., the country’s
stock exchange manager, said it expects the spree of initial
public offerings in the nation to continue into 2013 as share
sales head close to a record this year.  Kuala Lumpur has risen to become the world’s fourth largest
center for IPOs in 2012, overtaking financial hubs including
London, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Three of Asia’s
four biggest first-time share sales this year have come from
Malaysia, which has raised a total $6.8 billion, the data show.  “We are enjoying our moment in the spotlight,” Tajuddin Atan, chief executive officer of Bursa Malaysia, said in a
Bloomberg television interview in Hong Kong today. “Our market
is seeing a very exciting time. Malaysian companies are growing
regionally so the need for capital continues.”  Malaysian IPOs this year are close to the $7.05 billion
record raised in 2010 when  Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM) 
completed a 12.8 billion ringgit ($4.2 billion) offering. While
first-time sales have been shrunk or canceled elsewhere, demand
for shares exceeded supply in Kuala Lumpur when  Felda Global
Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV)  raised $3.3 billion,  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) 
sold $2.1 billion of stock and  Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. (ASTRO) 
issued $1.5 billion of shares.  ‘Regional Champions’  Barring changes in the economy, the volume of Malaysian
IPOs in 2013 should be “at least equal” to this year, Tajuddin
said. “We’re seeing Malaysian companies becoming bigger and
growing at a faster pace in tandem with the Malaysian economy
and Asean economic growth. These companies are becoming regional
champions.” Asean is the 10-member  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations .  Power producer Malakoff Bhd. and long-haul budget airline
AirAsia X Bhd. are among companies which have said they plan to
list in  Kuala Lumpur  in 2013. Malaysia’s benchmark FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index closed at a record on Nov. 1 and has climbed
7 percent so far this year.  Investors have drawn partly on optimism that Malaysia’s
 economy  will continue to weather the effects of Europe’s credit
contagion. Gross domestic product growth may expand by as much
as 5.5 percent next year from an estimated 5 percent in 2012,
the  finance ministry  forecast in a report in September.  Boosting Consumption  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak cut personal income
tax, raised civil servants’ minimum pensions and repeated cash
handouts to low-income households in his budget speech in
September, after increasing civil servants’ salaries in the past
year to boost domestic consumption.  Growth in five Asean economies -- Indonesia, Thailand,
Philippines, Malaysia and Vietnam -- will probably outpace the
U.S. and the euro region next year, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in a report in October.  The Asean-5 will grow 5.8 percent in 2013, compared with
2.1 percent in the U.S., 0.2 percent in the euro region and 1.2
percent in Japan, it said. The other five members of Asean are
Brunei, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Singapore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Zeb Eckert in  Hong Kong  at 
 zeckert1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  