-- Man. United Wants Celtic’s Wanyama, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-11-09T05:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/man-united-wants-celtic-s-wanyama-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Wanyama Wanted  Manchester United is interested in signing Celtic
midfielder Victor Wanyama and watched the Kenyan score in the
Scottish team’s 2-1 defeat of  Barcelona  this week,  the Daily
Mail said.   The 21-year-old, who scored Celtic’s first goal and helped
control the midfield, joined for 900,000 pounds ($1.4 million)
last year, the newspaper said.  While Celtic manager Neil Lennon said the player is worth
25 million pounds, Premier League clubs are likely to offer less
than half of that, the Mail said. United, Arsenal, Queens Park
Rangers and Sunderland have been watching the player, it said.  City Steal  Manchester City is planning to try to sign Chelsea 16-year-
old Conor Hunte after watching him help the London club beat
City in a youth-team match last week,  the Daily Mirror said .  City will have to pay compensation should Hunte move but
will face opposition from Chelsea, who will try to convince him
to stay, the newspaper said.  Growing List  Arsenal has joined Newcastle, Liverpool, Everton, Reading
and Aston Villa in watching Burnley striker Charlie Austin,  the
Mail said.   The 23-year-old joined Burnley for 1.5 million pounds last
year, and has scored 20 goals, the newspaper said.  Sagna Saga  Arsenal may lose right back Bacary Sagna to Inter Milan
after the season,  the Mirror said.   The 29-year-old has 18 months left on his contract and has
seen little playing time while recovering from two broken legs,
the newspaper said. The Frenchman has expressed concern about
other players leaving the London club, and Inter have made an
offer, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  