-- Apollo Has Third-Quarter Profit as Holdings Gain in Value
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S a u m y a   V a i s h a m p a y a n
-- 2012-11-09T16:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/apollo-has-third-quarter-profit-as-holdings-gain-in-value.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , reported a third-quarter
profit after a loss a year earlier as the value of its fund
holdings climbed.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of earnings
excluding some compensation costs tied to Apollo’s IPO last
year, was $379 million, or 98 cents a share, compared with a
loss of $1.1 billion, or $2.89, a year earlier, New York-based
Apollo said today in a statement. Analysts had  expected  earnings
of 76 cents, according to the average of eight estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  “Results were well above expectations, driven by stronger
 investment performance  in private equity and credit,” Steven
Fu, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC, said in a note to clients
today. “Realization activity was better than expected, a trend
we believe has continued” into the fourth quarter, Fu said.  Apollo has taken holdings including packaging company  Berry
Plastics Group Inc. (BERY)  and brokerage owner  Realogy Holdings Corp. (RLGY) 
public this year to return money to clients before the debut of
its new buyout fund. The firm is seeking $10 billion to $12
billion, smaller than the pool’s predecessor, which raised
almost $15 billion in 2008.  The firm had registered seven companies for potential IPOs
as of Aug. 2, President Marc Spilker said at the time, after
completing offerings for two of its larger holdings earlier in
the year.  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  raised $16.3 million in
February after scrapping a $531 million IPO in 2010, and ball-
bearing maker Rexnord Corp. gathered $426.3 million in March.  Funds Gain  Apollo  rose  2.1 percent to $14.34 at 11:55 a.m. in New York
trading. The stock, which has gained 13 percent this year
through yesterday, is down 26 percent from its March 2011 IPO
price.  The value of the firm’s private-equity funds increased 8
percent during the quarter, Apollo said, at a faster pace than
rivals.  Blackstone (BX)  Group LP reported that its funds gained 7.1
percent, KKR & Co. said its holdings rose 6.1 percent and
 Carlyle (CG)  Group LP saw an increase of 5 percent.  Buyout holdings at private-equity firms affect economic net
income, or ENI, because the metric depends on quarterly mark-to-
market valuations of those investments. Accounting rules require
the firms to value their portfolio holdings every quarter.  Assets Rise  Apollo’s economic net income doesn’t comply with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Quarterly profit under
those standards, known as GAAP, was $82.8 million, or 55 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $466.9 million, or $3.86, a year
earlier.  Assets under management rose to $109.7 billion from $104.9
billion at the end of the second quarter, driven in part by
growth of Apollo’s credit business. The unit, which includes
distressed-investing, mezzanine, senior credit and non-
performing loan funds, raised $1.2 billion during the quarter
and contributed $195 million of ENI before taxes.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, overhaul then sell them, and
return the funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms,
which use debt to finance the deals and amplify returns,
typically charge an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent
to 2 percent of committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit
from investments.  Carlyle’s Profit  Apollo, like competitors Blackstone and  KKR (KKR) , has sought
investment opportunities outside of traditional leveraged
buyouts to attract more capital and reduce reliance on volatile
private-equity earnings. Blackstone and KKR, both based in New
York, reported third-quarter profits after losses a year earlier
as the value of their buyout portfolios gained. Carlyle, the
Washington-based alternative-asset manager, yesterday said it
had a third-quarter profit of $204 million.  Worldwide, the value of private-equity deals announced in
the third quarter fell 29 percent to $95.1 billion from a year
earlier, with leveraged buyouts rising 62 percent to $39.3
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Apollo said it will pay a distribution of 40 cents a share
to public investors on Nov. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Saumya Vaishampayan in New York at 
 svaishampaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  