-- Argentines Stage Protests at Prices, Fernandez Re-Election Bid
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-09T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/argentines-stage-protests-at-prices-fernandez-re-election-bid.html
Argentines packed streets and squares
across the country last night, banging pots and waving banners
to protest President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s failure to
combat inflation and crime, and oppose changes to the
constitution that would allow her to seek a third term.  The protest, the second this year, was set to be the
biggest since 2008, according to political analyst Carlos Fara.
In that year, Fernandez’s attempts to raise farm export taxes
sparked a four-month conflict that blocked highways and created
food shortages.  Since her October 2011 landslide re-election, Fernandez has
tried to stem capital outflows by restricting  imports , forcing
companies to repatriate export revenue and banning most
purchases of dollars. With annual  inflation  that private
researchers estimate is faster than 20 percent,  South America ’s
second-biggest economy ground to a standstill in the second
quarter after expanding an average 7.7 percent a year from 2003
to 2011.  “The unfavorable economic situation is a breeding ground
for discontent,” Fara, who runs Carlos Fara & Asociados polling
company, said in a telephone interview from Buenos Aires before
the protest began.  Demonstrators began to march in different neighborhoods at
7 p.m. local time. In downtown Buenos, Aires they blocked the
main thoroughfares, banging pots and holding Argentine flags and
posters that read “Not to the change of the Constitution,”
“Stop Crime and Authoritarianism” and “Free Press.”  ‘Responsibility,’ Popularity  Protesters carried a 100-meter (328-foot) long flag to the
Plaza de Mayo singing “no to re-election,” while in front of
the presidential palace, protesters sang the national anthem.  Claudia Romano, who identified herself as a housewife, said
she participated in the rally to ask the president to listen to
the people.  “We want to support the country and her government, but
she needs to listen us and acknowledge her mistakes,” Romano
said. “We can’t stand more inflation and the level of crime we
have, she has the responsibility to give us answers.”  Television news channels broadcast similar scenes from the
major cities of Mendoza,  Santa Fe  and also outside the
presidential residence in Olivos, Buenos Aires.  The 59-year-old president’s popularity has plunged by more
than half since her re-election with 54 percent of votes,
according to a survey by Buenos Aires-based pollster Management
& Fit.  ‘Complicated Position’  The Oct. 18 to Oct. 29 survey showed her approval rating
dropped to 28 percent from 63.3 percent a year earlier. About 64
percent of the 2,100 people questioned said they were in favor
last night’s rally, while 20 percent were against it. The poll
has a margin of error of 2.3 percentage points.  “Politically, she’s in a more complicated position because
the economy is weaker,” said Alejandro Urbina, who helps
oversee about $800 million of emerging-market assets at Silva
Capital Management in  Chicago . “Inflation remains high and the
impact on people is very negative. The situation is not
improving but deteriorating.”  Argentina , which defaulted on $95 billion of debt in 2001,
has the highest credit risk in the world after  Greece . The cost
to insure Argentine bonds against non-payment for five years
rose to 1,909 basis points earlier this month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Crime, Inflation  Crime and inflation are the main concerns of Argentines,
according to Management & Fit. While the government said that
consumer prices rose 10 percent in September from a year
earlier, private economists estimated the increase was 24.3
percent, according to a report released by opposition lawmakers.  Rising costs and wages have damaged the country’s
competitiveness in international markets, prompting a drop in
exports.  “The first thing the government should do is to
acknowledge mistakes,” said Roberto Sanchez Dahl, who oversees
$1.4 billion of emerging-market debt at Federated Investment
Management Co. in Pittsburgh. “Inflation is an example. They
live in a different reality and it’s the people in general who
suffer the real inflation.”  Fernandez, who was first elected in 2007, has followed her
late husband and predecessor  Nestor Kirchner ’s policies of
boosting wages and pensions to stimulate consumption and bolster
demand for goods made by local manufacturers. Reduced demand
from  Brazil , the country’s main trade partner, has led exports
to fall in five of the past nine months.  Slowdown, Confidence  This year’s slowdown in the economy led Argentines’
confidence in the government to fall for a fifth consecutive
month in October, according to a poll released by Torcuato Di
Tella University on Oct. 31.  The confidence index fell 36 percent from a year earlier,
the survey of 1,209 people showed. Confidence fell 1 percent in
October from September to 1.67 on a scale of zero to five.  Fernandez’s loss of popularity comes at a time when
supporters are seeking to amend the constitution to allow her to
run for a third term in 2015. Lawmaker Diana Conti said in an
Oct. 31 interview with Radio Continental that the present
system, which sets a maximum of two consecutive terms, is
“ridiculous.”  In the Management & Fit poll, 66 percent of respondents
opposed a reform of the charter while 27.5 percent were in
favor.  Dividing Lines  As a constitutional amendment will require the approval of
two-thirds of Congress, Fernandez’s supporters are counting on
2013 midterm elections to add lawmakers to their coalition.  “Political tension is bound to rise in in the run-up to
the key 2013 midterm elections as the government tries to
tighten its control over the political system,”  Daniel Kerner ,
a political analyst at the Eurasia Group wrote in a statement on
Nov. 5.  Fernandez has sidestepped questions about her political
future.  “It doesn’t’ depend on me,” Fernandez said in a Sept. 28
exchange with students at  Harvard University  in Cambridge, Mass.
“The constitution doesn’t allow my re-election as president, so
this is beyond what I want. It’s not my responsibility to reform
the constitution,”  Opposition lawmakers from both houses have pledged to vote
against any attempt to modify the constitution.  “We are committed to not voting for any kind of reform or
any maneuver to seek a re-election,” said opposition Senator
Adolfo Rodriguez Saa. “In 2015 we’ll have a new president.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  