-- Asia Bond Risk Rises Most in Two Weeks on Fiscal Cliff Concern
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-11-09T06:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/asia-bond-risk-rises-most-in-two-weeks-on-fiscal-cliff-concern.html
Asia bond risk is set for the biggest
weekly increase since the end of October as investors grow
increasingly concerned the U.S. may go over the so-called fiscal
cliff.  Far East Consortium International Ltd. (35)  is marketing
dollar-denominated debt.  The cost of insuring sovereign and corporate notes in Asia
from default is set to rise 4.3 basis points this week, the most
since the five-day period ending Oct. 26, according to credit-
default swaps traders and data provider CMA. The extra yield
investors demand to buy Asian corporate bonds denominated in
dollars rose the most in a day since July yesterday.  Investors’ attention is turning from U.S. President  Barack
Obama ’s re-election to $1.2 trillion of automatic spending cuts
in 2013 if Congress can’t agree to reduce the country’s deficit.
The world’s biggest economy may suffer a recession should that
take place, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Companies in the Asia-Pacific region increased issuance to a
three-week high as they tried to finish fundraising for the
year.  “The fiscal cliff is a manmade disaster,” said Brayan Lai, a desk analyst in emerging-market credit trading at
Jefferies Group Inc. in  Singapore . “With that uncertainty in
mind no one’s going to come in and aggressively buy despite the
approaching year-end rush from issuers.”  Far East Consortium, the Hong Kong-listed property
developer that also has hospitality and car park operations,
plans to sell $200 million of five-year bonds at about 5.5
percent, according to a person familiar with the matter. Asia-
Pacific dollar debt offerings rose to $4 billion this week, the
most since the period ended Oct. 19, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Year-End Issuance  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., the Hong Kong conglomerate
controlled by  Li Ka-shing , Asia’s wealthiest man, led offerings
this week, even as bondholders demanded more to purchase dollar
debt of companies in the region.  The  yield premium  that Asian issuers pay to sell dollar
bonds rose nine basis points to 267 basis points yesterday, the
biggest daily increase since July 23, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes. The gauge is poised to rise for the fourth
straight week, the indexes show.  “Some back-up in spreads wouldn’t be surprising,” said
Glenn Hodgeman, global head of credit trading at Westpac Banking
Corp. in Sydney. “So many people were focused solely on the
U.S. presidential elections that fiscal cliff concerns were not
really at the front of the mind. That has now changed.”  Risk Mounts  China Aoyuan Property Group, which develops property mainly
in Guangdong province and Shenyang city, may market an offering
of five-year dollar bonds in the mid to high 14 percent area, a
person familiar with the matter said yesterday. It’s the third
real-estate company from the nation to mull a debt issue in the
U.S. currency this week, after China SCE Property Holdings Ltd.
and China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. sold notes, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  rose three basis points to 121 as of
8:32 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices
show. .  The Markit iTraxx Australia index gained six-and-a-half
basis points to 147 basis points as of 11:24 a.m. in Sydney,
according to Westpac Banking Corp. The measure is set for its
highest close since Oct. 29, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. It is poised to rise 9.8 basis
points this week, the most since the five-day period ending
Sept. 21, CMA data show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index advanced three basis points
to 202 as of 9:24 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
measure ended last week at 200.6, CMA prices show.  The swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring bonds against
default and traders use them to speculate on credit quality. An
increase suggest declining perceptions of creditworthiness. The
swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  