-- Asia Currencies Advance as Obama’s Re-Election Supports Inflows
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-11-09T21:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/asia-currencies-advance-as-obama-s-re-election-supports-inflows.html
Asian currencies rose this week as
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election increased the likelihood
the  Federal Reserve  will keep boosting the supply of dollars
that can be invested in emerging markets.  Global funds pumped a net $256.5 million into Taiwanese and
Philippine stocks this week, exchange data show, while buying
$71 million more Thai sovereign notes than they sold, according
to Thai Bond Market Association figures. China’s  yuan  snapped a
13-week rally, its longest winning streak since March 2008, on
speculation the nation will struggle to boost export growth as
the fiscal cliff looms in the U.S. and Europe’s debt crisis
remains unresolved.  “While there will be plenty of liquidity provided by the
Fed, there’s an issue over the fiscal cliff, making investors
reluctant to take riskier positions,” said Tohru Nishihama, an
economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo.
“Funds are coming into  emerging markets .”  The Taiwan dollar advanced 0.5 percent this week to
NT$29.150 against the greenback in Taipei, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Thailand’s baht, South Korea’s won and
the Philippine peso gained 0.3 percent to 30.65, 1,087.85 and
41.052, respectively. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index,
which tracks the region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding
the yen, was unchanged yesterday.  Peso Bonds  Obama faces negotiations with a Republican-led House to
avoid more than $600 billion of tax increases and spending cuts
that are set to take effect in January, the so-called fiscal
cliff. Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  had said he wouldn’t
reappoint Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in 2014. The central bank
chief announced a third round of asset purchases in September
and said  interest rates  may remain near zero until mid-2015.  The peso traded near a four-year high after the Southeast
Asian nation raised the equivalent of $750 million from a sale
of 10-year global peso bonds, which will be settled in dollars.
President  Benigno Aquino  has won upgrades to the nation’s credit
ratings this year from Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s  as he takes steps to reduce the  budget deficit  and lure
foreign cash.  “We still like the Philippines, given the improving
fundamentals,” Wee-Ming Ting, the Singapore-based head of Asian
fixed-income at Pictet Asset Management, which oversees more
than $24 billion of emerging-market debt, said Nov. 8.  Yuan Limit  The yuan traded little changed at 6.2450 per dollar
yesterday and touched the upper limit of its band for a fifth
day.  Consumer prices  rose 1.7 percent in October from a year
earlier, the least since January 2010, official data showed. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for a 1.9 percent
gain. China’s central bank governor and statistics chief
signaled October data will show improving growth.  “There have been inflows betting on a rebound in the
economy,” said Bruce Yam, a currency strategist at Sun Hung Kai
Financial Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Easing inflation signals China’s
growth is still subdued, which boosts the case for more measures
to stimulate consumption.”  India’s rupee dropped 1.7 percent this week to 54.7550 per
dollar on concern U.S. tax increases and spending cuts will
aggravate the global slowdown.  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit declined 0.3 percent this
week to 3.0640 after the central bank kept its overnight policy
rate on hold at 3 percent Nov. 8. Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.1
percent to 9,620 and Vietnam’s dong held at 20,848.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  