-- U.S. Stocks Rise on Confidence Data While Euro Weakens
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-11-09T21:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/asian-equities-follow-u-s-stocks-lower-euro-near-two-month-low.html
U.S.  stocks  rose, ending the biggest
two-day drop of the year in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, and
oil advanced as data showed  consumer confidence  at the highest
level since 2007. The euro weakened for a third day amid concern
political wrangling will slow the global recovery.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  advanced 0.2 percent to 1,379.85 as of 4 p.m.
in  New York . The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.1 percent. Oil
increased 1.2 percent to $86.07 a barrel in New York. The euro
slid 0.3 percent to $1.2712. The pound weakened against most of
its 16 major counterparts. Ten-year U.K. bond yields dropped
four basis points to 1.73 percent.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment index climbed to 84.9, the fourth straight
increase, from 82.6 in October. The U.S. risks entering a
recession should policy makers fail to avoid automatic tax
increases and spending cuts next year,  Fitch Ratings  said.  “I do think that people probably have underestimated the
resilience of the economy,” said  Mike Ryan , the New York-based
chief investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management Americas.
His firm oversees $832 billion. “Consumer confidence is better,
some of the housing numbers have been more constructive.
However, we want to make sure that the recovery process doesn’t
get sidetracked by any fiscal shocks.”  President  Barack Obama  invited the top Democratic and
Republican leaders in Congress to the White House next week to
begin talks on a plan to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  “The American people voted for action,” Obama said at the
White House, giving his first public remarks on the budget and
deficit since winning re-election Nov. 6. He again said any
solution must include spending cuts and raising revenue,
including raising taxes on the wealthiest.  Apple Slumps  Boeing Co.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Caterpillar Inc. added
at least 0.5 percent to pace gains among the largest companies.
Apple Inc., the world’s most valuable company, rallied 1.7
percent after an 8 percent plunge over the previous three days.
J.C. Penney Co. slid 4.8 percent after reporting a third-quarter
loss that was larger than analysts had estimated.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  has fallen 1.7 percent this week.  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  sank 5.9 percent as France’s third-largest bank
posted a wider-than-estimated quarterly loss on costs tied to
the sale of its Greek unit.  “Markets continue to trade on a weak note given lingering
fiscal cliff concerns and worries about whether Greece will get
the funding it needs to meet debt payments,” Nick Verdi, a
currency strategist at Barclays Plc in Singapore, wrote in a
report today.  Gilt Yields  U.K. bonds rose, with 10-year yields falling the most in
five weeks, after the  Bank of England  said it planned to
transfer coupon payments it receives from its gilt holdings to
the Treasury to lower the nation’s debt. Ten-year yields touched
to 1.67 percent, the lowest since Oct. 5.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose 0.8 percent,
led by gasoline, oil and heating oil. Gold futures rose 0.3
percent to $1,730.90 an ounce in New York. Copper declined 0.7
percent in New York for a fifth weekly decline.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 0.4 percent. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in
 Hong Kong  slipped 0.7 percent. India’s Sensex sank 0.9 percent
as Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the country’s biggest energy
explorer, posted its steepest profit decline in four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  