-- Asian Stocks Pare Losses as China Data Beats Extimates
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-11-09T10:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/asia-stocks-head-for-biggest-two-day-loss-in-3-months-on-greece.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index headed for the biggest two-day loss in two
months, as companies cut forecasts and Australia’s central bank
trimmed its national growth outlook. Shares pared losses after
data added to signs  China’s economy  is bottoming.  Nexon Co., a developer of online games, slumped 16 percent
in  Tokyo  after cutting its net-income forecast. Emeco Holdings
Ltd., a mining-equipment maker, plunged 17 percent in Sydney
after reducing its profit target.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,
the nation’s fourth-biggest lender by market value, dropped 0.7
percent in Sydney. Chinese developer Guangzhou R&F Properties
Company Ltd. rose 1.6 percent in Hong Kong.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.3 percent to 121.41 as
of 5:15 p.m. in Tokyo after dropping as much as 0.8 percent,
with about two stocks sliding for each that gained. The gauge
has declined 1 percent this week as  China ’s Communist Party
meets in Beijing to choose new leaders.  “The underlying theme in the market has been the weakness
of the real economy,” said Koichi Kurose, chief economist in
Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., which oversees about 15 trillion yen
($189 billion). “Maybe the economy is bad enough to require
policy response, not only from the U.S. but also from elsewhere.
This is an awkward time for Chinese policy makers to take
measures to support the economy because such projects are
intertwined with politics.”  Slowdown, Stimulus  The MSCI Asia Pacific gauge gained 12 percent through
yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as central banks added
stimulus to spur growth and data showed a slowdown in China may
be bottoming. The index  traded  at 13.3 times estimated earnings
as of today, compared with 13.2 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 12.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 502 companies on the Asia-Pacific’s benchmark index
that have reported earnings since Oct. 1 and for which estimates
are available, 55 percent missed expectations, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Nexon slumped 16 percent to 766 yen after cutting its
projection for fiscal-year operating profit. Sumitomo Rubber
Industries Ltd. dropped 6.7 percent to 868 yen after the
tiremaker cut its sales outlook.  Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  declined 0.5 percent as the
central bank reduced its 2013 economic growth forecast, citing
lower investment in iron-ore, coal and natural-gas projects as
well as the government’s pledge to deliver an election-year
 budget surplus .  Emeco Slumps  National Australia Bank dropped 0.7 percent to A$23.81.
Emeco plunged 17 percent to 51.5 Australian cents after cutting
its first-half operating profit target on lower domestic demand.  South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 0.5 percent as the
nation’s central bank kept its key  interest rate  unchanged
today.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.9 percent. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.1 percent in Wellington, and
 Taiwan’s Taiex Index (TWSE)  gained 0.7 percent.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index slid 0.1 percent.  Hong
Kong ’s Hang Seng Index dropped 0.9 percent and the Shanghai
Composite Index fell 0.1 percent. The BSE India Sensitive Index
lost 0.9 percent.  Futures on the  S&P 500  swung between gains and losses
today. The index dropped 1.2 percent yesterday for the biggest
two-day decline in a year amid concern over the so-called fiscal
cliff, a series of tax increases and federal spending cuts set
to kick in automatically unless Congress acts.  Stocks pared losses as data today showed China’s factory
output and retail sales exceeded forecasts and inflation cooled
to the slowest pace in 33 months. China’s ruling party yesterday
started a week-long meeting to choose its fifth generation of
leaders amid signs that the economy is recovering from a seven-
quarter slowdown.  Sustainable Rebound?  The data is “pointing to an economy that’s improving and
bottoming out, but the point is how significantly it can rebound
and how sustainably it can rebound,” said  Ben Kwong , chief
operating officer at KGI Asia Ltd., a Hong Kong-based brokerage.
“Inflation is still moderate, and that will allow the
government room to manage the economy if there are signs it’s
weakening again.”  Chinese developers were mixed with Guangzhou R&F rising 1.6
percent to HK$10.12. China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd.
declined 1.2 percent to HK$20.75.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  