-- Asian Stocks Post Weekly Drop on U.S. Budget, Europe Debt
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-11-09T23:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/asian-stocks-post-weekly-drop-on-u-s-budget-europe-debt.html
Asian  stocks  slid this week as
investors turned their attention to the U.S. budget debate after
President  Barack Obama  won a second term and the European
Commission cut its growth forecast for the debt-saddled region.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , the Japanese carmaker that gets about 44
percent of sales from  North America , fell 3.2 percent in  Tokyo .
Canon Inc., a camera manufacturer that depends on Europe for
almost a third of its sales, slid 4 percent.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) ,
the world’s fifth-largest currency trader as ranked by Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc, sank 4.6 percent in  Hong Kong  as the
bank faces criminal charges from U.S. money laundering probes.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 1.1 percent this week
to 121.28. The gauge on Nov. 9 capped its biggest two-day drop
in two months on speculation Greece’s bailout will be delayed
and as investors focused on the so-called U.S. fiscal cliff of
more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and federal
spending cuts expected in January unless Congress can reach a
budget compromise.  “Investors have just gotten nervous,” said  Shane Oliver ,
Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“You’ve got residual concern about the U.S. fiscal cliff and
this delay in payments to Greece. The worries were there before.
It sounds a bit irrational, but that’s the way markets often
work. Once they start going down, the falling momentum triggers
more selling.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 3.2 percent, while
South Korea’s Kospi lost 0.8 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index was little changed. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index sank 3.3
percent.  China Congress  China’s Shanghai Composite Index dropped 2.3 percent. The
nation’s Communist Party started its 18th Congress on Nov. 8 in
Beijing, where delegates will meet over several days to pick a
new leader. Xi Jinping will probably replace  Hu Jintao  as
general secretary of the party that’s ruled China since 1949.  Signs China’s economic slowdown is abating may offer some
comfort to the nation’s policy makers, which have refrained from
further monetary easing since July. Data released Nov. 9 showed
factory output and retail sales exceeded forecasts and inflation
unexpectedly cooled to the slowest pace in 33 months, signaling
the government is boosting growth without driving a rebound in
prices.  The data failed to boost investor sentiment as concern
Greece’s bailout may be delayed and the looming U.S. fiscal
cliff overshadowed signs an economic slowdown in China is
abating.  Exporters Decline  Exporters to the U.S. declined. Honda slipped 3.2 percent
to 2,388 yen in Tokyo.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics, declined 5.9 percent to 879 yen. Li & Fung
Ltd., the supplier of toys and clothes to retailer including
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., fell 6.1 percent to HK$12.38 in Hong Kong.  “Investors are taking a step back and thinking the fiscal
cliff is looming,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1
billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “There’s going to
be a protracted battle to resolve it and markets are moving to
price that uncertain outcome accordingly.”  The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the  U.S. economy 
will contract by as much as 0.5 percent next year unless the
president can reach a compromise with lawmakers.  The MSCI Asia Pacific gauge gained more than 11 percent
through yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as central
banks added stimulus to spur growth and  data  showed a slowdown
in China may be bottoming. The index traded at 13.27 times
estimated earnings, compared with 13.26 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 12.09 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by  Bloomberg News .  Europe Growth  Companies that do business in Europe slid after the
European Commission cut its growth forecast for the euro zone as
the debt crisis ravages southern Europe and gnaws at the
economic performance of export-driven  Germany . The 17-nation
euro economy will expand 0.1 percent in 2013, down from a May
forecast of 1 percent, the Brussels-based commission said
yesterday. It cut its forecast for Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, to 0.8 percent from 1.7 percent.  Canon slid 4 percent to 2,485 yen in Tokyo. Nippon Sheet
Glass Co., which gets about 41 percent of sales from Europe,
dropped 4.1 percent to 70 yen.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , an
operator of ports and telephone companies that counts Europe as
its biggest, declined 3 percent to HK$77 in Hong Kong.  Earnings Outlook  Origin Energy Ltd., Australia’s biggest electricity
retailer, decreased 6.5 percent to A$10.42 in Sydney, while
Nexon Co., a Japanese developer of online games, slumped 23
percent to 766 yen in Tokyo as both companies lower their profit
forecasts.  Of the 502 companies on the  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index that
 reported  quarterly from Oct. 1 through 6 p.m. in Tokyo on Nov. 9,
and for which estimates are available, 55 percent missed
expectations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  HSBC sank 4.6 percent to HK$74.40. The lender said costs to
cover a potential settlement of anti-money-laundering probes in
the U.S. where it faces likely criminal charges may
significantly exceed the $1.5 billion provision the bank has
already set aside.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  