-- Assad Says Ballot Box Must Decide Future, Claims Support
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-11-09T15:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/assad-says-ballot-box-must-decide-future-claims-support.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said
his future should be decided by voters and denied that his
nation is embroiled in a civil war.  “For the president to stay or leave is a popular issue,”
Assad said in an interview with Russian state broadcaster RT in
Damascus. The only way to determine who runs the country is
“through the ballot box.”  Assad, speaking in English, said he will resist the
campaign to oust him by the U.S., its Arab and European allies
and  Turkey . “If the Syrian people are against me, how can I be
here?” he said.  The U.S. is pushing to unite the Syrian opposition while
the rebels seek help from the outside world. The Syrian National
Council, a largely expatriate opposition umbrella organization,
is meeting in Qatar’s capital Doha to choose an 11-member
executive body and a president to try to unify the opposition
battling Assad’s government.  “It is about terrorists and support coming from abroad to
support terrorists,” Assad said. “You have divisions, but
divisions doesn’t mean civil war.”  War Crimes  The Syrian president compared his country’s conflict to the
wars fought by Russian forces in the 1990s against pro-
independence rebels in the mainly Muslim region of Chechnya, and
denied any war crimes against civilians. United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay and Amnesty
International have said that forces loyal to Assad may have
committed war crimes and crimes against humanity.  The army killed 90 people in clashes today, Al Arabiya
television reported, citing the opposition National Coordinating
Committee. At least 12 civilians were killed by shelling today
in Deir Ezzour province, according to the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights. More than 35,000 people have died
since the uprising began in March 2011, the group says.  Syria ’s army also clashed with rebels in Idlib in the north
and areas around Damascus and Homs, the Syrian Observatory said
on its Facebook page. Al Arabiya reported gunfire and explosions
heard around the presidential palace in Damascus, without giving
further information. There was heavy fighting in al-Sheikh
Miskeen in Dara’a province after government forces stormed the
city with tanks and armored vehicles, the Observatory said.  “We are implementing our constitution by protecting the
civilian people,” Assad said. “The army cannot withstand for
20 months in difficult circumstances without having the embrace
of the public in Syria. How could you have this embrace while
killing your people?”  Assad Vows  Assad vowed that he won’t flee from his country and warned
that the cost of any Western military operation in Syria would
be “more than the whole world can afford.” Syria is “the last
stronghold of secularism and stability in the region,” he said.
“I have to live and die in Syria.”  Britain is examining the legality of supplying arms to
Syrian rebels under clauses of a European Union embargo that
allow exemptions in cases of humanitarian suffering, an official
in Prime Minister David Cameron’s office said.  The conflict yesterday spilled over into Turkey, with stray
bullets wounding three people in the border town of Ceylanpinar,
the state-run Anatolia news agency reported.  Patriot Missiles  About 5,000 Syrians have crossed to Ceylanpinar since early
yesterday, said Veysel Dalmaz, the official in charge of
accommodating refugees, according to Anatolia. The government
said it was hosting 112,000 Syrian refugees as of Nov. 6.
Anatolia also reported that 26 Syrian officers including two
generals defected to Turkey today.  Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said today that
the country hasn’t requested Patriot missiles from NATO to
bolster air defenses at the Syrian border, though it’s ready to
do so if needed. Turkish and Syrian forces have exchanged fire
across the border, and Turkey has pushed for the creation of a
buffer zone.  Assad took a swipe at Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the RT interview. “Personally he thinks he is the
new sultan of the Ottomans,” the Syrian president said. “He
thinks he can control the region as it was during the Ottoman
empire, with a different umbrella, Islamic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  