-- AstraZeneca, Mylan, Hachettte: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-09T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/astrazeneca-mylan-hachettte-intellectual-property.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and affiliates will
pay as much as $11 million to settle claims the company violated
antitrust and consumer-protection laws by keeping generic
versions of the heart drug Toprol XL off the market.  Consumers and other buyers who paid for the drug from 2005
to 2012 may share in the fund by filing claim forms, available
through  www.ToprolSettlement.com , according to a statement
yesterday from law firms including Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check
LLP. A federal judge will consider approving the settlement and
attorneys’ fees of as much $3.5 million at a March 7 hearing in
Wilmington,  Delaware , the lawyers said.  The AstraZeneca defendants denied any wrongdoing, and
agreed to the settlement partly “to avoid further expense,
inconvenience” and uncertainties of protracted litigation, the
London-based company said in court papers.  The case stems from suits filed in 2006 by drug wholesalers
and health and welfare funds contending AstraZeneca used unfair
trade practices, partly by bringing sham patent-infringement
lawsuits against makers of low-cost generics.  About half of the settlement fund will be used to pay
consumer claims and the other half will go toward claims by
insurers and employee-benefit plans, the law firms said.  The case is In re Metoprolol Succinate End-Payor Antitrust
Litigation, 06-cv-71, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Mylan Settles Birth Control Pill Patent Suit with J&J  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  said it settled a patent dispute with  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit related to generic
versions of the Ortho Tri-Cycle Lo birth control pills.  Mylan, based in Pittsburgh, said that beginning Dec. 31,
2015, or earlier “under certain circumstances,” it will be
licensed to sell the drug in several different formulations.
Other terms of the settlement are confidential, the company
said.  Ortho Tri-Cyclen Lo posted $424.5 million in sales for the
12 months ending Sept. 30, the company said in the statement,
attributing the number to the information service IMS Health.  The suit was filed in federal court in Newark, New Jersey,
in November 2010. Janssen accused Mylan of infringing patent
6,214,815.  The case is Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc., v. Mylan Inc.,
2:12-cv-06019-src-clw, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey ( Newark ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Carmax Sues Automaxx, Claims South Carolina Company Infringes  Carmax Inc. (KMX) , operator of more than 100 used-car
superstores, sued a South Carolina competitor for trademark
infringement.  Automaxx of Summerville LLC  is using similar signage,
including color scheme and font, to promote its business, Carmax
said in the lawsuit filed in federal court in Charleston, South
Carolina. The name Automaxx is also “confusingly similar,”
Carmax claimed. Automaxx doesn’t have a license or permission to
use the Carmax marks, according to court papers.  Carmax said it sent its first cease-and-desist letter to
Automaxx in September 2011. Multiple letters followed to no
avail as Automaxx continued with “willful infringement” of the
Carmax trademarks, according to the complaint.  Customers are confused and mistakenly assume there’s a
connection between the two entities, Carmax said. As a result,
Richmond, Virginia-based Carmax said it has lost sales.  The two companies offer similar goods and services in the
same markets, Carmax said, noting that it operates three of its
superstores in South Carolina, Automaxx’s home state.  The company asked the court to bar Automaxx from using
marks that are confusingly similar to Carmax’s and to order the
withdrawal of the Automaxx business name, together with the
destruction of all allegedly infringing promotional material.  It also requested that the court order Automaxx to produce
a complete list of those to whom it sold, offered for sale, or
promoted products, goods and services.  The company is seeking money damages to compensate for lost
sales and extra damages to punish Automaxx for its conduct,
along with awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Automaxx didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is Carmax Auto Superstores Inc., v. Automaxx of
Summerville LLC, 2:12-cv-03199-CWH, U.S. District Court,
District of South Carolina (Charleston).  Toy Company Gets Adverse Ruling, Will Quit Selling ‘Buckyballs’  A New York-based toymaker lost a bid to dismiss a trademark
suit brought by the estate of the late  Buckminster Fuller .  The suit, filed in May in federal court in San Jose,
 California , accused  Maxfield & Oberton Holdings LLC  of making
commercial use of the late architect and inventor’s name without
authorization.  The toy company was selling desk toys comprised of round
rare earth magnets and was calling them “Buckyballs.” In its
complaint, the estate noted that a molecule of a chemical known
as “Buckminsterfullerene” was discovered in 1985, and given
the “Buckyball” nickname because of its resemblance to the
geodesic dome structures designed by Fuller.  The estate said that it had given the toy company only a
one-time license to use the name, in connection with a
commemorative edition of Buckyballs, with the profits donated to
the non-profit  Buckminister Fuller Institute . Otherwise, the
estate said, no license was given to the toy company.  In a Nov. 5 ruling, U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh
rejected Maxfield & Oberton’s request to dismiss the suit. She
said the toy company’s argument that its use of the name was
protected by the First Amendment wasn’t supported by facts. The
cases on which the toy company relied when it made this argument
were based on the use of a famous person’s likeness, not his
name, as was done with the toy, she said.  In a notice posted on its website, Maxfield & Oberton said
it has decided to stop production of its Buckyballs because of
the “baseless and relentless legal badgering.”  The case is Estate of Buckminster Fuller V. Mayfield &
Oberton Holdings LLC, 5:12-cv-02570-LHK, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Loses Bid to Block Dish’s AutoHop Ad-Skipping  News Corp.’s Fox Broadcasting unit lost its bid to block
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s ad-free primetime television service and
its so-called AutoHop features before a copyright-infringement
lawsuit has been resolved.  Dish and Fox issued separate statements Nov. 7 saying that
U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee in Los Angeles had ruled on Fox’s
request for a preliminary injunction. The ruling was filed under
seal and couldn’t be independently confirmed.  “We are gratified the court found the copies Dish makes
for its AutoHop service constitute copyright infringement and
breach the parties’ contract,” Fox said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are disappointed the court erred in finding that
Fox’s damages were not suitable for a preliminary injunction.”  Fox Broadcasting Co.,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal and  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  separately sued Dish, the No. 2 U.S. satellite-television
provider, claiming the service will destroy the “advertising
supported ecosystem” that provides free, over-the-air primetime
television. Dish sued the networks in New York, seeking a court
ruling that it isn’t infringing copyrights.  Richard Stone, a lawyer for Fox, said at a Sept. 21 hearing
that other distributors, including  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S.
satellite-television provider, will be forced to follow suit if
Dish’s ad-free primetime television service isn’t blocked.  The Nov. 7 ruling “is a victory for common sense and
customer choice,” R. Stanton Dodge, general counsel for
Englewood, Colorado-based Dish Network, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The ruling underscores the U.S. Supreme Court’s
‘Betamax’ decision, with the court confirming a consumer’s right
to enjoy television as they want, when they want.”  Fox said it intends to appeal the judge’s denial of their
request for a preliminary injunction.  Dish introduced its Hopper digital video recorder in March.
It can record all the major networks’ primetime shows and store
them for eight days after their initial broadcast. AutoHop,
introduced in May, allows viewers, with the touch of a button,
to skip all the commercials on recorded shows automatically,
without having to fast-forward through them.  The case is Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network, 12-04529,
U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  Hachette Sued by Author of Book About Burma’s Aung San Suu Ky  Hachette Book Group Inc. was sued for copyright
infringement by the author of a book about Burmese Nobel
laureate  Aung San Suu Ky .  Alan Clements , the first  American ordained as a Buddhist
monk in  Burma , claims Hachette violated the written agreement it
made to publish his book, “ The Voice of Hope -- Conversations
with Alan Clements ,” which consists of a series of
conversations with the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize winner.  According to the complaint he filed yesterday in federal
court in  Boston , Hachette violated its agreement to give him an
accounting for all sales of the book and to pay royalties
required under the contract.  Clements entered into the contract with the publisher in
1996, with the agreement amended three times since then,
according to his complaint. He claims that because of Hachette’s
alleged violation of the contract, he has been unable to promote
or exploit the book, and lost revenues from its sales that would
have resulted when Aung San Suu Ky’s “continued notoriety on
the international stage was most in the news.”  Clements also claimed that because of Hachettte’s failure
to live up to the contract, he hasn’t been able to publish and
distribute updated versions of the book. He accused Hachette of
publishing and distributing an E-book version of “Voice of
Hope” without his permission and without compensating him.  In addition to what he said are the missing royalties,
Clements seeks compensation for the alleged damage caused his
career “as a professional writer, journalist, Burma expert and
public speaker.” According to his website, Clements is the
 author of eight books , mainly focused on Burma or on spiritual
practices.  The writer asked the court to order Hachette to relinquish
any rights it has to publish and distribute the work and to
award attorney fees and litigation costs.  Hachette didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is Alan Clements V. Hachette Book Group Inc.,
1:12-cv-12083-JCB, U.S. District Court, District of
 Massachusetts  (Boston).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 