-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Rise Amid Signs of China Improvement
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-11-09T06:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/aussie-set-for-gain-on-signs-of-improving-chinese-economy.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars advanced after reports showed better-than-expected
industrial production and retail sales in  China , boosting the
export outlook for the South Pacific nations.  The so-called Aussie and kiwi reversed earlier declines
versus their U.S. counterpart. China’s central bank governor and
statistics chief signaled October data to be published from
today will show growth improving this quarter in the world’s
second-largest economy.  Australia ’s currency weakened earlier
after the  Reserve Bank  reduced its 2013 growth forecast.  “Chinese data has visibly improved,” said Greg Gibbs, a
senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Singapore. “It continues to promote a sense that  China’s
economy  is stabilized and may be improving. It’s consistent with
a firming Australian dollar.”  The Aussie rose 0.2 percent to $1.0427 as of 5:42 p.m. in
Sydney after earlier falling as much as 0.3 percent.  New
Zealand ’s currency advanced 0.3 percent today to 81.73 U.S.
cents, reversing an earlier 0.3 percent slide.  The Aussie is set for a 0.9 percent gain this week. Its New
Zealand peer has dropped 1 percent since Nov. 2, the biggest
decline among the U.S. dollar’s major peers.  Australian bonds advanced, pushing the yield on benchmark
10-year debt down to 3.11 percent from 3.15 percent. It earlier
touched 3.09 percent, the lowest since Oct. 16. New Zealand’s
two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates, climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
2.62 percent.  Exceeded Estimates  China’s National Bureau of Statistics said  industrial
production  rose 9.6 percent last month from a year earlier after
a 9.2 percent advance in September. Economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  had predicted a 9.4 percent gain.  Retail sales 
climbed 14.5 percent in October from a year before following a
14.2 percent gain in September. That compares with analyst
projections for a 14.4 percent increase in a separate poll.  Some indicators are rebounding and the economy is
stabilizing,  Zhou Xiaochuan , head of the People’s Bank of China,
said yesterday in Beijing at a briefing during the Communist
Party’s 18th Congress. Ma Jiantang, head of the nation’s
statistics bureau, said separately that people will be “more
confident” about the fourth-quarter expansion.  Forecast Cut  The Aussie fell earlier today after the RBA predicted year-
average gross domestic product growth of 2.25 percent to 3.25
percent in 2013. That’s lower than its August estimate of 2.75
percent to 3.25 percent, according to its quarterly monetary
policy statement.  “Most of this revision to the outlook is accounted for by
a change in the profile for mining investment,” the central
bank said, predicting a peak in resource spending at about 8
percent of GDP from a prior 9 percent.  “The risks are that we see 2013 as a year of potentially
below-trend growth,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Singapore. “This will
nudge up the odds that we see a December rate cut. Some of the
headlines are certainly going to take the shine off the currency
as well.”  Westpac predicts policy makers will cut the 3.25 percent
overnight cash-rate target by 25 basis points at their Dec. 4
meeting and lower it by an additional quarter-percentage point
to 2.75 percent by March 31, Cavenagh said.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 61 percent chance the central bank will lower its
benchmark to 3 percent next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  