-- Austria Gets Another Bank Warning as Fitch Confirms AAA Rating
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-11-09T09:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/austria-gets-another-bank-warning-as-fitch-confirms-aaa-rating.html
Austria ’s highest debt rating was
confirmed with a stable outlook by  Fitch Ratings  today, as the
company said further state aid for banks is a risk to the Alpine
republic’s finances and its creditworthiness.  Fitch confirmed Austria’s long-term issuer default ratings
at AAA saying the nation’s high economic output per capita,
lowest  unemployment rate  in the European Union and moderate
private sector debt underpinned the assessment. The biggest
danger may come from continued support required by the banks
Austria has bailed out, Fitch said.  “Risks from the government’s contingent liabilities arise
mainly from the Austrian financial sector,” Fitch said.
“Unexpected costs arising from the continued restructuring of
banks already receiving official support could put pressure on
public finances and the rating.”  Austria’s three nationalized banks, bailed out between 2008
and 2012, will cause the nation’s budget deficit to widen this
year, even as Greece, Italy and  Spain  trim their shortfalls.
Austria’s budget gap will expand to 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 2.6 percent in 2011, swollen by
unplanned additional aid for the banks.  Standard & Poor’s  stripped Austria of its AAA grade in
January, saying its banks cause higher contingent liabilities
than in any other top-rated country. Moody’s Investors Service
also cited the risk of cash needs for the banks when it put a
negative outlook on the nation’s AAA rating in February.  The nationalized banks are KA Finanz AG, Hypo-Alpe-Adria
International AG and  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG. (VBPS)  They
needed more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) each of aid this
year, equivalent to more than 1 percent of the nation’s GDP.
More funds for KA Finanz and Hypo Alpe are already earmarked in
next year’s budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Tirone at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net  