-- Mazda Agrees to Manufacture Cars for Toyota at Mexican Factory
-- B y   M a   J i e
-- 2012-11-09T09:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/mazda-agrees-to-manufacture-cars-for-toyota-at-mexican-factory.html
Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , the only Japanese
automaker that’s been unprofitable for the past four years, will
build cars for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  at a Mexico plant currently
under construction.  Production of the Toyota-branded vehicle, a sub-compact
based on the Mazda2, will begin in mid-2015 at a rate of 50,000
units per year, the companies said in a  statement  today. The
agreement will help Toyota strengthen its lineup in  North
America  and increase production efficiency at Mazda, the
companies said.  Mazda is selling assets, shifting production to outside
Japan and improving gas mileage on models including the CX-5
sport utility vehicle and Mazda6 sedan to reach its first annual
profit in five years. The plant in  Mexico , scheduled to start
production by the year ending March 2014, will help Mazda
counter a strengthening yen which makes Japanese-made cars less
profitable.  Toyota will invest “an appropriate portion” of production
equipment costs and development costs related to the Toyota
vehicle, and also costs related to the plant’s capacity
increase, it said in the statement. The vehicles will be sold
through Toyota dealerships, it said.  Toyota shares fell 0.5 percent at its close in the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, before the companies announced the agreement.
Mazda shares was unchanged from yesterday.  Mazda’s new plant, with an annual capacity of 140,000
units, will be located in Salamanca City, Guanajuato State. The
company will build Mazda2 and Mazda3 vehicles at the factory.  Mazda exported 75 percent of the cars it made in  Japan  this
year, making it more vulnerable to gains in the yen than other
Japanese automakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  