-- BAE Systems Casts Focus Back on Middle East After EADS Plan Ends
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-09T16:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/bae-systems-casts-focus-back-on-middle-east-after-eads-plan-ends.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  is rushing to wrap up
negotiations with customers in the  Middle East  as Europe’s
largest defense company seeks to regain its footing following a
failed merger with  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)   The British weapons maker is in advanced talks with Oman
about the sale of 12 Typhoon fighter jets, a deal that BAE said
last month it wants to complete by year-end. Among the sticking
points are Omani demands for in-service support, said two
people, who asked not to be named because talks are private.  Middle East sales are critical to BAE as defense spending
in its two largest markets, the U.S. and U.K., drops. Besides
Oman, BAE is working to win a follow-on Typhoon contract in
 Saudi Arabia  as well as build up a stronger strategic
relationship in the United Arab Emirates for sales of drones.
The region accounts for about 13 percent of BAE’s revenue.  “The failure to close the deal with EADS was a setback, so
a deal on Typhoon would be a fillip to moral,” said Douglas
Barrie, aerospace analyst at the International Institute for
Strategic Studies. It would also give a lift to the Eurofighter,
built in conjunction with EADS and Italy’s  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ,
after losses in several competitions, he said.  In the aftermath of the botched EADS merger, BAE pledged to
conclude the Omani contract before 2013. Talks slowed earlier
this year because Oman was dissatisfied with progress on a
delayed naval vessel contract.  Cost of Delay  BAE has said its target for “modest growth” in earnings
this year is partly contingent on successful completion of talks
with Saudi Arabia’s on pricing of Typhoons already acquired.
Wrapping up those talks may have hit a snag after BAE was forced
to divert its attention to the EADS merger, said Robert Stallard, a London-based analyst at RBC  Europe .  “Due to the drama of the merger affair with EADS,
investors shifted focus away from BAE’s on-going efforts to
agree price escalation on the Saudi Salam program,” Stallard
said in a note today. He cut BAE’s 2012 earnings per share
forecast 7 percent in anticipation of a delay.  “A range of contract negotiations are continuing and our
previous guidance in this regard remains unchanged,” BAE said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Completing the Saudi deal will likely prompt BAE to
initiate another share buyback, Stallard expects. BAE investors,
including its largest shareholder  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  which holds 13.37
percent, have been pushing for more repurchases.  UAE Drone Interest  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  visited the Middle East
this week in an effort to improve ties that could aid BAE.
Cameron visited the U.A.E to discuss future cooperation, and
Saudi Arabia. The U.S. and  France  already have strong ties with
the state, located across the  Persian Gulf  from Iran. The talks
may lead to an agreement to form a strategic industrial
partnership between British and local industry.  The U.A.E. has shown interest in partnering with the U.K.
on development of a medium-altitude long-endurance drone. France
and the U.K. already have discussed BAE and  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) 
jointly developing such a system, which could involve the Middle
East country if technology export concerns can be resolved.  The U.A.E. also has a requirement for 60 new combat
aircraft and has reached out to BAE and others, including  Boeing
Co. (BA) , after talks with Dassault over the Rafale stalled last
year. Even though the U.A.E. is exploring other buyers, Rafale
remains the front-runner, Barrie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  