-- Baltic Ministers Express Support for Nuclear Plant in Lithuania
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-11-09T14:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/baltic-ministers-express-support-for-nuclear-plant-in-lithuania.html
Foreign ministers and lawmakers from
 Lithuania , Latvia and  Estonia  expressed support for a planned
nuclear plant in Lithuania that the country’s voters rejected in
a referendum last month.  “The Visaginas Nuclear Power Plant is an important project
which will increase the energy security of the region,” the
Baltic Council of Ministers and the Baltic Assembly, an inter-
parliamentary body, said in a statement today after a meeting in
Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital.  In a non-binding referendum held on Oct. 14, almost 63
percent of Lithuanian voters rejected the plan to replace the
defunct Ignalina nuclear plant near the town of Visaginas with a
new one to cut dependence on Russian energy. Elections that
ended on Oct. 28 were won by the  Social Democrats , who opposed
the project and seek to form a coalition government.  While a final decision must be made by Lithuania’s
parliament and government, the Visaginas project is sound in
terms of security, safety and economics, the Baltic gathering
including Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet and Latvian
Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics said in the joint statement.  The three countries also pledged to collaborate on other
regional energy and transport projects, and to defend common
positions in negotiations about the European Union budget.  Separately, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Audronius Azubalis
said canceling the Visaginas project “would mean a refusal to
proceed down the route we have agreed with the  United States  and
the European Commission” and could be misunderstood by
international partners, according to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  