-- Bank of Korea Holds Rates Amid Positve Economic Signs
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-11-09T02:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/bank-of-korea-holds-interest-rates-amid-signs-slowdown-is-easing.html
The  Bank of Korea  held borrowing
costs as policy makers pause to assess the effects of two cuts
earlier this year amid signs that growth in Asia’s fourth-
largest economy may rebound.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  at 2.75 percent, the central bank said
in a statement in Seoul today, after a 25 basis point cut last
month and in July. All of the 16 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  predicted the move.  Australia and Indonesia held rates this week and officials
in  China  said yesterday that Asia’s biggest economy is making
gains. South  Korea ’s first increase in four months in exports in
October signaled the economy may be recovering just as the
nation readies for a presidential election on Dec. 19, while
strength in the won could act as a drag.  “After delivering two rate cuts so far this year, the Bank
of Korea appears to have completed its monetary-easing cycle,”
said Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“The forthcoming presidential election will make any moves by
the central bank particularly sensitive.”  The won weakened 0.1 percent to 1,090.68 per dollar as of
11:08 a.m. in Seoul, after touching a 14-month high of 1,085.40
on Nov. 7. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index of stocks fell 1.1 percent.  “Domestic economic activity has continued on a weak growth
path since the second quarter of this year, but the slowdown has
recently appeared to be easing,” the BOK said in an English-
language statement. “In the coming months, the Korean economy
is likely to show a trend of improvement, albeit moderate.”  Improving Economy  The  Finance Ministry  cited strengthening exports and
industrial production as evidence of better conditions in a
monthly economic assessment on Nov. 6. Output rose for the first
time in four months in September on stronger sales of cars and
electronics.  Still, external uncertainties such as political events in
major economies are delaying a recovery in consumer and investor
confidence, according to the ministry. Re-elected President
 Barack Obama  and the  U.S. Congress  face the so-called fiscal
cliff, and China’s Communist Party yesterday began a meeting to
choose new leaders.  The won’s gains may also begin to hurt some South Korean
exporters in the fourth quarter, Deputy Trade Minister Han Jin
Hyun told reporters on Nov. 1.  South Korea’s  economy  expanded 1.6 percent from a year
earlier in the third quarter, the slowest pace since 2009. The
BOK will report revised growth for the period on Dec. 6, two
weeks before the presidential vote.  The administration of President  Lee Myung Bak , who is
constitutionally barred from seeking re-election at the end of
his five-year term, has resisted pressure for an extra budget to
boost growth. His 2013 budget proposal targets a fiscal deficit
of 0.3 percent of gross domestic product, a six-year low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  