-- Bank of America Loses Bid to Dismiss FHFA Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/bank-of-america-loses-bid-to-dismiss-fhfa-mortgage-bonds.html
Bank of America  Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
& Co. unit must face a lawsuit by the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , the conservator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, over
mortgage-backed securities sold by the investment bank.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in New York yesterday
denied Merrill’s request to dismiss the FHFA’s securities law
and fraud claims, except for fraud claims based on loan-to-value
ratios and ownership-occupancy reporting. The judge said FHFA
had failed to sufficiently allege fraudulent intent for those
claims.  The judge rejected Merrill Lynch’s request to throw out the
FHFA’s claims for recession and for punitive damages.  “The amended complaint adequately supports its demand for
punitive damages,” the judge said in the ruling. “FHFA alleges
that the defendants acted recklessly by seeking to profit from
ever more risky mortgage lending while, at the same time,
passing on the risk, and ultimately the losses, associated with
these practices to the public via their sale of securities to
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac.”  The FHFA sued Merrill Lynch and other investment banks last
year as conservator of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, the
government-sponsored enterprises created to support the housing
market by buying residential mortgages in the secondary market.
It alleges negligent misrepresentations and fraud related to the
mortgage-backed securities the banks sold from 2005 to 2007.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
ruling. Bank of America completed its acquisition of Merrill
Lynch on Jan. 2, 2009.  FHFA Lawsuits  Sixteen of the FHFA’s lawsuits are before Cote. The FHFA’s
case against Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial unit, at
one point the largest originator of residential mortgages, is
before a federal judge in Los Angeles who last month denied
Countrywide’s motion to dismiss the claims for being brought to
late.  Cote earlier denied  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
request to dismiss FHFA’s claims.  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. Merrill Lynch
& Co., 11-06202, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  