-- Barrick Gold’s Former Chief Sees Virtue in Being Small
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-11-09T21:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/barrick-gold-s-former-chief-sees-virtue-in-being-small.html
New Gold Inc. (NGD)  Executive Chairman
Randall Oliphant, who helped build Barrick Gold Corp. into the
world’s largest producer of the precious metal, says he prefers
running a smaller gold miner than a big one.  Companies that produce fewer than 2 million ounces annually
have more opportunities to increase output, said Oliphant, who
was chief executive officer of Toronto-based Barrick from 1999
to 2003 and joined Vancouver-based New Gold six years later.
It’s “very challenging” to expand a large, established gold
company, he said.  “You’ve got no growth in total in the industry and a lot
of your mines are aging and closing down, so you have to work
very hard just to stay even,” Oliphant said in a Nov. 2
interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto office. “They have to continue
to go after the Wal-Marts as opposed to the 7-Elevens.”  Recent data show investors support the smaller-is-better
thesis. A Bloomberg Industries  index  of 20 so-called mid-tier
gold miners, which includes New Gold, rose 1.3 percent in the
past three years through yesterday, compared with a 19 percent
decline in a gauge of 14  seniors . In the same period, New Gold
has climbed 154 percent in Toronto, while Barrick slumped 18
percent.  Intermediates “offer more upside,” said Craig West, a
Toronto-based analyst at GMP Securities Ltd. who rates New Gold
a buy.  “Barrick isn’t going to grow by 50 percent in the next
three years,” West said yesterday by phone. “I can name eight
different juniors that will, so why buy the seniors?”  New Focus  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick spokesman, didn’t respond to phone
calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  Barrick CEO Jamie Sokalsky said in July the company will
focus on returns and cash flow, instead of just growing output.
Returns will drive production, not the other way around, he said
Nov. 1.  New Gold plans to increase gold output from about 400,000
ounces this year to more than 1 million by 2017 as new mines in
 Canada  and  Chile  start up, Oliphant said. In comparison, Barrick
forecasts gold production will be 7.3 million to 7.5 million
ounces this year and about 8 million by 2016, while  Newmont
Mining Corp. (NEM) , the second-largest producer, projects 5 million to
5.1 million ounces this year.  “We don’t think that anybody in the gold space is going to
be producing 2 1/2 times as much gold five years from now as
they are this year,” Oliphant said.  Acquisition Hunt  Oliphant said he’s going against the prevailing trends in
the  mining industry . While bigger producers are cautious about
dealmaking following a series of unpopular transactions, New
Gold is looking for acquisitions after metal exploration and
development companies’ market values  slumped  in the past two
years, said Oliphant, 53.  And while the world’s largest mining companies, including
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group, curtail project spending,
Oliphant said New Gold may benefit by moving against that trend.  “There hasn’t been a better time to build a mine, we don’t
think, over the next few years, as the whole rest of the world
is running in the opposite direction,” Oliphant said.  To be sure, New Gold’s rapid growth plans probably mean it
will eventually start closing in on the larger producers. The
end game may be to sell the company to a bigger miner, Oliphant
said. New Gold has had “soft approaches” in the past, he said.  For now, the company has “lots of runway” to grow,
Oliphant said. “I think we can keep doing what we’ve been doing
for quite a while.”  Current Shape  Oliphant was a chartered accountant at Coopers & Lybrand
LLP before he joined  Barrick (ABX)  as assistant treasurer in 1987. At
Barrick, he had plans to build four new mines over five years to
boost output and surpass Newmont as the world’s biggest
producer. Oliphant was fired from Barrick in February 2003 after
the company’s stock fell 17 percent in the previous 12 months
even as the price of gold surged to a six-year high.  New Gold began to take its current shape when it acquired
Metallica Resources Inc. and Peak Gold Ltd. in 2008. The
combined company bought Western Goldfields Inc. a year later --
bringing in Oliphant -- and bought Richfield Ventures Corp. in
2011. New Gold now produces bullion in the U.S.,  Mexico , Canada
and  Australia .  The company’s mines aren’t “top, top quality assets,”
GMP’s West said. “But they run them very well, they run them
conservatively and they hit their numbers, and that’s all that
really matters in this marketplace.”  Nothing ‘Stupid’  New Gold has risen 34 percent in Toronto since closing the
Metallica and Peak Gold deals, compared with a 5.8 percent
decline in the 56-member  S&P/TSX Global Gold Sector Index. (SPTSGD)  New
Gold’s shares fell 3.1 percent to close at C$10.70 today.  New Gold has “a very good management team,”  John Stephenson , a portfolio manager at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto, said yesterday in a phone interview.  “They haven’t done anything stupid,” said Stephenson, who
helps manage about $2.7 billion, including New Gold shares.
“They’re not likely to go out and blow themselves up by buying
an enormous name that people have heard of at a ridiculously
high multiple just to do a deal. Their discipline so far has
been excellent.”  New Gold paid about C$385.7 million ($385.2 million), a 47
percent premium, to acquire Richfield and its Blackwater project
in British Columbia in June last year. The company said the
project, which will be the company’s flagship, will produce more
than 500,000 ounces of gold and 2 million ounces of silver
annually in the first 15 years and will cost about $1.8 billion.
The company is targeting first production in 2017, Oliphant
said.  ‘Fund Internally’  The acquisition made sense because New Gold has just
finished permitting and developing another gold project, New
Afton, in British Columbia, he said.  Oliphant said last week he was looking for acquisitions
that met certain criteria.  “If we can find something as compelling as Blackwater,
where we are the logical owner and it’s something that we can
fund internally that was in one of the jurisdictions that we
operate in, then we are quite willing to step forward and do
that.”  New Gold said yesterday it issued $500 million of 10-year
bonds to raise money for “general corporate purposes.”  ‘Obvious Need’  “There isn’t an obvious need for additional financing,”
Steven Green, an analyst at TD Securities Inc. in Toronto, said
in a note. “The market is likely to speculate that they are
preparing for a potential bolt-on acquisition to add growth
between now and 2017 when Blackwater is expected to come on
line.”  How big is too big? Oliphant said that once companies
surpass annual gold output of about 2 million ounces, they begin
to jeopardize the growth and returns that shareholders expect.  Large companies lose “the magic that is behind some of
these more entrepreneurial companies,” Oliphant said.  “New Gold today is probably truer to the Barrick I joined
than Barrick is today,” he said. “We don’t really want to be a
big company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  