-- Bishop Blunders Into Porn Star as Bennett’s Play Stumbles
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/bishop-blunders-into-porn-star-as-bennett-s-play-stumbles.html
If someone like  Peter Hall  can
heckle “Downton Abbey” star Laura Carmichael, perhaps it’s
O.K. now for the rest of us too.  Alan Bennett ’s new comedy
“People” at London’s National Theatre may be a good place to
start.  Poverty-stricken Lady Dorothy Stacpoole (Frances de la
Tour) sits among the rotting tapestries of her decrepit stately
home. Her sister (Selina Cadell), a brusque lesbian archdeacon,
wants her to give the house to the National Trust, which would
repair it and let visitors in. Dorothy hates the idea.  “People spoil things,” says a cynical property agent, and
Dorothy nods in agreement. She’s tempted to sell the property to
the agent’s cartel of businessmen instead.  So far, so straightforward. Aristocratic individuality
versus plebeian hordes. Heritage populism versus filthy lucre.  The tone changes when a bored film crew arrives to shoot a
seedy movie in the mansion to generate a bit of cash.  As in “The History Boys” and “The Habit of Art,”
Bennett presents a version of life which seems to confuse modern
social mores with those of an earlier era. Does anyone in the
sex industry still shoot 1970’s-style porn on 35mm film? Does a
predictably naive bishop really have to arrive in the middle of
it all, as in a 1960’s farce?  It’s a maiden-auntish view of the world. Either you’ll
enjoy its comforting lies, or want to heckle like Sir Peter at
its pointless distortions.  The acting is excellent. De la Tour is once again a master
of the put-down. Selina Cadell is amusingly gung-ho as the
horsey sister. Director  Nicholas Hytner  provides a realistic
production which, though well-paced, perhaps isn’t the best for
Bennett’s non-realistic vision of the world. Rating: **.  ‘Uncle Vanya’  Peter Hall apologized for his tirade during Carmichael’s
climactic closing speech of “Uncle Vanya.” The 81-year-old
theatrical knight said he thought the production was very fine,
and that he was merely “disorientated” after falling asleep.  Those of us who stayed awake enjoyed a superb period
production performed by a great ensemble of actors.  The meaty speeches all get their due. When Vanya (Ken
Stott) cries over lost opportunities, the effect is more tragic
for being slightly comical. Samuel West gives a terrific turn as
the drunken Doctor Astrov. Anna Friel is suitably ambiguous as
beautiful Yelena, who turns their backwater life upside-down.  Laura Carmichael (Lady Edith from “Downton”) matches them
as Sonya, showing touching naivety and strength.  Director Lindsay Posner brings it alive by attention to
detail. Yelena blows the dust from the keys of the piano she
hasn’t touched in years. Telyegin touches the samovar to check
its heat. A top-notch performance of a masterpiece. Rating:
*****.  ‘Pilgrim’s Progress’  “Masterpiece” isn’t a word one would use to describe
Ralph Vaughan Williams’s rarely-performed 1951 work “The
Pilgrim’s Progress” now at English National Opera.  Pilgrim (named “Christian” in John Bunyan’s 17th-century
text upon which the work is based) goes on a journey to find the
Celestial City. Along the way he visits  Vanity Fair , which isn’t
as fun as it sounds.  The score is in the composer’s English-pastoral-mystic mode
and has some pretty moments. Since there’s no antagonist and no
conflict -- just a series of increasingly static episodes --even
this musical sweetness quickly curdles.  Mish-Mash  Director Yoshi Oida employs a mish-mash of styles. Pilgrim
(Roland Wood) starts behind the bars of a Soviet prison. He then
battles with a Japanese puppet-monster. Vanity Fair looks like
an 1890’s burlesque night. There’s plenty of World War I
imagery.  It’s as confusing as it sounds. By setting part of the show
in jail instead of the Delectable Mountains (as indicated in the
score), Oida forgets the inconvenient fact that Pilgrim owns the
Key of Promise, which can get him out of any jail.  “Why don’t you use the magic key, you oaf?” you’ll find
yourself wanting to shout. If your eyes haven’t rolled right
back into your sockets with boredom, that is.  Wood sings smoothly, and Benedict Nelson and Kitty Whately
make the most of their multiple roles. The chorus and orchestra,
conducted by Martyn Brabbins, play beautifully.  It isn’t enough. Vaughan Williams admitted the piece wasn’t
dramatic. Which begs the question: why bother to put the rest of
us through a staging? Rating: **.  ‘Victor/ Victoria’  There’s much to enjoy in a lively staging of the musical
“Victor / Victoria” by Blake Edwards and Henry Mancini.  Anna Francolini takes on the title role(s) of an English
soprano who pretends to be a Polish male drag-queen in 1930’s
Paris. Subtle it isn’t.  It is, however, a jolly excuse for plenty of catchy cabaret
numbers staged with a full complement of spangles and sequins by
Thom Southerland. Francolini is pleasingly butch as Count
Victor, and Richard Dempsey great fun as her gay friend Toddy.  Southwark Playhouse is developing a reputation for small-
scale musicals. It’s just what  London  needs. Rating: ****.  “People” is at the National Theatre. Information:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk/  or +44-20-7452-3000.  “The Pilgrim’s Progress” is in repertoire at ENO.
Information:  http://www.eno.org  or +44-20-7845-9300.  “Uncle Vanya” is at the Vaudeville Theatre.
 http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  or +44-844-412-4663.  “Victor / Victoria” is at the Southwark Playhouse.
 http://www.southwarkplayhouse.co.uk  or +44-20-7407-0234.  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 