-- BOE to Move QE Cash to Treasury in Step King Says Is Easing
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-11-09T14:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/boe-to-transfer-qe-cash-to-treasury-in-move-king-says-is-easing.html
The  Bank of England  will transfer
income from gilts it holds under its bond-buying program to the
Treasury in a move that Governor  Mervyn King  said equates to an
easing of monetary conditions. Bonds rose.  The Treasury will use the money to reduce the stock of
debt, lowering the amount of gilts held by the private sector
and increasing the amount of money in the economy, King said in
a letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  published
today on their websites. The amount of “excess cash”
accumulated is expected to reach 35 billion pounds ($56 billion)
by the end of March next year.  “That implies an easing in monetary conditions relative to
the present position,” King said. The Monetary Policy Committee
views the transfer as “having an effect similar” to the
central bank buying gilts through quantitative easing.  The announcement came a day after the MPC decided to keep
its bond-purchase target at 375 billion pounds ($597 billion) at
a meeting at which policy makers were briefed on the income
transfer. The move may provide a political boost for Osborne by
allowing him to meet a debt target that he was on course to
miss, said  Michael Saunders , chief economist for Western Europe
at Citigroup Inc. in  London .  “This announcement may well have solved the key dilemma
facing the chancellor for the Autumn Statement,” Saunders said
in an e-mailed note. It may also “be a key reason why the MPC
decided not to expand QE further yesterday.”  Debt Goal  Osborne had been on course to miss his goal to have
government debt falling as a share of gross domestic product in
the 2015-2016 fiscal year after the return to recession at the
end of last year sapped tax receipts. That left him the choice
of risking the recovery by tightening fiscal policy or damaging
his credibility by letting the target slip.  The yield on 10-year gilts fell as much as 10 basis points,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.67 percent, the lowest since
Sept. 10, and was at 1.69 percent as of 1:36 p.m. London time.  Osborne said holding large amounts of cash in the APF is
“inefficient” and the change brings arrangements “into line
with standard cash management practices for government
activities and is also in line with the practices of the  Federal
Reserve  and the  Bank of Japan. (8301) ”  Maturing Debt  The money to be transferred to the Treasury from the BOE
comes largely from coupon payments on the bonds already
purchased through the central bank’s Asset Purchase Facility.
The Treasury will use the funds to reduce debt.  The letters also say that the BOE will retain the principle
on maturing bonds that it already holds through the APF. The
first bonds will mature in March and King said the MPC will
decide what to do with that money.  “The appropriate size of the asset-purchase program will
be reviewed and decided by the MPC at each policy meeting,”
King said. “So the size of any asset purchases or sales will
need to take into account the repayment of maturing bonds.”  The  Office of National Statistics  and the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  will rule on how the money is accounted for in
the  public finances , though the Treasury said there will be an
impact on the central government net cash requirement.  Today’s agreement will reduce the amount of gilts the
Treasury will need to issue and Osborne will set out a schedule
for next year’s gilt sales when he makes his economic statement
in Parliament on Dec. 5.  Staggered Payments  The  money to be transferred  from the coupon payments
currently stands at 23.8 billion pounds and is expected to reach
35 billion pounds as of as of March 2013, the Treasury said. The
payments will be staged. About 11 billion pounds in net earnings
in the current fiscal year will be transferred to the Treasury
by April 2013 with the remaining 23.8 billion pounds drawn down
over the course of the following 12 months.  Subsequent earnings, estimated by Saunders at about 15
billion pounds a year, or 1 percent of GDP, would be paid to the
Treaasury on a quarterly basis.  The process will probably be reversed when the central bank
begins to tighten policy either by increasing its  benchmark
interest rate  or selling the gilts it holds.  “This smoke and mirrors will fool nobody,” Rachel Reeves,
who speaks on Treasury affairs for the opposition  Labour Party ,
said in a statement. “We will look very closely at how the OBR
and ONS account for this change and whether it ends up costing
the taxpayer more in the long-term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  