-- BofA $1 Billion Whistleblower Also Faced Fraud Claims
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-11-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/bofa-1-billion-whistleblower-also-faced-fraud-claims.html
The whistle-blower helping the U.S.
government mount a $1 billion fraud lawsuit against  Bank of
America Corp.  was himself accused of fraud by an investor in a
financing company he co-founded, and now works at  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,
one of two entities he claims the bank defrauded.  Edward O’Donnell sued Bank of America, the second-biggest
U.S. lender by  assets , in February under the  False Claims Act ,
saying the bank’s Countrywide Financial unit, where he once
worked, issued defective mortgages and sold them to  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac . Last month, the  Justice Department  joined his
suit, making it the first time the U.S. has accused a bank of
fraud over loans sold to the two government-sponsored mortgage-
finance companies.  To make the case, the U.S. may have to confront its
whistle-blower’s own tangled history. A year after leaving
Countrywide, O’Donnell was sued by an investor in a deal
organized by a commercial financing firm he co-founded. Bank of
America may use that lawsuit, and O’Donnell’s job at Fannie Mae,
to raise doubts about his credibility before a jury, according
to Peter Hutt, a lawyer who defends whistle-blower cases.  “It could certainly be argued that the whistle-blower had
an interest in making the allegation either to secure employment
at Fannie Mae or making himself look good at Fannie Mae,” Hutt,
a partner at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP in
Washington, said in a phone interview.  Documentary Evidence  Still, if documents and other evidence support O’Donnell’s
claims, “there won’t be any direct effect” on the U.S. case
from disclosures about his background, said Hutt, who isn’t
involved in the Bank of America lawsuit.  O’Donnell referred a call about the earlier lawsuit to his
lawyer, David Wasinger, who declined to comment.  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  New York , whose
office joined the Bank of America case, declined to comment on
O’Donnell.  The bank has denied the allegations against it in the 
whistle-blower suit.  “Bank of America has stepped up and acted responsibly to
resolve legacy mortgage matters,” Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman
for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company, said in a
statement after the U.S. joined the case. “Bank of America
can’t be expected to compensate every entity that claims losses
that actually were caused by the economic downturn.” Grayson
declined to comment on the investor claims made against
O’Donnell.  False Claims  The False Claims Act lets U.S. citizens sue on behalf of
the federal government and share in any recovery. Under the law,
which penalizes companies for defrauding the government,
whistle-blowers such as O’Donnell may collect as much as
25 percent of a recovery.  The largest individual recovery ever under the law was
$96 million for Cheryl Eckard, a former quality assurance
manager for GlaxoSmithKline Plc, who was fired after pushing the
company to fix manufacturing flaws at a plant. Bradley Birkenfeld, a former UBS AG banker who told the  Internal Revenue
Service  how the bank helped thousands of Americans evade taxes,
secured an award of $104 million under a different statute.  O’Donnell stands to get as much as $250 million if the
government wins the $1 billion in unreimbursed losses that it’s
seeking from Bank of America, said David Engstrom, a Stanford
Law School professor, who said the amount may also be much less.  The U.S. wins a recovery in 90 percent of the whistle-
blower cases it elects to join, said Engstrom, who has analyzed
thousands of such lawsuits filed since 1986. The government
joins about one-fourth of all False Claims Act cases that have
been unsealed and made public by judges, he said.  “That’s a very good situation for him,” Engstrom said of
O’Donnell. “He’s cleared a major hurdle.”  Risk Management  O’Donnell, who lived in  Texas , worked at Countrywide from
2003 to 2009, rising to the position of an executive vice
president, responsible for risk management of loans, according
to his complaint. Countrywide, once the largest mortgage lender
in the U.S., was  acquired  by Bank of America in 2008.  After leaving Countrywide, O’Donnell co-founded Dallas-
based Rightway Partners LLC, a commercial financing firm,
according to state records and O’Donnell’s ex-business partner,
Mark Dusza. O’Donnell now works at Fannie Mae, according to a
spokesman for the company.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency.  ‘Private Citizen’  “Mr. O’Donnell filed this action as a private citizen,”
 Andrew Wilson , the spokesman for Washington-based Fannie Mae,
said in an e-mailed statement. “It alleges facts relating to
his professional experience prior to working at Fannie Mae.
Fannie Mae was not involved in any way with the filing of Mr.
O’Donnell’s complaint.”  Wilson said O’Donnell “does not work on any matters that
are the subject of the complaint.”  In the complaint, which was filed under seal in  Manhattan 
federal court and unsealed Oct. 24, O’Donnell accused
Countrywide and Bank of America of trying to increase volume by
ignoring quality-control guidelines and underwriting loans that
soon defaulted. The loans were sold to Fannie Mae and McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac, which buy single-family mortgages to
provide market liquidity.  O’Donnell’s “concerns were disregarded and Countrywide
continued to ignore underwriting and quality control,”
according to the complaint. “Billions of dollars of poor
quality loans continued to be originated and sold” to Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, O’Donnell said.  The Hustle  The government intervened in the case on Oct. 24. In its
complaint, the U.S. said O’Donnell warned the bank that a
strategy for underwriting called the Hustle -- short for its
“high-speed swim lane” model of loan origination --
“presented a disastrous layering of risk” by eliminating
underwriter review of most applications and letting unqualified
employees determine whether to make loans.  “Concerned about the high defect rates from the pilot of
the Hustle and a rapid deterioration in loan quality, O’Donnell
directed some of the underwriters to conduct quality checks on
the Hustle loans pre-funding, in the hope that the defects could
be corrected,” the Justice Department said. From 2007 to 2009,
Countrywide hid from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac the “alarming
spike in defect rates” in loan defaults, according to the
complaint.  Fourteen months before O’Donnell accused Countrywide of
running a scheme that cost the U.S. billions of dollars, he was
accused of fraud by an investor in a deal sponsored by Rightway
Partners.  ‘Four Guys’  Rightway was formed in 2009 by O’Donnell, an  Arizona  man
named Patrick McMullan, Dusza and one other person, according to
Dusza. The firm sought to obtain financing for companies seeking
to expand, he said.  “We were just four guys who knew each other,” said Dusza,
who said he worked and socialized with O’Donnell while at
Countrywide and then joined him at Rightway. He called O’Donnell
“a very upstanding guy.”  “He’s always been a do-the-right-thing guy. Very respected
in the industry, always been very honest,” Dusza said.  Rightway was unable to find financing for a single client,
he said.  “We had no money pass through the company,” said Dusza,
citing the harsh lending climate in 2009 and 2010. “We were
reaching out to people who were advertising deals on the
Internet.” Dusza said he spent about a year at the firm.  Still, Rightway tried to broker at least one deal,
according to court papers.  ‘Origination Fee’  In early 2010, O’Donnell and McMullan allegedly told three
investors they could double their money in “a matter of days”
by placing a total of $575,000 with Rightway, according to
lawsuits the investors later filed. The $575,000 would act as an
“origination fee” securing a $100 million loan to Rightway
from one or more banks, the investors said they were told,
according to court filings.  O’Donnell, McMullan and  David Rosenberg , a  Connecticut 
lawyer, allegedly said the “arrangement was safe and secure and
a proven financial process,” investors James VinZant and  David
Martin  said in their lawsuit against Rightway. Thomas Madison, a
third Rightway investor, sued the firm, O’Donnell, McMullan and
Rosenberg over the same deal.  The three said they lost their money and claimed Rightway
didn’t use their investments as promised, didn’t contribute at
least $200,000 that it pledged toward the origination fee and
deceived the investors when McMullan and O’Donnell said the
investment was safe.  ‘Repeated Statements’  “Mr. O’Donnell repeated statements to the effect that
Rightway’s interests in making sure this deal closed was the
same as mine as they had funds at risk, just as I did,” Madison
said in an affidavit attached to the complaint he filed in
federal court in  New Haven , Connecticut, in December 2010.  The investors also claimed that Rightway hid that the
Nevada-based company that was supposed to secure the
$100 million loan on Rightway’s behalf had been accused of fraud
in 2009, along with its two officers. A federal judge in Las
Vegas last month entered a summary judgment against the two
officers.  Madison’s suit against Rightway was settled confidentially
this year after a judge in Connecticut refused Rosenberg’s
dismissal bid. The VinZant suit is pending. McMullan didn’t
return telephone calls.  No Loan  Mark Johnson , a lawyer for O’Donnell, McMullan and
Rightway, said his clients denied wrongdoing. Rosenberg, the
Connecticut lawyer, said in a phone interview that the
$100 million loan “did not materialize” after
“representations O’Donnell and McMullan made.”  These details about O’Donnell’s background may never be
aired before a jury in the whistle-blower lawsuit.  It’s “exceedingly rare” for False Claims Act cases to
reach trial, said Engstrom. Because the U.S. has probably
amassed documents and other evidence to support the claims,
details of O’Donnell’s background may be no more than
“atmospherics” that don’t affect the outcome, he said.  Engstrom predicted the government might join other mortgage
cases. That it took the Justice Department eight months to
decide to join O’Donnell’s lawsuit -- compared with an average
of 24 months in other whistle-blower cases -- indicates that the
U.S. is taking such allegations seriously, he said.  “It certainly suggests to me that this is part of a
broader strategic decision by DOJ to intervene in this space,”
he said.  The government’s case is U.S. v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
O’Donnell’s suit is U.S. ex rel. Edward O’Donnell v. Bank of
America, 12-cv-1433, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The investor cases are Madison v. Rightway
Partners, 10-cv-1912; and VinZant v. Rightway Partners, 12-cv-
472, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  