-- Brazilian Real Declines to Four-Month Low, Extending Weekly Drop
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-11-09T20:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/brazilian-real-declines-to-four-month-low-extending-weekly-drop.html
Brazil ’s real fell to its lowest
level since June on speculation the central bank will maintain
its intervention policy to weaken the currency and amid concern
political disputes may threaten U.S. and European recoveries.  The currency slid 0.3 percent to 2.0462 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close in Sao Paulo after touching 2.0658, the weakest
intraday level since June 28. The currency extended its weekly
decline to 0.7 percent, the steepest since July 6. Swap rates on
contracts due in July 2014 rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.62 percent.  “Investors are concerned with global growth,”  Reginaldo Galhardo , foreign-exchange manager at Treviso Corretora de
Cambio, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The market
is seeking to hedge with the dollar and move away from other
currencies in a classic risk-aversion move.”  Brazil’s central bank has sold reverse currency swaps to
keep the real weaker than 2 per dollar to support exporters. It
sold $1.4 billion of contracts Oct. 25, $1.6 billion Oct. 23,
$1.3 billion Oct. 5, $5.7 billion Sept. 12 through Sept. 17 and
$350 million Aug. 21. The August reverse swaps were the first
since March.  The real dropped today along with most emerging-market
currencies as global economic growth concern spurred demand for
a refuge. Euro-area finance ministers may not make a decision on
unlocking funds for  Greece  until late November as they await a
report on the country’s compliance with bailout terms, a
European Union official said. The U.S. risks entering a
recession should policy makers fail to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic tax increases and spending cuts,  Fitch
Ratings  said.  Target Rate  Brazil’s policy makers cut the target lending  rate  for a
10th straight meeting on Oct. 10, reducing it to a record low
7.25 percent to revive the slowest growth among major emerging-
market economies.  The first preview of the Getulio Vargas Foundation’s IGP-M
inflation index for November decreased 0.19 percent, compared
with the median forecast of a 0.05 percent drop in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. The gauge is made up of 60 percent
producer prices, 30 percent consumer prices and 10 percent
construction costs.  Keeping borrowing costs unchanged for a “prolonged time”
is still the best strategy to ensure inflation will slow to its
target of 4.5 percent next year, central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said Nov. 7 in an interview.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA index rose 5.45
percent in October from a year earlier, the national statistics
agency reported Nov. 7. The median forecast of 37 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 5.44 percent increase. Prices
for food and beverages rose 1.36 percent in October, the fastest
monthly pace since November 2010.  “There is the possibility for more activity and higher
inflation this quarter,” Ronaldo Patah, the head of fixed
income at Itau Asset Management in  Sao Paulo , said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  