-- Brazil’s Mattos Filho Takes Top Rank for Legal Advisers
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-11-09T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/brazil-s-mattos-filho-takes-top-rank-for-legal-advisers.html
The top-ranked  law firm  for mergers
and acquisitions in  Brazil  this year is Mattos Filho, Veiga
Filho, Marrey Jr. & Quiroga Advogados after it helped complete
more buyout-fund transactions than any other legal adviser.  Mattos Filho handled deals totaling $14.3 billion this year
through yesterday, giving it 27 percent of the market and
propelling it past 2011’s leader, Barbosa Mussnich & Aragao,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Sao Paulo-based
firm advised on eight of the 64 transactions involving buyout
funds so far this year.  “Increasing competition for deals between private-equity
funds has kept us working a lot,” Joao Ricardo de Azevedo
Ribeiro, a senior partner at Mattos Filho, said in an interview.
He credited the firm’s  New York  office for winning assignments
on international buyouts.  Estok Comercio & Representacoes Ltda., owner of the
Tok&Stok chain of furniture stores, hired Mattos Filho to advise
on its sale of a 60 percent stake to  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  for 700
million reais ($343 million). The law firm also advised London-
based private-equity company Actis LLP on its pending 180
million-real purchase of Cruzeiro do Sul Educacional, a Sao
Paulo-based for-profit university.  Private-equity funds participated in 64 M&A transactions in
Brazil, or 12 percent of the 552 deals so far this year. That’s
up from 57 deals, or 9.6 percent, of the 596 transactions
announced in the same period of 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Equity Sales  “When equity issuance is weak, private-equity funds, which
demand higher returns than the  capital market  or strategic
investors, take a bigger role in mergers and acquisitions,”
said Alexandre Bertoldi, a partner at Pinheiro Neto Advogados,
which ranked second for the period and advised on $13.4 billion
of transactions.  That can cut both ways, said Fernando de Almeida Prado, a
partner at Pinheiro Neto.  “If the market is weak for a long time, private-equity
firms also end up reducing the pace of acquisitions because they
don’t have the traditional way out of their investments,” Prado
said.  Mattos Filho and Pinheiro Neto tied for first place based
on the number of deals, with 37 transactions each. Mattos Filho
was No. 1 based on that basis for the previous three years.  “For a lawyer, the number of transactions done is more
important than the value because we don’t earn a fee from the
value of deals, but a fixed value by hour of work,” said Carlos
Lima, the Pinheiro Neto partner who handled the $4.9 billion
acquisition of  Amil Participacoes SA (AMIL3)  by  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,
the No. 1 U.S. health insurer, announced on Oct. 8.  Merger Volume  Merger volume in Brazil fell 38 percent through yesterday
compared with the same period last year to $53 billion as
economic growth slowed.  “The European crisis reduced the volume of public-equity
offerings this year, and because of that we didn’t have all that
abundance of capital for acquisitions,” said Marcos Rafael
Flesch, a partner at Sao Paulo-based Souza, Cescon, Barrieu &
Flesch Advogados, which ranked third for the period with $11.8
billion of transactions. “Besides that there are a lot of very
cheap assets outside Brazil to compete with the companies
here.”  ‘Crown Jewels’  “Some European companies are having to sell their crown
jewels in Brazil to raise cash, but the market knows that and
they are not finding the price they want,” said Carlos Jose Rolim de Mello, a partner at Machado Meyer Sendacz & Opice,
which ranked second based on number of transactions at 35.  Both Mattos Filho and Souza Cescon worked on the biggest
deal of the year, the $6.84 billion buyout of Redecard SA by
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA. (ITUB4)  Itau was Redecard’s largest
shareholder, with a 50 percent stake, when it offered in
February to buy the rest of the company and delist it. The
transaction was completed on Sept. 25.  Regulatory changes and government pressure to reduce prices
are damping interest in acquisitions in some sectors after
shares fell. Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  this year has
pushed banks to shrink  interest rates , utilities to cut power
bills and phone operators to drive down wireless costs for
consumers to fuel growth and curtail inflation.  “The increasing participation of the State on the economy
can reduce the volume of mergers and acquisitions next year”,
said Francisco Antunes Maciel Mussnich, partner at Barbosa,
Mussnich & Aragao.  ‘Rushed to Close’  “A lot of companies rushed to close deals in the first
half of the year before a new antitrust law took effect, and
after that activity slowed,” said Moacir Zilbovicius, an M&A
lawyer and senior partner at Mattos Filho.  Under legislation implemented on June 1, buyers must seek
antitrust approval before closing transactions. The antitrust
authority, known as Cade, has said it will take no more than 330
days to review a proposed merger. Previously, companies filed
requests to review a deal after an accord had already been
closed, allowing operations to be integrated before approval
from Cade, which could take as long as two years in some cases.  “Cade is being very quick and I believe M&A activity will
rebound next year,” Zilbovicius said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  