-- Brazilian Coffee Growers Seen Holding Back Beans as Prices Drop
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-11-09T10:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/brazilian-coffee-growers-seen-holding-back-beans-as-prices-drop.html
Coffee growers in  Brazil , the world’s
largest producer of the commodity, are holding back beans as
prices continue to fall, limiting the volume of trades,
according to brokers Flavour Coffee and Cazarini Trading Co.  Arabica coffee futures traded in  New York  have fallen 33
percent so far this year partly because of a bigger crop in
Brazil and rising stockpiles. The commodity is the worst
performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials. Coffee inventories in warehouses monitored by ICE
Futures U.S. stood at 2.43 million bags, the highest since April
2010, exchange  data  on Bloomberg showed.  “Current falling prices are keeping producers and
cooperatives aside of the market,” Flavour Coffee said in a
report e-mailed yesterday. “Much less volume is being
offered.”  Exporters are also not buying as the price offered by
producers would mean a loss for them, Flavour Coffee said. The
discount being given by producers for their beans is still not
low enough to attract new sales, Thiago Cazarini, a broker at
Cazarini Trading in Varginha, Brazil, said in a report e-mailed
yesterday. Varginha is in  Minas Gerais , Brazil’s biggest
arabica-producing state.  “Differentials remain firm and it has been very hard, more
than before, to add new sales to the books,” Cazarini said,
referring to a discount or a premium paid to obtain physical
coffee in relation to the price on the futures market.  Fine-cup arabica coffee beans from Brazil were trading at a
discount of 8 cents a pound to the price on ICE, unchanged from
the previous week, according to Flavour Coffee data. Good-cup
quality coffee was at a discount of 19 cents a pound, compared
with 18 cents a pound last week. Fine-cup beans are usually more
expensive because of their taste profile.  Robusta Premium  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known, were at a
premium of 18 cents a pound ($397 a metric ton) to the price on
the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London , up from 15 cents a pound a
week earlier, according to Flavour Coffee data.  Robusta coffee for January delivery slid 0.2 percent to
$1,963 a ton by 10:09 a.m. in London. Arabica coffee for
December delivery declined 0.1 percent to $1.512 a pound in New
York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 