-- Brevan Howard Said to Hire Credit Suisse Mortgage Trader
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-11-09T18:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/brevan-howard-said-to-hire-credit-suisse-mortgage-trader-1-.html
Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP,
 Europe ’s second-largest hedge fund, hired 29-year-old  Credit
Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG mortgage-bond trader Josh Bertman, according to
four people with knowledge of the matter.  Bertman will start at Brevan Howard in New York after
leaving Credit Suisse last month, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the move wasn’t public. In December,
Forbes magazine  named  him one of the “ 30 under 30 ” year-olds
to watch in finance for the “big revenue” he was generating
for the Zurich-based lender.  Brevan Howard is hiring him as wagers on mortgages produce
the industry’s best returns.  Hedge funds  focused on the market
have  gained  19 percent this year, compared with the industry’s
average return of 1.1 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Traders are also defecting to investment firms as
banks come under pressure from regulators and lawmakers to limit
both cash bonuses and risk-taking.  The lure of hedge funds has become “even more acute,”
according to Adam Zoia, chief executive officer of recruiting
firm Glocap Search in New York. “It’s become more extreme in
favor of the buy-side because so much more of the bankers’
compensation is getting deferred,” said Zoia, who helped
compile the Forbes list with  Ken Fisher  of Fisher Investments
and private-equity manager Thomas H. Lee.  Bertman declined to comment, as did Jack Grone, a spokesman
for Credit Suisse, and Max Hilton, an outside spokesman for
Brevan Howard at Peregrine Communications.  Credit Suisse  He joined Credit Suisse in 2005 from the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology , according to regulatory records. At the
bank, he specialized in so-called agency collateralized mortgage
obligations, which are also called agency mortgage derivatives.
Such CMOs are created by slicing up simpler, pass-through
mortgage bonds with U.S. government backing.  Funds focused on mortgages have outperformed as the U.S.
housing market rebounded, homeowner refinancing remained
constrained after its slump since 2006 and the  Federal Reserve 
expanded its purchases of government-backed debt, reducing
yields. Returns in the $5.2 trillion market for government-
backed mortgage bonds fluctuate with changes in benchmark
yields, demand relative to Treasuries and the pace of
refinancing among different sets of borrowers, which can reduce
interest payments as securities get paid down faster.  Bertman was one of the most active traders in the CMO
portion of the market, making money on bets such as interest-
only slices backed by securities guaranteed by U.S.-owned Ginnie
Mae, the people said.  ‘Very Complex’  Brevan Howard’s main fund is known for making wagers on
 interest rates , currencies and government debt based on the
London-based firm’s view of global economic trends. The fund is
up 1.1 percent this year, compared with the average 1.3 percent
decline posted by other  macro funds , data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  A macro fund might be interested in such a trader from a
bank to decide how to use the “very complex” securities to
wager on bigger trends, Zoia said. Alternatively, it might want
to pair the “micro with macro” and make more targeted bets
that reflect its broader views, he said.  Alan Howard , 49, started the firm a decade ago with four
other fixed-income traders from Credit Suisse. It oversees $39
billion, and has been expanding its focus on trading corporate
notes and asset-backed debt such as mortgage bonds.  Wayne Leslie last month left Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as
head of European investment-grade trading to join Brevan Howard.
The hedge fund also started a fund to buy commercial-mortgage-
backed securities, securing backing from the Pennsylvania School
Employees’ Retirement System.  Brevan Howard  Brevan Howard formed another fund in March to invest in
mortgage securities and collateralized debt obligations tied to
real estate. That pool is run by former Morgan Stanley head of
structured credit David Warren, who has overseen a separate
Brevan Howard credit hedge fund since 2009.  Warren’s DW Investment Management hired Sean Macleod from
hedge fund Metacapital Management LLC this year to add bets on
agency mortgage debt to its wagers in the $1 trillion market for
home-loan bonds without government backing, people familiar with
the matter said in July. Bertman will work directly for Brevan
Howard rather than Warren’s operation, the people said.  Deepak Narula’s Metacapital gained 37 percent in his main,
mortgage-focused fund through October, according to a person
briefed on the results, who asked not to be identified because
the information isn’t public. Narula oversees $1.4 billion after
returning investors’ capital five years ago as soaring defaults
on subprime loans roiled the market.  Michael De Asla, 43, previously an agency mortgage trader
at Bank of America Corp., recently left the lender to join New
York-based Metacapital, the firm said in a letter to investors
last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  