-- Broncos’ Peyton Manning Emerges as NFL MVP Favorite Post Surgery
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/broncos-peyton-manning-emerges-as-nfl-mvp-favorite-post-surgery.html
Peyton Manning hasn’t just answered
questions about whether he’d return to form after neck surgery
forced him to miss all of last season. Midway through the
National Football League’s regular season, he’s emerged as the
favorite to win another Most Valuable Player award.  The 36-year-old quarterback has thrown three touchdown
passes in five straight games, helping the Denver Broncos go 4-1
in that stretch and climb into first place in the American
Football Conference’s West Division with a 5-3 record.  Manning, whose Broncos visit the Carolina Panthers this
weekend, is now listed as the 2-1 favorite to win a fifth NFL
MVP award, according to online sportsbook Bovada.lv.  “It’s been a crash course and everybody’s been cramming,
but you should be a little better in Week 9 than you were in
Week 1,” said Manning, who’s in his first year in Denver after
spending his first 14 NFL seasons with the Indianapolis Colts.
“I still think we have room for improvement.”  Manning entered the season with 10-1 odds, the same as
Philadelphia quarterback Michael Vick, who’s now unlisted after
having 14 turnovers in the Eagles’ 3-5 start that includes four
straight losses. Manning has thrown for 2,404 yards, with 20
touchdowns and six interceptions, while completing an NFL-best
69.5 percent of his pass attempts.  “We put up Peyton at 10-1 to win the MVP and we were not
seeing too many bets at that price,” Kevin Bradley, Bovada
sportsbook manager, said in an e-mail. “I guess people wanted
to see what type of shape he would be in. It is clear now after
the last few weeks that he is back in the swing of things as he
was before his injury and is now the MVP favorite.”  Second Choice  Atlanta Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan is listed as the
second favorite with 3-1 odds after throwing for 2,360 yards, 17
touchdowns and six interceptions in his team’s 8-0 start. The
Falcons visit the New Orleans Saints on Nov. 11.  Tom Brady of the New England Patriots has 6-1 odds to win
the award, followed by a pair of other quarterbacks: reigning
MVP Aaron Rodgers of the Green Bay Packers at 7-1 and Eli Manning of the  New York  Giants at 12-1. The Patriots host the
Buffalo Bills this weekend, while the Giants are at the
Cincinnati Bengals and the Packers are off.  Peyton Manning heads into this week’s game against the
Panthers with 419 career touchdown passes and needs two more to
surpass Hall of Fame quarterback Dan Marino for the second-most
in NFL history behind Brett Favre.  Limiting Mistakes  Since throwing three interceptions in a Week 2 loss in
Atlanta, Manning has totaled three pickoffs in the past six
games while throwing for more than 300 yards in five of them. He
fell just short in last week’s victory in Cincinnati, finishing
with 291 yards, and is on pace to break Jay Cutler’s single-
season franchise record of 4,526 passing yards.  Manning’s Broncos are four-point favorites in Carolina and
now have 10-1 odds of winning the Super Bowl, according to the
Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. They’re tied with the Pittsburgh
Steelers for eighth-best odds in the NFL behind the San
Francisco 49ers, Houston Texans, Patriots, Packers, Giants,
Falcons and Chicago Bears. The Texans visit the Bears in a
matchup of 7-1 teams in this week’s featured Sunday night game.  Broncos coach John Fox said not only has Manning shown he’s
fully recovered from neck fusion surgery, his veteran
quarterback has successfully adjusted to a new offensive system
while navigating a first-half schedule in which six of eight
opponents made the playoffs in 2011.  Beyond Expectations  “There were a lot of expectations, a lot of excitement
with the signing,” Fox told reporters this week. “We knew it
was going to take some time, we knew there were going to be some
bumps. We couldn’t be more pleased with his efforts and what
he’s done. He’s overcome a lot of things -- a new offense, new
teammates, an injury and hadn’t played in a year.”  Manning, who signed a five-year, $96 million contract, said
he didn’t necessarily know what to expect this season, except
that he’d have to make adjustments after 14 years and one Super
Bowl title with Indianapolis.  “When you’re playing with new players and a new offense,
it takes a little while to get to know guys,” Manning said.
“I’m learning every week about my teammates and about myself in
this new role and that’s going to be ongoing the entire season.
If you can have some success while you’re learning, that’s
obviously a positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  