-- Buffett Energy Unit Weighs Debt Sale for Solar Farm
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-11-09T22:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/buffett-energy-unit-weighs-debt-sale-for-solar-farm.html
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., the
power producer at  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said
it’s weighing whether to sell more bonds in 2013 to finance a
$2.4 billion solar venture in  California .  The issuance is being considered for the first half of next
year at Topaz Solar Farms LLC, the MidAmerican unit of Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire said today in a regulatory filing. In
February, Topaz issued $850 million in 5.75 percent bonds due in
September 2039 to help fund the 550-megawatt project.  MidAmerican, led by Chief Executive Officer Greg Abel, has
been expanding bets in renewable energy while adding to
investments in natural gas. The firm created a unit in January
to support wind, geothermal, solar and hydroelectric projects
and may be betting that now is an advantageous time to borrow,
said Joseph Salvatore, an energy analyst with Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, in a phone interview.  There “seems to be a fairly decent appetite” for the
debt, Salvatore said. “Rates are fairly low right now, and
maybe they’re thinking that in two to three years, if the
economic recovery speeds up, interest costs will be higher.”  MidAmerican agreed in December to buy Topaz from Tempe,
Arizona-based First Solar Inc., which is supplying the solar
panels. MidAmerican said in a February regulatory filing that
Topaz planned to issue about $430 million of additional notes to
fund construction costs.  Construction is proceeding ahead of schedule with delivery
of the first substation transformer expected in the middle of
this month, MidAmerican said of the Topaz project in the filing.  The Berkshire energy subsidiary said the 2013 financing
plan also includes $300 million to $400 million of bond issuance
for the PacifiCorp utility, and as much as $600 million to pay
debt owed to a turbine supplier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  