-- Bullard Says Easy Fed Policy May Create Price Bubbles
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-11-09T03:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/bullard-says-easy-fed-policy-may-create-price-bubbles.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said record easing may create bubbles in
the prices of assets such as U.S. farmland.  “The question is, isn’t the zero nominal interest rate
policy pushing investors to reach for yield?” Bullard said
today in response to audience questions following a speech in
St. Louis. “I think I am not alone on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  in worrying about this issue and worrying about we
might create some kind of bubble situation.”  The Federal Open Market Committee last month voted to
continue buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds each month, aiming
to fuel economic growth and reduce 7.9 percent unemployment. The
central bank each month is also swapping $45 billion in short-
term Treasuries for longer-term debt in a program called
Operation Twist scheduled to end in December.  “In our district, we sometimes worry about land prices,”
Bullard told reporters after his speech at  Washington University 
in  St. Louis . “Some reports of land prices are that they are
substantially higher and have been growing for awhile -- farm
land -- and we are certainly keeping a watch on that.” He said
it may not now be a “bubble.”  Extending Operation Twist is “unlikely” because the Fed
has “only so much balance sheet we could use” to sell short-
term securities, Bullard said. On the other hand, purchasing
Treasuries outright “is definitely an option on the table.”  Bullard told reporters after the speech that he expects
about 3.5 percent economic growth next year, with the
 unemployment rate  falling to 7.2 percent by year’s end.  Waning Headwinds  “The headwinds we have been facing have been lessening
gradually over time,” he said. “Housing in particular has had
a better year in 2012 than the previous years. The European
sovereign debt crisis, I think, is in a pause mode here for the
past several months.”  Fed district bank presidents have voiced differing views on
the benefits of more easing. Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker , after voting against the Oct. 24 FOMC decision, said
more stimulus may cause “an unwanted increase in inflation.”  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said on Nov. 1 the
central bank should buy mortgage bonds until the jobless rate
falls from 7.9 percent to 7.25 percent and hold the target
interest rate near zero until hitting 6.5 percent unemployment.
San Francisco Fed President  John Williams , who votes on policy
this year, said on Nov. 5 the central bank should press on with
$40 billion in bond buying each month until it purchases a total
of at least $600 billion.  After concluding a two-day meeting on Oct. 24, the FOMC
said it expects to keep the federal funds rate low through at
least mid-2015, repeating a pledge from Sept. 13. Several
members would prefer to link policy to specific economic
conditions instead of a date, minutes of the September meeting
showed.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
 Indiana , Kentucky, Mississippi,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  