-- Business Groups Get Top U.S. Court Hearing on Arbitration
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-11-09T20:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/business-groups-get-top-u-s-court-hearing-on-arbitration.html
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear
an appeal from  American Express Co. (AXP)  in a clash with retailers
over the credit cards they must accept, a case that may
reinforce millions of arbitration agreements.  A federal appeals court in New York let the merchants press
their antitrust claims as a group even though they had agreed to
pursue disputes individually before an arbitrator. The appeals
court refused to enforce the arbitration accord, saying its bar
on class actions would make it infeasible for the merchants to
press their claims.  Business trade groups led by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
say that ruling undermines a 2011 Supreme Court decision letting
companies use arbitration accords to block employees and
consumers from pressing claims as a group. The appeals court
said that decision doesn’t apply when plaintiffs would be unable
to “vindicate” their rights under federal law.  The appeals court ruling “provides plaintiffs with a forum
and roadmap for judicial invalidation of millions of arbitration
agreements,” business trade groups led by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce argued in court papers.  Companies are increasingly turning to arbitration accords
to limit lawsuits by customers, employees and fellow businesses.
Advocates of arbitration say it saves litigation expenses and
produces quicker decisions.  American Express faces a series of lawsuits filed starting
in 2003 by restaurants and other merchants in  California  and New
York. The lead plaintiff at the Supreme Court is the Italian
Colors Restaurant of Oakland, California.  American Express  The merchants say they should be able to accept American
Express charge cards, which require payment of the entire
balance each month, without having to accept the company’s newer
credit cards, which don’t require full payment. The merchants
say the newer cards aren’t used by the high-end customers
preferred by stores and consequently aren’t worth the high fees
imposed on stores by American Express.  The merchants told the Supreme Court that the most any of
them could hope to recover in damages is $38,549, far less than
what it would cost to marshal the evidence to prove their case.  The merchants say Supreme Court decisions from 1985 and
2000 establish that arbitration is an acceptable substitute for
litigation only when a potential plaintiff would have a feasible
chance to pursue the claim.  Vindicating Rights  “This court has repeatedly recognized that a litigant’s
ability to effectively vindicate its rights is a precondition to
the arbitration of federal statutory claims,” Italian Colors
argued in court papers.  New York-based American Express’s standard agreement with
its merchants calls for all disputes to be resolved through
individual arbitration.  American Express points to the 1925 Federal Arbitration
Act, which says courts must enforce arbitration accords the same
as any other contract.  The appeals court decision “creates an expansive new
exception to the FAA under which courts may routinely invalidate
bilateral arbitration agreements because they do not provide for
class-arbitration procedures,” the company argued.  Justice Sonia Sotomayor, who was involved with the case as
an appellate judge, didn’t take part in the Supreme Court’s
decision to consider the appeal.  The case is making its second trip to the nation’s highest
court. In 2010, the justices told the appeals court to revisit
the matter in light of a just-issued Supreme Court ruling.  The case is American Express v. Italian Colors Restaurant,
12-133.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  