-- California Carbon ‘Crippled’ by Buyer Hesitation: Energy Markets
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-11-09T17:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/california-carbon-crippled-by-buyer-hesitation-energy-markets.html
California  carbon is trading at a
record low as legal threats, political opposition and rule
changes plague the days leading up to the first auction of
permits under the state’s greenhouse-gas program.  Less than a week before the first allowance sale, the
program is facing scrutiny from legislators, economists and
companies such as San Antonio-based  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , whose
chief executive officer described the regulations last week as
being “hijacked” by academics and extremists. Two  Oregon  power
utilities say that the state may end up unfairly governing trade
outside its jurisdiction.  “Any time there’s a whisper or threat of a lawsuit, it
puts a damper on folks’ thinking about when to start in this
market,” Harold Pestana, senior manager of  portfolio management 
at San Francisco-based Pacific Gas & Electric Co., said by
phone. “There’s a general sense now that there may not be as
many people participating in the auction. There’s a wait-and-see
attitude.”  California, the world’s ninth-largest economy, developed an
emissions program after the U.S. federal government failed to
come up with a system of its own in 2010, and created the
world’s second-biggest carbon market behind the European Union’s
emissions trading system. The regulation will eventually cover
85 percent of emissions released in a state whose economy was
worth $1.74 trillion last year.  Falling Prices  Futures contracts based on California carbon permits for
2013, the first year of compliance under the program, dropped 40
cents to a record $12.25 a metric ton yesterday, data compiled
by  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s Green Exchange in New York show. Prices are
set to fall for a ninth straight week and are down $3.50 a ton,
or 22 percent, for the year.  EU permits for delivery in December rose 0.6 percent to
8.33 euros ($10.60) a ton today on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London.  Liquidity has been “crippled by buyers’ hesitation to sign
forward contracts,” Thomas Marcello, a Bloomberg New Energy
Finance analyst in New York, said yesterday. Allowance prices
will average $29 a ton between 2013 and 2020, $1.70 lower than
previously forecast, according to a Nov. 6 Bloomberg New Energy
Finance research note.  Beginning next year, California plans to “cap” carbon
emissions from power generators, oil refineries and other
industrial plants and cut that limit gradually to achieve a 15
percent reduction by 2020. Companies must surrender carbon
permits to cover their emissions over three phases of the
program, and those whose emissions are under the cap can sell or
trade their allowances.  State Pollution  California released 370.9 million tons of carbon from
fossil-fuel combustion in 2010, making it the second-largest
polluter in the U.S. behind Texas, Environmental Protection
Agency data show. The state wants to prove that a carbon-trading
program can yield emissions reductions at a reasonable cost,
 Mary Nichols , chairman of the state Air Resources Board, said in
an interview Aug. 13 in San Francisco.  The California air board is giving away about 90 percent of
the permits at the onset of the program and selling the rest at
auction. The free allocations are set to shrink over time.  The number of allowances for sale on Nov. 14 is enough to
weigh on prices, Jeff King, managing director of environmental
markets at Scotiabank in Toronto, said Nov. 7. They total 23.1
million to be used during the first phase of the program, which
begins Jan. 1, and 39.5 million for the second starting Jan. 1,
2015. Each permit allows the release of one ton of carbon.  Canceled Sale  California decided in March to cancel an auction scheduled
for August and fold the permits that would have been available
then into next week’s auction.  “It’s two auctions in one before even the first year of
compliance,” King said. “The truth is that people realize that
this auction is now just a week away and there’s a large number
of allowances coming in at one time. The current consensus is
that it’s likely to clear somewhere around $12 and $13.”  Futures prices tumbled by more than a $1 a ton after
PacifiCorp, a  Portland , Oregon-based utility and part of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) , asked the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  on Oct. 22 to reconsider a decision that
may hold companies sending power to certain points just outside
of California’s limits responsible for greenhouse-gas emissions
costs under the state’s program. Power utility  Portland General
Electric Co. (POR)  is backing PacifiCorp’s request.  Outside Help  “We have tried to resolve these issues in California,
without success, which unfortunately forces us to raise these
concerns with FERC to seek clarity,” Jan Mitchell, a PacifiCorp
spokeswoman in Portland, Oregon, said by e-mail Oct. 26.  The U.S. Commerce Clause, which gives Congress power over
interstate trade, is being used in court by ethanol producers
and oil refiners to fight California’s low-carbon fuel standard.
The rule discourages the state’s fuel manufacturers from using
feedstock deemed “carbon intensive,” such as crude from
Canadian oil-sands and ethanol produced in the U.S. Midwest.  The battle between California and out-of-state companies
echoes a clash between the U.S. and Europe over aviation
emissions. The Senate passed a bill on Sept. 22 that shields
U.S. airlines from the European Union’s emissions program,
setting the stage for a potential trade war.  A letter from Philip Moeller, a FERC commissioner, has
already triggered California’s air board to suspend a different
provision of the emissions program. Moeller told California
Governor  Jerry Brown  in August that the program’s ban on
“resource shuffling” may freeze power trading in the region by
creating uncertainty.  ‘Resource Shuffling’  State regulators agreed to spend 18 months reviewing and
not enforcing the ban, which prohibits companies from bringing
low-emission electricity into California while sending more
carbon-intensive power to other states. The air board issued
some clarification to the rule on Nov. 6.  A spate of refinery upsets that drove retail gasoline
prices in California to a record $4.671 a gallon on Oct. 9 also
intensified opposition to the program, with Sacramento-based
nonprofit CalWatchdog warning the same day that prices at the
pump were “a pimple of what is to come” when the state starts
capping emissions.  The combination of “market-design concerns, regulatory
uncertainty and fear of litigation” has exacerbated an already-
weak market, Samantha Katz, managing director of carbon broker
BGC Environmental Brokerage Services, said in a telephone
interview from New York Nov. 6. Trades were made as low as
$12.05 a ton last week, she said.  Opposition Groups  A coalition of businesses and taxpayer groups known as the
AB 32 Implementation Group, based in  Sacramento ,  has asked 
Governor Brown to call off the first auction, saying that the
state’s economy will suffer. A group of state legislators, led
by Democratic Assemblyman Henry T. Perea, voiced similar
concerns in an Aug. 27 letter to Brown. The AB 32 group is
collecting signatures for a petition to stop the sale.  Valero “continues to look at our options” for the Benicia
and Wilmington oil refineries in California, CEO William Klesse
told investors on a conference call Oct. 30. The regulatory
environment in California “is not constructive to the
California economy, not constructive to the working person and
not constructive to our industry,” he said.  Increasing Isolation  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  Executive Vice President Michael Wirth told
investors during a conference call Nov. 2 that California is
starting down “a path of even greater isolation from world fuel
markets.” The state’s “go-it-alone” plans will hurt its
economy and won’t make any meaningful emissions reductions, he
said.  Chevron also told investors that the sole crude unit at the
240,000-barrel-a-day Richmond refinery, Northern California’s
largest, will remain shut through the end of the year following
an Aug. 6 fire, fanning speculation that it may not need as many
carbon credits to cover emissions as previously expected.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  agreed in August to buy  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 266,000-
barrel-a-day Carson refinery in Southern California, a move that
would cut emissions at Tesoro’s Wilmington refinery near  Los
Angeles  by at least 30 percent through an expansion of the
plant’s hydrotreating capacity.  “Six months ago, it seemed like all news was bullish,”
King said. “Now it seems like a lot of news is bearish.”  Amid the criticism, power utilities such as Pacific Gas &
Electric and  Edison International (EIX) ’s Southern California Edison
have continued to uphold the cap-and-trade program as the best
option the state has to cut emissions.  Edison’s Support  “We’ve been supportive of a cap-and-trade structure to
achieve greenhouse-gas emission goals all along, and we’re still
there,”  Gary Stern , Edison’s director of market strategy and
resource planning in Rosemead, California, said by telephone
Nov. 7. “The market structure is a lower-cost means of
achieving the goals than other command and control approaches
might be.”  Two days after the AB 32 coalition wrote Brown asking him
to call off the first auction, another group in California sent
its own letter asking the state to put an end to debates and
move ahead with the program.  The state’s climate change legislation “has been the law
of the land for six years,” the California Business Alliance
for a Green Economy said in the letter. “There have been dozens
of public hearings and workshops, and tens of thousands of
public comments submitted. Uncertainty is bad for business.”  The results of the Nov. 14 auction may signal whether
futures prices will keep falling or rebound on demand as
companies build more confidence in the market and gear up for
the first compliance period, Pestana said Nov. 6.  “The market is in its early stages, so it’s not easy to
tell what might become the trigger to really get this market
going,” he said. “The first auction will be a factor. We’ll
just have to see how big it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  