-- Canada Pension Posts 1.9% Return on Global Equities Markets
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-11-09T16:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/canada-pension-posts-1-9-return-on-global-equities-markets-1-.html
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,
the country’s biggest public pension manager, posted a return of
1.9 percent in the fiscal second quarter on gains in global
equities markets.  Investment income for the three months ended Sept. 30 was
C$3.1 billion ($3.1 billion), the Toronto-based  fund manager 
said today in a statement. Assets rose to C$170.1 billion from
C$165.8 billion on June 30.  “Equity markets were strong,” Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Wiseman  said today in a phone interview. “We, by and
large, reflect global  capital markets , and then what we’re
trying to do is add value through active investing.”  Canada Pension’s results missed the 3.2 percent median
return of the country’s pension funds over the three months,
according to RBC Investor Services. Canada’s equity  benchmark 
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 6.2 percent and the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO)  advanced 6.1 percent in the quarter.  Canada Pension, which made investments in Australia, China
and the U.S. in the quarter, will continue to hunt for
transactions around the world, Wiseman said.  “We continue to see opportunities in emerging markets and
we are starting to see positive, cautiously optimistic signs of
growth in the U.S. and, by extension, Canada,” Wiseman said.
“We continue to be wary of the situation in  Europe , it’s fair
to say we’re proceeding there with a high degree of caution.”  Wiseman said he remains “cautiously optimistic” of a
return to modest global growth.  Canada Pension covers every Canadian province except
Quebec.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  