-- Carbon Traders Face Risk Supply Won’t Turn Up, Barclays Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-11-09T14:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/carbon-traders-face-risk-supply-won-t-turn-up-barclays-says-1-.html
European Union carbon traders are
attempting to deal with the risk that supplies of EU permits
expected in January won’t turn up, according to Barclays Plc.  A plan by lawmakers to deal with a glut in supply by
temporarily removing volume “can’t all happen in the second
half” of next year, Louis Redshaw, head of carbon and coal for
Barclays in London, said in a telephone interview.  The process, known as backloading, seeks to cut an
oversupply that has grown to about a year’s total allocation, or
about 2 billion metric tons, the European Commission in Brussels
said in a report last month. The regulator has said the EU will
sell about 1 billion tons of carbon allowances next year, or
about 20 million tons a week, after giving them away mostly for
free in the first eight years of its greenhouse gas market.  The commission, the 27 nations selling and the European
Energy Exchange AG in Leipzig,  Germany , haven’t yet finalized a
timetable of auctions and volumes for January, according to
Eileen Hieke, a spokeswoman for the exchange.  “There’s a risk the 20 million tons a week that we are
expecting from January could be significantly lower,” Redshaw
said yesterday. “That’s because we don’t know the auction
timetable and there is a strong push for a backloading that is
due to remove volume from 2013.”  The EU, which plans to announce details of its backloading
plan on Nov. 14, already has started selling 120 million tons of
allowances for Phase 3, which begins next year and runs through
2020, under a program called early sales.  Market Predictability  The EU’s carbon auctioning regulation, amended in November
last year, allows part of that volume to be spread “over
auctions conducted in 2013,” Hieke said Nov. 7 in an e-mailed
response to questions.  “The timing and volumes of the auctions for 2013, however,
have so far not yet been determined,” she said. “EEX will
announce the auction calendar for 2013 as soon as possible once
it is commonly agreed with the European Commission and the
participating member states.”  That binding regulation says one of its aims is to
“provide predictability to the secondary market,” according to
the  commission website .  The bloc should “establish for each calendar year a
detailed auction calendar, with all relevant information for
each individual auction well before the beginning of that
calendar year,” the rule states.  It also states volumes “should be spread evenly throughout
the year.”  Polish Approval  The EU will probably sell about 197 million tons of carbon
allowances in the first two months of next year, even as it
seeks to win approval for the supply-glut fix from nations
including  Poland , Bloomberg New Energy Finance said Oct. 19.  “The commission may be eager to push backloading through,
but to deliberately ignore the process they have followed thus
far would be politically contentious, hence why we see it as
almost certain the volumes at the start of the year won’t be
reduced,” James Cooper, an analyst in  London  for New Energy
Finance, said last month in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  