-- Chevron Seeks Lifting of Argentina Court Order: Clerk
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-11-09T18:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/chevron-seeks-lifting-of-argentina-court-order-clerk-correct-.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the U.S. oil producer
considering investing in  Argentina ’s shale oil fields, is
seeking to revoke a court embargo on its assets in the country
related to a $19 billion award over pollution in  Ecuador .  Two units of the  San Ramon , California-based company filed
the motion at a  Buenos Aires  civil court today, Chevron said in
an e-mailed response to questions. Judge Adrian Elcuj Miranda
ordered 40 percent of Chevron’s Argentina bank accounts to be
held in escrow, Enrique Bruchou, an Argentine attorney
representing the Ecuadoreans, said on Nov. 7.  The plaintiffs are seeking to enforce a $19 billion award
against Chevron, which they say is responsible for destroying
the environment in the Lago Agrio region, damaging living
conditions of 30,000 inhabitants. Chevron, which signed on Sept.
14 a memorandum of understanding to help develop Argentina’s
Vaca Muerta shale formation, says the Ecuador judgment is
illegitimate and the embargo is improper.  “The plaintiffs’ lawyers have no legal right to embargo
subsidiary assets in Argentina and should not be allowed to
disrupt Argentina’s pursuit of its important energy resources,”
 Kent Robertson , a Chevron spokesman, said by e-mail.  The Ecuadoreans’ attorneys said Oct. 31 that they were
filing an attachment order in Buenos Aires in line with an
international treaty signed by Ecuador, Argentina and Colombia.
Julio Cesar Rivera, an Argentine attorney who represents
Chevron, declined to comment from the tribunal today.  More Seizures  Judge Elcuj Miranda declined to comment on the case today
after receiving eight Chevron attorneys in his Buenos Aires
office. Rivera, who led the group, declined to comment when
asked if a check he was carrying was to pay court fees or to
cover the attachments. Under Argentine law, attachments are
ruled in an inaudita parte basis, meaning the judge orders an
embargo on assets without hearing the other party’s arguments.  Chevron on Oct. 9 lost a U.S. Supreme Court bid to block
the judgment imposed by an Ecuadorean court. The highest U.S.
court let stand a federal appeals court ruling against Chevron
that the Ecuadoreans can’t be barred from seeking to collect the
award anywhere in the world.  On Oct. 31 Bruchou estimated Chevron’s assets in Argentina
worth $2 billion.  Chevron will face more attachment requests in  Europe ,  Asia 
and Oceania, Bruchou said Nov. 7 to obtain the total award from
Ecuador.  Another related lawsuit was filed by the Ecuadoreans in the
Ontario Superior Court of Justice in Toronto on May 30. Chevron
Canada Ltd. will have a hearing on the lawsuit Nov. 28.  The Ecuadoreans’ plaintiffs filed in the Superior Tribunal
of Justice in  Brazil ’s capital of Brasilia on June 27,  Karen
Hinton , a spokeswoman for the Ecuadoreans, said today in an e-
mailed statement.  “We expect that Chevron’s attempt to undo the freeze order
in Argentina will fail,” Hinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  