-- Chili Pepper, Colicchio Face Guitar Pros in Charity Mash
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/chili-pepper-colicchio-face-guitar-pros-in-charity-mash.html
“It doesn’t matter how you do it,”
said wealth adviser Arthur Black. “It’s just about picking up
your guitar and playing.”  Black will live a rock fan’s dream tomorrow when he plies
his Fender Stratocaster with guitar masters such as Vernon Reid
of Living Colour.  The 43-year-old Black, co-founder of the New York-based
wealth advisory firm BBR Partners LLC, is one of several amateur
guitarists who will play and sing with professionals at  Guitar
Mash , a charity event and jam session at New York’s City Winery.  Other professionals include Larry Campbell, who has played
behind Bob Dylan; composer  Lenny Kaye , guitarist for Patti Smith’s bands; and Mark Stewart, Paul Simon’s musical director,
who will lead the event.  The amateurs are Red Hot Chili Peppers drummer Chad Smith,
who plays guitar for fun; guitar collector and chef Tom Colicchio; and Jason Ackerman, the co-founder and chief
executive officer of FreshDirect, the online grocer.  “Nobody’s looking at you and saying, ‘Oh, you don’t have
chops,’” said Colicchio, who has jammed with Stewart before.
“I’m good enough so that I can hold my own, and the only way to
get better is to play with people better than you.”  From the corporate world, Sammy Ash, the president and
chief operating officer of music instrument retailer Sam Ash
Music Corp., will bring along a guitar or two from his
collection of more than 100. Tony Sosnick, founder and chief
executive officer of Anthony Brands, which sells personal-care
products, will also bring his.  The musicians will get vocal support from ticket buyers
singing along.  ‘Creative Process’  “The event allows the musicians to interact with their
audience and share their creative process,” said Rebecca
Weller, Guitar Mash’s founder and producer. “The guitarist in
the audience is going to be as important as the artist
onstage.”  Ticket sales and donations from patrons such as Black and
Colicchio will help raise money for future jam sessions. Some of
the proceeds also go to the  Church Street School for Music and
Art ’s scholarship fund for music education.  There will be a silent auction for 12 guitars and other
music equipment, including a Fender signed by the Red Hot Chili
Peppers.  Black said he spent many hours as a teen playing air guitar
and listening to heavy-metal groups such as AC/DC. He began to
take guitar lessons years later when he bought a new 1992
Stratocaster.  Wharton MBA  “I said, ‘Wow, this opens up a whole new world of
playing,’” said Black, who earned an MBA from the Wharton
School of the University of Pennsylvania before joining  Goldman
Sachs Group (GS)  Inc.’s private-client division. Twelve years ago he
co-founded BBR Partners, which advises high-net-worth clients.  The song list for Mash includes Chuck Berry’s “Nadine”;
“Mystery Train” by Elvis Presley; “American Tune” by Paul
Simon; and “The Kids Are Alright” by The Who. Black hopes the
group will add a Beatles classic to the mix.  “‘Come Together’ would be a great song to play,” Black
said.  (Guitar Mash is Sunday at City Winery, 155 Varick St. in
 Manhattan  from 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. The event will be  streamed
live on the Web . Tickets and information:  http://guitarmash.org 
or +1-212-608-0555.)  Muse highlights include Greg Evans and Craig Seligman
on  movies .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 