-- Chilean Currency Declines the Most in Two Weeks as Copper Drops
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-11-09T17:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/chilean-currency-declines-the-most-in-two-weeks-as-copper-drops.html
Chile ’s peso declined the most in two
weeks as copper dropped on concern weak growth in Europe and
U.S. budget wrangling may temper demand for the Latin American
nation’s biggest export.  The currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 479.70 per  U.S.
dollar  at the close in Santiago, the biggest drop since Oct. 23.
The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American Currency Index fell 0.2
percent. The peso posted a 0.3 percent weekly advance.  “With the soap opera in  Greece  and  Spain  and the fiscal
cliff in the U.S., we should have a stronger dollar,” Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile Corredores de Bolsa SA, said in a
phone interview. “When copper falls, sooner or later that is
going to have an effect on the peso.”  Local investors  in the Chilean peso forwards market reduced
their long peso position by $795 million on Nov. 7 to a two-week
low of $16.6 billion, according to data from the central bank.
The local investors category is dominated by pension funds that
use peso forwards to hedge the  currency risk  on their
investments outside Chile. A decline in long peso positions may
reflect repatriation of money by pension funds.  Copper, accounting for 60.7 percent of Chilean exports last
month, was headed for a fifth weekly decline after Sweden and
France reported lower-than-forecast industrial production.  Euro-area finance ministers may not make a decision on
unlocking funds for Greece until late November as they await a
report on the country’s compliance with bailout terms, a
European Union official said. The U.S. risks entering a
recession if policy makers fail to avoid the so-called fiscal
cliff of automatic tax increases and spending cuts,  Fitch
Ratings  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  