-- China May Show Export Pickup Adding to Signs of Rebond
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/china-may-show-export-pickup-adding-to-signs-of-growth-rebound.html
China may today report a sustained
pickup in  exports  that would add to signs the worst of the
nation’s slowdown is behind even as Premier  Wen Jiabao  warned
that the global economic crisis isn’t over.  Shipments abroad rose 10 percent in October from a year
before, about the same as September, after gains of less than 3
percent the prior two months, a government report will show
today, according to the median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Data yesterday showed industrial  output  and retail
sales accelerated.  Wen, addressing China’s Communist Party Congress, stressed
the importance of meeting the government’s 7.5 percent  growth 
target for this year, offering a platform to sustain reforms.
The incoming generation of leaders to be named at the meeting
will need to embrace changes from loosening controls over
 interest rates  to raising the  retirement age  to ensure a shift
to a high-income economy, according to the  World Bank .  “The balance of economic forces is shifting more to the
upside than the downside,” said  Ren Xianfang , a Beijing-based
economist with IHS Global Insight Ltd. “The government could
not risk a downside shock this month and China’s leaders will be
pleased that there have been no economic surprises for their
Party Congress.”  Repercussions of the international financial crisis will
linger for a few years, Wen said at a Nov. 8 panel discussion of
the Tianjin delegation to the congress, the Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday. Achieving this year’s economic and social
development goals is very important for reform and development
next year and in the future, Wen said.  Import Gains  Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said yesterday that October
exports rose by more than 11 percent from a year earlier and
imports increased 2.8 percent, Reuters reported.  Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast a 3.4
percent rise in inbound shipments, up from 2.4 percent in
September, based on the median estimate. The  trade surplus  was
probably $27.3 billion, compared with $27.7 billion the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Industrial  production  rose 9.6 percent in October from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday
in Beijing. That exceeded the 9.4 percent median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Retail sales growth of 14.5
percent picked up from September’s 14.2 percent. Consumer
inflation cooled to a 1.7 percent pace.  Key Question  “The key question for investors is whether China’s
economic growth has truly bottomed and is recovering,” and the
“answer is firmly yes,” said Lu Ting, chief  Greater China 
economist at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong.  The Communist Party began its 18th Congress in Beijing this
week, where Vice President  Xi Jinping  will probably replace
President  Hu Jintao  as general secretary of the party. At stake
is the policy direction of an economy that Hu said is
“unbalanced, uncoordinated and unsustainable.”  Even with an economic rebound, the  yuan  weakened 0.1
percent against the dollar this week, snapping 13 weeks of
gains, on speculation the nation will struggle to boost export
growth amid fiscal risks in the U.S. and Europe. The benchmark
Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks fell for a fifth day
yesterday, capping a 2.3 percent loss for the week.  Government spending  may be playing a key role in the
pickup. Fixed-asset investment excluding rural areas increased
20.7 percent in the first 10 months of 2012 from a year earlier,
compared with the 20.6 percent median analyst estimate and a
20.5 percent pace in the January-September period.  Government Projects  Spending on central government-invested projects rose 5.1
percent in the 10-month period from a year earlier, more than
double the January-September pace, the data show.  Industrial- output  gains were the most in five months and
compared with 9.2 percent in September. Retail  sales  growth was
the highest since March.  The CPI increase was below the 1.9 percent median estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News and compared with 1.9
percent in September. Producer  prices  declined 2.8 percent from
a year earlier after a 3.6 percent drop in September.  Gross domestic product expansion slowed to 7.4 percent in
the July-September period from a year earlier, the weakest in
three years. Growth will probably speed up to 7.7 percent this
quarter and to 7.9 percent in the three months through March
2013, based on the median estimate of analysts surveyed Oct.
18-22.  The People’s Bank of China will report October lending and
money-supply data by Nov. 15. The central bank has paused from
monetary easing since cutting interest rates in June and July.  “We believe macro data will remain strong” through the
rest of the fourth quarter, Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong , said in a note yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  