-- China’s Stocks Fall, Capping Longest Losing Streak in 4 Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-09T08:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/china-s-stock-index-futures-decline-before-economic-data.html
China’s stocks  fell for a fifth day,
sending the benchmark index to its longest losing streak in four
months, as concern the government won’t accelerate reforms 
overshadowed better-than-estimated economic data.  Guoyuan Securities Co. slid to the lowest level in two 
months, taking its slump this week to 7.8 percent after posting
slumping net income.  Great Wall Motor Co. (601633)  paced declines for 
consumer discretionary companies, the best performers in the CSI
300 Index this week. Data on industrial production, fixed-asset 
investment and retail sales all exceeded economists’ forecasts, 
while declines in producer prices eased.  The  Shanghai  Composite slid 0.1 percent to 2,069.07 at the
close. The measure fell 2.3 percent in the past five days, the 
longest losing streak since a seven-day drop to June 28. The CSI 
300  Index lost 0.2 percent to 2,240.92 as the Communist Party 
held a second day of meetings to decide new leaders.  “While the numbers are showing the economy is stabilizing,
it still remains to be seen if the pick-up will continue,” said
Dai Ming, a  fund manager  at Hengsheng Hongding Asset Management
Co. in Shanghai, which manages $190 million. “There’s nothing
exciting about policy prospects from the party congress so far
and we need to wait for more positive signals.”  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 5.0 percent in 2012,
slumping for a record third year, on concern the government
isn’t reforming the economy fast enough to offset a decline in
exports. Trading volumes in the index were 20 percent lower than
the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Thirty-day
volatility was at 15.9, lower than this year’s average of 17.2.
The measure trades at 9.8 times estimated profit for 2012,
compared with the 17.8 average multiple since  2006. (SHCOMP)   Economic Indicators  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  dropped 0.9 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US
55 Index (CH55BN)  slumped 1.6 percent in New York yesterday, amid
concerns European finance ministers may delay Greece’s bailout
and President  Barack Obama ’s re-election may endanger U.S. tax
breaks for investors.  Some indicators are rebounding and the economy is
stabilizing,  Zhou Xiaochuan , governor of the People’s Bank of
 China , said yesterday in Beijing at a briefing during the
Communist Party’s 18th Congress. Ma Jiantang, head of the
National Bureau of Statistics, said separately that people will
be “more confident” about the fourth-quarter expansion.  Industrial production rose 9.6 percent in October from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said. That
exceeded the 9.4 percent median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Retail sales growth of 14.5 percent picked up
from September’s 14.2 percent. Fixed-asset investment increased
20.7 percent in the first 10 months from a year earlier,
compared with the 20.6 percent median analyst estimate and a
20.5 percent pace in the January-September period.  No Surprise  The producer-price index dropped 2.8 percent from a year
earlier in October, narrowing from a 3.6 percent a month
earlier, while consumer prices rose 1.7 percent, according to
the bureau.  “The economic data are slightly good but haven’t brought
any big surprise,” said Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Investors had expected positive
news and policies from the party congress and we haven’t seen
any so far.”  Brokerages were the biggest decliners in the CSI 300’s
financial gauge this week. Guoyuan Securities slid 1.8 percent
to 10.18  yuan . Its weekly loss was the steepest since August.
 Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  dropped 2.7 percent to 11.07 yuan,
adidng to a weekly loss of 9.7 percent. Both brokerages said
this week net incomes for October fell from a month earlier amid
declines for the nation’s equities.  Car Sales  Great Wall Motor, China’s biggest pickup truck maker, fell
1.4 percent to 18.91 yuan. Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co., a
unit of China’s biggest light-truck exporter, lost 1.5 percent
to 5.36 yuan. The CSI 300’s consumer discetionary gauge slipped
1.6 percent this week, outperforming all other industry groups.  Chinese passenger-car sales gained 6.4 percent to 1.3
million units last month, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said after the market closed. That exceeded the
1.28 million average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  China’s stocks will linger around current levels unless
there are positive catalysts such as policy easing, which is
looking less likely given recent data showing the economy is
stabilizing, Hao Hong, managing director of research at Bank of
Communications Co., said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today. The People’s Bank of China has cut  interest rates  twice
since early June and lowered reserve ratios three times from
last November.  Party Congress  Economic development remains “unbalanced, uncoordinated
and unsustainable,” and China’s leaders must “work harder” to
solve those problems, said President  Hu Jintao , in one of his
final public appearances before handing over to Xi Jinping,
designated as the party’s next general secretary.  The make-up of the new Politburo Standing Committee, the
top body whose members will be announced just after the end of
the congress, may give clues to China’s appetite for policy
shifts the  World Bank  says it must embrace to become a high-
income economy. The reform agenda ranges from breaking up state
monopolies to deregulating lending rates and ending under-
pricing of natural resources.  Michael Pettis , a finance professor at  Peking University ,
said there is “still a huge amount of uncertainty around the
makeup” of the Standing Committee which will determine “the
pace and urgency of economic reform.”  Gold Stocks  Shandong Gold Mining Co. (600547)  led gains for materials producers
after gold futures jumped to a three-week high. Shandong Gold,
China’s second-largest bullion producer by market value, rose
0.6 percent to 38.55 yuan.  Zhongjin Gold Co. (600489) , the third biggest,
gained 0.4 percent to 16.10 yuan.  Spot gold increased as much as 0.2 percent to $1,735.45 an
ounce, the most expensive since Oct. 19. A fifth day of gains
would be the longest rally since August. Gold traders are the
most bullish in 11 weeks and investors accumulated record
bullion holdings on speculation U.S. policy makers will add to
stimulus following Obama’s re-election.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 2 percent to $36.52 in
New York yesterday, the lowest level since Oct. 12.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Weiyi Lim in Sigapore.
Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  