-- Clinton Asked to Testify on Benghazi by House Commmittee
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-11-09T18:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/clinton-asked-to-testify-on-benghazi-by-house-commmittee.html
The Republican-led House Foreign
Affairs Committee asked Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to
testify at an open hearing next week about the Sept. 11 attacks
in Benghazi, Libya.  While the State Department responded that Clinton will be
traveling abroad next week, the invitation to the Nov. 15
hearing signaled a post-election renewal of a politically
charged debate over the attack resulted in the death of U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.  Other State Department officials plan to provide closed-
door briefings for lawmakers, including a session with the
Senate intelligence committee on Nov. 15, department spokeswoman
Victoria Nuland told reporters today.  At a House hearing before the Nov. 6 elections, Republicans
said President  Barack Obama ’s administration failed to provide
adequate diplomatic security before the Benghazi attack and
sought to play down the role of terrorists afterward. Democrats
defended the administration’s performance and said Republicans
were seeking to exploit the attack for political gain.  Clinton is scheduled to travel next week to  Australia ,
 Singapore ,  Thailand ,  Burma  and Cambodia.  Classified Briefings  Nuland said Under Secretary of State for Management Patrick Kennedy and Assistant Secretary of State for Diplomatic Security
Eric Boswell will provide classified briefings next week to the
Senate intelligence panel as well as the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, the Senate Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee and the Republican chairmen and
top Democrats of House committees.  Clinton reaffirmed yesterday her pledge to improve security
at U.S. embassies and consulates, as a panel she appointed
reviews security decisions made before the Libya attack.  “We now have a formal Accountability Review Board
investigating the terrorist attack that killed Chris, and we
will certainly apply its recommendations and lessons learned to
improving security everywhere,” Clinton said during a tribute
to Stevens at the Carnegie Institution for Science in
 Washington .  Clinton has responded to questions about what may have gone
wrong in Libya by saying the answers will come from the board,
which is headed by veteran U.S. diplomat Thomas Pickering.  “The independent Accountability Review  Board is already
hard at work looking at everything --- not cherry-picking one
story here or one document there -- but looking at everything,
which I highly recommend as the appropriate approach to
something as complex as an attack like this,” Clinton told
reporters on Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  