-- McMahon Reflects on $97 Million Spent Losing U.S. Senate Bids
-- B y   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 2012-11-09T18:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/mcmahon-reflects-on-97-million-spent-losing-u-s-senate-bids.html
While  Linda McMahon , the former chief
executive of  World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) , knows drama, she
says even she didn’t anticipate the furor over her latest bid to
win a U.S. Senate seat in Connecticut, which she lost to
Democratic U.S. Representative Chris Murphy.  McMahon, 64, was defeated on Nov. 6, two years after losing
to Democrat  Richard Blumenthal  in a  state  where one-fifth of
voters are registered Republicans, Bloomberg Businessweek
reported today. She personally spent $97 million on the two
campaigns. In her latest, she ran ads ripping into her opponent
while distancing herself from Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney . Here are edited excerpts of an interview yesterday:  Q: When did you realize you’d lost the race?  A: I was sitting by myself, actually. I had just taken a
moment to go upstairs and get my thoughts together on what I was
still hoping would be a victory speech. I was just sitting
there, going over my speech. Clearly you have a concession
speech as well, but you’re hoping that’s not the one you use. I
wasn’t paying that much attention to the TV. This was about 40
minutes after the polls closed. Then I looked up and saw a
checkmark next to Chris Murphy’s name on ABC. I barely caught it
out of the corner of my eye. I just thought, “Wow.” I was
stunned for a moment. I sat there for a few minutes on my own,
reflecting on what the race had been.  I thought about the
thousands of people who not only had touched me but whom I had
touched as well. All the notes. “Thank you for running. Thank
you for showing me that it’s worth putting everything on the
line,” and things like that.  Q: You must have gone into this knowing it would be tough
to win.  A: It always is a battle for a Republican in  Connecticut ,
even one who’s a moderate like I am, and one who’s an
independent thinker. We had a president who had strong coat
tails. I had a message that did resonate with a good number of
people in the state, but the other guy got more votes.  Q: Having lost before, why do it again?  A: What really got me in the race the first time was
looking at where our economy was. There didn’t seem to be
business people focusing on that. After I lost, I just kept
watching. I had four little grandchildren when I first decided
to run in 2009. By the end of the year, I had six. It just
wasn’t fair for these kids to be shouldering such debt and to
then grow up in an economy that didn’t offer the same
opportunity that their grandfather and I had.  I don’t want to
minimize the job of a senator. It’s not just about the economy,
but that was the biggest gap we had.  When Senator (Joe)
Lieberman announced he was retiring, I thought it was time to
reach out again. I knew the opportunity would probably never
come back again for me.  Q: Did the scrutiny you got at WWE make it easier to handle
it on the campaign trail?  A: Being under the political spotlight is far different
than anything I’d experienced before. Every word is a critical
word. Sometimes you really aren’t allowed to get your full
thought out. A lot of it is about having a 30-second sound bite.  Q: What had you learned from the first race?  A: I felt I really needed to have my thoughts and plan
written down so people could see it. Because of the associations
with WWE, I wasn’t resonating with women so that became a
priority so we started something called Conversations with
Linda.  Q: A lot has been made of $97 million you’ve spent in these
races. How do you think that’s been portrayed?  A: The way it’s framed is that I’m trying to buy the
election for my own personal gain. What would be my personal
gain? I’m not looking for a new career. I’ve had a wonderful
career. I was hoping to bring a different voice and perspective
and use my skills that have been honed as a CEO in bringing
people together. I’ve had a little bit of fame and fortune. I’ve
been in the public eye. I wasn’t looking for a hobby. If I were
looking for a hobby, it wouldn’t be the United States Senate.
That’s one of the toughest jobs I’d probably ever do. I just
felt there wasn’t enough compromise going on: people were too
far to the left, too far to the right, with no one trying to
build a compromise. I understand the attention. Look, it’s an
incredible amount of money to spend on a campaign.  Q: Was it money well spent?  A: I feel really good about what I’ve accomplished. So many
people have said, “you’ve made me think that I can do
something. You’ve made me look at things a new way.” I think
people were more thoroughly convinced the second time around
that I was passionate about these issues.  I found that I had a
special following among 12- to 14-year-old girls. I was
incredibly flattered. When I asked a mother about it, she said
“you have become a role model for these girls.”  Q: There’s been a lot of comment about the negative ads on
both sides.  A: We did what I consider to be contrast ads, to show what
his voting record was. We did bring out something about him that
he’d gotten political favors on a special loan. They were things
I thought the voters should know. We never put up evil-looking
pictures of him or play dark and dreary music. They actually
photo-shopped me a couple of times, making my jaw longer, and
making me look like a really evil person.  Q: Does it matter having women in  Washington ?  A: I really do think it matters.  Susan Collins  (Republican
Senator from  Maine ) and  Lisa Murkowski  (Republican of  Alaska )
came down and campaigned with me. Susan told me that all the
women in the Senate--there were only 17 at the time--would get
together every six weeks. They’d have a dinner or just meet and
talk. They’d agree to disagree on some things; try to find
common ground on others. I think women are not as hung up on the
testosterone thing. They’re more collaborative. They multitask
better and I think they’re more results-oriented. They just want
to cut to the chase and get it done. Susan and Lisa were saying
that they felt they could do better with more women in the
Senate.  Q: Is it hard for Republican women to focus on issues like
jobs when others in the party are off talking about legitimate
rape and access to  birth control ?  A: There was clearly a political agenda to take the
conversation in that direction because the emphasis on jobs and
the economy was not going well. Those are the issues that matter
most to people right now.  Q: Are you glad you ran?  A: Vince told me a story the day after the election. Some
guy from WWE had no power (from the storm), so he’d taken his
wife and daughter to the Hilton on Tuesday night. They walked in
to the hotel as I was getting ready to give my concession
speech, so they stayed to watch it. His daughter, I think she
was 9, stood there as I was giving my speech. This little girl
came up when I was in the receiving line and apparently there
was some question about the campaign. I touched my heart and
touched her heart, and said “just remember to do things from
your heart” and then I pointed to my head to say “as well as
your head.” He told Vince that was something she would never
forget. I don’t know her face. I don’t know him. But it means a
lot to know I’ve left an impact on people like that little girl.
Everyone needs to feel they can make a difference.  Q: What’s next for you?  A: One thing I’ll continue to do is our philanthropic work.
I’m not really focused right now on what happens next. I don’t
really anticipate running for public office again. I think I’ve
given that a really good, strong shot. At this moment, it’s not
a consideration. Things can always change but it’s not something
I anticipate right now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diane Brady in  New York  at 
 dbrady11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  