-- CME Group Sues to Block Dodd-Frank Swap Reporting Rules
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/cme-group-sues-to-block-dodd-frank-swap-reporting-rules.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures market, sued the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, challenging cleared-swaps reporting requirements
imposed under the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation.  CME, in a lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court in
Washington, seeks a permanent injunction against rules requiring
registered derivatives clearing organizations, or DCOs, such as
itself, to provide nonpublic reports of cleared swap
transactions to a new swap data repository established under the
act. CME has until Nov. 13 to comply.  The rules “would impose costly, cumbersome, and
duplicative requirements on DCOs,” CME said in the complaint.  CME said it objects to the reporting requirement because
the data is already “directly and readily available” to the
CFTC through the exchange. Chicago-based CME calls the rule
unnecessary and duplicative and argues that the commission
failed to say whether it had conducted a cost-benefit analysis
of the regulation.  The case is one of several brought by the financial
industry as it pushes back against tighter regulations passed in
the wake of the 2008 credit crisis. In September, a federal
judge rejected a commission rule curbing derivatives
speculation.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
lawsuit.  CME Group guarantees interest-rate and credit-default swaps
with its clearinghouse. The company also backs futures trades
based on  interest rates , equity indexes, commodities and
currencies.  Reduce Risk  The Dodd-Frank Act, the financial overhaul enacted in 2010,
aims to reduce risk and increase transparency in the $601
trillion swaps market after largely unregulated trades
contributed to the 2008 credit crisis. Clearinghouses, which are
capitalized by their members, guarantee trades by standing
between buyers and sellers.  The case is Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. v. U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 12-cv-01820, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 