-- Colombia Cites Improved Euro Area Economy in Rate Hold
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-11-09T17:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/colombia-cites-improved-euro-area-economy-in-rate-hold-1-.html
Colombia ’s central bank cited a lower
risk of a deep recession in the Euro zone and the strong
performance of the country’s construction sector in its decision
to leave interest rates unchanged last month.  “The biggest risk to economic activity continues to be a
strong recession in  Europe ,” the bank said in the  minutes 
published on its website today. “It seems the probably of this
has diminished due to the actions of the European authorities
and the reactions of the markets in that continent.”  Colombia last month kept the  benchmark interest rate  at
4.75 percent for a second straight month, after policy makers
judged that bond-buying plans by the U.S. Federal Reserve and
 European Central Bank  will ease the risk of a global slump.
Analysts expect the rate to remain at its current level through
September 2013, according to the most frequent forecast in a
central bank survey published Oct. 11.  Policy makers see that “the world economy is showing less
to be worried about, while inflation remains at levels that are
very stable, and very close to their target,” said Cesar
Corredor an analyst at Banco de Bogota SA, the nation’s
second-biggest bank.  Internal Demand ‘Dynamism’  Policy makers also revised their forecast for 2012  gross
domestic product  growth to 3.7 percent to 4.9 percent, from a
previous forecast of 3 percent to 5 percent.  “The growth rate in 2012 will be satisfactory, taking into
account the international situation, and GDP is close to its
potential level,” the bank said in the minutes published on its
website today. “The dynamism of internal demand, stimulated by,
among other things, investment in construction and civil works,
and by terms of trade, will continue to stimulate national
income and employment.”  Policy makers also said that monetary policy needs to take
into account the fast pace of home price increases and credit
growth to “minimize risks of future imbalances in these
variables.”  Interbolsa, Inflation  The collapse this month of  Interbolsa SA (INTBOL) ’s brokerage,
Colombia’s biggest, won’t sway policy makers in  interest rate 
decisions, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in a radio
interview today.  Annual  inflation  slowed to 3.06 percent in October, the
lowest rate in  Latin America  after  Chile  among the region’s
seven biggest economies, from 3.08 percent in September. The
central bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  Gross domestic product grew 4.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the third-fastest expansion among
Latin America’s seven biggest economies after Peru and Chile.  The economy in 2012 will probably expand toward the upper
end of the bank’s 3 percent to 5 percent forecast, Uribe said
last month.  The peso dropped 0.2 percent to 1,814.60 per  U.S. dollar .
The currency has gained 0.7 percent this week and has jumped 6.9
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  