-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Increase a Third Day; FTI Plans Debt
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-11-09T21:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-increase-on-fiscal-cliff-concerns.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
rose for a third day as concern increased that the so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases may
push the  U.S. economy  into recession.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 2.2
basis points to a mid-price of 106.7 basis points at 4:16 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
poised for the highest closing level since 109 basis points on
Aug. 2.  A contraction of the world’s largest economy may impair
corporate balance sheets and hinder companies’ ability to repay
obligations. A report from the  Congressional Budget Office 
yesterday affirmed that a failure to avoid $600 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts set to take effect next year would
lead to a recession in the first half of 2013.  “All week since the election people have been winding down
risk” amid concerns over the so-called fiscal cliff in the
U.S.,  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and the pace of economic
growth in  China , Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “There’s certainly been no
shortage of reasons for people to get more conservative.”  The credit-risk measure rose to as high as 108.1 earlier
today, paring the increase after the Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan preliminary consumer sentiment  index  reached a five-
year high.  FTI Offering  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN) , the business advisory firm, plans to
issue $300 million of debt in its first offering this year. The
company may sell 10-year notes to yield as much as 6 percent as
soon as today, according to a person familiar with the offering,
who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set.  A Moody’s Investors Service gauge of the strength of
speculative-grade bond covenants that protect investors held
below its historical average last month. The average covenant
score, in which 1 is the strongest and 5 the weakest, improved
to 3.8 in October from 3.88 in September and compares with an
average of 3.65 since January 2011, Moody’s analysts led by
Alexander Dill wrote in a report dated yesterday.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt rose 2
basis points to 5.81 percentage points, led by spreads on the
bonds of energy and communications companies, which widened 4
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  