-- Craig’s Best James Bond, Spielberg’s Bruising Lincoln
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/craig-s-best-james-bond-spielberg-s-bruising-lincoln-movies.html
By turns rollicking, wonkish and not
entirely lacking  Steven Spielberg ’s familiar dose of awe-struck
sugar, “ Lincoln ” is a mash note to brass-knuckle American
politics.  Could the timing have been any better? The author of the
screenplay is Tony Kushner, whose villainous Roy Cohn remarked,
in “Angels in America,” that politics is blood-red meat,
“gastric juices churning.” To which Daniel Day-Lewis’s
commanding 16th president might respond: “No kidding.”  Delighting in rowdy name-calling debates (“You are more
reptile than man!”) and backroom deal-making, “Lincoln”
chronicles his last-ditch scramble to secure the anti-slavery
Thirteenth Amendment as the Civil War winds down.  The war’s end -- Southern diplomats are on their way to the
White House -- would shrivel Northern support for the amendment.
Even Lincoln allies like Secretary of State William Seward
(David Strathairn) view the proposal chiefly as a tactical
strike against the Confederates.  Based in part on Doris Kearns Goodwin’s “Team of Rivals,”
“Lincoln” brims with big characters expertly played, from
Strathairn’s pragmatic Seward to Tommy Lee Jones, bewigged and
bellowing, as the wildly impolitic abolitionist Thaddeus
Stevens.  Only Madness  The home front is equally vivid, with Sally Field’s aching
turn as the despairing Mary Todd Lincoln (history, she predicts,
will remember only her madness) and Joseph Gordon-Levitt as the
eldest son, determined to enlist.  Minor characters, crucial to the story, are memorably
sketched and Kushner’s dense lyricism goes a long way to offset
the director’s saccharine tendencies.  A tall order, to be sure. This is, after all, a big-time,
award-baiting Spielberg production, with lighting that
occasionally bathes Lincoln in a saintly glow and washes the era
in  John Williams ’s overwrought score.  “Lincoln” is better served by another longtime Spielberg
collaborator, cinematographer Janusz Kaminski. The battlefield
combat that opens the film is as graphic and intense as anything
in “ Saving Private Ryan ,” and makes clear what’s really at
stake in those noisy halls of democracy.  “Lincoln,” from DreamWorks Pictures and Twentieth Century
Fox, is playing in select theaters, and goes into wide release
November 16. Rating: **** (Evans)  Bond, James  With just a little tug of his shirt cuff,  Daniel Craig 
unseats  Sean Connery  as cinema’s best  James Bond .  The moment comes early in Sam Mendes’s terrific, game-
changing “ Skyfall .”  Craig’s sexy, careworn 007 has just survived a thrillingly
choreographed chase -- motorcycles, trains, tractors -- when he
pauses just long enough to assure the proper bit of white
peeking from his suit coat sleeve.  Bond, still stylish after 50 years.  “Skyfall,” written by Neal Purvis, Robert Wade and John
Logan, is the 23rd film based on  Ian Fleming ’s MI6 operative.
And it’s one of the best.  Resurrection is the theme here, established early on when
Bond, presumed dead after a split-second decision by agency
chief M ( Judi Dench , wonderfully steely) goes sour.  Even after a respite “enjoying death,” Bond is bone-
weary, a Cold War relic questioning his place in a young man’s
game.  “You were expecting an exploding pen?” says the gadget-
making tech geek Q (Ben Whishaw) to Bond. “We don’t really go
in for that anymore.”  Delicious Evil  Other traditions survive, most happily in the world-
threatening presence of a deliciously evil villain.  This time around it’s dyed-blond  Javier Bardem ’s computer-
hacking Raoul Silva, M’s former protege driven mad by years of
foreign imprisonment.  If Silva falls short of Goldfinger status -- the
character’s mommy-hating motivations seem thin -- Bardem
certainly captures Mendes’s embrace of new and old.  Flirting with a tied-up Bond, Bardem’s Silva teases his
lady-killing nemesis that “there’s a first time for
everything.”  “What makes you think,” responds Bond, ever full of
surprises, “that this is my first time?”  “Skyfall,” from  Columbia Pictures  and Metro Goldwyn
Mayer, is playing across the country. Rating: **** (Evans)  Montreal, Paris  Jaggedly edited, with a jangly soundtrack to match, “ Cafe
de Flore ” offers two gentle tales with horror-movie trappings,
as though something unspeakable awaits these nice people.  The writer and director, Jean-Marc Vallee (“The Young
Victoria”) places the contemporary part in his native  Montreal .
A successful DJ (Kevin Parent) has regretfully left a woman he
adores (Helene Florent) for one he loves even more deeply
(Evelyne Brochu).  Ex-wife and wife-to-be refuse to hate each other. They’re
distraught; he’s confused.  In the other story, set in 1960s Paris, a working-class
mother (Vanessa Paradis) devotes herself to her seven-year-old
son (Marin Gerrier), who has Down syndrome, with a fierceness
that threatens to cross the line into something less benign.  It takes a while to get these two narratives fixed in your
head. Though they aren’t complicated, the shock cuts and the
pumped-up music (the title refers to a pop song, not the Left
Bank hangout) keep throwing you; so does the lack of any
apparent connection between them.  Gothic Horror  As they both turn darker, elements of Gothic horror begin
to shade the edges of the frame. The mixture of foreboding and
flashy editing hints at the influence of Nicolas Roeg’s occult
1973 tragedy “ Don’t Look Now ” -- another sign that something
you would rather not see may be approaching.  In the end, though the combination of love-is-the-answer
and doom-is-nigh feels startlingly weird, it isn’t resolved, or
at least not satisfyingly. The movie seems to be taking you
someplace very strange -- until all at once you recognize the
scenery.  “Cafe de Flore,” from Adopt Films, is playing in  New
York ,  Los Angeles  and  Coral Gables ,  Florida . Rating: ***
(Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 