-- Credit Agricole Posts $3.6 Billion Loss After Greek Sale
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-11-09T13:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/credit-agricole-posts-2-85-billion-euro-loss-on-greek-sale.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s third-
largest bank, posted a quarterly loss that exceeded analysts’
estimates on costs tied to the sale of its Greek unit.  The shares fell the most in a year after the bank, based
outside of Paris, reported a third-quarter net loss of 2.85
billion euros ($3.62 billion). That’s wider than the 1.88
billion-euro average  estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Credit Agricole, led by Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet, agreed to sell its Greek unit, Emporiki, last month at
a loss of 1.96 billion euros as the lender tries to insulate
itself from the potential costs of the country’s exit from the
single European currency.  “The results were a miss, pointing to lower performance in
most of the activities,” Credit Suisse Group AG, which has a
neutral rating on the stock, said today in a note to investors.
While the results “fall in a transition period due to the
deconsolidation,” they “still show mediocre quality
performance in the underlying businesses,” it said.  Credit Agricole  fell 9.1 percent to 5.38 euros by 2:10 p.m.
in Paris, the most since November 2011. The shares have risen 24
percent in 2012, giving the firm a market value of 13.5 billion
euros. BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest bank, has gained 29
percent this year, while Societe Generale, the country’s No. 2
lender by market value, has added 39 percent.  Greek Holdings  French banks held $40.1 billion in Greek public and private
debt at the end of June, or 55 percent of all foreign claims,
according to data compiled by the  Bank for International
Settlements . German lenders had $5.5 billion in Greek debt
holdings while U.K. banks held $5.6 billion, BIS data show.  Emporiki’s lending book is about 10 times bigger than
Geniki Bank, the Athens-based business that  Societe Generale  is
selling. Banks wrote down their Greek government debt holdings
by about 100 billion euros as part of the world’s biggest
sovereign restructuring agreed in March. Deutsche Bank AG,
 Germany ’s biggest bank, held 67 million euros of Greek sovereign
debt at the end of September, while Commerzbank AG has cut its
exposure to zero after a 2.2 billion-euro writedown.  Leaving aside the costs related to the Emporiki sale and
additional non-recurring charges, Credit Agricole had a profit
of 716 million euros in the quarter, the company said. Profit
from the French regional banks fell 3.5 percent, while earnings
at the LCL branch network declined 11 percent.  Accounting Charges  The bank also booked an accounting charge of 647 million
euros tied to the theoretical cost of buying back its own debt
as market prices fluctuate. So-called credit valuation
adjustments require banks to book losses when the value of their
debt rises, and gains when it declines, on the theory that a
loss, or profit, would be realized were the bank to repurchase
that debt.  Credit Agricole recorded a 572 million-euro writedown
mostly on its Italian consumer-credit business, a 181 million-
euro loss linked to its sale of CA Cheuvreux, and a 193 million-
euro accounting charge on its stake in  Spain ’s  Bankinter SA. (BKT)   Credit Agricole is selling Athens-based Emporiki for a
token price of 1 euro to Alpha Bank, it said Oct. 17. The French
bank will inject more funds into Emporiki, bringing the total
capital boost since July to 2.85 billion euros, and buy 150
million euros of convertible bonds issued by Alpha Bank. Credit
Agricole and Athens-based Alpha aim to complete the transaction
by the end of this year.  Capital Ratio  Credit Agricole is also shutting its riskiest investment-
banking businesses. The bank has stopped most of its equity
derivatives and it has no proprietary trading activity,
according to a Sept. 26 presentation. The lender is selling its
brokerage CLSA to  China ’s Citic Securities Co. in a transaction
valued at $1.25 billion.  Credit Agricole started trimming its balance sheet last
year and in December scrapped its 2014 earnings targets. Credit
Agricole Group, the entity regulators and rating firms look at
for compliance with international rules, expects to reach a core
capital ratio of more than 10 percent by the end of 2013 under
regulations proposed by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , the bank reiterated today.  Credit Agricole has no plans for a capital increase, CEO
Chifflet told journalists on a call today.  While Credit Agricole’s funding to Emporiki made it the
foreign lender with the most to lose should  Greece  exit the
euro, the planned sale of the unit to Alpha will create the
southern European country’s second-largest bank by loans.  Investment Banking  Credit Agricole, founded in 1894 as a lender to farmers,
invested 2.2 billion euros in 2006 to buy a majority stake in
Emporiki, the least profitable of Greece’s top five banks at the
time. Since then, the unit has been unprofitable every year
except 2007, with accumulated losses for the French lender of
about 5.7 billion euros through the end of June.  The lender, like BNP Paribas and Societe Generale, cut
 investment-banking  jobs and assets as  Europe ’s debt crisis last
year curbed their access to short-term dollar funding,
regulators imposed stricter capital rules and French President
 Francois Hollande  considers legislation by year’s end to isolate
the banks’ most speculative activities.  French banks are in “exploratory discussions” with the
government on those proposals, Chifflet told reporters. “We’ve
got the will to negotiate inch by inch” as part of the talks
revolve around market-making activities, he said.  Debt Charges  Societe Generale yesterday posted an 86 percent decline in
third-quarter profit as losses on asset sales and a charge on
its own debt outweighed an investment-banking rebound. BNP
Paribas said on Nov. 7 that quarterly profit more than doubled,
helped by higher trading revenue.  Credit Agricole’s corporate and investment bank had a 302
million-euro net loss in the quarter, hurt by own-debt charges
and the cost of selling CA Cheuvreux. Excluding one-time items,
the division’s like-for-like profit fell 15 percent to 325
million euros, the bank said.  Securities firms have posted gains in revenue since
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s July pledge to do
“whatever it takes” to defend the euro sparked a rally in bond
markets. French banks, the biggest foreign holders of private
and public debt in the troubled economies of Greece, Ireland,
 Italy ,  Portugal  and Spain, are benefiting from the ECB’s moves
as the crisis enters its fourth year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Frank
Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  