-- Cyprus Needs Bailout Agreement Before Election, EU Official Says
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-11-09T14:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/cyprus-needs-bailout-agreement-before-election-eu-official-says.html
The Cypriot government needs to
strike a deal with international creditors on a bailout package
before the country’s presidential election in February, a
European Union official said.  Cypriot authorities feel a “higher degree of urgency” to
conclude a deal, the official told reporters in Brussels today
on condition of anonymity. It’s “desirable and necessary” for
a bailout agreement to be in place before Cypriots elect a new
president, the official said.  Talks resumed in Nicosia today with the so-called troika
that oversees euro-area bailouts. No consensus has been reached
on the size of the bailout within the troika, comprising the
European Commission,  European Central Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund , a second official said on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private.  Cyprus in late June became the fifth euro-area nation to
request a financial rescue since a 2010 bailout of  Greece . The
bailout will encompass banks weakened by their exposure to the
 Greek economy  as well as the public sector. Euro-area finance
ministers will discuss the Cypriot request at a Nov. 12 meeting,
the EU official said.  The government estimates that the country’s banks, which
lost more than 4 billion euros ($5.1 billion) in Greece’s debt
restructuring, need as much as 6 billion euros of fresh capital,
the second official said. European officials put the banks’
recapitalization needs at as much as 8 billion euros, while the
IMF’s estimate is for as much as 10 billion euros, according to
the official.  Wage Indexation  The government, shut out of markets since May 2011, may
need 4.5 billion euros to refinance debt maturing in the next
four years, the second official said.  This estimate doesn’t include a 2.5 billion-euro loan
extended by  Russia  last year, because talks are ongoing to
extend that loan’s maturity, the official said.  Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said on Nov. 2 that Cyprus
and the troika remained divided on five points: the volume of
recapitalization funds needed for banks, wage indexation,
oversight of cooperative banks and privatization. He didn’t name
the fifth issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  