-- Dish Seen In DirecTV’s Orbit as Growth Stalls: Real M&A
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-11-09T21:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/dish-seen-in-directv-s-orbit-as-growth-stalls-real-m-a.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s stagnating
growth is increasing the pressure on Chairman Charlie Ergen to
combine with rival  DirecTV (DTV) , 10 years after a failed attempt.  Ergen said this week that the two largest U.S. satellite-TV
providers “have to consider” a deal, potentially joining a
rush of consolidation in the telecommunications, cable and
satellite-TV industries that has already topped $46 billion in
the U.S. this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Dish is facing declining profit this year, and analysts estimate
sales will rise only 7.8 percent through 2014, less than 95
percent of the other cable and satellite-TV providers globally.  The Federal Communications Commission has said it will
decide whether Dish can use its wireless spectrum to transmit
mobile voice and data by year-end, and Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. says that may be the catalyst for a takeover of the $16
billion company. With use of the new airwaves, a combined
DirecTV-Dish could offer fast wireless Internet connections that
regulators are encouraging along with pay-TV, which may help
persuade officials to approve a deal they blocked as
anticompetitive in 2002, said HighMark Capital Management Inc.  “Regulators will be more open to a deal given how the
industry has changed,”  Todd Lowenstein , a Los Angeles-based
money manager at HighMark, which oversees about $17 billion and
owns shares of DirecTV, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a
dream deal. A deal would really bring a lot of cost savings to
the satellite industry, which is a low-growth to no-growth
industry.”  No Discussion  No discussions between the two companies are happening yet,
Ergen, 59, said during the company’s Nov. 6 earnings conference
call. Ergen has a net worth of $10.8 billion, putting him in
84th place on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  of the world’s
richest people.  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
declined to comment further, and DirecTV spokesman Darris Gringeri also declined to comment.  Today, shares of Dish rose 1.1 percent to $35.86, while
DirecTV fell 1 percent to $48.83.  DirecTV, based in El Segundo,  California , and Dish are
struggling to sign up more U.S. subscribers than they lose, in
part because customers are switching to competing services such
as  AT&T (T)  Inc.’s U-verse,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS and
cheaper online alternatives  Netflix (NFLX)  Inc. and Hulu. Dish has
reported a customer net loss in four of the last six quarters,
and DirecTV posted its first-ever quarterly drop this year.  Dish and DirecTV are facing additional pressure because
programming costs are increasing by a high-single-digit
percentage each year as companies such as  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , owner
of ESPN, and CBS Corp., home of the namesake broadcast network,
push for higher fees.  ‘No Secret’  “It is no secret that the pay-TV industry continues to
face a difficult economic environment and a more price-sensitive
marketplace,” Dish Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said
on this week’s earnings call. “The entire industry will have to
rethink its current business model and strategy.”  A Dish-DirecTV deal may help limit increases in customers’
TV bills, which can top $100 a month, because the new company,
with a combined 34 million U.S. subscribers, may have more
leverage in fee negotiations with channel owners, said  Chris Marangi , a money manager at Rye, New York-based Gamco Investors
Inc. His firm oversees about $37 billion, including more than 7
million DirecTV shares and more than 6 million Dish  shares .  “You’ve got a challenging content cost environment where
consolidation could be pro-consumer,” DirecTV Chairman and CEO
Mike White said at a Sept. 21 conference. While he wouldn’t
speculate about a potential tie-up with Dish, he said the
industry has changed since the deal was rejected in 2002 as
telecommunications firms have expanded across the country.  Deal Wave  Competitors are already pursuing deals to cope with the
changing landscape. Last month, Japan’s  Softbank Corp. (9984)  agreed to
a $20.1 billion transaction to gain a controlling stake in
 Sprint (S)  Nextel Corp., and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  said it will merge
its T-Mobile USA unit with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)   There have been $46.5 billion of takeovers announced in the
U.S. telecommunications, cable and satellite-TV industries this
year, the highest annual volume since 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The tally excludes Softbank’s majority
stake purchase in Sprint.  A decade ago, regulators blocked the proposed combination
of the entities now known as Dish and DirecTV, saying it would
harm consumers by creating a satellite-TV monopoly in rural
areas not served by cable companies and reducing pay-TV
competition in urban areas.  Regulatory Hurdles  “Going from two choices to one is typically a no-no,”
Blair Levin, a fellow at the Aspen Institute who previously
worked for the FCC, said in an interview. “That’s still going
to be hard to overcome, because you still don’t have more than
two multi-channel video options in those places.”  Still, several major U.S. markets now have four TV options:
Dish, DirecTV, a regional cable provider and either FiOS or U-
verse. Competitors such as FiOS, Hulu and Netflix’s streaming
service didn’t exist when the previous deal was blocked.  One way Dish and DirecTV may be able to pass antitrust
scrutiny is by offering rural customers the same promotional
deals and prices frequently given in competitive regions, Levin
said.  Dish is awaiting an FCC decision on whether it can use
wireless spectrum it purchased to deliver Internet and voice
services, an offering that also may ease the way for a deal.  Rural Internet  Both FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  and President  Barack Obama , who was re-elected this week, have pushed for a
nationwide expansion of high-speed Internet.  Giving rural Americans a new option to buy a Dish-DirecTV
wireless product should mollify regulators’ concerns about
reducing satellite-TV competition, especially if safeguards are
put in place to prevent price gouging, Ergen said in an
interview last month.  “There isn’t an alternative to cable broadband in most of
the country,” Craig Moffett, an analyst at Bernstein in New
York, said in a phone interview. “Ergen and DirecTV could sell
the deal to regulators by arguing the spectrum can be used as an
alternative to cable broadband that’s higher speed than DSL.”  Ergen is weighing his options as Dish is projected by
analysts to post the lowest  net income  in three years in 2012.
The company’s estimated  revenue growth  from 2011 to 2014 of 7.8
percent is the second slowest in the cable and satellite-TV
industry and trails the median of 21 percent among the 22
companies for which projections are available, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Cost Savings  It costs Dish and DirecTV more than $800 each time a
customer signs up for service due to satellite dish and set-top
box installations. Many of the customers then just switch to the
other satellite-TV provider, Bernstein’s Moffett said.  “The dirty little secret of a Dish-DirecTV deal is you
can’t sell the Department of Justice by saying the reason this
deal makes sense is that customers will have less choice, but
the reality is that costs would drop like a rock,” he said.  Absent a tie-up with DirecTV, AT&T may be among potential
suitors for Dish in an attempt to reach more customers for
bundled TV, Internet and calling packages, said Jan Dawson, a
New York-based analyst with Ovum Ltd. The company said it will
expand its Internet Protocol broadband network from 64 percent
of eligible homes and small businesses to 75 percent within its
 22-state  region by the end of 2014.  “They still need some kind of solution for the other 25
percent of the footprint to compete with cable companies’
bundled services,” Dawson said in a phone interview. “Dish
would flesh out AT&T’s TV offering outside its U-verse
footprint.”  Attractive Spectrum  Lauren Nadig, a spokeswoman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined
to comment on whether the company would be interested in buying
Dish.  Dish also has attractive airwaves, especially those in the
700-megahertz band that would fit well with AT&T’s current
holdings, said Chris King, an analyst with Stifel Financial
Corp. in Baltimore.  “Ergen’s best option would be to sell the spectrum or sell
the company outright to someone that can use the spectrum,”
King said in a phone interview. “Running a wireless business
isn’t a viable option.”  While AT&T says it’s always looking for more airwaves to
accommodate the growth in wireless network traffic, CEO Randall Stephenson said the acquisition of so-called WCS spectrum from
NextWave earlier this year helped relieve immediate needs.  ‘Wild Card’  “A year ago, we had a spectrum problem and we talked about
Charlie sitting on a nice chunk of spectrum,” Stephenson said
in an interview, referring to Dish Chairman Ergen. “But things
have changed and we’ve charted our own path.”  “A partnership is a possibility,” Stephenson said.  Sprint remains the “wild card” as a possibility to
combine or partner with Dish after its Softbank investment
closes, Gamco’s Marangi said.  Sprint is open to partnerships with spectrum holders, said
 Scott Sloat , a spokesman for the Overland Park, Kansas-based
company. He declined to comment specifically on Dish.  Still, DirecTV makes the most sense, Marangi said. DirecTV
has a market value of $29.8 billion yesterday and held $2.4
billion in  cash  as of Sept. 30.  “In my view, the highest probability combination would be
with DirecTV,” Marangi said. “DirecTV likely has the financial
capacity to do a deal even if Charlie isn’t willing to take
stock.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net . 