-- Djokovic Overcomes Berdych’s Serve to Reach ATP Semifinals
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-09T17:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/djokovic-defeats-berdych-to-qualify-for-last-four-of-tour-finals.html
Top-ranked Novak Djokovic overcame
the big serve of Tomas Berdych to claim a spot in the last four
of the  ATP World Tour Finals .  Djokovic, the winner of the season-ending championship in
2008 from  Serbia , beat the fifth-seeded Czech 6-2, 7-6 (8-6) at
London’s O2 arena. He swept his three round-robin matches to
claim the top spot in the group.  “It’s the first time I’ve won all my group matches,” the
25-year-old Djokovic said. “It’s a great confidence boost for
me.”  The season-ending event splits the top eight singles
players and doubles pairs into groups of four. The top two in
each group reach the single-elimination semifinals on Nov. 11.  U.S. Open and Olympic champion  Andy Murray  of Britain plays
 France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the evening session. Murray needs
to win one set to join Djokovic and six-time champion  Roger Federer  in the semifinals.  The 6-foot-5 (196-centimeter) Berdych was broken twice in
the first set as the ball was frequently placed back straight at
his feet despite speeds of around 130 miles per hour (209-
kilometers per hour).  Djokovic is one of the best returners in the men’s game,
ranking first on the ATP World Tour by winning 56 percent of
points returning second serve. He was also second in return
games won, break points converted and points won returning first
serve.  Top Ranking  Djokovic, who will end the season as the world’s top-ranked
player for the second consecutive year, seemed on his the way to
a quick win when he broke at the start of the second set.
Instead, Berdych started to play more aggressively and forced a
tiebreaker.  A drop volley that landed on the line handed Berdych a
mini-break, from which he took a 5-2 lead. Faced with three set
points at 6-3 down, Djokovic applied pressure and forced Berdych
into mistakes. An unreturnable serve then gave Djokovic his 11th
win in 12 career meetings between the two.  “I had some chances in the tiebreak,” Berdych said in a
news conference. “If I would be able to make it, try to push
him for the third set, then maybe I get another chance. It
didn’t happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  London ’s O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  