-- The Hidden Message Behind Boehner’s Combative Front
-- B y   P a u l a   D w y e r
-- 2012-11-09T17:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/the-hidden-message-behind-boehner-s-combative-front.html
The insta-analysis from House Speaker
 John Boehner ’s news conference this morning is that he is going
to be as unyielding as ever about not raising taxes on wealthier
Americans, setting the stage for another battle royale over the
soon-to-expire Bush tax cuts.  Boehner certainly came out swinging, using the old chestnut
that raising rates would stifle economic growth by requiring
small-business owners who report profits through individual
income-tax returns to pay higher rates.  What everyone is missing, and what congressional reporters
failed to ask the speaker, is whether Republicans would be
willing to raise more  tax revenue  from upper-income Americans by
limiting their deductions while maintaining or even lowering tax
rates.  Such an outcome would be possible through broad-based  tax
reform , which explains why Boehner is practically begging
President  Barack Obama  to work with  House Republicans  on an
overhaul of the  tax code . By closing loopholes and cutting the
myriad tax breaks, deductions and exclusions that benefit high
earners the most, the U.S. could raise more revenue and lower
rates to boot.  To understand the coming Boehner-Obama waltz, it’s
important to recognize that this is the coded message from
Republicans: Let’s figure out together how to extract more tax
from the well-off without raising top rates. That way, we can
continue to claim we didn’t raise rates, providing the cover we
need to save face and get re-elected in 2014.  The beauty of this strategy is that it also works for
Obama, whose priority is making the rich pay a larger share of
the tax burden. If he achieves that by cutting the value of
their deductions and exclusions rather than by raising marginal
rates, so be it. Obama is agnostic how it’s done, as long as he
gets more revenue from it. That way, he can claim to have made
good on his re-election promise -- requiring the wealthy to pay
a larger share of the total tax burden.  The political path is already cleared, in many respects.
During the campaign, Obama and  Mitt Romney  both  endorsed  capping
deductions for tax expenditures -- home mortgage interest,
charitable contributions, payment of state taxes, employer-paid
health insurance premiums and the like -- though Romney never
specified which ones he would limit.  None of this is to say there won’t be a lot of shouting
when the negotiations begin. Whose  tax deductions  to cut, in
which income brackets, at what level to set the cap, and which
special interests deserve protection will need to be worked out.
An even more delicate question is whether to extend all the Bush
tax cuts -- including those for households making more than
$250,000 -- while all that gets negotiated.  ( Paula Dwyer  is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial
board. Follow her on  Twitter .)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .
 