-- Health Insurers Are Shifting Focus to Costs, Ignagni Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-11-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/health-insurers-are-shifting-focus-to-costs-ignagni-says.html
The health-care industry will change
its focus from expanding the insurance market to reining in
medical costs now that the  U.S. presidential election  has been
decided, said  Karen Ignagni , chief executive officer of
America’s Health Insurance Plans.  The re-election of President  Barack Obama , who campaigned
to preserve his health-care system overhaul of 2010, gives the
industry certainty that implementation of the Affordable Care
Act will proceed, Ignagni said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Peter Cook  for “Capitol Gains” airing Nov. 11.  “When we look at health reform we look at it through the
prism of affordability and disruption,” said Ignagni, whose
organization is the main Washington-based lobbying group for
health insurers. It means “making sure that care is affordable
a year from now and making sure that employers who are providing
coverage and individuals who are buying are not disrupted.”  Obama’s signature achievement during his first term will
expand health-care coverage to as many as 30 million uninsured
people starting in 2014 through a sweeping law that his
Republican challenger had pledged to overturn. The health law
isn’t entirely free and clear as Obama and Congress face a
combination of tax increases, spending cuts and a federal debt-
limit increase at the end of the year called the “fiscal
cliff” that will require negotiated legislation to ameliorate.  Kent Conrad , the Democrat from  North Dakota  who runs the
Senate Budget Committee, said existing health-care programs such
as Medicare and Medicaid have to be considered for spending
curbs.  Premium Tax  “There’s nobody, no serious person that looks at our
budget circumstance and doesn’t understand on the spending side
of the equation the thing that is growing most rapidly are the
entitlement accounts, especially health care,” Conrad said in
an interview for the “Capitol Gains” program. “So that has to
be part of any solution.”  Insurers also may seek some changes, focusing attention on
the premium tax, a provision that Ignagni said is essentially a
sales tax on employers and individuals buying coverage.  Ignagni said the industry is making sure members of
Congress understand the challenge.  “If we want to get costs down adding a  sales tax  which
increases costs that’s a conflicting incentive and that doesn’t
make any sense,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  