-- Medicis Shares Fall After Disclosure of Q-Med AB Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-09T20:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/medicis-shares-fall-after-disclosure-of-q-med-ab-lawsuit.html
Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX)  fell as
much as much as 7.7 percent, its biggest drop since Aug. 9,
after the dermatological-drug company said it was sued by Q-Med
AB to block transfer of rights to its wrinkle gel  Restylane  to a
competitor.  Q-Med filed the lawsuit, which it described in court papers
as “an action in aid of arbitration,” in federal court in
 Manhattan  on Nov. 7. Medicis disclosed Q-Med’s lawsuit in a
regulatory filing today.  Medicis in September said it had agreed to be acquired by
Montreal-based  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  in a
transaction valued at $2.6 billion. In court filings, Q-Med
described Valeant as its “direct competitor.”  “Q-Med has informed Medicis that it will not consent to a
change of control of Medicis that would result in a transfer to
Valeant of the exclusive rights to market and sell Q-Med’s
dermal filler products” including Restylane in  North America ,
the Uppsala, Sweden-based company said in a filing.  Asserting it will sustain “irreparable harm” if those
rights are transferred while arbitration is pending, Q-Med asked
for a court order temporarily blocking the transaction.  U.S. District Judge Richard J. Sullivan ordered Medicis to
respond to the injunction request by Nov. 14 and scheduled oral
argument for Dec. 3.  Medicis Disclosure  The media relations department of Scottsdale, Arizona-based
Medicis didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the suit.  While Valeant isn’t named as a defendant in the case, the
company assailed Q-Med’s claims in an e-mailed statement.  “Not only does Q-Med have no entitlement to the injunctive
relief it seeks, but its request for such an extreme remedy is
predicated on a systematic misreading of its contracts with
Medicis,” according to the Valeant statement.  Medicis fell 1.75 percent to $41.60 in trading in  New York 
at 2:32 p.m after dropping to $40 at 12:28 p.m.  The case is Q-Med AB v. HA North American Sales AB, 12-cv-
08071, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  