-- Telecom Italia Third-Quarter Profit Tops Analysts Estimates
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-11-09T16:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/telecom-italia-keeps-2012-forecasts-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  posted third-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates and reiterated its
full-year forecasts as costs in  Italy  were kept in check amid
the tensions of an economic slowdown. The stock rose the most in
a month.  Net income declined 13 percent to 681 million euros ($870
million) from a restated profit of 786 million euros a year
earlier, Italy’s largest phone company said in a statement
today. Analysts had estimated profit of 664 million euros,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Telecom Italia, based in Milan, and other European former
phone monopolies are suffering as competition and the region’s
debt crisis crimp sales and margins. This week,  Spain ’s
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  reported profit that missed analyst estimates as
competition weighed on revenue in its home market. Last month,
 France Telecom SA (FTE)  cut this year’s planned payout by as much as
41 percent as cheaper competitors hurt sales and profit.  “In a very difficult quarter for the telecom sector it is
a great degree of comfort to see Telecom Italia hit their third-
quarter consensus forecasts,” Saeed Baradar, an analyst at
 Societe Generale  in  London , said in a note.  The stock rose 3.7 percent in Milan, the biggest increase
since Oct. 5, giving the company a market value of 13 billion
euros.  Forecast Maintained  Telecom Italia’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization declined to 3 billion euros from
3.18 billion euros a year earlier. The company reiterated a
February forecast of “essentially unchanged” revenue and
Ebitda this year, excluding currency swings, acquisitions,
disposals and non-organic income.  “Healthy cash generation has more than offset our
requirements for tax and dividend payout, allowing us to confirm
our previous guidance,” Chief Executive Officer Franco  Bernabe (BNBC) 
said.  Telecom Italia is considering a plan to spin off its fixed-
line access network and will decide by the end of this year
whether to proceed, the CEO said in September.  Sales fell to 7.27 billion euros from 7.52 billion euros a
year earlier.  Domestic fixed-line revenue dropped 4 percent to 9.6
billion euros in the first nine months and total domestic sales
fell 4.7 percent to 13.4 billion euros. The Ebitda margin in
Italy improved to 49.9 percent from 49.4 percent in the first
three quarters of the year and to 52.5 percent from 51.2 percent
in the third quarter.  Good Control  Domestic margins showed “continued good cost control,”
Berenberg Bank analyst Paul Marsch said in a note today. “The
shares are in deep value territory and against a sector that has
seen many misses this quarter, an in-line set of financials is
welcome -- however concerning the worsening top-line momentum
picture.”  Marsch expressed concern in an Oct. 31 note that “domestic
momentum would worsen significantly” in the second half.  “The performance of the domestic business unit is slightly
better than the same period last year, thanks to the actions
introduced to protect our customer base and average revenue per
user with the development of new offers and new services,”
Bernabe said of the first nine months.  Rating Pressure  Adjusted net debt fell to 29.5 billion euros at the end of
September from 30.4 billion euros at the end of June. The
company expects the measure will fall to about 27.5 billion
euros by the end of 2012. The reiterated de-leveraging target
“should reduce any pressure from  credit rating agencies  or any
unfounded rumors of a dividend cut,” Societe Generale’s Baradar
said.  Bernabe in August confirmed “the sustainability of the
dividend policy previously announced.” The company is expected
to maintain its dividend at 4.3 cents for ordinary shares, based
on  Bloomberg dividend forecasts .  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , the company’s Brazilian unit, said on
Oct. 30 that the quarter through September was a “tough one”
and reported a 0.4 percent increase in profit. Argentinian unit
Telecom Argentina SA reported a 1 percent rise in earnings in
the first nine months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  