-- Elie Wiesel, Liza Minnelli, Victoria’s Secret: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-11-09T16:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/elie-wiesel-liza-minnelli-victoria-s-secret-scene.html
Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel was
honored with an Award for Literary Achievement at the annual
Kenyon Review dinner last night.  As in the past, the noted quarterly -- based like the
college in Gambier, Ohio -- celebrated at the Four Seasons
restaurant in  New York , where guests confronted a dramatic
oyster bar before dining in the shimmering pool room. Past
recipients include Margaret Atwood, Ian McEwan and Simon Schama.  There to honor Wiesel was the president of Kenyon College,
Georgia Nugent; its board chairman,  Barry Schwartz , who is
executive vice chairman of MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc.;
David W. Knowlton, the founder of Three Ocean Partners LLC; and
Michael Robbins, who retired in 2007 after more than 40 years as
a member of the New York Stock Exchange.  The oysters were a good start. They were followed by a
four-course meal featuring salmon sashimi with pickled
honshimeji mushrooms, a single ricotta ravioli with brown butter
and sage, braised short ribs with chive mashed potato and a
cheese plate with a slab of Bee Naughty honey at its center.  Wiesel in his remarks focused on the difficulty of writing
about the Holocaust. After writing and reading so much on the
subject, “still I remain thirsty, feeling that what I have to
say cannot be said. If it’s great literature, it’s almost a sin.
It should be atrocious and full of anger, not art.”  Four Seasons co-owner Julian Niccolini, who dined next to
Wiesel, was heading into a long evening.  Leonardo DiCaprio  was
expected around midnight to film a scene for “The Wolf of  Wall
Street .”  Liz Smith  At the Plaza Hotel, gossip columnist Liz Smith emceed a
gala for the New York Landmarks Conservancy. Liza Minnelli sang
“New York, New York” with Peter Duchin’s band, and guests
joined in on “Happy Anniversary” to the Nederlander family, in
honor of the centennial of the Nederlander Organization, which
owns nine Broadway theaters.  Minnelli and the Nederlanders were honored as “Living
Landmarks” along with Peter Malkin, chairman of Malkin Holdings
LLC and Malkin Properties, biographer  Robert Caro , chef and
restaurateur  Daniel Boulud , and E. John Rosenwald, vice chairman
emeritus of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Victoria’s Secret  In thigh-high black-and-gold boots and ringmaster’s cape,
Adriana Lima led the smoky runway at the Victoria’s Secret
annual fashion show on Nov. 7. Almost 40 of the brand’s
“angels” followed in giant, butterfly-like wings, 6-inch
heels, bright push-up bras and panties.  The after party at Lavo was less Vegas, more clothed. Kelly
Rutherford of the “Gossip Girl” television series danced in
the basement, others sipped Chambord cocktails upstairs.  Across town at the  American Museum of Natural History  was
another fashion event, for  Fashion Delivers , which puts new
apparel in the hands of the needy.  “The Victoria’s Secret show is about marketing to the
consumer,” said Allan Ellinger, chairman of Fashion Delivers
and an investment banker to the fashion industry. “What we’re
doing here tonight is marketing to the industry. We have a
community here.”  The accessory of the night: not a Swarovski-crystal-studded
bra but the high of doing something for Sandy victims.  The cost of the meal -- 700 steak dinners -- went to
 Citymeals-on-Wheels , and apparel valued at more than $5 million
was delivered to agencies in New York,  New Jersey  and  Staten
Island .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater ,  Greg
Evans  on  movies .  To contact the writer on this story:
at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 