-- Let’s Not Celebrate More Women in the Senate
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-11-09T00:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/let-s-not-celebrate-more-women-in-the-senate.html
Years ago, as a novice representative
from  California , Nancy Pelosi sat quietly at many a caucus
meeting while her colleagues discussed how they were going to
bring peace to the Middle East and a chicken to every pot.  At one such conference, talk turned to family leave -- and
as a mother of five, she expected she would finally get asked
her opinion. No such luck. Many meetings later, Pelosi would
become speaker of the House, and by that time her gender was
noted but largely immaterial. She was a powerful speaker because
she ruled with an iron hand and did what previous powerful male
speakers had done -- only backward in high heels and an Armani
suit, to paraphrase Ginger Rogers.  With five new women elected to the Senate this week,
bringing the chamber’s total to 20, we are supposed to be all
agog about the  Year of the Woman  (how many of those have we
had?). Pardon me if I decline to celebrate. Not so much because
winning an election isn’t a real achievement, but because the
election was to the Senate -- possibly the dullest, most
provincial institution in a city full of them.  There will be  16 Democratic and four Republican women in
the Senate next year, and at least 77 women (57 Democrats and 20
Republicans) in the House. In New Hampshire, there is now an
all-girl band: a female governor, two female senators and two
female members of the House.  Wielding Power  As voters, too, women have come a long way from the day
when they were thought to cast a ballot to match their
husbands’. As a voting bloc, women are wielding power and
narrowing the gender gap: Senator-elect Elizabeth Warren of
Massachusetts beat Senator Scott Brown with a  20-point lead 
among women. Senator-elect Tammy Baldwin of  Wisconsin  defeated
former Governor Tommy Thompson resoundingly among women. Senator
Amy Klobuchar of  Minnesota  crushed Kurt Bills across the board,
especially among women.  Yet there is something about the Senate that crushes women
when they arrive. If you think Augusta National is a bastion of
green jackets and male-only grill rooms, visit the Senate. There
are still spittoons, more men’s than women’s rooms, and unequal
gym facilities. Seniority, stentorian oratory and meaningless
courtesies abound. All the male senators see themselves as
starring in a remake of “Advise and Consent,” with themselves as
lions.  Women, by contrast, come in as lambs, anxious to get along,
and they do. The women have a bipartisan supper club of sorts
where they get together and get to know one another. Then-
Senator Hillary Clinton of New York, a Democrat, had a shower
for Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of  Texas , a Republican, when
she adopted twins. Klobuchar, a Democrat, helped to throw a
party for Republican Senator Susan Collins of  Maine  before she
got married last summer.  But while they’ve re-created the feeling of a bygone era,
when senators lived in  Washington  and got to know one another,
it hasn’t translated into significant policy making. Think of
the signature legislation of the last few decades, referred to
in shorthand by its sponsors’ names: Gramm-Rudman, McCain-
Feingold, Nunn-Lugar. They are men, all.  There are few more respected senators than Maine’s Olympia
Snowe, but she was never so important to the men as when she
announced she would be leaving them. Republicans were furious --
understandably -- because she opened up a safe seat. It was won
by an independent, Angus King, who is almost certain to caucus
with Democrats.  The most powerful woman to serve in the Senate may have
been Clinton, but that is as much because she had been first
lady as because of her expertise on milk price supports. She was
a rock star from the moment her heels clicked on the marble
floors. Even rock-ribbed conservative and well-documented lech
Strom Thurmond wanted to get on her good side: Moments after she
was sworn in, he stepped into the aisle and asked for a hug.  Shrinking Themselves  Still, Clinton had to shrink to make herself small enough
for the Senate, proving herself a workhorse, wooing men who had
voted to convict her husband, and playing well with colleagues
in her own party. Before she arrived, she was put on notice not
to be too full of herself -- with Senator Trent Lott of
 Mississippi , then the Republican leader, wistfully (and
jokingly?) hoping that perhaps lightning might strike her before
she arrived. Lott eventually came around, joining forces with
Clinton on legislation he cared about.  The one new woman who could prove to be bigger than the
institution itself, like Clinton or  Barack Obama , is Warren. She
has already tried to work with powerful men in Washington -- to
reform the banks after they did their best to destroy the
economy -- and for her trouble, she was drummed out of town: One
of the few bipartisan accomplishments in Washington of the last
year was her expulsion from the Capitol by a coalition of men on
both sides of the aisle, including a few in the White House.  You go, senator. One of the sweetest sights this January
will be seeing her sworn in, hug or no. If she becomes a power
center, it won’t be because she’s walking arm-in-arm with Mitch McConnell or Harry Reid.  In the meantime, I await the day when we celebrate not the
Year of the Woman but the Year of the Man, because their numbers
are so depleted that 20 of them in the same chamber is a miracle
to behold. That’s the day we’ll know women have real power.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  political imperative of
immigration reform  and on why  China’s rulers can’t go on
controlling information ; Jonathan Alter on how  Obama and
business can heal their breach ; Stephen L. Carter on why  we
shouldn’t worry about low voter turnout ; William Pesek on a
 possible thaw between the two Koreas ; Jonathan Weil on  one
honest man on Wall Street ; Adam Minter on the  view from Beijing
during the party congress ; Sean West on  why the fiscal cliff
game has changed .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 