-- ETF Asset Flows Don’t Sway Metal Prices, SEC Unit Says
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-11-09T21:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/etf-asset-flows-don-t-sway-metal-prices-sec-unit-says-1-.html
Asset flows from exchange-traded
products linked to metals don’t have a significant impact on the
price of the commodity, according a study for U.S. regulators
weighing  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s plan for a copper-backed fund.  The analysis, from a division of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, is part of deliberations on a proposal by
NYSE Arca Inc. to list the JPM XF Physical Copper Trust, a Nov.
6 SEC  filing  showed. A group of industrial copper users and at
least one U.S. lawmaker oppose the plan, saying it would disrupt
metal supplies and drive up prices.  The SEC’s Division of Risk, Strategy and Financial
Innovation said it looked at the relationship between spot-metal
prices and asset flows for funds backed by commodities including
silver, gold, platinum, palladium and copper. The study found no
evidence that fund flows are related statistically to price
changes, according to the filing.  The study also found no strong link between copper
inventories and settlement prices on the  London  Metal Exchange.  “It’s difficult to imagine how the SEC economists could
conclude that removing as much as 180,000 metric tons of copper
from LME warehouses holding a little more than 200,000 tons
globally will have no impact,” said  Robert Bernstein , a lawyer
at New York-based  Vandenberg & Feliu , who represents a group of
industrial copper consumers including  AmRod Corp ., Southwire Co.
and  Encore Wire Corp. (WIRE)  He spoke in a telephone interview.  No Conclusions  The SEC said in the filing that it “has expressed no view
regarding the analysis, findings, or conclusions.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the filing.  ETFs trade like stocks, giving investors access to
commodities such as copper without taking physical delivery. ETF
Securities Ltd. started the first exchange-traded products
backed by copper, nickel and tin in London in December 2010.  Funds backed by copper would stockpile the metal and leave
less available for industrial users, including manufacturers and
builders, Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, told
regulators in a letter in July. JPMorgan’s plan will “severely
disrupt” the market, the group of industrial copper users told
the SEC in May.  NYSE Arca is the electronic platform of NYSE Euronext.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan in New York at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  