-- ETFs Culled After Investor Apathy Spurs Record Liquidations
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-11-09T21:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/etfs-culled-as-investor-disinterest-spurs-record-liquidations.html
More U.S. exchange-traded funds and
notes are being liquidated than ever before, victims of investor
apathy after their ranks increased threefold since 2008.  At least 91 funds with names like “Sector Rotation” and
“BRIC Bull 3X” that never caught on will close in 2012, the
most ever, after Russell Investments withdrew 25 last month,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Direxion Funds, FocusShares LLC
and Guggenheim Investments shuttered products that attracted
less than $36 million, the data show.  ETFs are closing after their number tripled to 1,450 in the
past five years and assets expanded 111 percent to $1.3
trillion, outpacing the 11 percent increase for active managers.
While funds disappear all the time, sponsors are giving up on
more of them amid a broader withdrawal by individuals from
equity markets. Competition has squeezed smaller funds after
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  cut fees and the five-biggest securities amassed
25 percent of the industry’s assets.  “There’s been much made of the shockingly high pace of ETF
launchers,” Michael Iachini, managing director of ETF research
at Charles Schwab Investment Advisory, said by telephone.
Charles Schwab Corp. has $1.89 trillion in client assets. “With
that comes the realization some products get launched and don’t
really find investors who want to buy them. In order to succeed
in the ETF space, a product has to either be first or better.”  Most Successful  The culling comes even as the most successful ETFs attract
more money than ever. About $211 billion was invested with them
between the start of 2011 through September his year, while $126
billion was added to equity and fixed-income mutual funds,
according to data compiled by the Washington-based  Investment
Company Institute .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index snapped a two-day drop
today, adding 0.2 percent to 1,379.85 in  New York  today.  Daily trading in ETFs, which change hands on exchanges and
are priced in  realtime , dropped to 787 million shares in August,
the lowest in four years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ETFs are backed by assets in an underlying basket and ETNs
are unsecured bank debt supported by their issuer’s credit.
Providers of the securities create and redeem shares based on
investor demand and their prices usually track an index.  Russell, the creator of stock-market gauges bearing its
name,  announced  on Aug. 17 that it would liquidate 25 of its
ETFs. Some of the delisted funds targeted stocks with
characteristics such as high or low volatility, beta, or
specific price-earnings ratios. They included the Russell 1000
Low Volatility ETF, which had about $32 million, and the $10
million Russell High Dividend Yield ETF.  Market Index  FocusShares, a subsidiary of Scottrade Financial Services
Inc., closed all of its funds on Aug. 17,  citing  a lack of
market interest. The St. Louis-based company stopped operating
funds such as the U.S. Market Index and the Large Cap Index.  Guggenheim Investments  announced  in March it would close
five of its ETFs, including its Ocean Tomo Growth Index ETF and
Sector Rotation ETF. The firm is a part of New York-based
Guggenheim Partners LLC, which oversees about $130 billion.  Since the first ETF, the  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) , was
created in 1993, the industry has expanded into securities
tracking fixed income, commodities,  emerging markets , and
currencies and tapped derivatives to create products that
deliver inverse or multiplied returns of an index.  Scale Needed  “What isn’t there an ETF for?” Mark Travis, chief
executive officer of Jacksonville Beach, Florida-based Intrepid
Capital Management Inc., which manages $1.3 billion. “There are
so many different purveyors of them now, it’s probably hard to
get attentions focused and get the scale needed to make some
viable business propositions,” Travis said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters last month.  The last time so many exchange-traded products were
liquidated was in 2008 and 2009, when providers shut 56
securities each year during the worst financial crisis in seven
decades, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Forty-six of
the securities were terminated in 2010 and 27 were withdrawn
last year, the data show.  Direxion closed nine of its leveraged ETFs, which use
derivatives to magnify index returns or amplify moves in the
opposite direction, on Sept. 5. The company overseeing $7
billion shut funds including the Latin America Bear 3X Shares
Fund and the BRIC Bull 3X Fund. Both had less than $4.2 million
invested, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Seven of the
liquidated ETFs were designed to deliver the inverse return of
an index.  Bear Fund  “When you get to a narrower asset class or sector, it’s
much harder to generate interest in a bear fund,” Andy O’Rourke, Direxion’s chief marketing officer, said by phone.
“These are trading tools, so they primarily do better when
there are high volume and more activity to be trading around.”  Competition is intensifying among ETF providers. BlackRock,
the world’s largest asset manager and provider of ETFs, said
last month that it would cut fees for six ETFs and create four
new ones. Blackrock Chairman  Laurence Fink  said in September
that the firm was seeking to lower fees for “large, liquid,
core types” of ETFs.  Fees Cut  Vanguard said last month it will drop MSCI Inc. as the
benchmark provider for 22 index funds to lower costs for
shareholders. In September, Schwab cut fees for its proprietary
ETFs by an average of 40 percent. There are more than 125
products pending listings globally, according to Bloomberg data.  The SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, known as the SPY, is the
largest U.S.-listed ETF with $108.4 billion and the  SPDR Gold
Trust (GLD)  is second with $73.8 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Vanguard MSCI Emerging Market ETF,  iShares
MSCI EAFE Index Fund (EFA)  and the  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index
Fund (EEM)  are the next biggest, holding at least $37 billion each.  “You can be successful being a smaller provider,” said
 Deborah Fuhr , the co-founder of London-based research firm ETFGI
LLP and former global head of ETF research at BlackRock, said by
phone. “But many people think if they’re going to enter a
business, they want to be one of the top players, and breaking
into that top three is something that’s challenging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  