-- EU Plans to Discuss Metal Premiums and LME Warehouse ‘Issue’
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-11-09T17:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/eu-plans-to-discuss-metal-premiums-and-lme-warehouse-issue-1-.html
The European Commission will discuss
aluminum premiums and “difficulties” in getting metal from
warehouses monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange, at a time
when consumers pay record fees to obtain metal.  “We can confirm that industry, especially aluminum
industry, has brought to our attention the difficulties with
accessing material from LME warehouses and abnormal high
premiums,” Carlo Corazza, a spokesman for the commission’s
Enterprise and Industry Directorate General, said in an e-mail
in response to questions from Bloomberg. “We are planning to
discuss the issue with DG MARKT,” or the Internal Market and
Services Directorate General, he said.  Premiums added to the price of aluminum for immediate
delivery on the LME surged in  Europe  and the U.S. amid
stockpiles at near-record highs. Supply is being limited due to
metal tied to financing arrangements and it may take weeks to
withdraw metal from LME-monitored warehouses, according to
Societe Generale SA. The exchange increased in April the minimum
amount that must be delivered daily after complaints.  Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for the LME, declined to
comment on the discussions by the EC, the European Union’s
regulatory arm.  The LME, the world’s biggest metals bourse, will introduce
a separate requirement for nickel and tin next April. A review
of warehouse delivery rates is under way, LME Chief Executive
Officer Martin Abbott said last month. The exchange has more
than 600 registered warehouses worldwide in locations from
 Singapore  to the Netherlands.  EC Discussions  The EC discussions “might be a prelude to a full-scale
investigation,” according to  Robin Bhar , an analyst at Societe
Generale in London. “They are looking at it, asking the
question: ‘do they, or do they not need to investigate further?’
I think this will lead to some decision whether it’s yes or
whether it’s no.”  The premium added to the price of aluminum for immediate
delivery on the LME is at a record $280 to $295 a metric ton at
warehouses in Rotterdam, according to Platts, a unit of McGraw-
Hill Cos. The surcharge includes a duty into the EU. At today’s
LME cash price of $1,901.50 a ton, the current European premium
means about 15 percent of costs can’t be hedged to protect from
price changes, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Metal Stockpiles  Inventories of the lightweight metal are at 5.1 million
tons after climbing to a record 5.13 million tons in February,
LME data showed today. About 65 percent to 70 percent of the LME
stockpiles are locked in so-called financing transactions and
not available to the market, while warehouse companies offer
incentives to producers to deliver metal, according to Societe
Generale.  “Metal is locked away,” Bhar said. “It’s not available
to the market, which is creating tightness, and consumers are
having to pay up higher and higher premiums to get metal from
their traditional sources of supply, which is from the
producer.”  At current minimum delivery load-out rates set by the LME,
metal buyers may wait as long as 55 weeks to obtain metal in the
Dutch port of Vlissingen, which accounts for 55 percent of
European LME aluminum stockpiles and 26 percent of global
inventories. Metals traders  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan & Chase Co. own some of the
warehouse companies approved by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  