-- EU Said to Tide Greece Past Bill Redemption as Aid Talks Drag On
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-11-09T10:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/eu-said-to-tide-greece-past-bill-redemption-as-aid-talks-drag-on.html
European governments will find a way
of tiding  Greece  past next week’s bill redemption as the pieces
of an updated aid package take longer than planned to fall into
place, a European official said.  While finance ministers on Nov. 12 are unlikely to sign off
on 31.5 billion euros ($40 billion) of fresh loans, the result
won’t be an “accidental default” for Greece when 5 billion
euros of bills mature on Nov. 16, the official told reporters in
Brussels today on condition of anonymity.  Creditor countries will weigh whether Greek legislation
passed this week goes far enough in overhauling the economy and
showing that Greece, the origin of the three-year-old debt
crisis, deserves to continue tapping international aid, the
official said.  “We’re not out of the woods yet,” German Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble said yesterday in Hamburg. “I don’t see how
we can take the decision already next week.”  Delays reflect tensions within the Greek coalition and
between Greece and the “troika” representing creditors. Donor
countries such as  Germany  also need national parliamentary
endorsement before giving the green light to the next payments
from a total of 240 billion euros pledged to Greece since 2010.  Greece overcame one hurdle yesterday when Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras eked out a slim parliamentary majority for a
bill on pension, wage and benefit cuts. The next hurdle comes on
Nov. 11, when the parliament votes on the 2013 budget.  Two-Year Extension  Samaras has pressed for two extra years, until 2016, for
Greece to meet deficit-reduction targets imposed by European
governments and the International Monetary Fund. Creditors’
calculations are assuming a two-year extension, the Brussels
official said, while declining to say whether it will be
approved.  A variety of options are under consideration for plugging
the financing hole that an extension would open up, the official
said. While engineering a buyback of Greek debt at depressed
prices is one of them, it is “technically and financially
infinitely more complicated than you would ever imagine,” the
official said.  Solutions hinge on when Greece’s debt will become
“sustainable,” previously defined as dropping to 120 percent
of gross domestic product by 2020. The official today said a
decade is now the rough timetable, implying that the
sustainability target may be pushed out to 2022 or 2023.  The official declined to say whether the European Central
Bank would allow greater Greek treasury bill issuance as a way
of financing next week’s expiration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  