-- Bank Bonuses May Face Weaker Limits in Watered-Down EU Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-09T16:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/eu-seeks-to-limit-bankers-immediate-cash-bonuses-in-draft-deal.html
Banker bonuses as much as five-times
fixed pay would be allowed under compromise European Union
proposals on compensation that clash with tougher demands from
EU lawmakers.  Such awards would be tolerated if a majority of
shareholders approve, according to draft EU plans obtained by
 Bloomberg News . Without that approval, the maximum would be 300
percent of fixed pay.  The document drawn up by Cyprus, which holds the EU’s
rotating presidency, is an attempt to broker a compromise with
the European Parliament, which has called for an absolute ban on
bonuses that exceed fixed pay. Governments argue that the
measure may hamper the EU’s competitiveness as it struggles to
emerge from the biggest economic slump since the Great
Depression.  The Cypriot proposal is “totally unacceptable,” Philippe
Lamberts, the lawmaker leading the work on the bank capital law
for the parliament’s Green group, said in a telephone interview.
“I expect negotiations on that.”  The split over pay rules has threatened to slow down the
bloc’s implementation of international accords to boost banks’
 capital requirements , with the EU assembly insisting that the
bonus curbs be included in the same draft law.  Bankers are facing a backlash from EU lawmakers determined
to cut variable pay as part of a quest to reshape lenders as
utilities rather than money-making machines. Public outrage and
shareholder rebellions have already led some banks to limit
payouts.  Banker ‘Superstars’  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shareholders rejected that bank’s executive
pay plan earlier this year.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  former Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond , prior to his resignation over the Libor
scandal, also was pressured by investors into forgoing part of
his total compensation.  Having a bonus cap “doesn’t change the going rate for the
superstars,” Alistair Woodland, an employment lawyer at
Clifford Chance LLP in  London , said in a telephone interview.
“The obvious way of paying them would be to hike salaries and
that’s not really the intended consequence that the EU is going
for.”  The legislation, proposed last year by  Michel Barnier , the
EU’s financial services chief, must be agreed on by the assembly
and by governments before it can take effect.  Maximum Cap  Barnier supports a maximum cap on bonuses, Stefaan De Rynck, his spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We very much support the presidency compromise,” Simon Hills, executive director of the British Bankers’ Association,
said by e-mail. Banker pay is already “comprehensively
regulated” by EU laws that strengthen “the linkage between
performance and pay,” he said.  Lenders have reacted to the EU parliament’s plans by
boosting salaries, with the side effect of restraining banks’
ability to cut pay in response to lower revenues, Hills said.  Under the Cypriot proposals, bankers would be banned from
receiving immediate cash bonuses that are larger than their
fixed pay.  The plan “offers the flexibility needed, especially for
globally active institutions,” according to the Cypriot
document. It “also ensures a maximum ratio that cannot be
exceeded even by a shareholders’ vote.”  Deferred Bonuses  The draft Cypriot plans also clarify existing EU bonus
rules that require payment of at least 40 percent of an award to
be deferred over at least three years. This deferral rate
should rise to 60 percent for bonuses of more than 500,000
euros ($636,000), according to the document.  The parliament has called for the 60 percent rule
to kick-in for bonuses above 100,000 euros.  The Cypriot compromise bid comes ahead of a Nov. 12
negotiation meeting between officials and lawmakers on the draft
bank capital law.  The EU is facing an international deadline of Jan. 1 to
approve and publish the legislation. The meeting may stretch
into the night in an attempt to resolve outstanding issues,
Lamberts said.  The bonuses proposal may be discussed at the Nov. 12
meeting, Lamberts said.  The Cypriot presidency is seeking views from national
governments on the plans, ahead of the next round of talks with
the parliament, Nikos Christodoulides, a spokesman for the
presidency, said in an e-mail. “We feel it is a good
compromise.”  Golden Hello  The Cypriot proposals also seek to curb so-called golden
hello pay awards when a bank recruits new staff. Separately,
they call on the European Commission to carry out a study by the
end of 2014 on whether banks are making profits from  longer-term
refinancing operations  carried out by the  European Central Bank .  The report might be accompanied by a draft law on how banks
can use LTRO money, according to the document.  James White , a spokesman for the Association for Financial
Markets in  Europe , a group representing international lenders
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and Barclays,
declined to comment.  Othmar Karas , the lawmaker leading the parliament’s work on
the draft bank capital law, also declined to comment.  Lawmakers and governments are split on other parts of the
draft capital rules.  These include how to implement liquidity rules for lenders,
and how much scope national regulators should have to impose
tougher capital requirements on their banks.  Separately, diplomats from EU states will meet on Nov. 15,
seeking to make headway on a draft law to overhaul the bloc’s
financial market rulebook, known as Mifid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  