-- Euro Weakens on Economic Outlook; Krona Drops Versus Major Peers
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-09T22:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/euro-declines-to-four-week-low-versus-yen-on-greek-aid-concern.html
The euro slid to a two-month low
against the dollar and the weakest level in almost a month
versus the yen as a drop in French industrial production added
to speculation Europe’s economic outlook is worsening.  The 17-nation currency declined for the week versus the yen
and dollar as Greek lawmakers prepared to vote Nov. 11 on next
year’s budget. The euro pared losses after U.S.  consumer
confidence  climbed to a five-year high. The yen was stronger on
concern U.S. lawmakers may push the world’s biggest economy into
recession in a budget-deficit showdown. Sweden’s krona tumbled
against all of its 16 most-traded peers.  “There is festering uncertainty on both sides of the
Atlantic,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) 
“It’s a combination of U.S. fiscal woes and the  European debt
crisis  and its growth picture. U.S. data may provide occasional
opportunities for investors to book profit on the strong rally
we’ve seen for safe currencies.”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to 101.05 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York and touched 100.43, the weakest since Oct. 11. It lost 2.1
percent this week. The shared currency declined 0.3 percent to
$1.2714 and reached $1.2690, the lowest level since Sept. 7. It
dropped 0.9 percent over the past five days in its third weekly
loss. The yen was little changed at 79.49 per dollar.  French industrial output slid 2.7 percent from a month
earlier, a report showed. The median prediction was for a 1
percent decline. Business confidence in the euro area’s second-
largest economy held near a three-year low last month, according
to Bank of France data.  Deeper Contraction  “It doesn’t really come as a surprise that there are
growth concerns in  Europe  -- they are in a recession -- but the
contraction looks like it may be deeper,” said Eric Viloria,
senior currency strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC in New
York. “It’s going to add to negativity and weigh on the euro.”  The yen touched 79.08 per dollar, the strongest level since
Oct. 18, and gained versus most major peers. The currency
typically strengthens in times of political, financial and
economic turmoil because  Japan ’s historical trade surplus means
the nation doesn’t have to rely on overseas lenders.  Risk aversion eased after the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan consumer sentiment  index  rose to 84.9 in November, the
strongest since July 2007, from 82.6 a month earlier. The
reading for October was the highest since September 2007.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast a preliminary reading
of 82.9 for November.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  rose 0.3 percent to 81.058 after rallying
earlier to a two-month high of 81.087.  U.S. stocks gained, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index
rising 0.2 percent after falling 0.3 percent earlier.  Mexico ’s peso gained from a two-month low versus the
greenback after the report on sentiment in its biggest trade
partner. The currency was 0.2 percent weaker at 13.2003 per
dollar after dropping 0.9 percent earlier to 13.2932.  Brazil ’s real fell to a four-month low versus the greenback
amid speculation the nation’s central bank will maintain its
policy to weaken the currency. The real slid as much as 1.2
percent to 2.0658 per dollar, its weakest level since June,
before trading at 2.0462, down 0.3 percent.  Taiwan ’s dollar rose against all 16 major counterparts as
foreign investors increased holdings of stocks in the Asian
nation by $209 million this week. It gained 0.4 percent to
29.010 to the greenback.  Worst Performance  Europe’s shared currency has declined 6 percent over the
past year, the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 0.9 percent and the yen weakened 1.5 percent.
The krona was little changed.  Sweden’s currency fell the most in five weeks against the
euro. The data provide the central bank more reason to cut
interest rates after lowering them three times since December.  The krona depreciated 0.8 percent to 8.5750 per euro, and
fell as much as 0.9 percent in the biggest drop since Oct. 3.
The currency slid 1.1 percent to 6.7460 per dollar.  Swedish industrial production decreased an annual 5 percent
in September after rising a revised 2.7 percent the previous
month, Statistics Sweden said on its website. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted a decline of 0.1 percent.  “The European currencies are suffering, and probably
deservedly so,” said  Steven Barrow , head of group-of-10
research at Standard Bank Plc in  London . “The economic data has
been quite poor. Obviously policy makers didn’t respond this
week, so maybe that’s a little bit disappointing.”  Greece Aid  The euro fell yesterday against the dollar and yen after a
European Union official said euro-area finance ministers may not
make a decision on unlocking a 31.5 billion-euro ($40 billion)
installment of rescue funds for  Greece  until late this month.  The finance chiefs will await a final report from the EU,
European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund on
Greece’s efforts to meet the conditions of its rescue, the
official said on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are private. Europe’s debt crisis began in Greece
three years ago.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras eked out a slim
parliamentary majority yesterday for a bill on pension, wage and
benefit cuts. The next hurdle comes on Nov. 11, when the
parliament votes on the nation’s 2013 budget.  Investors have also sought refuge since the re-election of
President  Barack Obama  and a split Congress this week spurred
concern lawmakers will be unable to compromise on the budget.  The U.S. faces $1.2 trillion in mandated spending cuts and
tax increases over a decade starting Jan. 1 if Congress can’t
agree to reduce the deficit, which totaled $1.09 trillion in
fiscal 2012. The Congressional Budget Office has said the U.S.
economy would slow by as much as 0.5 percent next year if
Congress fails to prevent the measures from kicking in.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  