-- European Stocks Post Weekly Drop on U.S. Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-11-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/european-stocks-post-weekly-drop-on-u-s-fiscal-cliff.html
European stocks  fell this week on
investor concern that the U.S. will slip back into recession if
lawmakers fail to reach a budget compromise and as the European
Commission said the euro-area economy will stagnate in 2013.  Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY) , the U.K.’s largest construction
company, plunged 21 percent after saying the  outlook  for profit
margins has faded.  PostNL (PNL)  NV sank 20 percent after saying full-
year underlying cash operating income would be in the bottom
half of its forecast.  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  SA surged 16 percent, for
the best performance in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The Stoxx 600 dropped 1.7 percent to 270.27 this week as
investors focused on the so-called fiscal cliff after U.S
President  Barack Obama  won re-election. The benchmark measure
has still rallied 16 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to preserve
the euro and the  Federal Reserve  opted for a third round of
asset purchases.  “The market is worried about the fiscal cliff,” said
Jacques Porta, who helps manage $627 million at Ofi Patrimoine
in Paris. “We have the feeling the Republicans won’t make it
easy on Obama.”  Automatic tax increases and spending cuts totaling $607
billion will take effect at the start of 2013 unless the Senate,
controlled by Democrats, and the Republican-controlled House
pass an agreement on avoiding or reducing the changes. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimates that the U.S. may slip
back into recession in the first half of next year if such a
compromise is not reached.  Euro-Area Economy  The European Commission on Nov. 7 forecast that the 17-
nation euro economy will expand 0.1 percent in 2013, down from a
May forecast of 1 percent. It cut the estimate for Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, to 0.8 percent from 1.7 percent.  “With each passing day, there is more and more
confirmation of a recession,” said Porta. “The European
Commission sent a shiver through the market this week.”  The ECB on Nov. 8 left its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.75 percent, as predicted by all but one of 63
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The  Bank of England  held
its key interest rate at 0.5 percent.  National benchmark indexes declined in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index dropped 2 percent and
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index lost 1.7 percent, while Germany’s DAX
Index slid 2.7 percent.  Greek Rescue  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras obtained lawmakers’
approval for a package of austerity measures needed to release
further financial aid from the European Union.  However, euro-area finance ministers won’t make a decision
on releasing further aid for Greece when they meet in Brussels
on Nov. 12, an unidentified EU official said. Nov. 26 is a
possible date for the decision, the official added.  Balfour Beatty tumbled 21 percent, the biggest decline in
14 years, after saying that the margin outlook faded because of
a lack of building work in Britain. Balfour’s order book
decreased by 4 percent to 14.4 billion pounds ($23 billion) in
the three months through September.  Balfour has been hurt by “the shelving of construction
plans” at  Heathrow airport  in London and its failure to get a
contract for services at the Sellafield nuclear site that was
won by Morgan Sindall Group Plc, according to Joe Brent, an
analyst at Liberum Capital.  PostNL Forecast  PostNL slumped 20 percent. The Dutch mail-services company
on Nov. 5 said full-year underlying cash operating income would
be in the bottom half of its forecast of between 110 million
euros ($140 million) and 160 million euros.  TNT Express NV (TNTE) , which is 30 percent owned by PostNL,
declined 9.1 percent. European Union Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said late on Nov. 2 that United Parcel Service
Inc.’s bid for TNT Express needed “substantial remedies” to
settle antitrust concerns.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a producer of ferro
alloys and  iron ore  in Kazakhstan, lost 13 percent after saying
on Nov. 8 sales in the first nine months slumped and will
continue to be pressured by lower prices.  Rheinmetall AG (RHM) , the maker of KS Kolbenschmidt engine
pistons and a partner in Germany’s Leopard 2 battle tank,
retreated 7.9 percent as declining profit at its defense unit
led the company to forecast a drop in earnings.  Sales will total 4.8 billion euros this year, 2 percent
less than an earlier forecast, while earnings before interest
and taxes will fall 15 percent to 300 million euros rather than
match the 2011 figure, the company said on Nov. 9.  Commerzbank Earnings  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  tumbled 13 percent. Germany’s second-biggest
lender reported profit that missed analysts’ projections on
losses from non-core assets and a decline in consumer banking
earnings. Third-quarter net income was 78 million euros compared
with a loss of 687 million euros a year earlier, the lender said
on Nov. 8. That compared with the 83 million-euro average
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Alcatel-Lucent surged 16 percent for the best performance
in the Stoxx 600 after AT&T Inc. said on Nov. 7 it will invest
$14 billion over three years to expand broadband networks.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  advanced 8.4 percent. Europe’s biggest
discount airline posted a 23 percent increase in fiscal second-
quarter  profit  and raised its forecast for full-year earnings
after strong summer sales helped boost fares more than
anticipated.  Ryanair on Nov. 5 said net income for the three months
ended Sept. 30 jumped to 496.8 million euros. Analysts had
expected earnings of 440 million euros, based on the average of
five estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 