-- California Rallies as Tax Win Signals Debt Upgrade
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-11-09T09:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/even-california-shows-halo-with-insatiable-demand-muni.html
California  debt is rallying the most
in three months as Governor  Jerry Brown ’s tax-vote victory leads
investors to bet the state will get its first credit-rating
upgrade since 2006.  Proposition 30, which won voter approval Nov. 6,
temporarily raises some levies for top earners in the most-
populous U.S. state. Passage averted $5.5 billion of cuts to
public schools. The 74-year-old Democrat counted on the  tax
revenue  to close a $16 billion deficit in the budget for the
year that began July 1.  The successful referendum contrasts with the 1978 passage
of tax limits known as Proposition 13. The measure capped local
property taxes, led to cuts in school spending and fueled budget
deficits that left California with  Standard & Poor’s  lowest
credit rating for a U.S. state.  “Prop. 30’s passage strengthens the state’s credit
quality,” California Treasurer Bill Lockyer said in an e-mail
through  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman. “But we have more work to do
to put our budget on a solid, long-term foundation.”  The  yield penalty  investors demand on bonds sold by
California and its localities shrank 13 percent from mid-October
through the day after the vote, the biggest improvement since
August, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Budget Key  S&P, which hasn’t upgraded California since 2006, revised
its outlook to positive in February. It said it would boost the
grade within two years if California resolved its budget gaps.  The tax measure “paves the way for S&P to upgrade them,”
said  Robert Miller , a senior portfolio manager in  Menomonee
Falls , Wisconsin, for Wells Capital Management, which oversees
$30 billion in municipal bonds. He said his company’s national
funds have been overweight California for more than a year on
the expectation that the state would win a credit upgrade.  With muni  interest rates  near  generational lows , investors
have bought riskier credits such as California to boost returns.
Yields on AAA 10-year munis fell to 1.63 percent yesterday,
close to the lowest ever for a Bloomberg Valuation index that
began in January 2009.  Debt Leader  California and its localities have earned 8.9 percent this
year, according to S&P data. Even with three municipalities
filing for  bankruptcy protection  since June, the state is still
poised to beat the broader market for the third straight year,
the longest stretch since 2006.  S&P rates California A-, seventh-highest and a step below
 Illinois , which is grappling with about $8 billion of unpaid
bills. California’s $103 billion of gross tax-supported debt is
most among U.S. states, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  S&P said the tax plan would lead the Golden State toward
paying down $34 billion of budget liabilities from previous
deficits by 2016.  California’s credit was cut by S&P to the current level in
January 2010, after a budget stalemate forced it to issue IOUs.
Excluding so-called recalibrations, 2006 was also the last time
Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings  increased their marks for the state.  The state’s general obligations have extended a rally since
Election Day on Nov. 6.  A California bond maturing in 2021 traded Nov. 7 at an
average yield of 1.61 percent, the lowest ever, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Its spread over AAA munis has dropped about 50
percent since Brown took office in 2011, Bloomberg Valuation
data show.  School districts have also seen yields fall as Proposition
30’s passage averts cuts.  They are the “principal beneficiaries” of the measure,
said Chris Mauro, head muni strategist at RBC Capital Markets
LLC in  New York , in an interview.  Los Angeles Unified School District , the biggest in
California, saw yields on its debt fall after the referendum.
Bonds maturing in 2028 traded Nov. 7 at an average yield of 2.15
percent, the lowest ever.  Following are pending sales:  NEW JERSEY plans to sell $2.6 billion of short-term debt
with JPMorgan Securities LLC as underwriter. The state postponed
the sale last week because of  Hurricane Sandy . (Updated Nov. 8)  MINNESOTA is set to sell $654 million of debt backed by an
annual appropriation as soon as Nov. 14. Proceeds will refund
tobacco bonds sold in 2011, according to bond documents.
(Updated Nov. 8)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  