-- Ex-Provident Royalties CEO Admits Guilt in $485 Million Scam
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-11-09T23:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/ex-provident-royalties-ceo-admits-guilt-in-485-million-scam-1-.html
Paul R. Melbye, co-founder and former
chief executive officer of Provident Royalties LLC of  Dallas ,
pleaded guilty to conspiring to defraud investors of $485
million in an oil and gas scheme.  Melbye, 47, is the second Provident Royalties principal to
plead guilty to a scheme that duped 7,700 U.S. investors through
fraudulent private placements and limited partnership interests
from 2006 to 2009, according to a statement by U.S. Attorney
John M. Bales of Sherman,  Texas .  Provident co-founder Joseph Blimline, 35, pleaded guilty in
connection with the scheme in 2010 and was sentenced to 20 years
in prison in May of this year, according to court records.
Melbye, who pleaded guilty yesterday before a U.S. magistrate
judge in Sherman, faces as long as five years in federal prison
at sentencing, according to the statement. No sentencing date
has been set yet for Melbye.  Melbye made “materially false representations and failed
to disclose material facts to investors” to dupe them into
investing with Provident, according to Bales’s statement. Melbye
didn’t tell investors that Blimline had received millions of
dollars in unsecured loans, that Blimline had been previously
charged with  securities fraud  in  Michigan , and that “funds from
investors in later oil and gas projects were used to pay
individuals who invested in earlier oil and gas projects,”
according to Bales’s statement.  Provident Principals  Two other Provident principals, Brendan Coughlin, 46, and
Henry Harrison, 47, were indicted by a U.S. grand jury in July
on charges of conspiracy to commit mail fraud and mail fraud,
according to court records. Both men entered pleas of not guilty
and are awaiting trial, according to court records.  Melbye, Coughlin and Harrison were sued along with
Provident by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on
allegations of securities fraud in July 2009, according to court
records. Final judgments were entered against Coughlin and
Harrison in June of this year, in which Coughlin agreed to pay
$1.45 million and Harrison agreed to pay $850,000, with neither
man admitting or denying the allegations.  “This case will go to trial next year, and the jury will
take less than an hour to return a verdict of not guilty against
both Coughlin and Harrison,’’  David Finn, Coughlin’s lawyer,
said in a phone interview today. ‘‘I’ve been practicing law for
25 years and I’ve never made a prediction like that before.
That’s how confident I am.’’  William Ravkind and  John Cline , Harrison’s attorneys,
didn’t immediately respond to voice or e-mail messages seeking
comment on Melbye’s guilty plea or the charges Harrison faces.  Matthew Orwig, Melbye’s attorney, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment on the plea.  The case is U.S. v Melbye, 4:12-cr-0169, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Texas (Sherman).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  