-- Fed's Duke Says Rules May Impair Lending by Small Banks
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-11-09T17:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/fed-s-duke-says-new-rules-may-impair-home-lending-by-small-banks.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Elizabeth Duke  said pending  bank regulations  may “seriously” impair
mortgage lending by community banks, which play a
“significant” role in the market for home loans.  Duke, a former community bank executive, said she and other
Fed governors, including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , are concerned
about the potential harm from several rules mandated in the
Basel III agreement and Dodd-Frank Act. If rules cause small
banks to believe they shouldn’t sell mortgages, “it should
raise red flags,” and policy makers should weigh whether the
benefits of regulation outweigh the costs of reduced lending,
Duke said today in a  speech  in Chicago.  “The totality of new mortgage lending regulations might
still seriously impair the ability of community banks to
continue to offer their traditional mortgage products,” Duke
told community bankers today at an  event  sponsored by the
Chicago Fed, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency.  Housing industry groups, including the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  and the National Association of Realtors, have been
warning that the Basel capital standards and the Dodd-Frank
regulations will have a chilling effect on mortgage credit as
they go into effect at the same time next year.  Risky Mortgages  Regulators are preparing to release the language of two
rules taking effect in January to set standards for non-abusive
lending and require banks to hold a slice of risky mortgages on
their books. The cost of complying with those regulations, in
addition to new rules governing loan officer compensation and
appraisals, may be too high for many small banks, Duke said.  The Fed, FDIC and OCC said today they don’t expect to
finish implementing Basel III on Jan. 1, the deadline set by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . The agencies said in a
joint  statement  that the delay came because “many industry
participants have expressed concern” the rules would go into
effect before bankers understood or were able to adapt to them.  The U.S. housing market has rebounded as  mortgage rates 
driven to record lows by the Fed’s asset buying spur demand. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities rose 2
percent from August 2011, the biggest year-to-year gain since
July 2010. Purchases of new homes rose in September to a two-
year high, according to the Commerce Department.  Duke and her colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  last month affirmed their September decision to buy
$40 billion of mortgage-backed securities each month without
specifying the total size or duration of the purchases. The FOMC
reiterated at its Oct. 23-24 meeting that it plans to hold the
benchmark  interest rate  near zero through mid-2015.  Duke, 60, was a director at the Richmond Fed from 1998 to
2000. She was appointed as governor by President  George W. Bush 
and took office in August 2008. Before joining the board, Duke
was executive vice president and chief operating officer at
TowneBank, a Virginia-based community bank. She also served as
the first female chairman of the  American Bankers Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  