-- Fed to Give Failing Stress Test Banks Second Chance
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-11-09T20:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/fed-to-give-failing-stress-test-banks-second-chance.html
The Federal Reserve will give the 19
largest banks a preliminary result of its capital stress test,
offering institutions that fail a chance to adjust their
dividend and stock buyback policies.  The change comes after Citigroup Inc. and  SunTrust Banks
Inc. (STI)  narrowly missed meeting the 5 percent tier one common
equity to risk-weighted assets minimum capital ratio in the 2012
test at 4.9 percent and 4.8 percent respectively.  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY)  had a stressed ratio of 2.5 percent in the last test.  While the change gives bank boards a second chance, the Fed
will also publish the result of their initial capital proposal,
showing how far the firms missed in their first attempt. A
severe shortfall on the first attempt will generate greater
scrutiny of a bank’s capital planning process by regulators,
according to a bank supervisor who declined to be identified
because the tests are not completed. Even banks that pass the
minimum stress ratio could fail if the Fed detects their capital
planning process is flawed, the Fed’s instructions said.  “The ability to appeal obviously not only reflects Citi
and SunTrust, but a lot of requests from the industry for a
second hearing,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner at
Federal Financial Analytics, a Washington consulting firm
specializing in bank regulation.  The Fed’s disclosure of a bank’s preliminary request
“injects a lot of rigor into the process,” she said. “There
is tremendous pressure on the banks now on getting it right the
first time.”  Stress Test  The Fed established the annual stress tests in 2009 to
restore confidence in the financial system after the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression brought down Bear
Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Regulators have
since complemented the test with a capital planning requirement
to improve boards’ management of risk and dividend and stock
buyback decisions.  “The Federal Reserve has been focused -- and will remain
focused -- on ensuring the nation’s largest financial
institutions have enough capital to weather severe, unexpected
conditions and still continue lending to households and
businesses,” Fed governor Daniel Tarullo said today in a
statement released by the central bank.  The Fed’s rejection of Citigroup’s plan was a blow for
then-Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , who had primed
shareholders for more rewards. Pandit, who cut the bank’s
dividend during the financial crisis, filed a new plan in June
without a request for an increased dividend or share buybacks,
ending his push for a 2012 payout. The episode was among a
series of setbacks that led the bank’s directors to oust Pandit
in October, a person familiar with the matter said at the time.  No Comment  Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for the New York-based lender,
declined to comment on the Fed’s action today.  The 19 largest banks have boosted their tier one common
equity to $803 billion in the second quarter of 2012 from $420
billion in the first quarter of 2009, the Fed said in a press
release.  “The tier 1 common ratio for these firms, which compares
high-quality capital to risk-weighted assets, has more than
doubled to a weighted average of 10.9 percent from 5.4
percent,” the Fed said.  The KBW Bank Index of 24 large U.S. banking companies has
risen 23 percent this year compared with a 10 percent gain for
the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  No Panacea  “Capital is not the panacea,” said Sabeth Siddique, a
director at Deloitte & Touche LLP and a former assistant
director at the Fed Board’s bank supervision unit. “It has to
be balanced with good risk management and controls.”  The Fed said it plans to release the economic and financial
market scenarios for the stress test at 4 p.m. in Washington
Nov. 15. The test will apply to 30 banks, the 19 largest plus 11
more bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more.  Despite requests and complaints by banks, the Fed won’t
share its models on how loans and securities perform through the
stress scenario. The Fed expects banks to develop their own risk
management plans and not copy those of the  central bank .  Banks have told regulators they would cut their dividend
and stock buybacks as losses mounted in a recession. However,
the Fed will continue to assume in its modeling of losses and
capital that banks continue with payouts because that is what
they did in the past. The 19 largest banks paid out more than
$43 billion in dividends in 2007 as the housing bubble began to
burst, and an additional $39 billion in 2008 as financial
markets plunged into turmoil, according to the Fed.  Too Blunt  Banks have said the Fed’s models are too blunt and don’t
account for information they may have on borrowers. The Fed
plans to continue with a standardized approach in part to show
how banks look on a comparative basis.  U.S regulators are imposing the biggest capital regime
change on the financial system since the 1988 Basel Accord as
they execute mandates under the Dodd-Frank Act and international
agreements phasing in higher capital and liquidity standards.
Banking associations have warned that the new regulations could
reduce lending or increase risk.  “Overly punitive rules that impose capital charges that do
not reflect underlying risks create an incentive for banking
organizations to generate more earnings through riskier
activities to compensate for the higher level of required
capital,” the American Bankers Association, The Financial
Services Roundtable and the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association said in a letter to regulators last month.  Close Scrutiny  The Fed said in its instructions that it would “closely
scrutinize” capital plans that fail to demonstrate how the bank
will make progress on capital guidelines stemming from the
international accord known as Basel III.  Bank lending is increasing as the economy proceeds through
its fourth year of expansion. Loans and leases at commercial
banks in the U.S. rose at a 3.5 percent seasonally adjusted
annual rate in the third quarter. Delinquency rates have fallen
on credit card loans and commercial loans, while they remain
high on residential mortgages.  House prices are still down 29 percent from a 2006 housing
bubble peak, according to the S&P Case-Shiller 20-city home
price index. Fed data shows  residential mortgage  delinquency
rates of 10.6 percent in the second quarter compared with 1.62
percent in the second quarter of 2006.  High rates of past-due mortgages stem from an unemployment
rate that remained above 8 percent for 43 months before dropping
to 7.8 percent in September. The jobless rate last month was 7.9
percent.  Still, 10 out of 25 large banks generated returns on
tangible common equity in excess of 15 percent, said Jason Goldberg, a senior analyst at Barclays Plc in New York. Earnings
per share grew 18 percent on a year-over-year basis in the third
quarter for the median bank in the group, and rose 5 percent
from the second quarter, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  