-- Federer Maintains Perfect Ferrer Record to Reach ATP Semifinals
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/federer-maintains-perfect-ferrer-record-to-reach-atp-semifinals.html
Even below his best,  Roger Federer  is
good enough to beat  David Ferrer  at his peak.  Record 17-time Grand Slam champion Federer from Switzerland
beat Ferrer 6-4, 7-6 (7-5) at the  ATP World Tour Finals  to
become the first man through to the last four of the season-
ending tennis championships.  “I’m into the semis, so that’s a bit of a relief,”
Federer said in a news conference after winning his second match
this week at London’s O2 arena.  The ATP Finals begins with a round-robin format that
divides the world’s top eight singles players and doubles pairs
into two groups of four. The top two in each section advance to
the single elimination semifinal stage.  Former  U.S. Open  champion Juan Martin del Potro of
 Argentina  beat  Serbia ’s Janko Tipsarevic 6-0, 6-4  in the other
Group B match yesterday.  Top-ranked  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia plays former Wimbledon
finalist Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic today in Group A,
while U.S. Open and Olympic champion  Andy Murray  of Britain
faces  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the evening.  All four players can advance to the semifinals. Djokovic,
who leads the standings with two wins, will reach the semifinals
if he beats Berdych and Murray defeats Tsonga.  The fifth-ranked Ferrer, the only Spanish singles player in
London in the absence of the injuredRafael Nadal, has won a
tour-leading seven tournaments this year, one more than Federer.
While the Swiss withdrew from Paris last week to heal some
“little things,” the 30-year-old Ferrer was busy winning it.  Chasing Nadal  Ferrer also won the title in his hometown Valencia the
previous week and has a shot at overtaking 11-time Grand Slam
singles champion Nadal in the rankings should he make the London
final. Nadal, a former world No. 1, is ranked fourth.  None of that mattered against Federer, who has won the
year-end ATP Finals a record six times, one more than  Ivan Lendl 
and  Pete Sampras .  “He’s the best in history,” Ferrer, who converted one of
10 break points, told reporters. “He can do everything with his
game.”  Playing an opponent who has never beaten you isn’t always
easy, Federer said.  “It’s helpful to have that one-sided head-to-head record,
but at the same time it sometimes creates pressure,” he said.
“You always feel like this next match is probably going to
happen. You try hard. He tries harder, too, because all he needs
is that one win.”  Federer, who now leads Ferrer 14-0 in meetings between the
two, counted on his second serve after missing with 60 percent
of his first serves in the opening set.  “I could always rely on my second serve throughout my
career,” Federer said. “Today, I had to use everything I had
in terms of variation, kicking it, sliding it, going all
different ways.”  It was too much for his opponent.  “He has a very good slice, very good serve when he needs.
He has a lot of weapons to do pain in my game,” Ferrer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  London ’s O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  