-- Florida’s Scott Suffers Defeat Without Being on Ballot
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-11-09T15:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/florida-s-scott-not-on-ballot-still-suffers-setback.html
For someone not even on the ballot,
it was a tough election for Florida Republican Governor Rick Scott.  President  Barack Obama  is poised to become the first
Democrat in 68 years to twice win the state, which still hasn’t
finished counting votes. Scott’s party lost seats in both the
state House and Senate. Voters also rejected Scott’s $20 million
tax cut for small businesses and a constitutional amendment that
would have made it tougher to implement Obama’s health-care
overhaul.  Those defeats, coupled with a 38 percent approval rating,
put Scott among the country’s most vulnerable incumbents heading
into the next two years when 36 governor seats are up for
election, including 22 held by Republicans.  “Florida would be at the top of my list where Democrats
think they can win,” said Jessica Taylor, senior analyst at
Rothenberg Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter that
tracks elections.  Democrats also will focus on other states with Republican
governors that voted for Obama, including  Iowa ,  Michigan ,  Ohio ,
 Pennsylvania  and  Wisconsin , she said.  Republicans next year will control at least 30 governor’s
offices, the most since 2000, as the party won the North
Carolina governor’s office from Democrats on Nov. 6 and fended
off Democratic challengers in three other states. The governor’s
contest in Washington state has yet to be decided, with votes
still being counted there as of yesterday.  Florida Count  Obama was leading Republican  Mitt Romney  today by 60,799
votes, or 0.7 percentage points, with Palm Beach County still
tallying absentee ballots, according to the Florida Division of
Elections website. A margin of 0.5 percentage points or less
triggers an automatic recount under state law. A lengthy ballot
with 11 constitutional amendments slowed the counting. Florida
was the final state to finish counting in 2000, when it took
weeks to tally Republican George W. Bush’s 537-vote margin.  Scott declined to interpret the election results in Florida
or say what it means for his own race.  “My goal is to just keep focusing Florida on where we’re
going,” Scott told reporters in Tallahassee on Nov. 7. “We’re
going to be the No. 1 state for job creation, the No. 1 state to
get a degree, the No. 1 state to be able to afford to live.”  ‘Evil Capitalist’  Rick Wilson, a Tallahassee-based Republican strategist,
said it’s unlikely that Scott’s Democratic opponent would have a
staff in the state like Obama’s, whose campaign said it had 106
offices and thousands of volunteers.  “The Obama campaign’s message in  Florida  was that Romney
is an evil capitalist who wants to take away birth control and
kill Big Bird,” Wilson said. “They weren’t putting out ads
that had Rick Scott in them.”  Obama’s allies used Scott to attack Romney. A 30-second ad
from the American Federation of State, County & Municipal
Employees labor union that aired during the primary morphed
Romney into Scott.  Priorities USA Action, a super-political action committee
run by former Obama aide Bill Burton, aired a similar television
ad in the final days of the campaign. That spot used a picture
of Romney shaking hands with Scott and asked viewers to
“connect the dots” between the record $1.7 billion Medicare
fraud fine paid by  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , where Scott was chief
executive officer, and the profit earned by Bain Capital LLC,
which Romney founded, after selling a company that later pleaded
guilty to Medicare fraud.  Motivate Voters  Democrats also used Scott to motivate voters, pointing to a
bill he signed cutting from 14 to 8 the number of days that
polling places could open for early voting and criticizing a
program he started to search for noncitizens on the registration
rolls. The program inaccurately sought to exclude more than
2,000 residents, mostly Hispanic voters in Miami.  “I credit Governor Scott for re-igniting our fire,” said
Bishop Victor Curry of New Birth Baptist Church in Miami, who
organized voter turnout rallies in Miami’s black communities.
“I don’t think people would have been as motivated to turnout
if it wasn’t for him.”  Democrats last won a Florida governor’s race in 1994, when
incumbent Governor Lawton Chiles defeated Republican nominee Jeb Bush. Bush won the seat in 1998, the first of four consecutive
Republican victories.  Scott Fundraising  Scott has already raised $4.9 million for his 2014 race,
including $50,000 on Nov. 6, Election Day, from the Florida
Retail Federation, a Tallahassee-based nonprofit backed by  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Florida has given $350,000 while Florida Power &
Light Co. and billionaire  Sheldon Adelson  have donated $250,000
each.  Scott spent $73 million of his own money on the 2010 race
and won by 1.1 percentage point, the closest governor’s race in
Florida since 1876 and the first candidate since 1916 to win
with less than 50 percent of the vote, according to the Florida
Handbook, a compilation of state data and history.  Since being elected, Scott’s approval ratings exceeded 39
percent just twice in 16 polls from Hamden, Connecticut-based
Quinnipiac University.  Scott generally stayed on the sidelines in the presidential
election. He rarely shared a stage with Romney. Romney
strategists asked Scott’s team at one point to tone down
statements heralding improvements in the state’s economy.  Overturn Vetoes  Democrats picked up seats in the legislature, eliminating a
two-thirds majority Republicans held that allowed them to waive
rules and overturn vetoes. Eight of the 11 constitutional
amendments put on the ballot by the legislature were defeated.  Democrats won seats in the U.S. House delegation, U.S.
Senator Bill Nelson, a Democrat, won re-election by more than 1
million votes and Obama was poised to became the first Democrat
to capture Florida a second time since President Franklin Roosevelt in 1944.  “Rick Scott’s agenda was an issue in races across the
state and voters rejected it,” said Christian Ulvert, a
Democratic strategist who oversaw state House races. “Rick
Scott should be worried.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  