-- Former U.K. Tory Treasurer McAlpine Denies Pedophilia Rumors
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-09T23:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/former-u-k-tory-treasurer-mcalpine-denies-pedophilia-rumors.html
Alistair McAlpine, who was treasurer
and deputy chairman of the U.K. Conservative Party under
 Margaret Thatcher , issued a statement denying Internet rumors he
had been part of a pedophile ring.  “Ill- or uninformed commentators have been using blogs and
other Internet media outlets to accuse me,” McAlpine said in an
e-mailed statement today, talking of a “media frenzy.” He said
he “must publicly tackle these slurs and set the record
straight.”  McAlpine, who held the post of Tory treasurer from 1975 to
1990, issued his statement three days after Home Secretary
Theresa May announced plans to examine whether allegations of
sexual abuse at a children’s home in Wrexham, north  Wales , in
the 1970s and 1980s were properly handled.  That review was prompted by Steve Messham, a victim of
abuse at the Bryn Estyn home, who alleged involvement by a
senior figure in the Tory party in an interview with  BBC 
television’s “Newsnight” program last week. He said he was
“sold” to men for sexual abuse at a nearby hotel. The BBC
didn’t name the political figure.  BBC Apology  Messham this evening said in a statement that he was
mistaken about the identity of his abuser and that he
apologized, the BBC  reported  on its website. According to the
BBC, he said police had shown him a picture of his abuser in the
early 1990s and investigators at the time incorrectly told him
the man was McAlpine. The BBC reported that Messham said he had
seen a picture tonight of McAlpine and realized his mistake.  The broadcaster apologized “unreservedly” for airing the
report, it said in an e-mailed statement. “There will be an
immediate pause in all Newsnight investigations to assess
editorial robustness and supervision,” the BBC said.  A report into the abuse, for which 650 people were
questioned, was published in 2000 by Ronald Waterhouse, a
retired High Court judge, after a three-year inquiry. Messham
said that inquiry did not fully uncover all the harm at the care
home.  Waterhouse’s findings will now be investigated by Judge
Julia Wendy Macur. In a separate probe, Keith Bristow, the
director general of the National Crime Agency, will review the
way the police handled the original complaints of abuse and
investigate any fresh allegations.  Wrexham Home  “I have every sympathy for Mr. Messham and for the many
other young people who were sexually abused when they were
residents of the children’s home in Wrexham,” McAlpine said.  “I do not suggest that Mr. Messham is malicious in making
the allegations of sexual abuse about me,” he said. “If he
does think I am the man who abused him all those years ago I can
only suggest that he is mistaken and that he has identified the
wrong person.”  McAlpine said he’d only been to Wrexham once in his life,
when on Conservative Party business. “I have never been to the
children’s home in Wrexham, nor have I ever visited any
children’s home, reform school or any other institution of a
similar nature.”  McAlpine said twice in his statement that he was reserving
the right to take legal action against “those who have defamed
me in the recent past or who may do so in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  