-- Former Oil Executive Named as Archbishop of Canterbury
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-11-09T13:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/former-oil-executive-named-as-archbishop-of-canterbury.html
Justin Welby, the Bishop of Durham
and a former oil-industry executive, has been chosen as the next
Archbishop of Canterbury to lead the 85 million-strong Anglican
communion, Prime Minister David Cameron’s office said.  Welby, 56, will succeed  Rowan Williams , who announced his
retirement in March, becoming the first holder of the post with
hands-on experience of the corporate-bond market and trading
derivatives during a business career that culminated in a role
as treasurer of Enterprise Oil Plc in the late 1980s. Cameron’s
office made the  announcement in a statement  today.  “My initial reaction was ‘oh, no,'” Welby told reporters
in  London  today. “I’m overwhelmed and surprised by it.”  Welby takes over as 105th Archbishop of Canterbury at a
time when the global Anglican communion is split over the
introduction of women bishops and the ordination of gay clergy.
His  previous ministry  saw him specializing in reconciliation,
which along with his links with Africa -- he has visited  Nigeria 
70 times -- may help him deal with opposition to the changes,
much of which comes from the developing world.  Welby will support the ordination of women bishops when the
issue comes to the Church of England’s governing Synod this
month, he said. He has always recognized “God’s grace and
action” in many of those who oppose the change, he added.  ‘Go Forward’  “I will be voting in favor and join my voice to many
others in urging the Synod to go forward with this change,” he
said. “I want the church to be a place where we can disagree in
love, respecting each other deeply as those who belong to
Christ.”  He also called for “safe spaces” in the church for the
discussion of sexuality and said those pushing for faster
progress on recognizing same-sex marriage and the ordination of
gay clergy should be mindful of the danger a change in the U.K.
could create for branches of the Anglican church in less
tolerant parts of the world.  “We must have no truck with any form of homophobia, in any
part of the church,” he  told reporters . “The Church of  England 
is part of the worldwide church, with all the responsibilities
that come from those links. What the church does here deeply
affects the already greatly suffering churches in places like
northern Nigeria, which I know well.”  He said he will “listen attentively” to the gay community
and examine his own thinking. “I am always averse to the
language of exclusion, when what we are called to is to love in
the same way as Jesus Christ loves us.”  Independent Commission  Welby was appointed after the 16-member  independent Crown
Nominations Commission  submitted his name to Cameron, who passed
it on to  Queen Elizabeth II . The announcement was made after the
queen, who is supreme governor of the Church of England, gave
her approval.  After graduating from the University of Cambridge with a
degree in history and law, Welby joined the oil industry, first
at French explorer Elf Aquitaine SA, taking him to work in Paris
for a time, according to a  biography on the Diocese of Durham’s
website . He worked on projects in West  Africa  and the  North Sea .  The last five years of his oil career were spent at London-
based Enterprise, where he became group treasurer, a role that
would have put him in charge of the company’s cash and managing
relationships with the banks.  Exacerbated Risk  Welby spoke of his experience trading derivatives in a
speech to the House of Lords on June 11, referring to “the use
of derivative instruments that have been behind much of the
exacerbation of risk in the system since I first traded them 25
years ago, to the point today where their volume is many scores
of times that of the underlying cash transactions.”  In the late 1980s, Welby left Enterprise, which was bought
by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in 2002 for 4.3 billion pounds ($6.9
billion), to study for the priesthood, though he’s retained an
interest in business affairs. He is ethical adviser to the
 Association of Corporate Treasurers  and has written a book
entitled “Can Companies Sin?” He was appointed as Bishop of
Durham in June 2011.  Welby warned in another speech to the House of Lords on
June 20 that there is a danger to society if executive pay is
not capped.  “Since the 1980s, the multiple between the average
earnings in FTSE 100 companies and the earnings of top
executives has risen from about 29 times to at least 140
times,” he told lawmakers. “If we do not see any improvement
in these differentials, they will prove dangerous to social
cohesion, as has been widely seen across  Europe .”  Lords Seat  As Bishop of Durham, Welby is the fourth-most senior cleric
in the Church of England and entitled to sit in the Lords,
Britain’s unelected upper chamber of Parliament.  His business background was evident in a speech in May in
which he discussed the economic outlook for the area of
northeast England covered by his diocese. He referred to the
liquidity of the corporate sector relative to households and
government and said companies weren’t spending because they were
caught in a Keynesian liquidity trap.  He advocated government funding for “shovel-ready”
projects to boost confidence and kick-start the economy.  “Confidence comes from cranes and scaffolding: they build
confidence as quickly as they erect buildings. When resources
are short, we need targeted use of money to bring about quick
investment,” he said. “The need for confidence and investment
in skills is not merely to have a bigger economy but to enable
us to see a transformation of our society. These things will not
happen merely through exhortation but they require action and
leadership.”  Eton Scholar  Welby, whose father’s first job was as a bootlegger during
prohibition in the U.S., according to a Times  article  posted on
the Durham diocese website, attended Eton College, the same
private school as  David Cameron .  He is a member of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking
Standards, set up after the Libor rate-fixing scandal, and the
panel’s chairman,  Andrew Tyrie , said today Welby would continue
in that role.  “I understand that Bishop Justin intends, notwithstanding
his appointment, to remain as a member of the commission until
the completion of its work,” Tyrie said in an e-mailed
statement. “I am delighted about that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  