-- France Wine Output Falls to 40-Year Low on Champagne, Beaujolais
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-09T16:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/france-wine-output-falls-to-40-year-low-on-champagne-beaujolais.html
France’s wine production slumped 20
percent to the lowest in at least 40 years after weather damage
and disease caused harvests to plunge in the Champagne and
Beaujolais regions.  Output fell to an estimated 40.7 million hectoliters (1.08
billion gallons) from 50.9 million hectoliters in 2011, the
 Agriculture Ministry  wrote in an  online report  today. Production
dropped 40 percent in the Champagne region, it said.  The damage to France’s grapes and vineyards means world
wine output will be the smallest in at least 37 years, the
International Organisation of Vine and Wine said Oct. 30. Italy
will pass France as the biggest producer, the group estimates.  “This is the lowest harvest since at least 40 years,” the
ministry wrote. “This year’s peculiarity is the variation in
grape weight in the vineyards in most of the regions, resulting
in disparate yields from one plot to the next.”  Grape harvesting has ended and production turned out 97,000
hectoliters higher than forecast a month ago, based on the
estimate. France in an  initial outlook  in July had predicted
wine production of 46.7 million hectoliters.  The country’s wine growers suffered winter drought, frost,
wet conditions during flowering, damage from mildew and other
funguses, hail storms that destroyed grapes in Burgundy and
Beaujolais, an August heat wave and a dry September that caused
drought stress and smaller grapes.  France exported 7.17 billion euros ($9.1 billion) of wine
and champagne in 2011, accounting for 13 percent of the
country’s farm and food exports. In the first half of this year,
wine shipments rose 14 percent to 3.57 billion euros,  government
data  show.  Champagne Region  Production in the  Champagne  region is estimated to have
dropped to 1.82 million hectoliters from 3.04 million
hectoliters in 2011 after damage caused by frost, mildew and
particularly the fungus oidium, the ministry said.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  is the world’s largest
maker of champagne with brands including Moet & Chandon and  Dom
Perignon .  Vranken-Pommery Monopole SA (VRAP)  is the second-largest,
followed by  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI)  and  Laurent-Perrier. (LPE)   Production of wines with a protected designation of origin,
known by their French abbreviation AOP, is estimated at 19.4
million hectoliters, sliding 15 percent, the ministry said.
Output of wine for making spirits including cognac and armagnac
is seen at 6.98 million hectoliters, down 20 percent.  Burgundy  and Beaujolais appellation wine volume is
estimated at 1.8 million hectoliters, falling 27 percent.  Vineyards in the two regions suffered from late frost,
repeated hail, “persistent” disease and poor fruit set,
according to the ministry’s report. The greatest weather damage
occurred in Beaujolais, where output fell 48 percent compared
with the five-year average, the ministry said.  Bordeaux Volumes  Bordeaux-region AOP wine volumes dropped an estimated 3.6
percent to 5.29 million hectoliters, less than the 4.5 percent
drop predicted a month ago. The region is  France ’s biggest
producer of designated-origin wines.  In Languedoc-Roussillon, France’s biggest wine region by
total volume, production of all wines slumped an estimated 20
percent to 11.8 million hectoliters. In the Loire Valley, AOP
wine production fell an estimated 27 percent to 1.7 million
hectoliters.  Italy’s wine output may decline 3.4 percent to 40.8 million
hectoliters this year, making it the biggest producer, the
International Organisation of Vine and Wine forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  