-- French Recession Looms as Industrial Production Slumps
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-11-09T11:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/french-recession-looms-as-industrial-production-slumps.html
French industrial production slumped
and confidence among factory executives held near the lowest in
almost three years, prompting the Bank of  France  to indicate
that  Europe ’s second-largest economy may be tipping into
recession.  Production fell 2.7 percent in September from August,
Paris-based statistics office Insee said today. That’s the
biggest drop since January 2009 and more than the 1 percent
decline forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . With
 sentiment among manufacturing executives  unchanged at 92 in
October, the Bank of France said the economy may shrink in the
fourth quarter. Previous surveys suggest it also contracted in
the third.  That puts France on the verge of recession three years
after it emerged from the last one as President Francois Hollande struggles to reduce the budget deficit and improve the
nation’s competitiveness. With companies such as PSA Peugeot
Citroen SA cutting thousands of jobs, unemployment has jumped to
a 13-year high and the European Commission said this week that
it’s likely to rise further.  “The latest French industrial data makes for particularly
grim reading,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in  London . “The problem in France is the
perennial lack of growth.”  While the French economy last shrank at the start of 2009,
it hasn’t expanded since the third quarter of last year, with
gross domestic product stagnating for the past three quarters.
Insee will publish third-quarter GDP on Nov. 15.  Stocks, Euro Retreat  European stocks retreated, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
heading for its biggest weekly decline since September. The
index was down 0.5 percent at 269.26 at noon in  Frankfurt . The
euro was down 0.3 percent at $1.2713, a two-month low.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, which has already pushed
five of the 17 euro nations into recession, is now starting to
curb growth in  Germany , the region’s largest economy.  The Brussels-based commission this week forecast the euro-
area economy will expand just 0.1 percent in 2013 after
contracting 0.4 percent this year.  In Italy, industrial output declined the most in five
months in September, signaling the country remained mired in
recession in the third quarter. Output fell 1.5 percent from
August, when it rose 1.7 percent, national statistics office
Istat said in  Rome  today.  U.K. Trade Deficit  Britain’s trade deficit narrowed more than economists
forecast in September as exports rose, led by capital goods and
chemicals. The goods-trade gap fell to 8.37 billion pounds
($13.4 billion) from 9.98 billion pounds in August, the Office
for National Statistics said today in London. Exports rose 1.1
percent, while imports fell 3.9 percent.  Hollande plans to raise France’s main sales tax rates to
finance a cut in payroll charges, throwing support behind
businesses for the first time in a bid to counter a record trade
deficit and revive growth. The plan involves 20 billion euros
($26 billion) in tax increases and 10 billion euros in spending
cuts.  By lifting the two highest value-added tax rates in 2014,
Hollande is revisiting a policy he campaigned against in his
successful bid to unseat predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy earlier
this year.  The move comes as International Monetary Fund and the
commission increase pressure on France to improve its
competitiveness as the debt crisis prompts neighboring Spain and
 Italy  to overhaul their economies.  French Malaise  The commission predicts the French economy will barely
expand next year as exporters continue to lose ground to
competitors in other countries. GDP will rise 0.4 percent in
2013, half the pace expected by Hollande’s government, after 0.2
percent growth this year, the commission said on Nov. 7.  Hollande needs to embark on a significant overhaul of
French labor laws to prevent the country from falling behind its
European peers, the IMF said on Nov. 5.  “The lack of competitiveness in the French economy is now
the major challenge to its macro-economic stability,” the
Washington-based fund said. The economic discussion that
Hollande has already started “represents a unique opportunity
to undertake vigorous reform.”  Tax Increases  Hollande’s deficit-reduction plan relies too much on tax
increases, which hurt economic growth more than spending
reductions, Bank of France Governor Christian Noyer said in an
interview with Le Progres newspaper published today.  “I would prefer more savings from spending and less
emphasis on revenue,” Noyer said. “Still, raising taxes
reduces deficits more quickly. In future, the focus should be on
spending.”  The plans are just the beginning as France seeks to restore
competitiveness, French Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici said.  “We’re walking a tightrope,” Moscovici told business
leaders in Dijon yesterday. The competitiveness plan is a
“starting point, not the end of the story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.ne  