-- FTC Seeks More Divestitures in Hertz-Dollar Thrifty Deal
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-11-09T21:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/ftc-seeks-more-concessions-in-hertz-dollar-thrifty-deal.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , seeking
U.S. approval to buy Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc., is
being pressed by antitrust regulators to shed at least a dozen
more airport locations than it previously agreed to, two people
familiar with the situation said.  Talks with the Federal Trade Commission about unloading the
airport counters are continuing and testy, with both sides
bracing for a possible lawsuit, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the negotiations are confidential. The
counters at issue could be placed with a trustee for auction
later to avoid more delay in closing the deal, the people said.  The $2.6 billion acquisition is meeting resistance at the
FTC over the market share the combined company would command at
airports, according to the people. Hertz, with 8,750 outlets
worldwide, has more than 3,900 airport and non-airport locations
in the U.S., while  Dollar Thrifty (DTG)  has about 280 outlets in the
U.S. and  Canada .  “It would seem the FTC has given them a clear path to
approval and one that’s not that much more painful than the one
they were already on,” Fred Lowrance, a Nashville, Tennessee-
based analyst at Avondale Partners LLC, said in an interview.  The additional airports may represent $75 million in annual
revenue and about $10 million in profit, which would reduce the
profit per share Hertz stands to gain from the acquisition by
about 2 cents, Lowrance said.  Approval Deadline  Last month, Hertz extended the FTC’s legal deadline for
ruling on the deal to Nov. 16 from Oct. 31 because the agency
hadn’t finished its review of information provided by the
companies,  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based Hertz said in a
statement. When Hertz announced the proposed acquisition on Aug.
26, it said FTC approval was expected by mid-October.  Talks about the 12 to 15 airport divestitures follow
Hertz’s agreement to sell its Advantage brand to  Franchise
Services of North America Inc. (FSN)  and Macquarie Capital. While the
FTC staff has raised concerns about the strength of the buyer
and its ability to become a viable competitor, those questions
aren’t a deal-breaker with regulators, the people said.  The bureaus of competition and economics have recommended
approval of the deal and sent its findings to the five FTC
commissioners, the people said. Approval requires a simple
majority.  Five Years  Hertz, which has sought to take over  Dollar Thrifty  for
more than five years, agreed to sell its 62 Advantage brand
locations in the U.S. to address FTC concerns that going from
four major companies to three would crimp competition in the
rental-car market, the people said.  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the status of the agency’s review. Richard Broome, a Hertz
spokesman, also declined to comment.  The four largest companies -- Enterprise, Hertz,  Avis
Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  and Dollar Thrifty -- control 80 percent of
the U.S. market, according to market researcher IBISWorld.  Dollar Thrifty, based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , rose 5.4 percent
to $84, and Hertz jumped 7.3 percent to $14.34 at the close in
 New York . Both were the biggest gains since the day after the
acquisition was announced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in  Washington  at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 