-- Geithner to Stay at Treasury Through Obama Inauguration
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-11-09T21:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/geithner-to-stay-at-treasury-through-inauguration-carney-says.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will stay in his post through President  Barack Obama ’s
inauguration as the administration negotiates with Congress to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff, White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said today.  Carney, calling Geithner a “key participant” in the
talks, declined to say whether the Treasury secretary would stay
longer if there is no resolution by inauguration day, Jan. 21.
“I don’t have a specific day he’ll depart” or how long the
talks might go on, Carney said at a news conference today in
Washington.  The Obama administration and lawmakers are trying to avert
more than $600 billion of tax increases and federal spending
cuts that are set to kick in automatically in January as part of
a deal last year to raise the debt limit. Obama and House
Speaker  John Boehner , in separate remarks today, left open the
possibility of agreement on preserving current tax rates while
limiting tax breaks for top earners to raise revenue.  Geithner, 51, had said previously he doesn’t plan to stay
at the Treasury for a second Obama term. He wanted to leave last
year and was asked by Obama to stay on.  “I’m sure Tim is ready to go home and finally get a break,
but this makes a lot of sense,” said  Tony Fratto , a White House
and Treasury Department spokesman during the George W. Bush
administration. The White House needs to nominate a successor by
December so that the Senate can confirm that person before
congressional hearings on the  federal budget  are held in
February, Fratto said.  ‘Can’t Go On’  “This can’t go on longer than that,” said Fratto, who is
now a partner at Hamilton Place Strategies, a policy and
communications consulting firm in Washington.  “It makes sense to have a smooth transition, with no
vacancy, at a time when there’s serious work that needs to get
done,” said  Michele Davis , a partner at communications
consulting firm Brunswick Group LLP in Washington and a former
Treasury Department spokeswoman.  One of the top potential candidates to succeed Geithner is
White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew, administration officials
said this week. A onetime aide to former House Speaker  Tip O’Neill , Lew served as Office of Management and Budget director
for Obama and former President  Bill Clinton .  Another possible contender is Erskine Bowles, who served as
Clinton’s chief of staff and was co-chairman of a bipartisan
panel formed by Obama that drafted a plan to cut the deficit,
the officials said.  Stocks Climb  Stocks rallied today as a report showing  consumer
confidence  rose to a five-year high overshadowed concerns about
the fiscal cliff. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2
percent to 1,379.85 at the close of trading in New York. The
benchmark gauge has fallen 2.4 percent this week.  Geithner, the only remaining member of Obama’s original
economic team, played a key role in the government’s taxpayer-
funded bailouts during the 2008 financial crisis, when he was
president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York . He took over
at the Treasury in January 2009.  Geithner said in June 2011 that he would start commuting to
Washington from New York because his son was returning there to
finish high school. He told White House officials that he was
considering leaving office once a deal to raise the  federal debt 
limit was reached in Congress. In August 2011, five days after
Obama signed the increase, Geithner said he would stay on at
least through the 2012 presidential election.  His successor will inherit an economy still plagued by 7.9
percent unemployment more than three years after the end of the
deepest recession since the Great Depression. The next Treasury
secretary will also be faced with cutting the $16.2 trillion
public debt, in addition to seeking an overhaul of a federal  tax
code  criticized by Republicans and Democrats alike.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  