-- Generali Third-Quarter Net Income Rises on Fewer Writedowns
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-11-09T13:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/generali-third-quarter-net-income-rises-on-fewer-writedowns.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s
biggest insurer, said third-quarter  profit  jumped after year-
earlier writedowns of Greek bonds and stakes in Italian
companies weren’t repeated.  Net income rose to 291 million euros ($369 million) from 20
million euros a year earlier, when the insurer booked 289
million euros of writedowns, the company based in Trieste said
in a statement. Net income missed the 351.5 million-euro
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Third-quarter operating income rose 43 percent to 948.5
million euros, boosted by the life insurance segment.  “Generali’s figures were in line at the operating level,”
analysts at French brokerage Natixis wrote in a note to clients
today. “The financial strength of the group benefited from the
decline in the spread on the Italian sovereign debt,” while net
income suggests a lower dividend yield for this year compared
with its peers, they said.  Mario Greco , who took over as chief executive officer in
August, is reviewing the insurer’s strategy as he focuses on
bolstering profit and strengthening capital. Generali is selling
its U.S. life reinsurance business and Swiss asset-management
unit BSI Group because they aren’t strategic assets, Greco said
on a conference call today.  Generali has hired Citigroup Inc. to advise on the sale of
Generali USA Life Reassurance Co. and the unit may be worth $800
million to $1 billion, people familiar with the matter have
said.  Investor Presentation  “Any other sale or exiting from businesses will be
reviewed over the period, considering its capital efficiency and
capital absorption,” said Greco, who will outline his strategy
to investors in  London  on Jan. 14.  Generali’s agreement with PPF, a private-equity group
controlled by Czech billionaire  Petr Kellner , hasn’t changed
after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the insurer, Chief
Financial Officer Alberto Minali said on the conference call,
denying Italian press reports that PPF may exercise a  put option 
before 2014.  Generali and Amsterdam-based PPF formed a joint venture in
2007, combining their insurance assets in eastern  Europe  to
create a company with 9 million customers in 12 countries.
Generali has to buy the 49 percent stake if its partner
exercises the option.  The Italian company reiterated today that it expects non-
life premiums to climb, while life premiums will match last
year’s level. The insurer is targeting net inflow of 2 billion
euros in 2012.  The  shares  fell 2.4 percent to 12.10 euros at 2:39 p.m. in
Milan, giving the company a market value of 18.8 billion euros.
 The Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index (BEINSUR) , which was down 2
percent today, has risen 24 percent this year, compared with
Generali’s 4 percent increase.  Profit Target  “We are confident of achieving a 2012 operating result in
excess of 4 billion euros, in line with our previously announced
target,” Greco said. Generali said earlier this year that
operating profit would be in a range of 3.9 billion euros to 4.5
billion euros in 2012.  Shareholders equity  rose to 19.2 billion euros from 17.4
billion euros at the end of June, helped by the recovery of
Italian government bonds and equity markets.  The company’s strategy this year was to reduce its equity
and bond holdings in peripheral euro-area countries such as
 Portugal  in order to reduce risk, Minali said.  Non-life operating profit fell 2 percent to 403.5 million
euros in the quarter. Claims and costs as a proportion of
premiums, known as the combined ratio, was unchanged at 96.6
percent in the first nine months.  Generali’s solvency ratio, a measure of its capacity to
absorb losses, rose to 140 percent at the end of September from
130 percent at the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  