-- German Bonds Rise on Slowdown Signs; Yields Fall to 2-Month Low
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-11-09T16:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/german-10-year-bunds-rise-a-third-day-after-consumer-price-data.html
Germany ’s government bonds advanced,
pushing 10-year  yields  to the lowest level in more than two
months, as reports showed industrial production slumped in
 France , Italy and  Finland .  Austrian, Dutch and Belgian securities also gained as signs
the regional slowdown is spreading boosted demand for safer
assets. Spain’s bonds headed for a third weekly decline as
optimism waned that the nation will ask for an international
bailout. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said after
a policy meeting yesterday that economic activity in the euro
area was expected to “remain weak.” Greek bonds gained.  “Recent data showed the euro region is still in an
economic soft patch,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “Things will start to improve next year, but any
recovery will be gradual. In the near-term, core bond yields
will stay low.”  Germany’s 10-year yield dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.34 percent at 4:31 p.m. London time after
declining to 1.31 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 31. The
1.5 percent bund due in September 2022 gained 0.18, or 1.80
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,271) face amount, to 101.42. The yield
has dropped 11 basis points this week.  German two-year yields were little changed at minus 0.033
percent after falling to minus 0.055 percent on Nov. 7, the
least since Aug. 13. A negative yield means investors who hold
the security until it matures will receive less than they paid
to buy it.  Production Slides  French industrial production shrank 2.5 percent in
September from a year earlier, after declining an annual 0.9
percent in August, the national statistics office said. Factory
output slid 4.8 percent in  Italy  and 1.7 percent in Finland.  Economic confidence in the 17-member euro area fell to a
three-year low in October, the European Commission said last
month, adding to signs that the region is in recession after
gross domestic product shrank 0.2 percent in the second quarter.
Third-quarter GDP is due on Nov. 15.  Austrian  10-year securities  gained for an eighth day with
the yield declining three basis points to 1.81 percent after
falling to a record 1.807 percent. Similar-maturity Dutch yields
dropped one basis point to 1.61 percent and France’s fell three
basis points to 2.13 percent.  Weekly Decline  Spain’s 10-year bonds headed for their longest run of
weekly declines since June as the government of Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  refrains from asking for an international bailout
to fix its debt crisis.  Rajoy said on Nov. 6 he needed to know how much the ECB
would push down Spain’s borrowing costs before his government
asks for help and signs up to the conditions attached. Bond
yields have already dropped and there’s no point seeking a
bailout if they don’t fall any further, he told Cope Radio.
Spain sold three-, five- and 20-year bonds yesterday.  “Investors are beginning to lose patience with the Spanish
authorities,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist
at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Even though the
auction was well received yesterday, ironically the Spanish
government used that as an excuse not to ask for a sovereign
bailout. Consequently there’s been some upward pressure on
Spanish yields.”  Spain ’s  10-year yield  slid three basis points today to 5.83
percent, having climbed 17 basis points this week. Yields have
risen about 60 basis points since falling to 5.26 percent on
Oct. 19, the lowest since April.  Greek Bonds  Greek  10-year bonds  gained for the first time in three days
as a European Union official said governments will find a way of
tiding the country past a scheduled Nov. 16 redemption of
maturing bills to prevent an “accidental default.”  A Greek exit from the euro area is still a risk and efforts
by the ECB to ease the region’s debt crisis can only buy time
for lawmakers to take action, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Ending the financial woes in  Europe  will be a multiyear
process because “there’s no quick fix,” Yves Lemay, a managing
director at the ratings company, said in an interview in
Brussels.  Greece  leaving the euro “remains a risk and if it
were to crystalize, that event would generate a significant
economic event,” he said.  Greece’s 10-year yield fell eight basis points to 17.99
percent, leaving the price at 30.80 percent of face value.  German bonds returned 4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities gained 2.1 percent, while Italy’s earned 17 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  