-- German Coalition Cuts 2013 Net Borrowing in Final Draft
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-11-09T08:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/german-coalition-cuts-net-borrowing-by-a-third-in-new-2013-plan.html
German coalition lawmakers sealed a
2013  federal budget  plan that shaves a third from a net new
borrowing tally originally expected this year, a draft obtained
by Bloomberg News shows.  In fine-tuning the 2013 plan before it becomes law, members
of the parliament’s budget committee set net federal borrowing
at 17.1 billion euros ($22 billion), about 1.7 billion euros
less than in a previous draft and a third less than the 28
billion euros anticipated this year. Spending will total 302
billion euros in 2013, or about 3 percent less than this year.  The coalition made a “major effort” to cut planned
borrowing, Norbert Barthle, budget spokesman for  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s Christian Union bloc, said in an e-mailed
statement. “This is a great success and an important step” on
the way to a budget without new debt.  A constitutional “debt brake” obliges the government to
rein in spending in stages to ensure the budget is in balance
without net new borrowing by 2016. The brake was implemented in
2011 and requires that net borrowing not exceed 41.4 billion
euros in 2013, showing that the new plan is within target.  Germany ’s debt brake is the model for the European Union’s
future “Fiscal Pact.” While Merkel’s government may be on
track to fulfill the adopted fiscal goals earlier than expected,
her partners in the single currency including  France  are
struggling to satisfy laxer targets set by the euro’s decade-old
Stability and Growth Pact.  TLG Sale  Coalition parties, which dominate the budget committee,
achieved the planned new savings in borrowing in part by booking
800 million euros in anticipated gains from the sale of the TLG
GmbH property unit, Green Party committee member Priska Hinz
said in an interview yesterday. The division is being split into
its commercial and housing parts, while a portion of the gains
from the former will be carried forward into the 2013 budget,
Hinz said, citing the Finance Ministry.  The sale of the commercial unit will probably be completed
this year and accounted for in the 2012 budget, while the
housing asset will be wrapped up next year and accounted
accordingly, Hinz said.  Coalition lawmakers are due to brief journalists about the
completed 2013 budget draft in Berlin at 12:30 p.m. today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  