-- Ghana Borrowing Costs Set to Fall 4th Week on Record Bond Sale
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2012-11-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/ghana-borrowing-costs-set-to-fall-4th-week-on-record-bond-sale.html
Ghana ’s three-month borrowing  costs ,
which fell to five-month lows last week, are poised to decline
for a fourth auction today after the central bank sold the most
domestic bonds on record, reducing its funding needs.  Yields on three-month  Treasury bills  slid 69 basis points
to 22.33 percent, still the highest in  Africa , on Nov. 2, a week
after the Accra-based Bank of Ghana issued 1.46 billion cedis
($778 million) of three-year bonds in its biggest local sale.
The yield compares with 13.3 percent for Nigeria, West Africa’s
largest economy, and 20.28 percent for Sierra Leone, which is
rebuilding an economy devastated by civil war.  Ghana’s central bank boosted rates on 91-day bills, used by
local lenders as a benchmark for setting loan rates, to stem a
decline in the cedi by making local assets more attractive than
dollar-denominated investments. A weaker cedi drives up the cost
of goods in Ghana’s import-dependent, 67.4 billion-cedi economy.
The currency, which depreciated 15 percent against the dollar in
the first half of the year, has since gained 3.3 percent.  “I don’t expect anybody to bid higher than 21.5 percent at
this week’s auction,” Vida Antwi, a bond trader at Accra-based
Databank Financial Services Ltd., said by phone Nov. 6. “The
Bank of Ghana raised a lot of money in the last three-year bond
issue specifically so that it can limit Treasury-bill sales.”  Ghana, West Africa’s second-biggest economy, can pare back
the sale of 91-day bills because it has raised enough money,
Finance and Economic Planning Minister  Kwabena Duffuor  said in
an interview in Accra, the capital, on Nov. 7. He declined to be
more specific on the nation’s financing needs. The finance
ministry on Oct. 30 predicted a budget deficit of 1.2 percent of
gross domestic product for the first quarter of next year.  Lower Rates  “The three-year bond funds were raised specifically for
restructuring of government debt,” said Duffuor. “Shorter-term
instruments must attract lower coupon rates.”  Ghana’s 182-day notes yielded 22.64 percent at the Nov. 2
auction, the one-year bond 22.8 percent and the two-year debt 23
percent, the central bank said. The three-year bond traded at a
yield of 19.75 percent yesterday and five-year debt at 19
percent, Emmanuel Nambware, a bond trader at the Ghanaian unit
of Standard Chartered Plc, said by phone yesterday.  The nation’s yield curve inverted when the central bank
increased 91-day yields to arrest the cedi’s fall. The economy,
boosted by the beginning of oil production in December 2010,
will expand 8.2 percent this year from 14.4 percent in 2011,
according to the International Monetary Fund. The central bank
holds auctions every Friday, offering 91-day, 182-day, one-year
and two-year notes.  Extra Room  “The gap between the bank’s policy interest rate and the
91-day treasury bill rate means there’s room to reduce the 91-
day yields,” Duffuor said. The Bank of Ghana kept its benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 15 percent on Sept. 12 after three
increases this year totaling 2.5 percentage points to support
the cedi. Inflation slowed to 9.4 percent in September from 9.5
percent a month earlier.  “It’s a bit too early for the central bank to start to
allow treasury bill yields to fall,” Derrick Mensah, research
analyst at SIC Financial Services Ltd. in Accra, said by phone
Nov. 7. “Though inflation fell in September, there is still
spending pressure in the economy, especially from political
parties moving to campaign and fulfill last campaign promises.”  Ghana will hold presidential and parliamentary elections on
Dec. 7. The central bank will probably keep interest rates
unchanged at a Nov. 14 meeting, Mensah said.  The Bank of Ghana sold 124.3 million cedis of the 91-day
bills on Nov. 2, less than half the 294.7 million cedis sought
by investors, according to auction results on bank’s website.  “The objective of the three-year bond sale was to repay
maturing debt at the short-end of the market,” Kofi Pianim, a
bond trader at the Ghanaian unit of Standard Bank Group Ltd.,
said by phone on Nov 7. Standard Bank expects yields on the 91-
day bill to fall to 20.5 percent by the end of the year, he
said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Emily Bowers  at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net . 