-- MGIC Declines as Mortgage Insurer’s Loss Widens
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-09T14:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/mgic-declines-as-mortgage-insurer-s-loss-widens.html
MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) , the mortgage
insurer that breached regulators’ capital limits, declined after
reporting a ninth-straight loss. The company said it will pay
$267.5 million to resolve a dispute with Freddie Mac.  MGIC fell 7.7 percent to $1.55 at 9:42 a.m. in  New York 
trading. The Milwaukee-based company has  plunged  more than 50
percent this year as losses drained capital.  The third-quarter net loss widened to $246.9 million from
$165.2 million a year earlier as claims costs rose, MGIC said
today in a statement. The results don’t include losses from
resolving the clash with Freddie Mac over coverage on groups of
loans, according to the statement.  The results were “disappointing,” Jasper Burch, an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., wrote in a note to clients.
“Litigation remains a material overhang to the stock.”  MGIC said last month that it reached a preliminary deal
with  Freddie Mac  to resolve a dispute over how much coverage the
firm must provide on groups of loans it insured for the
government-sponsored purchaser of mortgages. The agreement calls
for a $100 million initial payment to McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac, with the remainder to be paid over 48 monthly
installments, MGIC said in a regulatory filing today.  The insurer said in August it had breached the 25-to-1
ratio of risk relative to capital that some state regulators
require to permit the company to sell new coverage. Under the
deal, Freddie Mac would allow an MGIC unit to cover loans it
buys in states that have the capital rules. The deal requires
the blessing of Wisconsin’s insurance regulator to make capital
from that unit available to cover claims on older policies.  Mortgage insurers cover losses when homeowners default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs. Rivals including  Old Republic
International Corp. (ORI) , PMI Group Inc. and Triad Guaranty Inc. have
been pushed from selling new coverage by mounting losses.  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) ,  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
and  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  still sell the coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  