-- Glaxo Malaria Vaccine Offers Less Protection to Infants
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-11-09T11:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/glaxo-malaria-vaccine-offers-less-protection-to-infants.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s experimental
malaria vaccine was less effective in reducing illness in
African infants than in older children in a study, suggesting
further development will be necessary before wide distribution.  The shot, known as  RTS ,S, protected 31 percent of 6,537
children age six weeks to 12 weeks from developing symptoms over
12 months after receiving their third dose and it prevented 37
percent from suffering severe malaria, according to data from a
late-stage study published today by the  New England Journal of
Medicine . That compares with 56 percent and 47 percent,
respectively, in children age five months to 17 months, as
reported by London-based Glaxo last year.  Glaxo will examine the different findings between the age
groups, which may affect its strategy for filing the vaccine to
regulatory authorities, the company said in a statement. RTS,S
would be the first vaccine against malaria, which kills 655,000
people a year worldwide, mostly children under age five in sub-
Saharan  Africa .  “The efficacy came back lower than we had hoped,”  Bill Gates , co-founder of the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , which
contributed to the trial costs, said in a statement. “The trial
is continuing and we look forward to getting more data to help
determine whether and how to deploy this vaccine.”  Glaxo  fell  as much as 0.8 percent to 1,360 pence and was
trading down 0.6 percent at 11:36 a.m. in London. The stock has
declined 7.1 percent this year, valuing the drugmaker at 67.1
billion pounds ($107 billion).  Study Conditions  Several factors may have contributed to the less positive
results in infants, including the effect of maternal antibodies,
the role of other childhood vaccines administered with RTS,S and
the inclusion of trial sites in high-transmission areas, the
study authors said in the published paper.  Glaxo will release more data by the end of 2014 on efficacy
30 months after the third dose as well as the effect of a
booster dose, it said.  “It’s terribly important that we work hard to unlayer this
onion,” Glaxo Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  said on a
conference call today. “There’s an awful lot of new data to
come.”  Global Cases  There were 216 million cases of malaria globally in 2010,
according to the  World Health Organization . The mosquito-borne
parasite of the human liver and blood causes fever, chills and
flu-like symptoms, or shock, anemia and organ damage if
untreated. Malaria is prevented now with insecticide-treated bed
nets. Drugs are prescribed after infection.  The data published today are the second set of results from
a study of 15,460 children in seven African countries that began
in March 2009.  Children were given either RTS,S or a non-malaria vaccine
combined with other childhood vaccines for diseases such as
hepatitis B, polio, diphtheria and tetanus. Fever was reported
more frequently in the RTS,S group, at 31 percent, compared with
21 percent in the control group, according to the study.  Two new cases of meningitis, a bacterial infection of the
membranes covering the brain and the spinal cord, were reported
in the younger infant group, in addition to the nine reported
last year. Analysis revealed a bacterial cause of the meningitis
in seven of the 11 cases.  ‘Not Ready’  “The results of this trial suggest that this candidate
malaria vaccine is not ready to become part of the routine panel
of infant immunizations,” Johanna Daily, professor at Albert
Einstein College of Medicine’s Division of  Infectious Diseases ,
said in a comment accompanying the published article. “However,
this trial did show protection in a subset of children and thus
should be used as an opportunity to enlighten researchers
regarding the host responses that correlate with vaccine
protection.”  Glaxo has said it plans to file for regulatory approval in
2014 and bring the vaccine to market as early as 2015. If the
drug is approved, the Geneva-based WHO has said it would decide
by 2015 whether to include the shot among its recommended
childhood vaccines, which would enable the treatment to be
included in national immunization programs.  The  drugmaker  hasn’t disclosed what it plans to charge for
RTS,S, only that the eventual price would will the cost of
making it plus 5 percent, which the company would reinvest in
finding a second-generation malaria vaccine or preventive
treatments for other neglected tropical diseases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  