-- Glitnir’s Board Drops Plan to Complete Creditor Deal This Year
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-11-09T18:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/glitnir-s-board-drops-plan-to-complete-creditor-deal-this-year.html
The board that’s winding up failed
Icelandic lender  Glitnir Bank hf  dropped its plans to present a
repayment plan to creditors by the end of this year after the
country’s central bank signaled it might block such a move.  “Following the recent comments made by the Governor of the
central bank” the caretakers of Glitnir have “sought further
clarification as to the implications for the previously
announced target timetable,” the lender said in a statement on
its  website . “It has become apparent that the target launch
date of December 2012 is no longer achievable.”  Morgunbladid reported yesterday, without citing where it
got the information, that the Reykjavik-based central bank
opposes so-called composition agreements, which could lead the
winding-up committees of the failed lenders to undergo
bankruptcy proceedings. Finance Minister Katrin Juliusdottir
said last month that debt settlements with creditors of
Iceland’s failed banks will increase an overhang of offshore
krona assets and stoke volatility in the currency.  Iceland’s parliament will support the central bank if it
chooses to block the composition agreements of Glitnir,
 Kaupthing Bank hf  and  Landsbanki Islands hf , said  Helgi Hjorvar ,
chairman of the legislature’s economy and tax committee.  “Parliament will do anything and everything to assist the
central bank’s objective to maintain financial stability in the
country,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview. If that
includes blocking the banks’ composition agreements,
“parliament will support the central bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  