-- Goldman Sachs Southeast Asia Chairman Entwistle to Retire
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-11-09T10:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/goldman-sachs-southeast-asia-chairman-entwistle-to-retire.html
L. Brooks Entwistle,  Goldman Sachs (GS) 
Group Inc.’s chairman for Southeast Asia, is retiring after two
decades at the New York-based bank, according to an internal
memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  Entwistle, 45, will retire at the end of the year and
become an advisory director, according to the memo. He set up
Goldman Sachs’s wholly-owned India business in 2006 and remained
country head until early 2011 when he moved to  Singapore  for the
current role. Entwistle joined the bank in 1989 as an analyst
and was named partner in 2008, the document shows.  Connie Ling, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at the bank,
confirmed the contents of the memo and declined to elaborate.  Goldman Sachs ranks second in advising mergers and
acquisitions in Southeast Asia this year, trailing only Morgan
Stanley, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It ranked
fifth during the same period last year, the data show.  An increasing number of senior executives are leaving
investment banking as compensation in the industry falls.
Goldman Sachs’s Yusuf Alireza, who was co-president of
operations for the Asia-Pacific region outside  Japan , left late
last year. A month later Mark Machin, the bank’s vice-chairman
for the region also departed.  Alireza is now chief executive officer of Hong Kong-based
Noble Group Ltd., while Machin heads the Asia-Pacific unit of
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board. Gaby Abdelnour, CEO of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Asia-Pacific business left that bank
earlier this year to pursue personal interests.  Goldman Sachs, which is scheduled to announce its new class
of partners next week, has 407 members of that group, 31 fewer
than nine months ago, according to a company filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  