-- Gripers Led by 70-Year-Old Ph.D. Pile Up U.S. Contract Protests
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-11-09T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/gripers-led-by-70-year-old-ph-d-pile-up-u-s-contract-protests.html
It’s easy for Bruce Kleinstein and
his 30-employee company to escape attention in the $500 billion-
a-year federal contracting market. Except at the U.S. government
office that arbitrates contract disputes, where he’s known as a
regular.  Kleinstein, 70, is president of Philadelphia-based
Information Ventures Inc., which organizes conferences and
designs websites for the  Department of Health  and Human
Services. He’s filed 92 challenges with the Government
Accountability Office in five years, leading all companies
including top contractors such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
 Boeing Co. (BA) , according to GAO records provided to Bloomberg.  His cases have come during a surge in protests that may
partly reflect heightened competition for a smaller pool of
awards. Federal spending on contracts has been declining amid
efforts to reduce the nation’s rising debt.  “We’re seeing an environment where  government spending  is
decreasing, and it’s resulting in companies giving greater
consideration to protesting,” Mike Mason, a Washington-based
partner in the government contracts practice of Hogan Lovells US
LLP, said in a phone interview.  Small firms such as Information Ventures have protested a
range of alleged problems in the contracting process, from
requirements that prevent full competition to being given too
little time to submit a bid.  Contracting Flaws  For Kleinstein, who earned a Ph.D. in chemistry and a law
degree before starting his contracting company in the early
1980s, the challenges can be a way to help fix flaws in the
system, he said in a phone interview.  “I see a lot of stuff that basically in an ideal world
wouldn’t necessarily be done that way,” he said. “I may be
just a queer duck. Probably I am a little bit of a teacher.”  The number of protests rose 19 percent to 1,708 in the year
ended Sept. 30, 2011, from 1,434 in fiscal 2009, as spending on
all federal contracts fell 3.6 percent to $531 billion, from
$551 billion. Protests to the GAO have risen 64 percent since
fiscal 2007.  The increase means the GAO, which also acts as Congress’s
investigative arm, is dealing with a bigger case load without
additional resources.  “We’re facing tremendous challenges,” Ralph White, the
head of the GAO’s bid protest division, said in a phone
interview. Protests probably increased again in fiscal 2012,
which ended Sept. 30, White said. The agency hasn’t released its
statistics for the year.  Protests Surge  The rising number of protests is forcing the agency to
focus on resolving as many cases as possible through
negotiation, rather than by issuing written decisions, White
said. When the GAO does rule, it may only address the most
important aspects of a protest, he said.  “The fact that a  law firm  can spin out 87 separate issues
doesn’t mean that you have to answer 87 separate issues in a
decision,” White said. “We can’t possibly write about them
all, and in fact it wouldn’t be a good use of public money to
write about them all.”  The higher case load comes as the agency’s budget declined
4.6 percent to $542 million in fiscal 2012 from $568 million the
prior year. The agency’s staff was poised to drop below 3,000
people this year to the lowest level in 75 years, the GAO said
in a report.  Kleinstein has had “the added benefit of being right” in
some of his protests, White said. “I think he has the right to
be here.”  Air Force Tanker  The GAO has resolved spats over major weapon programs such
as a $35 billion Air Force contract for aerial refueling tankers
in which Boeing prevailed against rivals  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EADS)  and  Northrop Grumman (NOC)  Corp. Yet disputes
brought by the top contractors make up a disproportionately
small share of the agency’s bid protest work.  The top 10 vendors, which received about 28 percent of
total contract awards in fiscal 2011, filed 105 protests in the
five-year period, or 1.5 percent of the total.  Companies typically file protests either to argue that the
government improperly evaluated bids, or to object to the terms
of a competition before a winner is decided. In Bloomberg’s
analysis, multiple filings by a single company related to the
same procurement were counted as one protest.  L-3’s Challenges  Among the top 10 contractors,  L-3 Communications Holdings
Inc. (LLL)  led with 20 protests, making the company eighth in total
challenges. L-3’s complaints included a challenge of a $4.6
billion Army contract to provide translators and linguists in
 Iraq  that was eventually awarded to a rival.  Jennifer Barton, a spokeswoman for New York-based L-3,
declined to comment.  Northrop Grumman, maker of the Global Hawk drone, filed the
second most protests among the top vendors, with 16.  The company “takes very seriously the decision whether to
file a protest,”  Randy Belote , a spokesman for  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based Northrop, said in an e-mail.  “We carefully evaluate each matter, on a case-by-case
basis, considering the merits of our legal position as well as
the impact on the acquisition process and our customers,” he
said.  By comparison, Chicago-based Boeing, the second-biggest
U.S. contractor, filed three protests in the period. One of them
successfully overturned the award of the tanker contract to
rivals. Northrop Grumman eventually dropped out of the tanker
competition, and Boeing beat EADS for the work.  ‘Sharp Knife’  “Protesting is like having a very sharp knife; you have to
use it extremely carefully or it can have some unintended
consequences,” Todd Blecher, a Boeing spokesman, said in a
phone interview. “We look at it as reserving protests for those
situations where it’s our conclusion that there’s strong
evidence of a real problem in the acquisition process.”  It’s no surprise that the biggest contractors aren’t
prolific protesters, according to Mason, the attorney at Hogan
Lovells.  “Typically, sophisticated companies are reluctant to sue
one of their best customers unless there’s very good reason to
do so,” he said.  In one of Kleinstein’s  victories at GAO , he successfully
argued that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention erred
in deciding to award a contract for analysis of hazardous
substances to one vendor instead of several. He also has lodged
complaints without filing formal protests, once persuading an
official to rethink a language-translation contract awarded on
criteria that bidders weren’t given beforehand.  Getting Better  Kleinstein said he believes the Health and Human Services
Department has gotten better at following procurement
regulations, and as a result he’s filing fewer protests.  “This system that we have is probably the best system that
exists anywhere,” he said. “While there are problems, they do
get righted.”  The second-most-frequent protester, with 60 in the five-
year period, is Jacqueline Sims, owner of JRS Management. The
20-employee company in Lawrenceville,  Georgia , provides dental
assistants, vocational teachers and musicians for religious
services to the federal prison system and the military.  One U.S. agency attorney called her the most litigious
person he had ever met, Sims said. Yet she said contractors
shouldn’t shy away from protesting when the government doesn’t
adhere to contracting rules. Some of her company’s success is
due to her protest record, she said.  ‘Fearful of Retribution’  “I feel that too many companies are fearful -- they’re
fearful of retribution,” she said in a phone interview. “The
overwhelming number of times that’s just not the case.
Government officials for the most part conduct themselves in
good faith.”  Many of Sims’ protests have objected to the terms of
competitions rather than allege an improper award decision.
Successful protests have helped her clarify her company’s
obligations and avoid potential risks such as having to pay
higher wages, she said.  One reason more protests are being filed may be that
companies see protesting as a way to gain credibility at
government agencies, said  Larry Allen , president of Allen
Federal Business Partners, a procurement consulting firm based
in Arlington, Virginia.  Some vendors believe that “if they get the reputation of
never protesting anything, then their bids might not be
considered,” Allen said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  