-- Gross Raises Treasuries in Flagship Fund First Time Since April
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-09T19:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/gross-raises-treasuries-in-flagship-fund-first-time-since-april.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, increased his holdings of Treasuries for the
first time since April as traders increased bets that the
 Federal Reserve  would add to stimulus measures.  Gross raised the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt at Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $281 billion  Total
Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 24 percent of assets last month, from 20 percent
in September, according to a report on the  Newport Beach ,
California-based company’s  website . Mortgages remained the
fund’s largest holding at 47 percent, down from 49 percent a
month earlier. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes
in its portfolio holdings.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on Oct. 24, in the last
scheduled policy meeting before the presidential election,
reiterated that the central bank would press on with the asset
purchases until the labor market improves substantially. All 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed expected its
quantitative-easing measures to be expanded, according to a
survey last month by  Bloomberg News .  Ten-year notes rose in part this week on “a bid based upon
the Bernanke expectation for easy money as far as the eye can
see,” after the re-election of President  Barack Obama , Gross
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” on Nov. 7.  Investors should buy municipal bonds, intermediate
Treasuries and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, Gross
reiterated in the interview.  Fund Holdings  The Total Return Fund held steady its holdings of non-U.S.
developed nations’ debt to 11 percent in October. Gross also
kept the fund’s emerging-market debt at 8 percent and its
municipal bonds holdings at 5 percent.  He cut investment-grade credit to 11 percent last month,
from 12 percent in September. High-yield debt rose to 3 percent,
from 2 percent in September.  Gross reduced the Total Return Fund’s net cash-and-
equivalent position to negative 9 percent last month, from
negative 6 percent in September. The fund can have a so-called
negative position by using derivatives, futures or by shorting.  The fund attracted $2.4 billion in October as it continued
to outperform peers. The 10th straight month of net deposits
into the fund contributed to about $14.5 billion in new cash for
the year through Oct. 31, according to the Chicago-based
research firm Morningstar Inc. Deposits of $2.8 billion in
September were the highest this year.  Fund Performance  Treasuries have returned 2.6 percent in 2012, while
mortgages returned 2.6 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. Treasuries comprised 31 percent of the
portfolio in April and were increased to 35 percent over the
next two months before Gross began reducing his stake.  The Total Return Fund gained 11 percent over the past year,
beating 94 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The fund’s government and Treasury debt category includes
fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and
inflation-protected securities.  Derivatives are financial obligations whose value is
derived from an underlying asset such as debt, stocks or
commodities. Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
later specific price and date.  Shorting is borrowing and selling an asset in anticipation
of making a profit by buying it back after its price has fallen.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.92 trillion in  assets  as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  