-- GWU Says It Inflated Ranking of Incoming Freshmen
-- B y   C h r i s   S t a i t i
-- 2012-11-09T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/gwu-says-it-inflated-ranking-of-incoming-freshmen.html
George Washington  University, founded
by Congress in 1821, said it misstated class rankings for
incoming freshmen because of a data collection error.  Fifty-eight percent of students in the class of 2015 were
in the top 10 percent of their high school class, rather than
the 78 percent previously reported, the Washington-based
university said yesterday in a  statement  on its website.  “I deeply regret this error and want to assure you that
corrective action has been taken and safeguards put into place
to prevent such errors from occurring in the future,” President
Steven Knapp said in the statement.  The information was furnished to  U.S. News & World Report ,
which compiles college rankings that high-school students and
their parents use to comparison shop. The magazine ranked George
Washington 51st in its 2013 list of national universities, tied
with  Boston University  and  Tulane University .  George Washington is at least the third selective school
this year to misreport information used in rankings. In August,
Atlanta-based  Emory University  said former admissions officials
and other employees had intentionally reported inflated student
entrance-exam scores and high school class ranks for more than a
decade. In January,  Claremont McKenna College , near Los Angeles,
said a school official had misrepresented SAT statistics since
2005.  “We’re encouraged to see that schools are taking seriously
their responsibility to provide students and parents with
accurate information,”  Brian Kelly , editor and chief content
officer at U.S. News, said in an e-mail. “The minor advantages
that a few schools have tried to gain damage the credibility of
the whole system, as well as their own reputations. The best
colleges know that accuracy matters.”  Any ranking change for George Washington for the current
year wouldn’t be significant, Kelly estimated.  George Washington Provost Steven Lerman, who had
reorganized the  undergraduate enrollment  management functions
during the summer, uncovered a flaw in the method used to
determine class rankings, the university said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Staiti in Boston at 
 cstaiti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  