-- Iceland Lawmaker Says Could Block Bank Composition Accords
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-11-09T10:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/iceland-lawmaker-says-could-block-bank-composition-accords.html
Iceland’s parliament would support
the central bank if it chooses to block composition agreements
to ease pressure on the krona, said Helgi Hjorvar, chairman of
the legislature’s economy and tax committee.  “Parliament will do anything and everything to assist the
central bank’s objective to maintain financial stability in the
country,’’ he said yesterday in a telephone interview. If that
includes blocking the banks’ composition agreements,
“parliament will support the central bank,’’ he said.  Iceland imposed currency restrictions in 2008 following the
failure of Kaupthing Bank hf, Glitnir Bank hf and Landsbanki
Islands hf, which triggered an 80 percent plunge in the krona
against the euro offshore.  Arion Bank hf , the state-created
successor to Kaupthing, has estimated the controls are stopping
as much as $8 billion in offshore krona assets from being sold.  Morgunbladid reported yesterday, without citing where it
got the information, that the central bank opposes composition
agreements, which could lead the winding-up committees of the
failed lenders to undergo bankruptcy proceedings. Finance
Minister Katrin Juliusdottir said last month that  debt
settlements with creditors of Iceland’s failed banks will
increase an overhang of offshore krona assets and stoke
volatility in the currency.  ‘No Indication’  “The only thing the Governor has said is that the central
bank will take as long as it needs to review” any composition
agreement “in order to ensure that they don’t threaten financial
stability,” said Stefan J. Stefansson, a central bank spokesman  Steinunn Gudbjartsdottir, chairwoman of Glitnir‘s winding-
up committee, said she has no “indication” that the central
bank won’t approve the group’s proposed plan.  “Both Glitnir and Kaupthing have for some time now been
planning to complete the winding-up proceedings with a
composition agreement,” she said. “The intention was to send
the banks’ creditors composition agreements before the end of
the year. That’s completely dependent on the central bank
approving the banks’ composition proposals.”  The 2008 banking collapse forced the north Atlantic island
to seek a $4.6 billion bailout led by the  International Monetary
Fund . Iceland emerged from the IMF’s 33-month economic program
in August last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 