-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Increases More Than Forecast
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-09T21:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-increased-to-84-9-in-november.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
climbed to a five-year high in November, improving the prospects
of bigger spending gains that will help spur the expansion.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 consumer sentiment  index rose to 84.9, the fourth straight
increase and the highest since July 2007, from 82.6 in October.
Economists projected an initial reading of 82.9 for November,
according to the median estimate of 71 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Stocks climbed as the report showed the employment gains,
 cheaper gasoline  and rising home values that are lifting
Americans’ spirits may translate into a pickup in purchases,
which account for about 70 percent of the  U.S. economy . For
retailers such as  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) , more optimism may lay the
foundation for bigger cash register receipts during the coming
holiday shopping season.  “This is a slow, uneven economy that continues to mend,”
said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities in  New York , who projected the sentiment gauge would
rise to 85. “The confidence numbers reflect a little bit better
job growth in the quarter and I think they reflect the news on
housing that has really been pretty good.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2 percent to
1,379.85 at the close in New York. The  S&P 500  dropped 2.4
percent this week.  Another report today showed  inventories  at U.S. wholesalers
rose 1.1 percent in September, the most this year, after a 0.8
percent a month earlier. The median projection of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.4 percent advance.  Third Quarter  The bigger-than-projected jump, combined with earlier
reports showing gains in construction and factory stockpiles and
a smaller  trade deficit  for the month, means the economy may
have expanded at a 3.2 percent annual rate in the third quarter,
according to New York-based economists for Barclays Plc and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Commerce Department’s first estimate,
issued last month, came in at 2 percent.  The 1.2 percentage-point boost would be the biggest upward
revision between initial estimates since 2008 and the second-
largest since 2001. Nonetheless, the news isn’t all positive as
the jump in stockpiles means less need to restock shelves and
warehouses this quarter, which will restrain growth, Daniel Silver, a JPMorgan Chase economist, said in a research note.  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 74.7 to
86, according to the Bloomberg survey. The index averaged 64.2
during the last recession and 89 in the five years leading up to
the 18-month economic slump that began in December 2007.  Fiscal Cliff  Even with the gain in confidence, the so-called fiscal
cliff of tax increases and government cutbacks scheduled to take
effect next year serves as a reminder to households that the
expansion faces hurdles.  “We know that the economy is going to be tough, but we
believe that the focus on value and gifting will win over the
consumer in what we expect to be, as always, a very competitive
holiday season,” Kevin Mansell, chief executive officer of
 Menomonee Falls , Wisconsin-based retailer Kohl’s, said on a Nov.
8 earnings call.  The Michigan index of consumer  expectations  six months from
now, which more closely projects the direction of  consumer
spending , increased to 80.8, the best reading since July 2007,
from 79 in October. The gauge of  current conditions  rose to
91.3, the highest since January 2008, from 88.1 the prior month.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index also climbed last week
as Americans’ ratings of the economy reached the highest level
in more than four years.  Bloomberg Sentiment  The gauge rose to minus 34.4 in the period ended Nov. 4,
the best reading since April, from minus 34.7 the previous week,
the report showed yesterday. Twenty percent of those surveyed
had a positive view of the world’s largest economy, the most
since March 2008.  “As we look toward the fast approaching holiday season, we
are encouraged by the recent strong gains in  consumer confidence 
as lower  gas prices , a recovering housing market and improved
job reports resonate with the shopper,” Stephen Lebovitz, chief
executive officer of Chattanooga, Tennessee-based shopping mall
owner  CBL & Associates Properties Inc. (CBL) , said on a Nov. 7
earnings teleconference.  Progress in the labor market and cheaper gasoline prices
may be helping to shore up consumer sentiment. Employers added
171,000 workers in October, more than forecast, the Labor
Department said on Nov. 2.  The average nationwide price for regular gasoline dropped
to $3.46 a gallon yesterday, the cheapest since the middle of
July, according to AAA, the largest U.S. motoring organization.  Household Spending  The gains in confidence have coincided with a pickup in
household spending. Purchases rose 0.8 percent in September, the
biggest gain in seven months, after advancing 0.5 percent in
August, the Commerce Department said on Oct. 29. Retail sales in
September and August had the best back-to-back showing since
late 2010.  At the same time, income has been slow to pick up. Average
hourly earnings climbed 1.6 percent in October from the same
time last year, the smallest gain since comparable year-over-
year records began in 2007, the Labor Department said on Nov. 2.
Earnings for production workers rose 1.1 percent in the 12
months to October, the weakest since records began in 1965.  Disposable income, or the money left over after taxes, was
little changed in September after falling 0.3 percent after
adjusting for inflation, the Commerce Department said on Oct.
29. The savings rate dropped to 3.3 percent, the lowest since
November, from 3.7 percent.  Today’s report showed consumers expect limited inflation.
They projected prices will rise 3 percent over the next 12
months, compared with 3.1 percent in the prior survey. Over the
next five years, Americans expected 2.8 percent rate of
inflation, compared with 2.7 percent in the previous report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  