-- India’s Rupee Has Second Weekly Drop on U.S., Europe Concerns
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-11-09T11:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/india-s-rupee-has-second-weekly-drop-on-u-s-europe-concerns.html
India’s rupee completed a second
weekly decline on concern potential tax increases and spending
cuts in the U.S. and a delay in resolving  Europe ’s debt crisis
will slow global growth.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  faces the so-called fiscal
cliff involving $600 billion of expiring tax cuts and automatic
spending reductions unless Congress acts before 2013. Euro-area
finance ministers may not make a decision on unlocking funds for
 Greece  until late November as they await a full report on the
country’s compliance with the terms of its bailout, a European
Union official said yesterday. Investors will also be watching
the Indian government’s efforts to improve public finances,
according to Alpari Financial Services India Ltd.  “The rupee is expected to remain volatile during the
session on risk aversion in major markets and policy reforms in
domestic markets,” Pramit Brahmbhatt, Mumbai-based chief
executive officer at Alpari Financial, wrote in a e-mail today.
“The U.S. fiscal cliff and weak EU sentiment continue to
dominate headlines.”  The rupee declined 1.7 percent this week to 54.7550 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency touched 54.7775 intraday, the lowest level since Sept.
14. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, dropped 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 10.10 percent. The rate gained 10 basis
points this week. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares lost 0.3
percent today.  India ’s auction of wireless spectrum, reclaimed after a
corruption probe into the award of licenses, may raise 53
percent of the government’s target as prices deter billionaires
from  Russia  to  Malaysia , according to an average estimate of
five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were at 55.64 per
dollar, compared with 55.45 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.58 versus 55.37. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  