-- Indonesia’s PT Bumi Starts Probe After London Investigation
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-11-09T17:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/indonesia-s-pt-bumi-starts-probe-following-london-investigation.html
Indonesia ’s PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI) , the
nation’s biggest producer of power-station coal, said a South
Jakarta court approved an independent investigation into its
financial accounts dating back to 2010.  The probe was prompted by the company’s audit committee
“in view of the public notifications by a shareholder, Bumi
Plc, and various reports, both in international and local
media,” the Jakarta-based coal producer said today in an e-
mailed statement. Reports are due to the Chief Justice of
District Court of South Jakarta within 90 days of the
appointment of an auditor, it said.  PT Bumi is part-owned by the Bakrie family and is at the
center of a feud involving London-listed Bumi Plc, owner of 29
percent of the Indonesian mining company, and Bumi Plc co-
founder  Nathaniel Rothschild . Bumi Plc, which has lost 70
percent in trading this year, in September started an urgent
inquiry into “potential financial and other irregularities” at
its Indonesian operations, PT Bumi and  PT Berau Coal Energy (BRAU)  Tbk.  The so-called forensic audit will focus on the accounts for
the financial years of 2010 through 2012, PT Bumi said. The
Indonesian company referred to funds from unit PT Bumi Resources
Minerals that are invested in  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  without
giving further details of the probe.  London-based Bumi said in statement today it noted the
announcement and “has no further information on the matter at
this time.”  The Indonesian investigation comes as Bumi Plc studies
alternative proposals for its assets from two of the key parties
who founded it in 2010, Rothschild and the Bakrie Group.  Morgan Stanley  Rothschild, 41, has appointed Morgan Stanley as an adviser
and held talks with potential new investors as well as current
holders of Bumi, a person familiar with the matter said last
week.  An offer from the scion of a centuries-old banking dynasty
would counter a $1.2 billion proposal from the Bakries for  Bumi
Plc (BUMI) ’s stakes in two coal producers -- its holding in PT Bumi and
the 85 percent it has in PT Berau Coal Energy.  The Bakries made their offer last month to help resolve
“irreconcilable differences” with Rothschild. The financier
has described the Bakries’ offer as not being in the interests
of investors.  Bumi advanced 1.2 percent to close at 276.9 pence in London
trading. Bumi Resources was unchanged at 650 rupiah today in
Jakarta and Berau Coal Energy was also unchanged at 220 rupiah.  Bumi Plc said Sept. 24 it was starting a probe into
potential financial “irregularities” at its Indonesian
investments. The probe is linked to a $637 million writedown of
development funds and exploration assets in Bumi’s Dec. 31,
2011, year-end financial statement.  London-listed Bumi won’t make a recommendation on any
possible transaction until the investigation is “appropriately
advanced,” the company said Nov. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  