-- Indonesia to Maintain Metal Export Policy Amid Court Ruling
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-11-09T08:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/indonesia-to-keep-metal-export-policy-amid-supreme-court-ruling.html
Indonesia , the world’s largest nickel
producer, will maintain a policy that tightens exports of
mineral ores amid a ruling by the Supreme Court that annulled
some articles on the ministerial decree.  “We’re preparing a new regulation to amend the current
rule and to bring it in line with the Supreme Court decision”
without changing the policy on ore exports, Susyanto, head of
legal and public relations at the Energy and Mineral Resources
Ministry, said in an interview yesterday. “The decree doesn’t
ban exports, because shipments are still allowed under some
conditions and that’s not contradicting with any law.”  Asia’s second-largest copper producer, where mining
accounted for 12 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, is
trying to boost the value of commodity sales to support growth.
The country banned exports of 32 types of raw metals, waiving
the restriction for companies operating under so-called mining
business licenses that are planning to build refineries before a
total ban is imposed in 2014. Those shipments are subject to a
20 percent tax.  The ban doesn’t apply to mining companies working under
contracts of work such as  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  Freeport operates the Grasberg gold and
copper mine in Papua and Newmont runs the Batu Hijau mine on
Sumbawa island.  The Supreme Court annulled four articles of Ministerial
Decree No. 7 on mineral processing that was issued in February,
including article 21, which bans exports for mining business
license holders, Natsir Mansyur, deputy chairman for trade
distribution and logistics at the Indonesian Chambers of
Commerce and Industry, said Nov. 5.  Verdict Summary  The decision was based on a request from the regencies
government association, or Apkasi, according to a copy of a
summary of the Supreme Court verdict seen by Bloomberg News.
Ridwan Mansyur, the court’s head of public relations, confirmed
the summary. He said he couldn’t provide further details on the
ruling as the full document isn’t finished. Susyanto said the
energy ministry hasn’t received a copy of the ruling.  The energy ministry will file an objection to the Supreme
Court to cancel the ruling, as the related 2009 Mining Law is
under review by the Constitutional Court, Susyanto, who uses a
single name, said.  “Under the Constitutional Court law, the Supreme Court
must stop processing a complaint against a supporting regulation
if the related law is under a judicial review,” Susyanto said.
Ministerial Decree No. 7, which was revised by Decree No. 11, is
a supporting rule for the 2009 Mining Law, he said.  Minerals Exports  Under the export rule, the government has issued permits for
shipments of 42.53 million tons of nickel ore, 5.82 million tons
of iron ore, 1.28 million tons of copper and 16.39 million tons
of bauxite since the decree took effect in May, Deddy Saleh,
director general of foreign trade at the Trade Ministry, said
Nov. 2.  Exports of nickel ore from Indonesia rose 8 percent to 21.1
million metric tons in January to August from a year earlier,
the Trade Ministry said Oct. 5. Copper shipments fell 37 percent
to 649,435 tons and bauxite dropped 15 percent to 20.6 million
tons, the ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  