-- ING U.S. Life Insurer Files for Initial Public Offering
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-11-09T18:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/ing-u-s-life-insurer-files-for-initial-public-offering.html
ING U.S. Inc., an insurance unit of
the largest Dutch financial-services company, filed for an
initial public offering as the parent company narrows its focus.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will lead the ING
U.S. share sale, according to a regulatory filing from the New
York-based unit. The IPO could raise 5.5 billion euros ($7
billion) in proceeds, Cor Kluis, an Utrecht, Netherlands-based
analyst at Rabobank International, said in a note dated Nov. 7.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  was ordered by the European Union to sell
insurance operations, its U.S. online bank and a Dutch mortgage
lender before the end of 2013 as a condition for approval of a
2008 bailout. The U.S. unit, led by ex- American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  executive Rodney Martin, competes with  MetLife Inc. (MET) 
and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  selling savings products as
workers rely less on their employers for pensions.  “We have leading positions in our retirement solutions and
insurance solutions businesses,” ING U.S. said in the filing.
“The weakening of historical safety nets provided by
governments and employers, such as  Social Security  and defined
benefit plans, are increasing the need for Americans to plan for
their own long-term financial security.”  The U.S. unit has about 13 million customers and offers
savings products and annuities in addition to  life insurance ,
according to the filing. ING U.S.’s total revenue declined 7.4
percent in the six months through June 30 from a year earlier to
$4.85 billion, while net income fell 58 percent to $331 million,
according to the regulatory filing.  Asset Sales  ING said in January it would review non-essential banking
assets after a target of repaying its government bailout in 2012
became less certain amid Europe’s debt crisis and stiffer
regulatory burdens.  ING Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen sold the Amsterdam-
based company’s U.S. online bank to  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) 
for about $9 billion this year and disposed of the Latin
American insurance operations last year. He’s also agreed to
sell the Canadian online bank to Bank of  Nova Scotia . AIA Group
Ltd., the third-largest Asia-based insurer, agreed last month to
buy ING’s Malaysia insurance business.  The filing lists the U.S. IPO for $100 million, a
placeholder number used to calculate registration fees. ING’s
book value was $12.8 billion as of June 30, according to the
filing.  MetLife, based in New York, trades for about 56 percent of
its  book value  of $64.6 billion. Prudential trades for 64
percent of the measure of assets minus liabilities.  Interest rates near record lows and stock market volatility
have pressured results at life insurers, which invest customer
payments to generate profits and back future obligations.  Renewed Pressure  “Difficult market conditions are negatively affecting
industry returns and valuations, and pressuring key credit
metrics,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement yesterday. “This
places renewed pressure on U.S. life insurers struggling to
rebound from the financial crisis.”  Martin, 60, in September promoted Alain Karaoglan, another
ex-AIG manager, to be chief operating officer as the unit
prepares for the IPO. Karaoglan helped AIG in 2010 with the IPO
of AIA for more than $20 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  