-- Mizuho’s New China Fund to Focus on Reform as Leadership Changes
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-11-09T02:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/mizuho-s-new-china-fund-to-focus-on-reform-as-leadership-changes.html
Mizuho Asset Management Co. (8411) , a unit
of Japan’s third-biggest lender, is opening a China fund,
betting new leaders in the world’s No. 2 economy will boost
growth and quell a territorial dispute that’s prompted other
banks to cancel planned funds.  The  MHAM China Growth Focus Fund (0831312B) , which starts Nov. 30,
will focus on industries that may benefit from railway, health-
care and financial reforms, Masahiko Ejiri, the fund’s
manager, said in an interview. Possible target stocks include 
 Citic Securities Co. (6030) , Sinopharm Group Co. and other drug firms, 
Ejiri said. Consumer and Internet companies including Tencent 
Holdings Ltd. and U.S.-listed Baidu Inc. also entice, he said.  The Communist Party started its 18th congress in Beijing
yesterday to choose new leaders, a decision that will shape the
nation’s economic and financial policies for the next decade.
Mizuho is bucking a trend that has seen Japanese companies such
as United Investments Co., Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co.
and SBI Asset Management Co. cancel  China  funds as a dispute
over an island chain soured relations between the nations.  “Fund performance isn’t really impacted by the tension
between Japan and China,” Ejiri said. “Our concern is whether
we can raise money because of Japanese investor sentiment
towards China. When demand for A-share funds comes back, there
won’t be many competitors providing the opportunity to
investors.”  Beijing Congress  China’s Communist Party delegates are meeting over several
days to choose a fifth generation of leaders since taking power
in 1949. Vice President Xi Jinping is expected to replace Hu
Jintao as general secretary of the 82 million-member party. Vice
Premier Li Keqiang is expected to take Premier Wen Jiabao’s spot
on the top Politburo Standing Committee, setting him up to
assume Wen’s job next March.  China’s new leaders are poised to inherit the weakest
economic expansion since 1999, with growth of 7.7 percent this
year, according to the  median estimate  of 45 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Mizuho’s fund will include Chinese companies listed in the
mainland, Hong Kong and other venues, as well as exchange-traded
funds denominated in yuan and Hong Kong dollars, Ejiri said.
Mizuho Asset oversees about $45 billion, including Hong Kong-
listed equities.  Gold, Airlines  Airlines and gold-related companies may also be added as a
short-term strategy betting on global liquidity, Ejiri said.
Hong Kong’s market has rallied the past two months as money
poured into the city following so-called quantitative easing by
global central banks including the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan .  Ejiri manages other funds including the MHAM Growing Asia
Stock Fund, which has beaten 69 percent of rivals year-to-date,
and MHAM Hokuto High Dividend Global Stock Open, which has
outperformed 70 percent of its peers, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Tensions between Asia’s two-biggest economies escalated in
September after Japan said it would nationalize islands claimed
by both nations. Nationwide protests in China led to attacks on
Japanese stores, restaurants and car dealerships.  United Investments canceled its China A-share fund that was
due to start Oct. 1 because the dispute exposed risks investing
in the nation, Chief Investment Officer Atsushi Inoue said.
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management scrapped its  China Dividend
Yield Equity Fund 2012-10 (15CS1210)  fund due to the “recent condition of
the market and Japan-China relations,” according to Yasuko
Kawase, from the company’s corporate strategy department. SBI
Asset Management Co. also halted its yuan-denominated fund.  Balanced View  “China’s government will take a much more balanced
approach toward Japan,” Ejiri said. “There are many more
negatives than positives if China becomes more hostile. The
government understands that. The new government will have a
long-term horizon.”  Mizuho is following other international asset managers
looking for opportunities in China, with Franklin Templeton
Investments setting up its first fund targeting mostly mainland
equities. China Universal Asset Management is seeking approval
to start a renminbi-denominated qualified foreign institutional
investor fund.  Traffic jams in major Chinese cities are getting worse, and
the nation needs to improve its public transportation, Ejiri
said. China plans to invest 2.3 trillion  yuan  ($365 billion) in
railway construction in the five years through 2015, the
Economic Information Daily reported on Oct. 9, without saying
where it got the information.  Medical Development  Larger pharmaceutical companies will benefit from demand
for higher-quality and more affordable medication as well as the
need for more clinics and hospitals in rural areas, Ejiri said.
Lower prices may hurt drugmakers in the short term, though
stronger players will win out as the government increasingly
relies on larger, better-managed companies, he said.  Measures of health care, consumer staples and financial
companies had the three  biggest gains  this year among the 10
industry groups in the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) , which includes 300 A-share
stocks listed on the Shanghai or Shenzhen bourses.  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 5.8 percent this year
through yesterday, while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) 
of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong rose 5.9 percent as
money poured in to the only venue in China where foreigners can
freely buy and sell shares of the country’s biggest companies.  “If China wants to have growth in the next 10 years it
needs to have reforms,” said Ejiri. “They understand that.
They will push harder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  