-- J.C. Penney Posts Wider-Than-Estimated Loss
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-11-09T22:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/j-c-penney-loss-is-wider-than-estimated-as-turnaround-falters.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  reported a third-
quarter loss that was larger than analysts estimated as Chief
Executive Officer  Ron Johnson  struggles to overhaul the fourth-
largest U.S. department-store company. The shares fell.  The net loss of $123 million, or 56 cents a share, in the
three months ended Oct. 27 compares with a loss of $143 million,
or 67 cents, a year earlier, the Plano, Texas-based company said
today in a statement. Excluding restructuring and management-
transition costs, the loss was 93 cents a share. The average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for a 7-cent loss.  Johnson, the former  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  retail chief who joined as
CEO last year, has lost customers as he transforms most J.C.
Penney stores into collections of branded shops and implements
an everyday low pricing strategy. J.C. Penney is “a tale of two
companies” with the old-style stores facing challenges as the
new shops post higher sales per square foot, Johnson said today.  “There were some positive data points on shop performance
but we are skeptical that these results can be replicated as the
company moves deeper into the transformation,” Jeff Stein, an
analyst at Northcoast Research in  Cleveland , wrote in a note
today, cutting his rating to sell from neutral. “Productivity
gains in the 10 shops are largely in familiar brands that appeal
to the legacy customer. It remains to be seen how the next 30
will perform as new brands are added,” he wrote.  J.C. Penney  fell  4.8 percent to $20.64 at the close in New
York, the lowest closing price since Aug. 2. The shares have
lost 41 percent this year, compared with gains at Macy’s Inc.,
 Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)   Bonds Downgraded  Standard & Poor’s  cut the company’s credit rating two
levels to B-, six steps below investment-grade. The firm left
J.C. Penney’s outlook as stable, saying that while its credit
metrics may weaken in the next few quarters, its liquidity will
remain adequate.  J.C. Penney’s 5.65 percent debt due in June 2020, among its
most actively traded today, tumbled. The securities fell 3.4
cents to 90 cents on the dollar to yield 7.4 percent at 9:59
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The retailer’s third-quarter  sales  fell 27 percent to $2.93
billion, trailing analysts’ average estimate of $3.27 billion.
Revenue declined by more than 20 percent in the first and second
quarters. Same-store sales fell 26 percent in the third quarter,
more than the 15 percent decline estimated by analysts surveyed
by researcher Retail Metrics Inc.  Margin Narrows  The company’s gross margin narrowed to 32.5 percent from
37.4 percent a year earlier, hurt by lower-than-expected sales
in the quarter and an increase in clearance merchandise sales.  J.C. Penney incurred $34 million in restructuring and
management transition charges in the quarter, according to the
statement.  In September, Johnson took 300 analysts on a tour of the
company’s 30,000-square-foot prototype in  Texas  to help
communicate his vision for turning J.C. Penney into a
“specialty department store.” He said at the time results at
the company’s boutiques, installed in almost 700 of its stores,
were beating comparable sales of other merchandise.  The retailer’s branded shops are proving to be more
productive on a sales-per-square foot basis, Johnson said today
on a conference call with analysts.  “If we can get a lift like that, you can imagine what will
happen to the business as we move into the back half of next
year, and that’s why we’re so excited about where we’re
headed,” he said.  Free Haircuts  J.C. Penney has worked to win back shoppers through offers
such as a $10 in-store coupon, 30 percent discounts off
clearance items, free children’s haircuts and free family
portraits. Traffic fell 12 percent in the quarter, which lacks a
shopping event such as Valentine’s Day or Christmas, Johnson
said.  “This is not a break in strategy,” Johnson said. “This
is leveraging an asset base that we have built up for years,
called a customer base to invite them back to the store. And I
think a $10 gift is an act of generosity like a free haircut.”  The company will add suggested retail prices to its
merchandise so customers can see how much they’re saving, and
will match discounts on national brands such as Jockey when they
are running sales, Johnson said. Discounted designer-wear chains
such as Nordstrom Rack and T.J. Maxx typically display original
retail prices at their stores.  The retailer was willing to let sales drop to establish a
new base for the evolving J.C. Penney, which may be the
“fastest-growing startup in retail history,” Johnson said.  Cash Balance  J.C. Penney plans to end the year with about $1 billion of
cash and has not drawn from its $1.5 billion line of credit,
Chief Financial Officer Ken Hannah said today. The retailer is
set to fund its transformation in the next 36 months, “without
compromising that liquidity position,” he said.  “The results that J.C. Penney reported today are
undeniably weak,” Brian Nagel, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.,
said today in a note. “JCP will require a lot of patience on
the part of investors. This chain continues to head towards
turnaround.”  Nagel rates the shares outperform, the equivalent of a buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  