-- Jane Street’s Reynolds Turns to Art With Trading Fortune
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-11-09T15:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/jane-street-s-reynolds-turns-to-art-with-trading-fortune.html
Tim Reynolds, who made his fortune
transforming mathematicians into traders at Jane Street Capital
LLC, has a new obsession: teaching poor students to master
photorealistic painting.  Reynolds  stepped aside  in September from the multibillion-
dollar-a-day arbitrage operation he co-founded in 2000. He’s
already donated more than $10 million to endow free art schools
in Anguilla, the Dominican Republic,  Pennsylvania ,  Sri Lanka  and
 Thailand , and he’s developing luxurious hotels nearby to bring
in potential collectors.  “It will change the art world in a way,” Reynolds, 46,
said in an interview last month on the porch of his waterfront
home in Middletown, New Jersey. “You’re going to see very
specific art movements come out of the schools and develop on
their own.”  Reynolds, a trim and intense man with black hair who gets
around in a wheelchair, said he thought artists were born with
their talents until about four years ago, when he learned from a
pair of historical novels that Vincent Van Gogh and Michelangelo
struggled to master their craft.  He started trying to teach himself to paint, squeezing in a
few hours of practice a week when he wasn’t at Jane Street’s
offices at the southern tip of  Manhattan . When progress came
slowly, he found an instructor who eventually led him to  Anthony
Waichulis , who was training students to advance from shading
charcoal to creating  photorealistic paintings  of marbles,
skulls, people and pets.  ‘Deeply Embedded’  “As I started to understand the methods and skills that
Anthony was teaching and the way he teaches them, it seemed
obvious to me that it was highly replicable,” Reynolds said in
the Oct. 26 interview.  The idea of spreading Waichulis’s techniques to poor people
around the world consumed Reynolds. He recruited the painter to
design the curriculum for a network of schools.  Reynolds, who declined to say how much money he’s made,
started his career selling industrial buildings in  Southern
California  after graduating from  Claremont McKenna College  with
a degree in economics. Before leaving to get an MBA at  Cornell
University , he took a few months to work as a bartender at a
Club Med resort in Turks & Caicos, where he met his wife,
Caroline, a French business student who was interning there.  “I thought a lot about coming back and building a
school,” he said. “It was something that was deeply embedded
in my mind.”  Ivy Quants  At Cornell, Reynolds was fascinated by classes he took in
arbitrage -- the art of making money by trading securities that
are temporarily mispriced. He was a floor trader at Susquehanna
International Group LLP in  New York  when he decided to start
Jane Street with three partners, whom he wouldn’t name.  The firm doesn’t manage money for investors, trade for
customers or bet on which stocks go up or down. Instead, Jane
Street recruits engineers and programmers from Ivy League
schools and teaches them to write computer programs that rapidly
buy and sell stocks, collecting pennies at a time.  “We were trying to find people who were brilliant
mathematicians and programmers and then give them an education
as to how to discover and execute arbitrage trades,” Reynolds
said. “It’s really, really hard.”  Reynolds wouldn’t say much about his work at Jane Street
saying the company has avoided publicity to make it more
difficult for competitors to figure out how it makes money. Jack
Johnson, the firm’s director of human resources, didn’t respond
to four phone messages after saying he’d speak on the company’s
behalf.  Ani Art  Jane Street, which employs about 300 people, accounts for
between 1 percent and 2 percent of all U.S. stock trades, moving
$4 billion to $8 billion of shares a day, Yaron Minsky, a
programmer for the firm, told students at Pittsburgh’s  Carnegie
Mellon University   in a talk posted  on the video-sharing website
Vimeo.  “The money that we use, the working capital for the firm,
basically comes from the people who manage the firm on a day-to-
day basis,” Minsky said.  Members’ equity, a measure of the firm’s assets less its
debts, at Jane Street’s broker-dealer subsidiary grew to $585
million last year from $18 million at the end of 2001, according
to filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  On Anguilla, an island in the eastern Caribbean, local
students are already practicing charcoal shading at one of
Reynolds’s schools, called the Ani Art Academies. The studio is
about 150 yards from an  Ani resort , where hedge-fund managers
and sports-team owners pay $42,000 a week to rent five-bedroom
glass villas perched on a cliff above the sea.  Vacation ‘Keepsake’  Reynolds opened another Ani academy in the hills above Rio
San Juan in the  Dominican Republic  last week. He said he’s found
“absolutely stunning” plots of land for resorts there and near
future schools in Sri Lanka and Thailand. Profits will help fund
the academies, and the villas will be decorated with student art
that’s for sale.  “People want to bring back a keepsake from a dream
vacation,” Reynolds said. “Now the $2,000 that goes to that
artist, that’s transformative and that’s one transaction.”  Students are given free materials and meals at the Ani
schools and Reynolds said he plans to provide food for their
families as well so they can concentrate on completing the
6,000-hour program.  “Over 10 years, we’re going to have several hundred great
artists coming out of a small community in a place that happens
to be an exotic tourist destination,” Reynolds said. “I
believe that’s going to start a virtuous cycle.”  ‘Pedestrian’ Art  Waichulis’s  curriculum  is methodical. Students start by
making lines that fade from black to white, then move on to
drawings of spheres and other shapes. Painting begins in the
third year of full-time study.  Sam Messer , associate dean of  Yale University ’s art school,
said the program imposes a European way of thinking about
painting and ignores regional traditions. Waichulis’s students
produce “pedestrian” work, he said.  “He can now take what he thinks is his idea of art and
bring it to the rest of the world? It’s offensive,” Messer
said. “A million people in the world know perfect grammar but
they can’t write anything of interest.”  Reynolds said students won’t be pushed to paint in a
certain style, though he says much contemporary abstract art is
a kind of con like “the emperor’s new clothes.”  “I’m just against lazy execution,” he said. “Anybody who
goes through this program, they leave with a full toolbox.”  Trompe L’Oeil  Many of the paintings done by Waichulis and his students
use a traditional technique called trompe l’oeil, French for
“deceives the eye,” according to Holly Hughes, who heads the
painting department at  Rhode Island School of Design  in
Providence. There are successful contemporary artists who paint
hyperrealistically, she said.  “Some people feel as though they have to defend it, but I
think it’s a perfectly valid thing,” Hughes said. “It’s one
among many languages of painting.”  Reynolds said he spent about 270 hours trying to draw
identical spheres before he let himself make a drawing of pool
balls with fuses and an egg on top. The picture, which he named
“Scrambled Eights and Bangers,” is in his dining room, where
the walls are covered with photorealistic paintings by his
friends and teachers.  Spinal Research  Reynolds has also given $8 million to fund research into
spinal injuries over the past several years. He was paralyzed in
2000 when the livery car taking him home from Jane Street’s
first Christmas party crashed into a barricade on the Pulaski
Skyway in  New Jersey . Reynolds said he returned to work within
three months.  He also made plans to open a school for disabled military
veterans in New Jersey or  Maryland  after a friend suggested it,
he said.  “If somebody lost their legs in Iraq or  Afghanistan , that
can be a pretty devastating thing,” Reynolds said. “Maybe they
feel like they don’t have any work they can do. It’s not true
but I know it’s kind of an overwhelming delivery of bad news.”  He now practices drawing for 10 or 12 hours two days a week
at Waichulis’s studio near Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. He’s only
made it about halfway through the curriculum, which two of his
three children are also studying.  Much of his time is spent hunting for potential sites for
resorts, negotiating real-estate deals and visiting his schools,
Reynolds said as he showed off architectural renderings for the
villas in Thailand, which will have a lotus-ringed swimming pool
and a meditation pagoda.  “I’m actually looking forward to getting old,” Reynolds
said. “When I’m old I get to see what happens and I can’t wait
to see what happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at   zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  