-- Japan Calls for Stronger U.S. Security Ties to Counter China
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-11-09T08:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/japan-calls-for-stronger-u-s-security-ties-to-counter-china.html
Japan  is seeking to boost its
security alliance with the U.S. in the midst of a territorial
dispute with  China  that the Obama administration is calling on
both sides to defuse.  “The situation in  East Asia  is not just about the Korean
Peninsula, but there is also the problem of China’s advance into
maritime activities,” Defense Minister Satoshi Morimoto told
reporters today in  Tokyo . “Taking into account the qualitative
changes in security risks, we have decided to begin looking at
how to improve the alliance.”  Vice Defense Minister Akihisa Nagashima is traveling to
 Washington  to discuss ties following President  Barack Obama ’s
re-election this week. Talks will include last month’s alleged
assault on a Japanese woman by U.S. servicemen in Okinawa as
well as the deployment of the V-22 Osprey aircraft to the island
over the objections of local residents, Morimoto said.  The spat over islands in the  East China Sea  has shaken a
$340 billion trade relationship and hurt Chinese sales of
Japanese carmakers such as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  The two sides
challenged each other’s claims to the chain, known as Senkaku in
Japan and Diaoyu in China, at an Asian summit these week,
undercutting diplomatic talks aimed at defusing tension.  Japan is the biggest U.S. ally in Asia and pays about 188
billion yen ($2.4 billion) a year to host 38,000 American
military personnel and their dependents as part of a 52-year
security treaty. More than 75 percent of the bases are on
Okinawa, about 950 miles (1,530 kilometers) south of Tokyo,
creating tensions over pollution, noise and crime.  Nissan’s Sales  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s decision to
purchase the islands from a private owner in September prompted
violent demonstrations in China. Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s top
seller of vehicles in China, on Nov. 6 cut its full-year net
income forecast 20 percent after the backlash hurt sales.  China has increased its dispatches of patrols to the area
around the islands, which are rich in fish, oil and natural gas.
Chinese vessels have been in or near waters administered by
Japan for 21 straight days, according to the Japanese Coast
Guard.  Chinese and Japanese officials this week concluded two days
of talks on the matter in at least the third diplomatic
engagement in the past month. China reiterated that it “won’t
cede even half a step on its sovereignty” over the chain,
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said Nov. 5 in Beijing.  The dispute has the potential to spin out of control into a
military face-off, according to a confidential report submitted
last week to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  by a delegation
of former U.S. officials. The U.S. has called on the two sides
to resolve the matter, saying that while it takes no position on
sovereignty, the islands fall under the U.S.-Japan mutual
treaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  