-- China Fund, VTB Capital Invest in Kerimov’s Uralkali
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-11-09T11:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/kerimov-said-seeking-china-s-cic-to-invest-in-uralkali.html
Billionaire Suleiman Kerimov and his
partners in  OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the largest potash producer, sold
bonds to  China ’s sovereign wealth fund and VTB Capital that can
be exchanged for shares valued at about $3.2 billion.  Chengdong Investment Corp., a unit of CIC International
Co., and Moscow-based VTB Capital bought bonds from the
shareholders that mature in 2014 and are exchangeable into a
14.5 percent stake in Uralkali, the fertilizer producer said
today in a statement. Uralkali had a market value of about $22
billion as of yesterday’s close.  CIC International can convert its investment into a 12.5
percent stake in Uralkali’s ordinary shares, the Chinese company
said today on its website.  Kerimov and his  partners  controlled as much as 55.3 percent
of Uralkali as of Aug. 13, Uralkali’s website shows. Kerimov’s
group bought into the company in 2010 and last year merged
Uralkali with OAO Silvinit, which at the time was  Russia ’s
biggest producer of potash, a potassium-based compound used to
strengthen plant roots and protect against drought.  Uralkali won’t be party to the transaction, and the bonds
won’t be listed, according to the statement.  Polyus Gold  CIC bought bonds from Wadge Holdings Ltd., owned by
billionaires Kerimov, Filaret Galtchev, Anatoly Skurov and
Zelimkhan Mutsoev, while VTB purchased notes exchangebale into a
2 percent stake controlled by Skurov, according to  data  on
Uralkali’s website. The only major shareholder group of Uralkali
not to participate in the deal was  Alexander Nesis , the data
show. Nesis is the Polymetal International Plc billionaire who
is selling stock in Nomos Bank.  A sale of the stake in the Berezniki-based potash producer
may help Kerimov and his partners repay some of the funds they
borrowed from VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest state bank, to
acquire their Uralkali holding,  Alexei Morozov , a UBS AG analyst
in Moscow, said by phone.  Alternatively, Kerimov and partners may use the funds to
bid for the 37.8 percent of Polyus Gold owned by billionaire
 Mikhail Prokhorov , Dmitriy Kolomytsyn, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in Moscow, said by phone. The stake has a value of $3.7
billion based on today’s share price.  Prokhorov’s Onexim Holdings Ltd. is considering the sale of
some or all of its Polyus Gold stake, the company said Sept. 12.
Kerimov’s Nafta Moskva holds 40.2 percent of Polyus.  Second Investment  The deal marks CIC’s second investment in a company where
Kerimov is a shareholder. In April, CIC agreed to buy 5 percent
of  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PGIL)  and VTB acquired 2.5 percent
in a combined $635.5 million deal.  It also marks the Chinese company’s expansion in Russia.
The two countries can do more to invest in Russian industries
excluding oil where demand will probably weaken due to efforts
to promote renewable energy and explore shale gas,  Jin Liqun ,
chairman of CIC’s supervisory board, said at VTB Capital’s
Russia Calling investment forum last month.  CIC last year agreed to invest $1 billion along with the
Russian Direct Investment Fund in a Russia-China fund for
Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus with an initial focus on
agriculture, consumer products and green energy, rather than
natural resources.  Kerimov and his partners are seeking to bring in China’s
sovereign wealth fund as an investor, three people familiar with
the matter said earlier today. Uralkali fell 1.4 percent to
234.98 by 2:38 p.m. in Moscow, reversing gains of as much as 1.7
percent. The Micex Index declined 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  