-- King Awaits Scrutiny on QE Halt as U.K. Relapse Risk Lingers
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-09T08:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/king-awaits-scrutiny-on-qe-halt-as-u-k-relapse-danger-lingers.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
is preparing for tough questions on why policy makers halted its
bond-purchase program at a time when the economy’s recovery
isn’t yet assured.  King will face a hard time explaining why the central bank
doesn’t plan to buy more gilts to stimulate growth as Britain
tries to shake off a recession, said economists including Jens Larsen at  RBC Capital Markets  and Rob Wood at Berenberg Bank,
both former BOE officials. He will brief journalists on Nov. 14
and testify to lawmakers in the coming weeks.  While Britain’s economy emerged from recession in the third
quarter, the recovery remains under threat from the continued
crisis in the euro area, the U.K.’s biggest trading partner, and
cooling global growth. Against that backdrop, as well as the
pressure from the government’s fiscal squeeze, King will have to
explain why the MPC pulled the plug on what has been its main
policy tool since 2009.  “They are facing a significant communications challenge
here,” Larsen said in a telephone interview. “It will be
difficult combining what may be a weaker outlook with trying to
explain why they chose to halt QE.”  The Monetary Policy Committee said that it doesn’t plan to
buy any more bonds beyond the 375 billion pounds ($599 billion)
already purchased, concluding a third round of  quantitative
easing . Economists at Nomura International Plc and Barclays Plc
said the move was likely to have split the nine-member MPC. The
central bank will publish the minutes of the two-day meeting,
showing how the committee voted, on Nov. 21.  Inflation Concerns  The decision followed comments from BOE Deputy Governors
 Charles Bean  and  Paul Tucker  that QE may not have the same
impact as it did when it was introduced in 2009. It also
suggests the bank may focus more on credit-boosting measures
such as the Funding for Lending Scheme to ignite growth.  At the same time, increased inflationary pressures may also
have prompted policy makers to hold fire.  The Bank of England forecast in August that  inflation  would
slow to below its 2 percent target by the end of next year.
Recent energy-price increases have boosted the near-term outlook
for inflation and the central bank may raise its forecasts next
week. Still, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc says the
projections will still imply a bias toward loosening.  King’s Defense  King will deliver an opening statement and then take
questions at the press conference, when the bank will publish
its quarterly  Inflation Report . He may point to falling bank
funding costs, limits to monetary policy and inflation pressures
as justification for the MPC’s decision, according to
Berenberg’s Wood.  “It would be hard to say they held because the recovery is
gaining traction,” said Wood, who worked at the  Bank of England 
until earlier this year. “I don’t expect the medium-term
inflation forecast to move up dramatically, just a bit nearer
the target. They will leave the door open to QE.”  The pound headed for a second weekly decline against the
dollar, falling 0.1 percent to $1.5982 as of 8:26 a.m. in
 London .  Government bonds  rose, with the yield on the benchmark
10-year gilt dropping 3 basis points to 1.74 percent.  King will also be called to appear before Parliament’s
 Treasury Select Committee , which scrutinizes the central bank.
He and other MPC members will take questions from the cross-
party panel of lawmakers on the Inflation Report and the outlook
for policy.  Credit Program  Even with QE halted, the Bank of  England  still has the
Funding for Lending Scheme, which it set up with the U.K.
Treasury and is aimed at boosting lending.  The FLS began in August and as of last month, 30 financial
institutions had signed up, including Lloyds Banking Group Plc
and Barclays Plc. The central bank will publish data on usage of
the program by lenders on Dec. 3.  “I think credit easing is likely to have to bear more of
the weight of applying policy,” Berenberg’s Wood said. “But QE
will remain part of the bank’s toolkit and I think it would be
rolled out in situations where the bank needed to do something
really big.”  U.K.  manufacturing data  published this week showed output
barely grew in September, indicating the economy’s rebound lost
some momentum at the end of the third quarter. Separate services
and factory surveys signaled cooling activity in October.  “Everything is pointing to a weak fourth quarter,” said
Chris Scicluna, head of economic research at Daiwa Capital
Markets  Europe  and a former U.K. Treasury official. “We see
them doing more QE in February. If we saw data suggesting growth
was going to be firmer than that, we would suggest they hold
back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  