-- Natural Gas Futures Slide on Forecasts of Milder U.S. Weather
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-11-09T20:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/natural-gas-futures-slide-on-forecasts-of-milder-u-s-weather.html
Natural gas futures dropped in  New
York , capping a weekly decline, as forecasts showed warmer-than-
normal weather that may reduce demand for the heating fuel.  Gas slipped 2.9 percent after Commodity Weather Group LLC
in Bethesda,  Maryland , predicted normal or above-normal
temperatures across most of the continental U.S. from Nov. 14
through Nov. 23. Inventories of the fuel climbed to a record
3.929 trillion cubic feet last week, according to an Energy
Department report yesterday.  “We have some mild weather headed our way,” said Brad Florer, a trader at Kottke Associates LLC in Louisville,
 Kentucky . “The overall storage situation is going to keep the
upside limited. It’s a bearish weight on the market.”  Natural gas for December delivery fell 10.5 cents to settle
at $3.503 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The futures dropped 1.4 percent this week
and are down 4.1 percent from a year ago. Gas rose to $3.82 per
million Btu in intraday trading on Oct. 30, the highest price
since Nov. 4, 2011.  December $3.25 puts were the most active gas options in
electronic trading. They were 0.8 cent higher at 1.9 cents on
volume of 1,276 contracts as of 3:42 p.m. Puts accounted for 39
percent of options volume.  Stockpiles were 6.6 percent above the five-year average in
the week ended Nov. 2, yesterday’s report showed. The  surplus 
has declined from a six-year high of 61 percent in March.  The low in  Chicago  on Nov. 19 may be 39 degrees Fahrenheit
(4 Celsius), 6 above normal, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania . The low in New York may be 41
degrees, matching the usual reading.  Mild Weather  Heating demand in the U.S. may be 2 percent below normal
from Nov. 15 through Nov. 19, according to Weather Derivatives
in Belton,  Missouri . About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas
for heating, according to the Energy Department.  “Between the warmth and the all-time high amount of supply
the market is seeing right now, that would explain the
persistent bearish sentiment,” Alan Lammey, an energy analyst
at WeatherBell Analytics LLC in Houston, said in an e-mail
today.  A lack of Pacific Ocean warming and of blocking patterns in
the Atlantic will probably mean warmer-than-normal weather in
the eastern U.S. for the next three months,  Todd Crawford , chief
meteorologist at WSI, said in an Oct. 22 seasonal forecast.  Temperatures in the East may be about 2 degrees Fahrenheit
(1 Celsius) above normal from November through January, while
the Northwest cools, Crawford said.  El Nino  The U.S. Climate Prediction Center has dropped its El Nino
watch, signaling that warming in the Pacific isn’t expected
through the next four months. The warming has been blamed for
wetter winters in the southern U.S. and milder weather in some
northern states.  Last winter was the fourth-warmest on record in the
contiguous 48 states, according to the center in Asheville,
 North Carolina . The lack of cold helped send natural gas futures
to a 10-year low in April.  Marketed gas production will average a record 68.84 billion
cubic feet a day this year, up 4 percent from 2011, the
department said Nov. 6 in its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook.
The forecast for total gas consumption fell to 69.75 billion
cubic feet a day from 69.76 billion predicted a month earlier.  The number of rigs drilling for gas in the U.S. dropped by
11 to 413 in a weekly report released today by Baker Hughes Inc.
in Houston. The total has tumbled 49 percent this year.  Gas Production  “EIA expects that growth in associated gas from crude oil,
as well as continued drilling in liquids-rich areas, will help
offset the decline in drilling activity,” the Energy
Department’s Energy Information Administration said in the
Short-Term Energy Outlook.  The boom in oil and natural gas production helped the U.S.
cut its reliance on imported fuel. America met 83 percent of its
energy needs in the first six months of the year, department
data show. If the trend goes on through 2012, it will be the
highest level of self-sufficiency since 1991.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
247,046 as of 2:37 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 371,000. Volume was 303,552 yesterday. Open interest was 1.17
million contracts. The three-month average is 1.13 million.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting full
volume and open interest data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  