-- Natural Gas May Fall on Mild-Weather Outlook, Survey Shows
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-11-09T20:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/natural-gas-may-fall-on-forecasts-for-mild-weather-survey-shows.html
Natural gas futures may decline next
week as temperatures rise following a nor’easter this week,
crimping demand for heating fuels, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Eight of 13 analysts, or 62 percent, forecast that futures
will fall on the New York Mercantile Exchange through Nov. 16.
Three, or 23 percent, said gas will rise and two said prices
will stay the same. Last week, 53 percent of participants said
gas would drop this week.  Temperatures in the northern half of the U.S. will be above
normal from Nov. 14 through Nov. 22, following freezing weather
and snow in some regions this week, according to the National
Weather Service. Gas  inventories  typically start to decline in
November as demand for heating fuels picks up.  “It’s been very cold this week and next week is going to
be exceptionally warm,” said  Chris Kostas , senior power and gas
analyst for Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Andover,
 Massachusetts . “The Thanksgiving week report could very easily
show an injection. The short-term trend is down.”  Natural gas for December delivery dropped 5.1 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $3.503 per million British thermal units this week
in New York. The futures are up 17 percent this year.  The low in New York City on Nov. 20 may be 50 degrees
Fahrenheit (10 Celsius), 10 above the usual reading, according
to AccuWeather Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania .  Chicago ’s
low may be 10 above normal at 42 degrees.  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Department.  Record Stockpiles  U.S.  gas stockpiles  expanded last week by 21 billion cubic
feet to 3.929 trillion cubic feet, an all-time high based on
data going back to 1993, the Energy Department reported
yesterday. A supply  surplus  to the five-year average fell to 6.6
percent from 7.1 percent the previous week.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 49 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  3      8      2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  