-- NBA’s Lakers Fire Coach Mike Brown With Star-Laden Team 1-4
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-09T20:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/nba-s-lakers-fire-coach-mike-brown-with-star-laden-team-at-1-4.html
The  Los Angeles  Lakers fired coach
 Mike Brown  after the team with the  National Basketball
Association ’s highest payroll posted just one win in its first
five games.  He’ll be replaced on an interim basis by assistant Bernie Bickerstaff in what is the quickest coaching change in team
history. Del Harris was let go 12 games into the lockout-
shortened 1999 season.  The search for a replacement will begin immediately,
General Manager Mitch Kupchak said in a statement.  “This was a difficult and painful decision to make,”
Kupchak said. “Mike was very hard-working and dedicated, but we
felt it was in the best interest of the team to make a change at
this time.”  The move comes less than 48 hours after Lakers Executive
Vice President Jim Buss gave Brown, in his second season with
the team, a vote of confidence following the latest loss.  The club traded for former Most Valuable Player  Steve Nash 
and three-time Defensive Player of the Year Dwight Howard in the
offseason.  Kobe Bryant , the Lakers’ leading scorer, urged fans
this week to be patient with the revamped roster.  The Lakers, the only team with a payroll topping $100
million, are last in the Pacific Division heading into tonight’s
game against the  Golden State Warriors  that kicks off a six-game
homestand.  Brown was hired as the replacement for  Phil Jackson , who
led the franchise to five championships. The Lakers went 41-25
in Brown’s first season, losing to the Oklahoma City Thunder in
the Western Conference semifinals. The coach signed a four-year
contract worth about $18 million when he joined the franchise.  Injured Newcomers  Nash, 38, hasn’t played since breaking a bone in his leg
during the second game of the season. Howard, who is averaging
22.4 points, 9.6 rebounds and 2.4 blocks, has said he’s still
recovering from offseason back surgery that forced him to
withdraw from the London Olympics.  The acquisition of Nash suggests the Lakers are committed
to fielding a winning team now while Bryant is still an elite
player. Much like baseball’s  New York Yankees , the Lakers are a
premier brand whose business interests are driven by a winning
team and star power.  Armed with a $3 billion television contract with  Time
Warner (TWC)  Cable, the Lakers are the centerpiece of two regional
sports networks, one English language and the other Spanish.  According to the Orange County Register, Brown’s son,
Elijah, who plays basketball at Mater Dei High School in Los
Angeles, received death threats via Twitter after the Lakers
fourth loss of the year. Brown, 42, previously spent five
seasons coaching  LeBron James  and the Cleveland Cavaliers,
reaching the 2007 NBA Finals.  Different Offense  Brown implemented the so-called Princeton offense with the
Lakers, who under Jackson became known for running what’s called
the triangle. Brown had said the Princeton offense, which
optimizes ball movement, player screening and cuts to the
basket, would alleviate some of the burden placed on the 34-
year-old Bryant, a 17-year veteran who has a nagging foot
injury.  Bickerstaff’s 30-plus-year NBA career includes both
coaching and front-office positions. Most recently, the 68-year-
old was coach and general manager of the  Charlotte  Bobcats from
2004 to 2007. He also coached in Seattle, Denver and Washington,
and has a 415-517 record.  Possible replacements include Jackson;  Mike D’Antoni , who
coached Nash in Phoenix; former Lakers assistant Brian Shaw;
former Portland Trail Blazers coach Nate McMillan; former Utah
Jazz coach Jerry Sloan; and Lakers assistant Steve Clifford.  The Lakers opened the season with 11-4 odds to win their
17th title, second to James’s Miami Heat, according to the
online sports book Bovada.lv. They’re now 4-1, still second to
Miami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  