-- N.J. Sues Gas Stations, Hotel for Post-Sandy Gouging
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-11-09T16:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/new-jersey-plans-price-gouging-suits-against-8-businesses.html
New Jersey accused seven filling
stations and a hotel of gouging customers during the state of
emergency after  Hurricane Sandy  by raising prices as much as
59 percent.  The state sued two gas stations in  Newark , as well as
stations in Paterson, Clifton, Bloomfield and Perth Amboy, New
Jersey Attorney General Jeffrey Chiesa said today at a news
conference in Newark. Also sued was a Howard Johnson Express in
Parsippany owned by Ratan Hospitality Group LLC.  The storm last week killed more than 100 people, triggered
an almost 14-foot tidal surge, displaced thousands and knocked
out power to millions. It crippled mass transit and interrupted
supplies of gasoline.  “We warned merchants again and again not to violate the
law by taking advantage of people following this catastrophe,”
Chiesa said. “The fact that we have these fringe businesses
that think that disasters are a profit center is troubling.”  A Lukoil gas station in Paterson owned by Kistruga Inc.
raised prices from $3.45 to $5.50 a gallon, according to Chiesa.
The station made 230 sales at the highest price on Nov. 1, he
said.  New Jersey law defines price gouging as an “excessive
price increase,” or of 10 percent or more, during a declared
state of emergency.  Consumer Affairs  The state Division of Consumer Affairs got 2,000 complaints
about price gouging for gasoline, generators, food and lodging,
according to Chiesa. About 83 percent involved gas stations, he
said. About 4 percent of the state’s 2,400 gas retailers were
subject to subpoenas.  Businesses sued by the state face penalties of $10,000 for
a first offense and $20,000 for a second offense, he said.  Authorities in New York are also investigating complaints
of price gouging, mostly about gasoline prices. There have also
been reports of merchants’ charging $7 for a loaf of bread and
$10 for a box of matches, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office said Nov. 5.  Brooklyn , New York, District
Attorney Charles Hynes yesterday said he had empaneled a special
grand jury to probe gouging reports.  New York law prohibits selling goods or services for an
“unconscionably excessive price” during “abnormal disruption
of the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  