-- New York Gasoline Rationing Cuts Lines as Transit Expands
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n ,   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-09T18:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/new-york-to-begin-gas-rationing-as-storm-delays-recovery.html
Gasoline rationing came to  New York 
City and Long Island, reducing lines at filling stations, and
commuting options expanded as the region worked to recover from
the damage caused by superstorm Sandy and a snowy nor’easter.  The city and Nassau and Suffolk counties today joined  New
Jersey  in an odd-even system for fueling based on license plate
numbers. To aid commuters who use northern New Jersey train
lines that remain out of service, the state is offering free
shuttle buses to the Weehawken Ferry Terminal for trips to
 Manhattan , Governor  Chris Christie  said.  Gasoline is available to drivers with license-plate numbers
ending in an odd number or a letter today. Those with plates
ending in an even number or zero can buy fuel tomorrow. Lines
were shorter after the system took effect.  “Rationing is making it better,” said John Berroa, 22, a
security guard who was helping direct traffic around the Hess
filling station at 44th Street and 10th Avenue in Manhattan.
“It’s been gradually improving since the hurricane.”  The rationing “seems to be helping a little,” Cesar
Rivera, 39, said at the 44th Street Hess station.  Rivera, who works for a car-rental company, said he waited
20 minutes today to fill up 10 gallons worth of red portable
containers as well as the 35-gallon tank of his white Ford E-350
van. He said his longest wait was seven hours on Nov. 2 when
cars were backed up to 28th Street.  Two Hours  The wait for gasoline was more than two hours at the Hess
station on 4th Avenue and Union Street in  Brooklyn  this morning
as the line stretched for 12 blocks.  For Jean Celestine, 52, of Park Slope, it was an
improvement. He waited 3.5 hours earlier in the week at the same
station.  “The line is shorter, trust me,” he said as he filled his
Toyota sport-utility vehicle that had a license plate ending in
1. The system “is working,” he said. “If people aren’t seeing
it work now, they are going to see it work in the future.”  The Nov. 7 nor’easter hit the region nine days after Sandy
triggered an almost 14-foot tidal surge as it slammed into the
East Coast. The superstorm displaced thousands of residents,
crippled mass transit, knocked out power to more than 8.5
million customers in 21 states and killed more than 100,
including 42 in  New York City .  Families Struggling  About 28 percent of retail-fuel stations in the New York
metropolitan area have no gasoline for sale, the Energy
Department estimated yesterday. Seven terminals in New York and
New Jersey remained shut as of 8 a.m. today because of the
storm, the department reported. Two New Jersey refineries with a
combined capacity of 308,000 barrels a day are idled.  The snowstorm caused more than 92,000 homes and businesses
to lose power in New York, New Jersey and  Connecticut , the U.S.
Energy Department said. Crews resumed repairs after high winds
abated, said  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , the New York utility.  “I know how hard it is for these families that are
struggling,” Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said yesterday at a news
briefing in Manhattan. “I’ve been out there every day. It has
been long. It has been hard.”  Cuomo said damage and economic losses to  New York state  may
total $33 billion, which he called a “staggering number.” The
costs may widen the already $1 billion budget gap the state is
facing, he said.  Damaged Homes  As of this morning, 492,080 homes and businesses mostly in
New York and New Jersey had no power, according to the  Energy
Department .  Less than 1,000 New York City homes have been completely
ruined, most of them in coastal communities of the Rockaways in
Queens and the beaches of Brooklyn, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said
today during his weekly WOR radio show. Another 70,000 to 80,000
homes had some water damage, with flooded basements that in many
instances destroyed electrical panels and heating systems, he
said.  “The great American dream was to live on the beach and
these people have worked hard all their lives to accomplish
that,” said the mayor, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  As many as 30,000 of those in damaged homes may need
temporary housing as cold weather makes their places unlivable,
Bloomberg said. About half of city residents without power live
in public housing and should get service restored by tomorrow,
with heat returning by early next week, he said.  “That’s a group that we did have to worry about that we
now don’t have to worry about,” except for one or two
buildings, with a relatively small number of people for whom the
city can find new housing, he said.  Back to Normal  Most schools were open yesterday as New Jersey and New York
City struggled to return to normal.  The Queens Midtown Tunnel reopened today to auto traffic
after being flooded by Sandy. The Hugh L. Carey Tunnel, formerly
the Brooklyn-Battery, is the only major crossing that remains
shut. New York City’s L subway line running along Manhattan’s
14th Street into Brooklyn resumed operations for the first time
since Sandy flooded it, the  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority  said.  Beginning Nov. 12, a temporary ferry service will run
between the Rockaways and Manhattan during morning and evening
rush hours, Bloomberg said today. Fares will be $2 each way.  Governor Relieved  Christie said he was relieved that coastal areas devastated
by Sandy escaped severe damage from the winter storm.  “It could have been a lot worse,” Christie told reporters
yesterday at a news briefing in Somerset.  Christie, who imposed gasoline rationing in 12 New Jersey
counties on Nov. 2, said yesterday that the order is working to
relieve lines and he may lift it by next week.  The  attorneys general  in New York and New Jersey have been
investigating complaints from consumers about gouging for
gasoline, food and generators following Sandy. New Jersey today
sued seven filling stations and a hotel for raising prices as
much as 59 percent during a state of emergency.  Gasoline Prices  Pump  prices  in the area are rising, defying a nationwide
decline, according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring
organization. Gasoline in New Jersey rose 0.4 cent yesterday to
$3.649 a gallon, in New York City gained 1 cent to $4.146 and on
 Long Island  increased 2 cents to $4.144. Across the country,
prices slipped 0.8 cent to $3.456.  For Willy Johnson, 45, of Queens, the most stressful part
of the storm aftermath has been searching for gasoline.  Johnson has been on the hunt this week to fill up his van
for his job delivering the Metro newspaper in Brooklyn. He
became so desperate earlier this week after his van ran out, he
rented another van because it came with a full tank of gas. That
backfired because when it came time to return it, he couldn’t
find an open station to refill it and had to pay a fee.  “I wake up every day thinking about where I’m going to
find gas,” Johnson said as he stood in line with two red gas
cans at the Hess in Brooklyn. “I drove around and there are
lines everywhere. I’m frustrated. I think everybody is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  