-- Norway Proposes to Raise $17 Billion in 2013 Long-Term Loans
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-11-09T12:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/norway-proposes-to-raise-17-billion-in-long-term-loans-in-2013.html
Norway ’s Finance Ministry plans to
boost its sale of government bonds next year as the world’s
fourth-richest country per capita raises spending of its oil
wealth and an economic expansion slows.  The ministry requested authorization to raise 100 billion
kroner ($17 billion) in long-term domestic loans next year, it
said in a statement on its website. This compares with 70
billion kroner this year. The maximum outstanding amount of
treasury bills in 2013 is proposed at 250 billion kroner.  Norway is increasing bond sales as the AAA rated nation has
emerged as a haven from Europe’s debt crisis. The government has
proposed boosting spending of its oil wealth next year to
support mainland economic growth, which is estimated to slow to
2.9 percent from 3.7 percent this year.  “There will be great demand from international
investors,” Nils Kristian Knudsen, a rate and currency
strategist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in Oslo, said by phone.
“Especially due to the strong economic performance in Norway
and the relative worsening situation in the euro zone, this
should be a good investment going forward.”  Yields Rise  Norway, which is  Europe ’s second largest oil and gas
exporter, boasts the biggest budget surplus of any AAA rated
nation. The nation, which is not a member of the European Union,
has largely been shielded from the financial crisis thanks to
record offshore investments.  Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil and gas
revenue, will grow 3.75 percent this year, according to central
bank estimates. This compares with an expected 0.4 percent
contraction, according to the European Commission.  The yield on Norway’s benchmark 10-year bond rose four
points to 2.06 percent by 1:30 p.m. in Oslo.  The increased bond sales “should be positive for the
Norwegian krone,” Knudsen said. “We often hear that investors
are telling us the market is too small, so everything that works
in the opposite direction should be well received.”  The krone was little changed at 7.3006 against the euro by
12:22 p.m. in Oslo after reaching a two-month high earlier
today. The currency, which has offered refuge to investors
fleeing Europe’s debt woes, hit a nine-year high versus the euro
in August. It fell 0.3 percent versus the dollar at 5.7388.  The Finance Ministry and the central bank will publish a
2013 auction calendar in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  