-- Novo Aims for Tresiba U.S. Approval in First Half of 2013
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-11-09T17:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/novo-aims-for-tesiba-u-s-approval-in-first-half-of-2013.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  is targeting U.S.
approval of its experimental diabetes medicine Tresiba in the
first half of next year after obtaining the backing of an
advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration, said Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen, Novo’s chief scientific officer.  Heart risks with the medicine, also known as insulin
degludec, probably aren’t enough of a concern to block its
approval, a majority of the FDA advisers said yesterday. Novo
Nordisk shares posted their biggest gain in two years today.  “For sure we will target working with the agency in such a
way that we can get the approval in the first half next year,”
Thomsen said in a telephone interview today from Novo’s
headquarters in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark . The FDA hasn’t informed Novo
of a date it expects to complete the Tresiba review, he said.  Novo, the world’s largest insulin maker, provided
sufficient efficacy and safety data to support marketing
degludec for use alone or in combination with an insulin boost
for blood-sugar control during meals, the panel voted 8-4
yesterday. It voted 12-0 that the company should conduct a trial
to examine the cardiovascular safety of degludec, which may have
higher heart risks than other diabetes treatments. The FDA isn’t
required to follow the panel’s advice.  Stock Rises  Novo shares  jumped  7.3 percent to 928 kroner, their
steepest increase since Oct. 20, 2010, in Copenhagen trading
today. The stock has risen 41 percent this year.  “Even with a positive recommendation, the commercial
outlook for degludec is probably meaningfully impaired,” Tim Anderson, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York,
wrote in a report to clients after the panel meeting ended.
“The panel vote was mixed, with some panelists feeling that
degludec’s benefit” outweighed “risk, but others feeling the
opposite.”  Novo needs Tresiba to help bridge a gap with  France ’s
 Sanofi (SAN) , whose best-selling Lantus insulin last year generated
3.92 billion euros ($5 billion) in revenue. Tresiba has been
approved for sale in  Japan  and won the backing of a European
Union advisory panel on Oct. 19.  Tresiba’s potential won’t “by any means” be affected by
yesterday’s FDA panel discussion, Thomsen said in the interview.  Victoza’s Tests  Novo is still conducting a post-approval cardiovascular
outcomes study for another of its diabetes treatments, Victoza,
“and it’s not impacting the way that anybody is seeing this
product,” Thomsen said. Victoza is Novo’s biggest growth engine
today.  Tresiba is a “safe” medicine, and “it is natural that we
commit to do post-marketing studies based on recommendations
from the FDA and their advisory committee,” he said.  Diabetes, caused by the body’s inability to sufficiently
produce the insulin needed to convert blood sugar into energy,
affects almost 26 million Americans, or 8 percent of the U.S.
population, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Diabetes treatments have come under closer scrutiny
since sales of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Avandia were restricted
because of increased heart attack risk.  ‘Concerning Signal’  “We have a concerning signal, but it’s not of a degree
that we insist that this drug be abandoned and not be approved,
but it’s of sufficient degree that we insist more patients be
looked at,” said Ed Hendricks, a panelist and medical director
at the Center for Weight Management in Roseville,  California .  Novo proposed conducting a trial to assess the
cardiovascular risk of Tresiba after approval. The study would
include 7,500 patients and last five years. The panel didn’t
vote on whether the tests should take place before or after the
drug is allowed on the market.  “It is usually impractical to require long-term definitive
studies prior to approval,” said Kenneth Burman, acting panel
chairman and chief of the endocrine section at Washington
Hospital Center.  U.S. regulators earlier this year extended Tresiba’s review
period. The FDA originally planned to make a decision on the
medicine by July 29. It postponed the date to Oct. 29, before
deciding for a Nov. 8 advisory panel. Novo isn’t expecting
another so-called FDA action date for Tresiba, Thomsen said.  The agency probably will delay approval of the insulin by a
further six to 12 months, given the issues raised by the panel,
 Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in  Boston ,
said in note to clients.  “It was a vivid, constructive debate,” Thomsen said about
the panel meeting. “This is how the  FDA  advisory committee
works. They are mandated to stress-test” the benefits and risks
of new products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  