-- Obama’s Next Transportation Chief Faces Highway-Funding Quandary
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/obama-s-next-transportation-chief-faces-highway-funding-quandary.html
The next U.S. Transportation
secretary -- whether it’s Ray LaHood or someone else -- will
confront a highway system starved for cash and financed by a
gasoline tax almost no one wants to raise.  How President  Barack Obama  and his DOT leader respond may
set U.S. transportation’s course for decades. Besides shoring up
highways and transit systems vital to the economy, the
president’s second term may provide another chance for him to
push his vision for high-speed passenger rail, which was stalled
by Congress’s refusal to keep paying for it.  Talks between the White House and Congress to avoid Dec.
31’s so-called fiscal cliff, when some tax cuts expire and
automatic spending reductions are set to kick in, won’t have
transportation as a main focus. Yet the last two gasoline-tax
increases, in 1990 and 1993, only happened because of deficit-
reduction deals, said Mort Downey, a former deputy
transportation secretary who’s a senior adviser at Parsons
Brinckerhoff Inc.  “They have a considerable opportunity to make a mark on
transportation,” Downey said. “If they are serious about
wanting to do something, it’s an environment in which it’s
easier.”  Whether LaHood stays as secretary to lead the effort is an
open question. During the past year, the former Republican
congressman has suggested that he’d be open to staying if asked
by Obama, a Democrat and fellow Illinois resident. LaHood’s also
said he may leave.  Raising Money  Congress and Obama’s administration in June reached a two-
year deal on roads and transit. Instead of raising the U.S.
gasoline tax, the largest source of revenue for road, bridge and
transit spending, the legislation used $18.8 billion in general
taxpayer money, on top of fuel taxes, to keep spending at
current levels -- about $52 billion a year -- through fiscal
2014.  Obama spent part of this year’s presidential campaign
talking about the need to do “nation-building here at home”
after spending years and billions of dollars on the wars in Iraq
and  Afghanistan . Last year, he proposed a six-year, $556 billion
transportation plan.  The president hasn’t specified ways to pay for the plan.
LaHood killed a 2009 proposal by Minnesota Democrat James Oberstar, then chairman of the House transportation committee,
to raise the 18.4 cents-a-gallon federal gasoline tax, which has
been the main source for highway, bridge and transit expansions
since  Ronald Reagan ’s presidency.  Future Financing  Then LaHood was “blown out of the water” by then-White
House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  for suggesting a willingness to
consider a tax based on the number of miles driven instead of
the amount of fuel purchased, said Emil Frankel, visiting
scholar with the  Bipartisan Policy Center , a Washington-based
research group.  “The president will try to find some sort of funding to
finance some increase in investment,” Frankel said. “I don’t
see any indication the president is prepared to propose a
federal gas-tax increase.”  The White House left it to Congress to work out most of the
details on this year’s transportation law, known as Moving Ahead
for Progress for the 21st Century, or MAP-21. Congress left
long-term financing issues unresolved, meaning the $18.8 billion
shortfall in that two-year plan will probably get bigger as the
economy lags and fuel sales fall, with vehicles getting more
efficient.  Funding Bridge  Unlike many business and construction groups, which favor
taxes or user fees that make transportation self-financing, the
Obama administration seems comfortable using general tax money,
said Joshua Schank, president and chief executive officer of the
 Eno Center for Transportation , a Washington research institute.  “They are committed to the idea of increased
infrastructure investment,” Schank said. “They are not hung up
on how the money gets there.”  The National Surface Transportation Infrastructure
Financing Commission , established by Congress in 2005 to solve
the gasoline-tax issue, identified 15 viable alternatives,
including taxes on car tires and truck trailers or tariffs on
imported oil, said Janet Kavinoky of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, which has supported raising the gasoline levy despite
its aversion to higher taxes in general.  Most of those options would work best as long-term
solutions, after an increase in the gasoline tax provides a
bridge for the next several years, said Kavinoky, the largest
U.S. business lobbying group’s executive director of
transportation and infrastructure.  “We need to have the conversation now about what we’re
going to do for sustainable, reliable growing revenue for
highways and transit,” Kavinoky said.  Building Support  Part of the job entails building public support for any
spending increase, said Marcia Hale, president of  Building
America’s Future , a non-profit group founded by former
 California  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , former Pennsylvania
Governor Edward Rendell and  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  The superstorm Sandy focused attention on essential
systems, with Bloomberg, New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and New
Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  all speaking about the need to
rebuild, Hale said.  “We need to help people understand what’s at stake here,”
Hale said. “If you do the right type of organizing, people will
come around on it.”  LaHood’s tenure has also included advocacy for increased
development of high-speed rail, which has been called a waste of
money by opponents of the 2009 economic-stimulus plan.
Republican governors in Wisconsin, Ohio and  Florida  gave back
stimulus grants they received for high-speed rail development.  Showcase Projects  Obama has continued to express support, however. High-speed
rail plans may be scaled back from a nationwide system to one or
two showcase projects, such as in California or the Northeast,
to show what can be done and boost public interest, Hale said.  If LaHood leaves, Rendell, the former Pennsylvania
governor, and Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa , an
advocate for California’s high-speed rail project, may be
potential replacements, Kavinoky said. Possible candidates now
in the federal government may include  Deborah Hersman , chairman
of the  National Transportation Safety Board , and Peter Rogoff,
head of the Federal Transit Administration, Schank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  