-- Obama’s Victory Creates New Chance to Mold U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/obama-s-victory-creates-new-chance-to-mold-u-s-supreme-court.html
Barack Obama , already the first
president to appoint two female justices, may have a chance to
name a third during his second term in office and deepen his
imprint on the U.S.  Supreme Court .  With four justices 74 or older, actuarial tables alone
suggest Obama will have another vacancy or two to fill before he
leaves the White House in January, 2017. The oldest of the
court’s nine members, 79-year-old  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , has
indicated she might retire in the next few years.  Names of possible successors are already circulating in
Democratic circles. California Attorney General  Kamala Harris ,
U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, Assistant U.S. Attorney
General Virginia Seitz and Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan are high on the lists. Obama would almost certainly
choose a woman to succeed Ginsburg, ensuring the court continues
to have three female justices, said Amy Howe, a lawyer at
Goldstein & Russell PC.  “If Ginsburg retired, I think it’d be hard to replace her
with a white guy,” said Howe, whose Washington firm runs
Scotusblog, a website that tracks the court and is sponsored by
Bloomberg Law. “I can’t imagine he’d want to let the court go
back down to two women.”  A new justice would join a court now split almost evenly on
questions of abortion, race, religion, gun rights and campaign
finance. Obama’s first two appointees,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan , have joined Ginsburg in voting to uphold the president’s
health-care law and calling for reconsideration of the 2010
ruling allowing unlimited corporate election spending.  Shaping Law  Another Obama appointment would solidify that wing of the
court, even if the balance doesn’t tip. Because a new justice
would potentially serve for decades, Obama’s appointees would be
in position to shape American law long after the onetime
constitutional law professor has left the White House. Harris is
48, Klobuchar 52, Seitz 56, and Madigan 46.  “You could see effectively a Ginsburg clone at least 30
years younger to really anchor the liberal wing of the court,”
said Carrie Severino, chief counsel for the Judicial Crisis
Network, a Washington-based group that opposed the Sotomayor and
Kagan nominations.  The impact would be even greater should a Republican-
appointed justice, such as  Antonin Scalia  or  Anthony Kennedy ,
both 76, leave the court. That’s unlikely barring a major health
problem, Howe said.  Another candidate to step down before the end of Obama’s
new term is 74-year-old Justice  Stephen Breyer , who, like
Ginsburg, was appointed by Democratic President  Bill Clinton .
Neither Breyer, Scalia nor Kennedy has given any public
indication of plans to retire.  Appellate Judges  The candidates to replace them also include a handful of
federal appeals court judges, among them Obama appointees Mary Murguia and Jacqueline Nguyen and Clinton appointees  Sidney Thomas  and Merrick Garland. Thomas and Garland were on Obama’s
short list when he selected Kagan in 2010, with Garland getting
support from Republican senators.  The possibilities would expand if no vacancy occurred for
two or three years. By then, Obama may have appointed a dozen or
more additional federal appellate judges, giving them stronger
credentials to be elevated to the nation’s highest court.  That field includes two people he has nominated to the
federal appeals court in Washington, Deputy U.S. Solicitor
General Sri Srinivasan and former  New York  Solicitor General
Caitlin Halligan.  The Supreme Court at one point loomed as a significant
campaign issue. That possibility diminished after the court
upheld the president’s health-care law in June, with Republican-
appointed Chief Justice  John Roberts  casting the pivotal vote.  Obama made the court a secondary issue in his re-election
bid, using it primarily to help make his case to women. In a
speech in August, he told a mostly female audience that
Republican Mitt Romney “could tip the balance of the court in a
way that turns back the clock for women and families.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  