-- Obama Video Shows Tearful President Thanking Chicago Team
-- B y   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2012-11-09T04:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/obama-video-shows-tearful-president-thanking-chicago-team.html
President  Barack Obama  wiped away
tears as he spoke of his early career as a young community
organizer in  Chicago , as shown in a video of his speech to
campaign workers there the day after he won a second term.  The video, e-mailed to the president’s supporters last
night by his campaign, shows Obama encouraging the young people
who worked for his re-election to carry on in their lives.  “It’s not that you guys actually remind me of myself --
it’s the fact that you are so much better than I was,” the
president told staffers and volunteers, with longtime political
adviser  David Axelrod  standing off to the side. “What Bobby
Kennedy called the ripples of hope that come out when you throw
a stone in a lake, that’s going to be you.”  Obama spent Election Day in Chicago and visited his
campaign office in the city on Nov. 7 to thank staffers and
volunteers who helped in his victory over Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney . The visit was closed to the media, and the video
was released after the president returned to  Washington .  “What you guys have done means that the work that I’m
doing is important, and I’m really proud of that,” Obama said
on the video, choked up and brushing away a few tears.  Obama will issue a statement today on his plans for
spurring economic growth and reducing the deficit, and early
next week he will hold his first news conference since winning
re-election, according to administration officials who spoke on
condition of anonymity before any announcement of the events.  As in 2008, Obama was boosted in this year’s election by
the youth vote, winning 60 percent of those ages 18 to 24,
according to a national exit poll conducted for television
networks and the  Associated Press  by Edison Research.  “Your journey is just beginning, you’re just starting,”
he said, “and whatever good we do over the next four years will
pale in comparison to what you guys do for years to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tackett at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net  