-- Oil Rises as Consumer Sentiment Gains
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-11-09T20:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/oil-is-steady-as-politicians-squabble-while-gasoline.html
Oil advanced as data showing U.S.
 consumer confidence  climbed to a five-year high, helping ease
concern that a political stalemate in Washington will lead to a
fiscal crisis.  Futures rose 1.2 percent after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of  consumer
sentiment  for November increased to 84.9 from 82.6 the prior
month. Prices fell earlier on concern U.S. lawmakers will be
unable to compromise and avoid automatic spending cuts and tax
increases at the start of 2013.  “The consumer sentiment numbers were expected to improve
but not be that good,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures
division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York . “Prior to
their release, we were heading to new lows.”  Crude oil for December delivery increased 98 cents to
settle at $86.07 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices, which climbed 1.4 percent this week, are down 13 percent
this year.  Brent oil for December settlement advanced $2.15, or 2
percent, to end the session at $109.40 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe Exchange.  Confidence increased as the labor market showed signs of
improvement. A reading of 82.9 was projected in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. The index averaged 64.2 during the last
recession and 89 in the five years leading up to the 18-month
economic slump that began in December 2007.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  advanced as much as 1
percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed 0.6 percent
after the consumer confidence report.  Fitch Warning  The  U.S. economy  will contract if Congress fails to act and
allows more than $600 billion of tax increases and spending cuts
to take effect next year,  Fitch Ratings  said. A report from the
 Congressional Budget Office  published late yesterday reiterated
that failing to avoid the fiscal cliff would lead to a recession
in the first half of 2013.  “The continuation of political gridlock in Washington
could lead us over a fiscal cliff and into recession,” said
Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin,
Texas-based energy consultant. “The likeliest outcome is a
stopgap measure. They will then kick a final resolution down the
road, which got us into this mess in the first place.”  President  Barack Obama  invited the top Democratic and
Republican leaders in Congress to the White House next week to
begin talks on a plan to avert the plan.  “The American people voted for action,” Obama said at the
White House, giving his first public remarks on the budget and
deficit since winning re-election Nov. 6. He again said any
solution must include spending cuts and raising revenue,
including raising taxes on the wealthiest.  Currency Movement  The euro dropped against the dollar as a decline in French
industrial production added to speculation Europe’s economic
outlook is worsening. The common currency touched $1.269, the
lowest level since Sept. 7. A weaker euro and stronger dollar
reduce oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries cut
forecasts for demand for its crude next year and said that it
decreased production last month. The 12-member group will need
to provide an average of 29.7 million barrels a day in 2013,
1.25 million less than it’s currently pumping, and 100,000 a day
less than it forecast a month ago, the Vienna-based group said
in a report today.  Supply from OPEC dropped by 0.2 percent to 30.95 million a
day in October, the lowest level since December, because of
declines in  Nigeria ,  Iran  and  Saudi Arabia , the report showed.  Gasoline Rationing  Rationing of gasoline came to  New York City  and Long Island
today, following New Jersey, which imposed restrictions in 12
counties on Nov. 2. Supplies in the region were disrupted by
 Hurricane Sandy , which made landfall in New Jersey 11 days ago.  Gasoline for December delivery rose 9.19 cents, or 3.5
percent, to settle at $2.6992 a gallon in New York.  “Gasoline supplies are tight in New York and that’s going
to keep prices moving higher,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “We’re seeing
supplies move around to relieve the situation but it will take
time to resolve the problem.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 523,031
contracts as of 3:18 p.m. Volume totaled 576,821 contracts
yesterday, 10 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.61 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 