-- Molycorp Probed by SEC for Accuracy of Its Disclosures
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-11-09T21:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/molycorp-investigated-by-sec-for-accuracy-of-company-disclosures.html
Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , the owner of the
largest rare-earth deposit outside of  China , said it’s being
investigated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over
the accuracy of the company’s public disclosures.  The SEC notified the company in August that it’s probing
the disclosures “among other things,”  Greenwood Village ,
Colorado-based Molycorp said today in a filing. Molycorp is
cooperating with the SEC and can’t predict how long the
investigation will take, it said in the filing.  Molycorp has tumbled 67 percent this year after a slump in
prices for rare earths, a group of 17 chemically similar
elements used in  wind turbines  and hybrid cars. Users have
sought alternative raw materials and used stockpiles after a
surge in prices in 2010 through 2011 that was spurred by a curb
in supplies from China, the world’s biggest producer.  The company, which sold shares in a July 2010 initial
public offering, is increasing output at its Mountain Pass mine
in  California . It also sells magnetic raw materials and other
rare-earth products from plants it acquired with its June
takeover of Canada’s Neo Material Technologies Inc. for C$1.3
billion ($1.3 billion).  Molycorp dropped 14 percent, the most in three months, to
$7.50 at the close in New York.  Price Declines  The shares sold for $14 apiece in the 2010 IPO and more
than tripled that year after China curbed output and cut export
quotas to conserve resources and protect the environment. The
stock rose as high as $77.54 in May 2011.  Lanthanum oxide, a rare earth used to refine gasoline,
dropped 56 percent in the past year, according to Shanghai
Steelhome Information data. Cerium oxide, used in glass
polishing, has declined 61 percent and neodymium oxide, used in
magnets, has fallen 63 percent, the data show.  Customers are starting to return to the market, Molycorp
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Smith  said yesterday in an
interview.  Jim Sims , a company spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail and voice message today seeking further comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  