-- Molycorp Loss Beats Estimates as Rare-Earth Sales Rise
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-11-09T14:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/molycorp-loss-beats-estimates-as-rare-earth-sales-rise.html
Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , owner of the largest
rare-earth deposit outside China, posted a smaller-than-expected
quarterly loss as sales rose after customers began returning to
the market.  The third-quarter loss excluding inventory writedowns and
other items was 5 cents a share, the  Greenwood Village ,
Colorado-based company said yesterday in a statement released
after the close of regular trading. That beat the average of six
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg for a loss of 12
cents.  Molycorp’s rare-earth output more than doubled to 4,391
tons in the quarter after its C$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion)
acquisition of  Canada ’s Neo Material Technologies Inc. in June
added production capacity in China. The company said demand is
beginning to stabilize as China, the largest producer of the of
the 17 chemically similar elements, curbs supplies.  “A lot of our customers who had increased their working
inventory levels of rare-earth products are now at the point
where they’re starting to come back into the market to purchase
again,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Smith  said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  The shares rose 4.6 percent to $9.08 as of 9:42 a.m. in New
York. Molycorp’s net loss was 19 cents a share, compared with 49
cents of net income a year earlier. Sales rose 49 percent to
$205.6 million, missing the $208.8 million average of five
estimates.  Mine Schedule  Molycorp is increasing output at its Mountain Pass mine in
 California  and said yesterday the project is still scheduled to
produce at an annual rate of as much as 19,500 tons of rare-
earth oxides at some point in the fourth quarter. The company
plans to double the mine’s capacity to 40,000 tons by the end of
2013.  Rare-earth prices surged in 2011 after  China , which
produces more than 90 percent of global supplies, restricted
export quotas. Prices have tumbled since mid-2011 as customers
used alternative materials and stockpiles.  Lanthanum oxide, a rare earth used to refine gasoline,
dropped 56 percent in the past year, according to Shanghai
Steelhome Information data. Cerium oxide, used in glass
polishing, has declined 61 percent and neodymium oxide, used in
magnets, has fallen 63 percent, the data show  Prices should cease to fall as demand returns and customers
feel more confident about the reliability supplies from outside
Chine, Smith said.  “Higher prices isn’t necessarily what you look for all the
time,” Smith said. “Making sure that we have prices that meet
our customers’ needs is also very important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  