-- Lonmin Rejects Xstrata Reverse Takeover for Lacking Premium
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-11-09T17:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/lonmin-rejects-xstrata-reverse-takeover-for-lacking-premium-2-.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-largest
platinum producer, rejected two proposals by 25 percent
shareholder  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , including a reverse takeover that would
have seen Lonmin take on Xstrata’s platinum assets.  The Xstrata offers “had the effect of transferring
effective control without an appropriate premium,” Chairman
Roger Phillimore said today. Xstrata suggested on Oct. 12 Lonmin
buy its platinum and alloy assets in  South Africa  and hold a $1
billion share sale fully underwritten by Xstrata, which would
then own about 70 percent of Lonmin, he said.  Lonmin today reported a  loss  of $698 million for the fiscal
year ended September. The Johannesburg-based company is offering
investors $817 million of stock to help meet pledges to
creditors as it restarts the Marikana mine, shut by a violent
strike that claimed about 46 lives. Lonmin doesn’t know whether
Xstrata will take up its share of the offer, acting Chief
Executive Officer Simon Scott said.  “Xstrata’s participation in the future issue is not a
certainty, but the recent offers suggest a conviction to remain
in the business,” Liberum Capital Markets Ltd. said in a note.
“If they do not subscribe they reduce their holding from 24.5
percent to 8.8 percent.”  The issue of nine shares for every five held is fully
underwritten and priced at 140 pence, Lonmin said. That’s a
discount of 69 percent to yesterday’s closing price of 452.8
pence and a 44 percent discount to the theoretical ex-rights
price, Lonmin said.  Cut Debt  Proceeds will partly be used to cut debt that more than
doubled to $550 million from Sept. 30 last year to Oct. 31.
Lonmin rose 0.6 percent to 455.3 pence at the close in  London ,
valuing the company at about 925 million pounds ($1.47 billion),
after earlier falling as much as 5.8 percent.  The discount in the offer exceeds Investec Ltd.’s estimate
of 50 percent, it said in a note. Lonmin has to sell more equity
to black investor groups to meet South African requirements and
that could “result in further dilution to existing
shareholders,” BMO Capital Markets Ltd. said.  “Xstrata is likely to take a longer-term view on Lonmin
and to support the issue, but we still think the shares will
fall when investors wake up to the financial strain on the
business,”  John Meyer , an analyst at SP Angel Corporate Finance
LLP, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Second Proposal  Lonmin also yesterday rejected a second proposal from
Xstrata in which the Zug, Switzerland-based company offered to
support a rights issue on condition that Lonmin’s executive
directors are replaced, Lonmin said today. Xstrata would have
provided management services to Lonmin under the deal. Even so,
Lonmin is “open to approaches,” Scott said.  Both Xstrata proposals “had the potential effect of
destabilization,” Phillimore said.  Xstrata, whose South African alloys unit includes the
world’s largest ferrochrome producer, said in a statement that
Lonmin has “suffered longstanding operational problems and we
are concerned that the business does not have the management
capabilities to ensure a sustainable future.”  Lonmin management rejected Xstrata’s proposals “without
substantive engagement,” and Lonmin has never proposed an
effective answer to its management problems, Xstrata said. The
Swiss mining company is “open to constructive solutions to
strengthen Lonmin’s management and operational capabilities,”
it said.  Olive Branches  Lonmin left “olive branches, we left invitations to
continue discussions,” Phillimore told investors on the
conference call. It doesn’t seek an adversarial relationship
with Xstrata, he said.  Lonmin is the worst performer on the FTSE 350 Mining Index
in the past six months, having lost half its value. It has
declined 90 percent since its 2007 record and is trading at
levels last seen in 1999.  “The sector as a whole is currently trading at price-to-
book levels last seen in the early 1980s and late 1990s,” Paul Whitburn, an analyst at RE:CM, said in a note yesterday. It’s
“offering the type of buying opportunity that only comes along
once every decade.”  The walkout at the Marikana mine from Aug. 10 to Sept. 20
cut 110,000 ounces of output valued at about $170 million.
Workers returned after accepting pay increases of 11 percent to
22 percent. Police shot dead 34 on the strike’s worst single day
of violence on Aug. 16, killings that are the subject of a
judicial inquiry that started Oct. 1.  Production Drops  Full-year refined platinum production fell 6 percent to
687,372 platinum ounces, the company said Oct. 30.  Labor unrest spread to  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the
largest producer of the metal, as well as to South African gold,
coal and iron ore operations. The stoppages shaved 50 basis
points off the country’s economic growth, Treasury Director
General Lungisa Fuzile said Oct. 26. Strikes that started more
than eight weeks ago at Anglo’s platinum mines continue.  “This is going to be a long haul for the company and it is
not clear that despite high wage settlements that the company
will not be held to hostage by its work force in the future,”
Meyer said in a separate note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  