-- Mortgage-Backed Bonds, EU Banks, Taxes: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-09T13:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/mortgage-backed-bonds-eu-banks-taxes-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
 U.S. bank , reached a settlement with regulators to resolve
claims tied to its home-loan business and said it would buy back
as much as $3 billion of shares.  The agreement in principle with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission covers two investigations related to
mortgage-backed bonds handled by JPMorgan and Bear Stearns Cos.,
which the bank acquired in 2008, New York-based JPMorgan said
yesterday in a filing.  The SEC has issued notices to banks including JPMorgan in
probes focusing on mortgage securities and whether lenders
failed to disclose underlying credit weaknesses. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. paid $550 million in 2010 to settle SEC claims that
it misled investors on a mortgage-linked investment in 2007. In
that case, Goldman Sachs said it made a “mistake” in omitting
disclosures.  One investigation related to delinquency disclosures in a
single mortgage-backed security deal, JPMorgan said in
yesterday’s filing. The other involved claims against the lender
and Bear Stearns over disclosures of settlements of disputes
against originators of loans included in Bear Stearns
securitizations.  The SEC warned JPMorgan in January that it may bring
complaints related to mortgage securitizations, the company said
in February. Goldman Sachs and  Wells Fargo & Co . also said they
were facing U.S. scrutiny over mortgages.  Regulators are still examining how banks packaged and sold
home loans to investors more than four years after mounting
mortgage defaults prompted unprecedented government bailouts of
the financial system.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Draghi Renews Call for Operational ECB Bank Oversight in 2013  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  renewed his
endorsement of the establishment of euro-area bank oversight by
2013, a day after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  cautioned
against rushing to install the new supervisor.  Draghi told reporters in Frankfurt yesterday that the ECB’s
Governing Council supports an Oct. 19 pledge by European Union
leaders to integrate euro-area financial systems.  Negotiations to create an ECB-based bank supervisor have
bogged down over disagreements on the regulator’s scope and
setup. A German-led alliance this week sought to limit the
supervisor to big banks and also called for wholesale changes to
plans for managing oversight within the central bank.  The proposal from Germany, Finland, Luxembourg and the
Netherlands contrasts with  EU Financial Services (SXFPEX)  Commissioner
 Michel Barnier ’s plans to put the ECB in charge of all euro-area
banks. All 27 EU leaders last month affirmed their pledge to
establish ECB oversight of euro-area banks and set a Dec. 31
goal for political agreement on the new supervisor’s design.  For more, click here.  Affluent Americans Considering Investments After Obama Victory  President  Barack Obama  is expected to support letting the
tax cuts enacted during the George W. Bush era expire for high
earners at year-end. Obama wants to increase the top federal
income  tax rate  to 39.6 percent from 35 percent, boost rates on
long-term  capital gains  to as much as 23.8 percent, and shrink
exemptions from estate-and-gift taxes.  Wealthy investors have about a month and a half to examine
their investment gains and losses left over from previous years,
as well as to consider ways to move income into 2012 and
transfer assets to heirs, Jeff Saccacio, a personal financial
services partner at New York-based PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
Saccacio said.  “Acceleration of investment income is clear,” said Elda
Di Re, partner and personal financial services area leader for
Ernst & Young LLP in New York. “If anyone was planning on
realizing a gain in the next two to three years on either
securities or real estate, there’s a considerable amount of
money to be saved.”  Investors shouldn’t accelerate sales of securities just to
avoid a higher  tax  rate, said Saccacio, who is based in Los
Angeles. They should consider how long they planned to hold
stocks and whether they need to rebalance. Those who decide to
sell at current capital gains rates can re-invest in the
securities if they remain attractive without violating so-called
wash-sale rules under the Internal Revenue Service code that
apply to stocks sold at a loss, he said.  For more, click here.  Brokers Mine Social-Media Sites for Personal Data, Lawmakers Say  People who use social-media websites such as  Facebook (FB)  and
LinkedIn may have their information harvested by companies that
collect, analyze or sell consumer data, a group of U.S.
lawmakers said yesterday.  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM) ; Epsilon Data Management LLC, a unit of
 Alliance Data Systems Corp. (ADS) ; and Intelius Inc. are among those
saying they collect publicly available social-media information,
in response to questions sent by a group of House members led by
Representatives Ed Markey and  Joe Barton .  “Posting to Facebook should not also mean putting personal
information into the hands of data reapers seeking to profit
from details of consumers’ personal lives,” Markey said in an
e-mail. “Users of social media want to share with friends, not
enable the sale of their personal information to data miners.”  Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, and Barton, a Texas
Republican, sent letters on July 24 to companies including
 Equifax Inc. (EFX) ,  Experian Plc (EXPN)  and  Fair Isaac Corp. (FICO) , the company
that developed the FICO consumer credit rating score.  Markey and Barton lead the Congressional Bipartisan Privacy
Caucus.  AT&T Seeks Rules Relief as Part of $14 Billion Digital Switch  AT&T Inc. (T)  wants to rid the U.S. phone system of regulations
from the Bell system era as it replaces its traditional network
with Internet technology, a move competitors say could lead to
higher prices for business telecommunications service.  The largest U.S. telephone company on Nov. 7 said it would
invest $14 billion for wireless and wireline improvements. It
also  asked  the Federal Communications Commission to approve
trial runs in unnamed test areas where legacy regulations
wouldn’t apply.  Some requirements to provide connections to smaller
companies should be eliminated when the transition takes place,
leaving minimal federal regulation, AT&T said in an August  FCC
filing .  “There’s going to be a lot of issues raised,”  Robert
Quinn , a Washington-based senior vice president for AT&T, said
in an interview. “We’re trying to do the first couple of these
in areas where we can tee up these policy issues, and
demonstrate to people that this is a good product. Our intent
here is to provide everybody in our footprint with a good
product.”  Some of the rules AT&T wants the FCC to eliminate have been
in place since before the court-ordered breakup of the Bell
system monopoly in the 1980s. Congress in 1996 said rules should
be trimmed, and since then companies have argued over what
constraints should apply as AT&T, second-largest company  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and other providers replace circuits-and-
switches networks with faster Internet-based technology.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Hudson Valley Capital Barred by Finra for Fraudulent Trading  Hudson Valley Capital Management was expelled from the
securities industry and its top executive barred for life for
fraudulently allocating trading losses to customers, the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Gillis defrauded clients this
year by covering up losses and sticking stock in customer
accounts at inflated prices, the Wall Street-funded regulator
said yesterday in a  statement . One lost about $400,000, Finra
said.  Gillis, 42, shared ownership of the Croton-on-Hudson, New
York-based brokerage with Charles Doller, who wasn’t banned or
suspended, according to Finra. Doller told Finra that he
notified regulators and clients as soon as he learned about the
fraudulent trades, according to regulatory  records .  Messages left at numbers listed for Gillis and Doller
weren’t immediately returned. Gillis moved last year to Saranac
Lake, New York, where he’s  planning to open  a microbrewery, the
Adirondack Daily Enterprise reported in August.  SEC Sues Louisiana Fund Firm for Hiding Mortgage-Linked Loss  A Louisiana hedge fund firm hid $32 million in losses tied
to investments backed by residential mortgages as prices
collapsed in 2008, U.S. regulators said.  Walter Morales instructed employees at his Baton Rouge-
based firm Commonwealth Advisors Inc. to conduct a series of
manipulative trades between funds they advised to conceal losses
after investing in the riskiest slices of a collateralized debt
obligation known as Collybus, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said yesterday in a lawsuit filed at federal court in
Louisiana.  Commonwealth clients, which included pension funds and
individual investors, were sustaining heavy losses as mortgage
markets began to decline in 2007 and rating firms began to
downgrade securities with lower  credit quality , the SEC  said .
Rather than come clean with its investors, Morales directed
employees to execute more than 150 deceptive trades between two
 hedge funds  they managed at prices below its own valuation for
those securities.  After the trades were conducted, Morales instructed an
employee to mark the securities at fair market value, creating a
fraudulent $19 million gain for the acquiring hedge fund at the
expense of the funds that sold, the SEC said. Morales falsely
represented that the transactions were for a legitimate business
purpose and at prevailing market prices, according to the
 complaint .  Frederick Tulley, an attorney for Morales and Commonwealth,
said his clients intend to fight the SEC’s claims.  “We seriously dispute the SEC’s version of what
happened,” Commonwealth said in an e-mailed statement. “We
plan to vigorously defend the action and we are confident that,
in the end, the decisions made by Commonwealth and its
management will be vindicated in the courts.”  Ex-Madoff Controller Irwin Lipkin Pleads Guilty to Two Counts  Irwin Lipkin, the first employee hired by  Bernard Madoff ’s
defunct investment firm, pleaded guilty to falsifying books and
records and told a judge he didn’t know that Madoff was running
a vast fraud.  “While working for Bernie Madoff, I made accounting
entries in financial records that I knew were inaccurate,”
Lipkin, 74, told U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain at a
hearing yesterday in Manhattan. “These filings helped Mr.
Madoff run the  Ponzi scheme  that harmed thousands of people.”  Lipkin, Madoff’s former controller, pleaded guilty to
conspiracy and to making false statements in employment records.
Lipkin, who used a wheelchair at the sentencing, was to have
pleaded guilty in September. He told Swain that he has been
hospitalized twice in the past several months and suffered from
pneumonia. Lipkin faces as long as 10 years in prison when he’s
sentenced on March 22.  Lipkin said he retired from Madoff’s firm in 1998.  “I would like the court to know that at no time before I
retired was I ever aware that Mr. Madoff or anyone else at the
company was engaged in the Ponzi scheme reported in the media,”
Lipkin said. “My belief in  Bernie Madoff ’s trading skills was
such that I encouraged my own family to invest their money in
accounts managed by Mr. Madoff.”  David Richman, Lipkin’s lawyer, didn’t elaborate on his
client’s statement when asked after the hearing how Lipkin could
have not known of Madoff’s fraud.  Swain said Lipkin may remain free until sentencing on a
$1.5 million bond, to be secured with $250,000 in cash or
property.  Lipkin’s son, Eric Lipkin, pleaded guilty to six criminal
counts in June 2011, admitting he falsified documents to show
non-existent holdings in accounts and to pay people for no-show
jobs. Eric Lipkin, who is cooperating with the government’s
investigation into the Madoff fraud, faces as long as 70 years
in prison when he’s sentenced.  The case is U.S. v. Madoff, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  In the Courts  Fluor Accused of Using Energy Department Funds for Lobbying  Fluor Corp. (FLR)  is accused of using funds from an Energy
Department contract to pay for lobbying activities that sought
more federal money, according to court papers filed by the U.S.
 Justice Department .  The department announced yesterday that it is joining a
false claims lawsuit in federal court in Spokane, Washington,
alleging that Fluor Corp. and Fluor Hanford Inc. paid two
lobbying companies more than $650,000 with money meant to train
emergency personnel at the Energy Department’s Hanford nuclear
site.  “The taxpayer money Congress allocated for this program
was for training federal emergency response personnel and first
responders, not to lobby Congress and others for more funding,”
Stuart F. Delery, acting head of the Justice Department’s Civil
Division, said in an e-mailed statement.  The lawsuit was originally filed by whistle-blower Loydene
Rambo, a former employee of Fluor, the largest publicly traded
U.S. engineering and construction company.  Keith Stephens, a spokesman for Irving, Texas-based Fluor,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on
the lawsuit.  Last year, the company paid $4 million to settle U.S.
allegations that it knowingly submitted false claims and paid
and received kickbacks involving an Energy Department contract
at the same nuclear site.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Rambo v. Fluor Hanford LLC, 11-
cv-05037, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Washington
(Spokane).  Argentine Bond Case Is Set for U.S. Court Conference Today  The U.S. judge overseeing lawsuits against Argentina by
holders of the country’s defaulted debt will hold a court
conference today, a court clerk said.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa is scheduled to hear from
the parties in litigation by Elliott Management Corp.’s NML
Capital Fund and other investors who are trying to collect on
$1.3 billion in the defaulted bonds.  A federal appeals court in New York ruled Oct. 26 that
Argentina can’t make payments on its restructured sovereign debt
while refusing to pay holders of the defaulted bonds. The
appeals court sent the case back to Griesa to clarify how a
payment formula is intended to work and to determine how the
court’s orders apply to intermediary banks and other third
parties.  On Nov. 6, lawyers for NML Capital asked Griesa for an
expedited decision on those questions, citing press statements
by Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and
members of her cabinet that, according to NML, show the country
is trying to evade the appeals court ruling.  In a letter to Griesa dated Nov. 5, Argentina said it’s
seeking a rehearing from the three-judge appeals panel that
ruled against it or in front of the full New York-based appeals
court. In their letters, the two sides disagreed over whether an
order staying his earlier decisions against Argentina is still
in effect after the appeals court decision.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 08-
CV-6978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  New Hampshire Settles With Shell, Sunoco Over Contamination  New Hampshire reached a $35 million settlement with Shell
Oil Co. and Sunoco Inc. of a lawsuit over claims that the
gasoline refiners and manufacturers used chemicals that
contaminated groundwater.  The state sued a number of  oil companies  in 2003, charging
that they knew the gasoline additive methyl tertiary butyl
ether, or MTBE, would pollute water supplies, state Attorney
General Michael Delaney said yesterday in a statement.  A trial against the other remaining defendants, which
include  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd.,
Citgo Petroleum Corp. and Vitol SA, is set to begin in Concord,
New Hampshire, in January. It may last three to four months.  The state has settled the suit with other oil companies,
including Hess Corp. and Chevron Corp., Assistant Attorney
General Mary Maloney said in an interview.  Maloney said the state may seek “several hundreds of
millions” of dollars in damages in the jury trial. MTBE
continues to be a pollutant in New Hampshire, especially since
many residents use well water, she said.  “MTBE, because of its ubiquity and solubility, gets into
the bedrock,” she said.  Press representatives for Houston-based Shell and
Philadelphia-based Sunoco didn’t immediately reply to messages
seeking comment on the settlement. Shell’s U.S. unit is part of
Netherlands-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and Sunoco is a unit of
Dallas-based  Energy Transfer Partners LP. (ETP)   The case is State of New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-
C-0550, State of New Hampshire Superior Court (Merrimack).  BNY Mellon Ends Virginia’s Whistle-Blower Currency-Trading Suit  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the largest custody bank,
reached a deal to end a lawsuit accusing it of defrauding state
pension funds through foreign-currency transactions, according
to a spokesman for Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli.  The settlement provides $1.14 million to Grant Wilson, a
former foreign exchange trader at the bank who made the
allegations, said a person familiar with the matter who asked
not to be identified because a judge hasn’t signed off on the
request to dismiss the case.  The money is being paid by the state and not the bank, the
person said. The state and the bank filed a request to dismiss
the case in state court. The filing couldn’t be immediately
confirmed from court records.  BNY Mellon (BK)  has been sued by several states and the U.S.
attorney in Manhattan over pricing of foreign-currency trades on
behalf of clients. Cuccinelli sued the New York-based bank in
August 2011, claiming it violated state law by charging
“undisclosed markups” on currency-exchange trades to six
retirement funds. Virginia was seeking about $931.6 million in
damages.  “BNY Mellon did not make any payments to the whistle-
blower,” Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the bank, said in an e-
mailed statement. “The whistle-blower case was dismissed by the
court.”  The cases against BNY Mellon and other custody banks center
on the pricing of small foreign-exchange transactions handled
automatically on behalf of the pension funds, a service known as
standing instruction.  The banks say they acted as a principal, selling one
currency for another in arms-length transactions at a set price
that customers were free to accept or reject.  The states claim the banks were obliged to act as an agent,
obtaining the best possible  exchange rate  in the interbank
 currency market . Banks misled clients on how they set prices,
the states contend.  The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., 09-15377, Circuit Court for the County of Fairfax,
Virginia (Fairfax).  BofA Whistle-Blower in $1 Billion Case Faced Fraud Claims  The whistle-blower helping the U.S. government mount a $1
billion fraud lawsuit against  Bank of America Corp.  was himself
accused of fraud by an investor in a financing company he co-
founded, and now works at  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , one of two entities he
claims the bank defrauded.  Edward O’Donnell sued Bank of America, the second-biggest
U.S. lender by  assets , in February under the False Claims Act,
saying the bank’s Countrywide Financial unit, where he once
worked, issued defective mortgages and sold them to  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  Last month, the Justice Department joined his
suit, making it the first time the U.S. has accused a bank of
fraud over loans sold to the two government-sponsored mortgage-
finance companies.  To make the case, the U.S. may have to confront its
whistle-blower’s own tangled history. A year after leaving
Countrywide, O’Donnell was sued by an investor in a deal
organized by a commercial financing firm he co-founded. Bank of
America may use that lawsuit, and O’Donnell’s job at Fannie Mae,
to raise doubts about his credibility before a jury, according
to Peter Hutt, a lawyer who defends whistle-blower cases.  “It could certainly be argued that the whistle-blower had
an interest in making the allegation either to secure employment
at Fannie Mae or making himself look good at Fannie Mae,” Hutt,
a partner at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP in
Washington, said in a phone interview.  Still, if documents and other evidence support O’Donnell’s
claims, “there won’t be any direct effect” on the U.S. case
from disclosures about his background, said Hutt, who isn’t
involved in the Bank of America lawsuit.  O’Donnell referred a call about the earlier lawsuit to his
lawyer, David Wasinger, who declined to comment.  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New York, whose
office joined the Bank of America case, declined to comment on
O’Donnell.  The bank has denied the allegations against it in the
whistle-blower suit.  “Bank of America has stepped up and acted responsibly to
resolve legacy mortgage matters,” Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman
for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company, said in a
statement after the U.S. joined the case. “Bank of America
can’t be expected to compensate every entity that claims losses
that actually were caused by the economic downturn.” Grayson
declined to comment on the investor claims made against
O’Donnell.  For more, click here.  BofA’s Merrill Unit Loses Bid to Dismiss FHFA Mortgage Bond Suit  Bank of America  Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit must face
a lawsuit by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the conservator
for Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , over mortgage-backed securities
sold by the investment bank.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in New York yesterday
denied Merrill’s request to dismiss the FHFA’s securities law
and fraud claims, except for fraud claims based on loan-to-value
ratios and ownership-occupancy reporting. The judge said FHFA
had failed to sufficiently allege fraudulent intent for those
claims.  The FHFA sued Merrill Lynch and other investment banks last
year as conservator of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, the
government-sponsored enterprises created to support the housing
market by buying residential mortgages in the secondary market.
It alleges negligent misrepresentations and fraud related to the
mortgage-backed securities the banks sold from 2005 to 2007.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
ruling. Bank of America completed its acquisition of Merrill
Lynch on Jan. 2, 2009.  Sixteen of the FHFA’s lawsuits are before Cote. The FHFA’s
case against Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial unit, at
one point the largest originator of residential mortgages, is
before a federal judge in Los Angeles who last month denied
Countrywide’s motion to dismiss the claims for being brought too
late.  Cote earlier denied  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s and JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
request to dismiss FHFA’s claims.  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. Merrill Lynch
& Co., 11-06202, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan.)  Commodities Trader Accused of Hiding $8.3 Billion Position  A commodities trader was accused in a lawsuit by U.S.
regulators of concealing an $8.3 billion position and causing
his employer losses of $118 million.  The trader, Matthew Marshall Taylor, in 2007 fabricated
trades in a New York-based futures commission merchant’s
internal system and obstructed his employer’s discovery of his
position, risk and profits and losses, the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission said in a complaint yesterday in
federal court in New York. The employer isn’t identified in the
suit.  Taylor’s trades, after the liquidation of his position,
caused losses of about $118 million, according to the complaint.
The fabricated trades and concealment violated provisions of the
Commodity Exchange Act, according to the complaint.  By Dec. 13, 2007, “Taylor’s scheme culminated in his
concealment of a notional value of an approximately $8.3 billion
long e-mini futures position,” according to the lawsuit. E-
minis are futures contracts tied to the S&P 500 Index.  According to the complaint, Taylor concealed the position
by bypassing the futures commission merchant’s internal system
designed for entering and routing trades to the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange and manually entering fabricated futures
trades in a different internal system maintained by his
employer.  Ross Intelisano, a lawyer for Taylor in New York, didn’t
immediately return a call yesterday seeking comment on the
complaint.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
Matthew Marshall Taylor, 12-cv-8170, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Conferences  SEC’s Annual Small Business Forum to Take Place Nov. 15  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced Nov.
7 the agenda for its upcoming annual small business forum,
scheduled for Nov. 15 at the commission’s Washington
headquarters.  In a release, the agency said the 2012 Government-Business
Forum on Small Business Capital Formation will feature a panel
discussion on implementation of the Jumpstart Our Business
Startups Act. A second panel will focus on capital formation
issues.  The forum also will include sessions to develop
recommendations regarding crowdfunding, exempt securities
offerings and regulation of smaller public companies. The
sessions are open to the public.  For more,  click here .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  