-- Most Swiss Stocks Decline; UBS Declines as Novartis Gains
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-11-09T16:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/most-swiss-stocks-decline-ubs-declines-as-novartis-gains.html
Most  Swiss stocks  fell as fear that
the so-called fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax
increases may push the world’s biggest economy into recession
offset better-than-expected U.S. consumer confidence data.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s biggest
banks, retreated as a measure of European lenders slipped.
Adecco SA lost 1.7 percent after it was removed from a bank’s
preferred list.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  advanced.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  closed little changed at 6,715.20 in
Zurich, for a 0.2 percent weekly gain. Thirteen of the gauge’s
20 members fell, while six rose. The measure has  rallied 18
percent  from this year’s low on June 4 as European Central Bank
policy makers agreed on an unlimited bond-buying plan and the
Federal Reserve announced further quantitative easing. The
broader Swiss Performance Index was also little changed today.  “Regarding the fiscal cliff, we think a compromise will
eventually be reached after a hard struggle,” said Manfred Hofer, senior investment analyst at LGT Capital Management AG in
Pfaeffikon, Switzerland. “Until then, uncertainty is likely to
irritate the financial markets. The  European debt crisis 
continues to be on investors’ minds.  Greece  still awaits the
approval of new financial aid, while weaker economic data from
the euro zone weighs on sentiment.”  U.S.  consumer confidence  improved this month. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary index of  consumer
sentiment  for November increased to 84.9 from 82.6 the prior
month. Economists projected a reading of 82.9 for the gauge,
according to the median forecast of 71 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Fitch Warning  The U.S. economy will contract if Congress fails to act,
allowing more than $600 billion of tax increases and spending
cuts to take effect next year, Fitch Ratings said.  “We think that will tip the U.S. back into recession,”
Fitch Managing Director Ed Parker said in an interview in
Istanbul yesterday. “This should be a wholly avoidable,
unnecessary recession.”  French industrial production slumped and confidence among
factory executives held near the lowest in almost three years,
prompting the Bank of  France  to indicate that  Europe ’s second
largest economy may be tipping into recession.  Production fell 2.7 percent in September from August,
Paris-based statistics office Insee said today. That’s the
biggest drop since January 2009 and more than the 1 percent
decline forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . With
 sentiment among manufacturing executives  unchanged at 92 in
October, the Bank of France said the economy may shrink in the
fourth quarter. Previous surveys suggest it also contracted in
the third.  Chinese Data  China ’s National Bureau of Statistics said industrial
production rose 9.6 percent in October from a year earlier, a
faster pace than the 9.4 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. Retail sales climbed 14.5 percent last
month from a year earlier. Economists had projected a 14.4
percent gain.  “Our indicators show that investors are still building on
risk,” said Martin Schlatter, a fund manager at Swiss Rock
Asset Management AG in Zurich, which oversees about 1 billion
Swiss francs. “Despite the mixed signals -- positive ones from
China, negative ones from Europe -- many investors realize that
they’re not invested enough in equities. Therefore, we think
non-financial stocks definitely still have potential.”  UBS and Credit Suisse lost 1.3 percent to 14.37 francs and
0.8 percent to 21.66 francs, respectively. A measure of European
lenders sank the most among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  Adecco Falls  Adecco (ADEN)  slipped 1.7 percent to 44.60 francs after UBS
removed the world’s biggest supplier of temporary workers from
its list of most preferred stocks.  Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s second-largest reinsurer,
dropped 1.8 percent to 65.95 francs, following a gauge of
insurers lower.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , Switzerland’s biggest
life insurer, decreased 1.1 percent to 116.60 francs.  Schmolz & Bickenbach AG slipped 1.8 percent to 2.74 francs
after Vontobel Holding AG cut its price estimate by 29 percent
to 3.20 francs. The maker of high-grade steel products last week
said it doesn’t expect operating profit to rise this year.  Huegli Holding AG (HUE)  retreated 4.6 percent to 494 francs, its
lowest closing price since December 2009, after the food
marketer predicted 2012 sales will fall 1 percent in local
currencies, compared with a previous forecast for a 2 percent
increase. The company also said it will miss its 7 percent to 8
percent margin target and will report a drop in 2012 operating
profit.  “The margin decline below its target range of 7 percent to
8 percent comes as a disappointment as the company did not have
a margin below 7 percent since 2003,” Rene Weber, a Vontobel
analyst, wrote in a note to clients. “We would not invest into
the stock as it is uncertain if the margin decline will see a
turnaround in full-year 2013.” Vontobel also cut its price
estimate for the shares by 7.7 percent to 480 francs.  Novartis added 0.8 percent to 57.45 francs, while Sonova
rose 0.7 percent to 92.85 francs. A gauge of European health-
care companies posted the best performance on the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  