-- Emerging Stocks Extend Weekly Loss on Europe Concern
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y ,   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-11-09T22:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/most-emerging-stocks-fall-led-by-ongc-on-earnings.html
Emerging-market stocks extended a
weekly decline, after posting the biggest slump since May last
month, as a European minister said  Greece ’s bailout may be
delayed and  India ’s  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  posted its biggest
profit drop in four years.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.4 percent to 990.98
at the close of trading in New York. The gauge declined 1.4
percent this week after dropping 0.7 percent in October. Oil &
Natural Gas, India’s biggest energy explorer, helped send a
gauge of energy stocks to a two-month low. OAO Mobile
TeleSystems,  Russia ’s largest mobile-services operator, sank the
most in two weeks after an Uzbek court demanded payment of a
$600 million fine.  Euro-area finance chiefs won’t make the call to release new
aid for Greece that has been when they meet on Nov. 12, a
European Union official said yesterday. Finnish Finance Minister
Jutta Urpilainen said today European finance ministers’ hands
are tied on deciding on new aid payments until officials file a
report. Concern is also mounting as a re-elected President
 Barack Obama  faces a so-called fiscal cliff.  “ Europe  is back in the headlines,” Michael Gayed, chief
investment strategist at Pension Partners LLC and fund manager
of the ATAC Inflation Rotation Fund, said by phone from New
York. The Greek vote and U.S. election changed “sentiment this
week, and that’s making for a very sour mood” for  emerging
markets , he said.  Biggest Declines  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index capped the biggest weekly
decline since June 1 amid concern over the so-called fiscal
cliff, tax increases and federal spending cuts set to kick in
automatically unless Congress acts. Countries in the MSCI index
send about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S. on average,
according to the World Trade Organization.  In his first public remarks on the budget and deficit since
winning re-election on Nov. 6, Obama said today he was “open to
compromise” on budget negotiations and reiterated that a
solution must include spending cuts and raising revenue,
including raising taxes on the wealthiest.  Finance chiefs from the euro region won’t make the call to
release 31.5 billion euros ($40 billion) of aid for Greece when
they meet next week, a European Union official said yesterday on
condition of anonymity because the deliberations are private.
Urpilainen said European ministers won’t be able to decide on
new aid payments until the troika, a group of officials from the
European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the
European Commission, files a report assessing how Greece is
complying with the terms of its second bailout.  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 0.2
percent today, paring its weekly drop to 1.4 percent. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, slid 1.6 percent.  Missed Forecasts  Fifty-seven percent of MSCI Emerging Markets Index
companies have  reported  quarterly profit that missed forecasts
since the end of September, according to data on corporate
results compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazilian  utility shares  posted a sixth day of declines,
the longest streak in almost a year. Turkish Airlines slumped
3.7 percent in Istanbul after the government asked advisers to
prepare a plan by the end of the year for a possible sale of its
stake, according to three people with direct knowledge of the
matter.  South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  fell lost
percent, the most in more than two weeks.  Lonmin Plc (LON) , the
world’s third-largest platinum producer, sank 3.2 percent in
Johannesburg to the lowest level since 1999, after reporting a
loss as a strike in South Africa hurt output.  MTS Sinks  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 0.5 percent for the lowest
close since Aug. 2, as the central bank kept its refinancing
rate at the highest since December. MTS, the country’s largest
mobile operator, fell 2 percent, the most in two weeks, as
Russia’s largest mobile-phone operator seeks to restore its
licenses in Uzbekistan after a court overturned a decision to
confiscate the company’s assets in the ex-Soviet republic.  Brazil ’s Bovespa dropped 0.3 percent as utility Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA  tumbled  2.7 percent, adding to its
biggest weekly slide since December 2004.  Mexico ’s IPC index
fell 0.4 percent, with telecommunications company  America Movil
SAB de C.V.  sliding 0.7 percent to the lowest level since April.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  fell 0.5 percent and the Hang
Seng  China  Enterprises Index of mainland companies declined 0.7
percent, its lowest close since Oct. 26. South Korea’s bonds
reversed gains as the central bank said the economy will show
“moderate” improvement after holding borrowing costs.  Turkey ’s
benchmark two-year yield fell for the fifth day to a record low.  Utilities, Telecoms  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.1 percent,
declining for a fifth day, the longest losing streak since June.
Equity trading volumes for index-listed shares were 20 percent
lower than the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Eight of the ten sector groups of the emerging markets
gauge declined, led by utility and telecommunications stocks.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has climbed 8.1 percent this
year, compared with a 7.9 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index. Emerging-nation shares trade at 11.3 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.1 times, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global equities lured fewer funds in the week through Nov.
7 as North American funds recorded $1.5 billion of outflows,
according to a weekly  Citigroup Inc. (C)  report citing data compiled
by EPFR Global.  India Stocks  India’s Oil & Natural Gas tumbled 3.1 percent, its lowest
close since June 11. Net income dropped 32 percent to 59 billion
rupees ($1.08 billion) in the September quarter, missing the
60.5 billion-rupee median estimate of 37 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  State Bank of India (SBIN)  dropped 3.9 percent. The nation’s
largest lender said profit growth may slow as bad debts rise
further and demand for credit declines in an economy that the
International Monetary Fund said is expanding at the slowest
pace in a decade.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 30-day  volatility , a
gauge of price swings, was at 8.91, near the lowest closing
level since January 2006 of 8.16 on Nov. 7.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s second-largest maker of
personal computers, jumped 5.8 percent, the most in almost three
months in Hong Kong, after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said the company
may overtake  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  as the leading smartphone
maker in China in the next few quarters.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 297, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  