-- Lower Manhattan Quiet as Sandy Shuts One-Third of Offices
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-11-09T17:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/lower-manhattan-quiet-as-sandy-shuts-one-third-of-offices.html
The drone of generators fills the
silence of lower Manhattan on a weekday afternoon. A newsstand
is open at the corner of Wall and Water streets, its main
customers now cleanup crews rather than bankers, lawyers and
other financial district office workers.  Such is the scene downtown, where damage from  Hurricane
Sandy  is keeping properties empty more than a week after the
storm struck. There are 445 office and residential properties in
the area that the city determined may be uninhabitable even
while they may have no structural damage. Almost 33 percent of
the 101 million square feet (9.4 million square meters) of lower
Manhattan office space was out of operation as of Nov. 7,
according to brokerage  Jones Lang  LaSalle Inc.  “We have water in basically every building downtown,”
said Joseph Moinian, who owns and manages more than 4 million
square feet of commercial and residential space in the area.  “I was always taught that salt water kills germs,”
Moinian said. “Now I find out that it kills equipment too.”  The flooding in lower Manhattan after the biggest Atlantic
storm in history is displacing workers at companies including
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as
landlords drain basements, remove debris and repair electrical
equipment. In the aftermath, commercial property values and
leasing demand may fall while insurance premiums could rise.  “Lower Manhattan was just starting to come back to a very
solid footing,” said  Howard Lutnick , chairman and chief
executive officer of investment bank  Cantor Fitzgerald  LP. His
firm is a tenant at 199 Water St., where a flooded basement will
take six to eight weeks to clean up, he said.  ‘Material Effect’  “This is going to have a material effect on values
downtown,” said Lutnick, who also runs BGC Partners Inc., owner
of property brokerage Newmark Grubb Knight Frank.  Cantor Fitzgerald moved most of its downtown employees to
its Midtown headquarters. Lutnick declined to say whether the
company would renew its lease at Water Street when it is up in
about 16 months.  “We will see,” he told reporters at the NYU Schack
Institute of Real Estate’s capital markets conference on Nov. 7.  Jack Resnick & Sons, the family-run real estate investment
firm that owns 199 Water St., is working “as hard as possible”
to fix the damage, said  Steve Solomon , a spokesman.  Daily News  The  New York  Daily News is preparing to be out of its
offices at 4 New York Plaza for between six months and a year,
Bill Holiber, the newspaper’s president and chief executive
officer, said in an interview. The newsroom has been relocated
to its printing plant in Jersey City, New Jersey.  “We’re still waiting to hear” from the landlord, he said.
“We just feel based on our knowledge and observations, it can
be up to that period of time.”  Calls to Edge Fund Advisors, a Washington-based real estate
firm that bought the building with another company in May,
weren’t returned.  Several of the area’s buildings that are more inland are
wrapping up their cleanup and should be open by early next week,
said John Wheeler, head of Jones Lang’s lower Manhattan office.
Those properties are easier to fix because they didn’t have a
lot of water pouring into their basements, he said.  Landlords in the area include Brookfield Office Properties
Inc., which has 22 percent of its portfolio in lower Manhattan,
and  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) , with 16 percent of the assets it owns
there, according to a report by Bloomberg Industries.  Rent Refunds  UDR Inc. (UDR)  entered the Manhattan market last year with two
purchases downtown: 10 Hanover Square and 95 Wall St., both of
which had no power as of yesterday afternoon and where residents
are allowed in during the day only to retrieve belongings,
according to the company’s website. The firm is working with
local utility  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  to determine how much of
the properties’ electrical gear is salvageable.  UDR, based in Highlands Ranch, Colorado, is prorating rents
for days the properties are uninhabitable and offering $100
credits to help tenants “restock their refrigerators,” it said
on its website.  The company said in a Nov. 1 statement that its liability
could total $11 million to $14 million before insurance
proceeds. Under an “optimistic” scenario for 95 Wall St.,
tenants could return no earlier than the middle of next week.  While it repairs the damage to eight of its downtown
buildings, Moinian Group is offering rent credits, the company
said in a Nov. 6 statement. Properties where tenants will see
refunds on their December bill include luxury apartments at 100
John St., a building that offers amenities such as 24-hour
concierge service. It’s expected to open to residents this week,
Moinian said in an interview.  W Downtown  Credits will also be issued at the W New York Downtown
Hotel and Residences at 123 Washington Street, where point guard
Jeremy Lin rented an apartment during his time with the  National
Basketball Association ’s  New York Knicks , according to Moinian.  The complex at 17 Battery Place, which includes offices and
a residential building known as the Ocean, will take longer to
rehabilitate, in part because of flooding to an underground
parking garage that makes the damage to the electrical equipment
still unknown, he said.  “We have to think about what’s going to happen to some of
those buildings” in the area, Bill Rudin, CEO of landlord Rudin
Management Co., said at the NYU conference.  Cleanup Effort  “Simple things like move the electricity and power boxes
from downstairs, upstairs” will need to be done soon, said
Rudin, whose 80 Pine St. and 110 Wall St. properties sustained
damage from Sandy.  “We also have to look at bigger-picture issues -- surge
protections, things like that,” Rudin said. “Those are
billions of dollars of money and time.”  At the 39-story tower at 80 Pine, two blocks from the lower
Manhattan waterfront, Rudin’s building manager and engineer were
nearly killed Oct. 29, as they were shutting steam lines and
checking equipment while the water began to flood in. With the
basement of the property, also known as 110  Maiden Lane , now
drained, workers this week were tackling the piles of debris
left behind.  In an underground level, beneath a Hale and Hearty soup
shop at the property, workers earlier this week were packing
garbage bags full of wood and ceiling material, as well as wet
cardboard boxes in what appeared to be a basement storage room.
Ceilings there sagged and collapsed, walls were knocked over and
a food-storage refrigerator belonging to the restaurant was
pushed into the middle of the room.  ‘Messed Up’  Sandy’s surges filled the basement and rose upward into the
Hale and Hearty, partially submerging the refrigerated storage
case where bowls of salad are usually displayed.  “This was all messed up,” Pedro Salabrria, a cleanup crew
member, said from inside the soup shop, where workers found
serving stations and display cases flipped over.  The scene was similar all along Maiden Lane and Water
Street, which runs parallel to the East River: dumpsters parked
outside, filling steadily with garbage bags, and generators at
the base of the buildings snaking power in for the cleanup
crews. Outside the Andaz hotel at 75 Wall St., damp rugs were
rolled up outside the lobby entrance and a note from management
alerted passersby that the hotel is closed until further notice.
At 77 Water St., workers spent the afternoon of Nov. 7 rinsing
off decorative rock beds in front of the building with power
hoses.  Morgan Stanley  At 1 New York Plaza, where Morgan Stanley leases more than
800,000 square feet, Brookfield is “assessing the condition of
the mechanicals,”  Melissa Coley , a spokeswoman for the
landlord, said in a Nov. 7 interview. She said the company was
hoping to open the building in three to six weeks.  The tower at 125 Broad St., also known as 2 New York Plaza,
suffered “heavy flooding and related damage,” Edison, New
Jersey-based  Mack-Cali Realty Corp. (CLI)  said in a statement today.
It gave no timetable for its reopening. The company owns 525,000
square feet in the 1.2 million-square-foot building, whose
occupants include the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.  At 180 Maiden Lane, the headquarters of AIG, heavy flooding
will keep tenants out for 30 days, landlord SL Green said in a
Nov. 7 statement. All of SL Green’s other properties are open.  Recovery Intact  The storm’s effects are temporary and are unlikely to hurt
real estate values downtown, said Jones Lang’s Wheeler.  “The drivers of lower Manhattan’s resurgence are still
intact and valid,” he said in a telephone interview.  Those reasons include the rise of affluent residential
communities both in and near lower Manhattan, including Tribeca,
downtown Brooklyn and Jersey City and Hoboken in New Jersey, he
said. Leasing rates are also about a third cheaper than in
Midtown, and the area also offers striking water views.  Insurance rates for office properties probably will
increase in the low-lying areas of lower Manhattan that
sustained the most damage, according to Finley Harckham, a
partner at Anderson Kill & Olick PC, who represents
policyholders in litigation.  Sandy, while smaller than  Hurricane Katrina , may cause
similar legal disputes as the 2005 storm over whether damage was
caused by wind or flooding, he said.  “Even where there’s coverage, in a situation like this the
insurance companies tend to be notoriously slow” in paying
claims, he said. “In the next couple of weeks, we’re going to
see businesses screaming to get at least partial payment so they
can make the necessary repairs to restore their operations.”  Premium Pressure  While insurers have plenty of capital to continue writing
coverage, they will probably re-examine the risks they’re taking
in the areas affected by Sandy and last year’s  Hurricane Irene ,
said Brian Duperreault, chief executive officer of Marsh &
McLennan Cos., the second-largest insurance broker.  “We do expect the Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions will
be under more scrutiny from underwriters on the heels of two
major storms within 14 months,” he said on a Nov. 6 conference
call with analysts.  Kathryn Wylde , CEO of the Partnership for  New York City , a
trade organization for city-based corporations, said her group
is studying whether to advocate for the federal government to
offer an insurance loss “backstop” to private insurers who are
hesitant to write policies for lower Manhattan properties.  “We certainly have a new definition of the flood plain and
I doubt federal flood insurance, available to homeowners, will
suffice,” she said in an e-mail.  Insurance may not cover all of the costs of flooding, such
as relocation of equipment, which may hurt individual property
owners who can’t afford repairs, Darcy Stacom, vice chairman of
CBRE Group Inc., said at the Schack Institute conference.  “Will investors think about this when they look at
buildings in hard-hit areas? Yes,” she said. “Unless you can
show them the infrastructure has been changed to deal with it,
they’re going to tighten the core area that they’re going to
look to invest in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  