-- Palestinians Defy Obama With UN ‘Observer State’ Bid
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-11-09T00:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/palestinians-defy-obama-with-un-observer-state-bid.html
Palestinians defied newly re-elected
U.S. President  Barack Obama  by pushing ahead with a second
statehood bid at the United Nations that will raise their
profile at the world body and highlight the stagnation of the
Mideast peace process.  The Palestinian Authority yesterday circulated a resolution
to put the Palestine Liberation Organization on a par with the
Holy See, according to a draft that will be put to a vote in the
UN’s 193-member General Assembly, where the initiative has
enough support to pass and the U.S. lacks veto power.  The latest steps by the Palestinians present Obama with his
first foreign-policy challenge three days after he won a second
term. A year ago, the Palestinians abandoned an attempt to be
recognized as a full member state through the Security Council
after Obama indicated the U.S. would use its veto there.  The PLO, which currently is an observer “entity,” is
seeking a nonmember “observer state status,” according to the
draft obtained by Bloomberg News.  By resurrecting the statehood issue in the General
Assembly, the Palestinian leadership is trying to force the
White House to pay attention to a moribund Palestinian-Israeli
peace process that has dropped off the list of foreign-policy
priorities for Obama.  In doing so, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas
is jeopardizing relations with Obama, as well as about $500
million in U.S. economic and security aid that members of
Congress have threatened to cut if Palestinians proceed at the
UN.  Issue Fades  The Palestinians have seen their cause fall into relative
obscurity internationally since formal peace talks with Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government were frozen two
years ago.  Peace talks stumbled over the issue of Jewish settlements
in the West Bank, which Israel captured from Jordan in the 1967
Six-Day War. Abbas said he wouldn’t return to negotiations
unless Israel froze all settlement construction in the West Bank
and east  Jerusalem . Netanyahu has refused to renew a 10-month
freeze on construction that expired in 2010.  Abbas will present the resolution in person in New York,
according to a UN official speaking on condition of anonymity. A
vote is expected to take place by the end of the month, the
official said.  Still, the move isn’t without risks.  When the Palestinian Authority was accepted last year into
the UN cultural agency UNESCO, best known for its designation of
“world heritage” sites, the U.S. response was to cut off
funding that provides almost a quarter of the agency’s budget.  The U.S. has said that American law would require similar
cutoffs for any UN agency that grants the Palestinians the same
status as member states.  International Criminal Court  The upgrade may open the door for Palestinians to join
other UN agencies, including the International Criminal Court,
where they could ask for  Israel  to be tried for war crimes.  “Israel’s main worry is the ICC,” Palestinian chief
negotiator Saeb Erakat said in an Oct. 24 interview. “They
don’t want me to have a sword on their neck.”  The initiative could also jeopardize international aid that
accounts for about 14 percent of the Palestinians’ gross
domestic product and invite retaliatory measures from Israel.  As for the U.S., the administration’s position hasn’t
wavered. The U.S. ambassador to the UN, Susan Rice, has said
repeatedly that “unilateral actions,” such as the upgrade of
the Palestinians’ UN status, would only derail efforts to
restart direct peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  