-- Pentagon Alerted Within 50 Minutes of Benghazi Attack
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-11-10T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/pentagon-alerted-within-50-minutes-of-benghazi-attack.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  was
alerted about 50 minutes after the start of the attack on the
U.S. consulate in Benghazi,  Libya , and dispatched troops from
Europe within hours, according to the Pentagon.  A timeline released yesterday by the Defense Department
counters statements by some Republicans before the Nov. 6
election that President  Barack Obama ’s administration failed to
respond to requests for military aid or for rescue efforts
during the Sept. 11 attack that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans. More congressional hearings
and briefings on the attack are scheduled next week.  While Obama ordered “all available” Pentagon assets to
respond to the attack, no armed planes were near Benghazi at the
time, Panetta said yesterday in a letter to members of Congress.  “The U.S. armed forces did everything they were in
position to do to respond to the attack in Benghazi,” Panetta
said.  An unarmed surveillance drone was directed to the Benghazi
compound 17 minutes after the attack began and arrived over the
site about 70 minutes later, according to the timeline.  The attack began at 3:42 p.m. Washington time. At a meeting
that evening that began at 6 p.m., Panetta authorized the
deployment of Marine Corps anti-terrorism teams to Benghazi and
Tripoli from Rota,  Spain , as well preparation of a Europe-based
special operations team. He also ordered a U.S.-based special
operations force to prepare to deploy to a staging base in
southern  Europe .  Second Facility  At 6:30 p.m. Washington time, a six-member security team
from the U.S. embassy in Tripoli, the Libyan capital, departed
for Benghazi and arrived about an hour later -- almost four
hours after the attack began.  A second facility in Benghazi, known as the annex, came
under mortar and rocket fire at 11:15 p.m., the Pentagon said.  “The department’s senior leaders and I spared no effort to
save the lives of our American colleagues, as we worked to
bolster security in response to a series of other threats in the
region occurring at the same time,” Panetta said in the letter.
Protests were erupting at the time in  Muslim countries  including
 Egypt  and Tunisia against a video made in the U.S. that
denigrated the  Prophet Muhammad .  The units deployed were ready to perform a variety of
missions including a potential hostage rescue, according to a
Pentagon official who briefed reporters yesterday.  Pentagon officials didn’t have a real-time, complete
picture of what was happening on the ground at the time of the
attacks and didn’t know if they would be an hours-long event or
continue for a day or longer, he said.  C-17 Sent  The  U.S.  Africa  Command ordered a C-17 cargo plane in
 Germany  to prepare to deploy to Libya to evacuate Americans
about 50 minutes after the second facility in Benghazi came
under attack.  The first wave of American personnel departed Benghazi for
Tripoli at about 1:40 a.m. Washington time, with a second wave
departing at about 4 a.m.  At 8:15 a.m., the C-17 departed Germany for Tripoli. It
picked up American personnel and the remains of Stevens and
three other Americans and left Tripoli for Germany at 1:17 p.m.  The first of the troops dispatched by Panetta the previous
evening began arriving just before 3 p.m. Washington time on
Sept. 12, long after the attack had ended. Most got no further
than an intermediate staging area in southern Europe.  “Before they arrived in place, the attack in Benghazi had
concluded,” Panetta said in his letter.  Republican Response  Arizona  Senator  John McCain  and five other Republican
senators who have criticized the administration’s handling of
the attack issued a statement yesterday saying they weren’t
satisfied with Panetta’s explanation.  “Unfortunately, Secretary Panetta’s letter only confirms
what we already knew -- that there were no forces at a
sufficient alert posture in Europe, Africa or the  Middle East  to
provide timely assistance to our fellow citizens in need in
Libya,” the senators said in the statement. “The letter fails
to address the most important question -- why not?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  