-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate on Balanced Economy and Slowing CPI
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-11-09T18:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-on-balanced-economy-and-slowing-cpi-1-.html
Peru kept borrowing costs unchanged
for the 18th consecutive month as policy makers said economic
growth is near its potential and inflation is slowing to the
mid-point of their target range.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
held the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent yesterday, matching all
14 forecasts of economist  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “Growth in the Peruvian economy has stabilized around its
long-term sustainable level,” while the outlook for global
growth remains “uncertain,” the central bank said in a
 statement  on its website. October brought “a reversal of the
supply shocks that had been affecting inflation temporarily, and
with that inflation will return to the target range and trend
gradually to 2 percent.”  The bank raised reserve requirements last week for a third
straight month to slow credit growth in South America’s fastest
growing economy and to curb the rally by the  sol , which touched
a 15-year high against the dollar last month. The annual
inflation rate fell to a 16-month low in October.  “Capital inflows and the currency are their main concern
in the short term,” said Mario Guerrero, an economist at
Scotiabank Peru, in a telephone interview from  Lima . “They
would be comfortable with slower credit growth. Reserve
requirements may be aimed at slowing consumer credit, which
remains strong.”  The central bank targets an annual rate of 2 percent plus
or minus 1 percent.  Reserves, Currency  Record low borrowing costs in the U.S., the European Union
and  Japan  have prompted Peruvian companies to turn to
international bond markets and foreign banks for financing.
Record foreign direct investment and demand for Peruvian
government bonds have added to inflows.  The central bank increased the average reserve requirement
for sol and dollar deposits by 0.75 percentage point on Oct. 30,
the largest of the four increases this year. The average deposit
ratio in September was 16.9 percent for soles and 38.9 percent
for dollars, it said.  The monetary authority is evaluating the development of
credit and liquidity to determine whether a further increase in
reserve requirements is needed, Adrian Armas, the bank’s
research director, said during a conference call with reporters
today.  Policy makers have boosted reserves by buying a record
$12.5 billion in the spot market this year and last month
proposed tightening restrictions on banks’ sales of greenbacks
to tame the sol. Limits on private pension fund investments
overseas will probably be relaxed by year-end to boost demand
for dollars, Velarde said in an Oct. 25 interview.  Swings in the currency can harm  Peru ’s economy, where 43.8
percent of all credit is denominated in dollars, while
appreciation can lead to calls for protectionism, Velarde said.  Investment, Trade  “Peru is one of the few countries in Latin America where
people are used to taking out loans in dollars, so that makes
monetary policy a bit more difficult,” he said.  The sol depreciated 0.3 percent to 2.6130 per dollar at
12:59 p.m. in Lima, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.
The currency touched 2.5770 on Oct. 22, the strongest since
December 1996, according to  data  from the Superintendency for
Banking, Insurance and Pension Fund Administrators.  Private investment climbed 16 percent in the third quarter,
fueling a 6.4 percent rise in gross domestic product, after a
6.1 percent rise in the first half, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said at an event in Lima on Nov. 7.  Though a weak global economy has hurt demand for Peru’s
copper exports, there are signs of stronger growth in the U.S.
and  China , the nation’s biggest trading partners, Castilla said.  Peru, the world’s third-largest copper producer, will boost
output 62 percent over the next two years as new mines start
producing, Velarde said Sept. 28. Copper has gained almost 16
percent in the past three year and traded at $3.4385 a pound on
the Comex in New York.  Exports, Markets  The Andean nation posted a $403 million trade surplus in
September, the widest in three months, Armas said.  Consumer and business confidence is rising, while
investment growth will fuel a 6.2 percent rise in gross domestic
product this year, he said.  Tax collection increased 7.8 percent to 6.92 billion soles
($2.67 billion) in October from the same month a year earlier,
led by increased sales tax revenue, tax and customs agency Sunat
said Nov. 6.  Consumer prices  last month fell the most since 2009,
declining 0.16 percent largely because of lower food costs. The
 annual inflation  rate fell to 3.25 percent from 3.74 percent in
September.  The Lima Stock Exchange’s  benchmark index  has advanced 8.2
percent this year and the sol has appreciated 3.2 percent
against the U.S. dollar. The extra yield investors demand to own
Peruvian government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has
decreased 92 basis points to 124 basis points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Loan Growth  Increased reserve requirements will cause loan growth to
slow in the fourth quarter of 2012, said Eduardo Torres-Llosa,
chief executive officer of Banco Continental, the Peruvian unit
of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , in an Oct. 31 interview.  Lending will increase 14 percent this year and 12 percent
next year, after expanding 17 percent in 2011, he said.  Banks are increasing provisions as a precautionary move
amid rising loan delinquency rates and signs some consumers have
taken on too much debt, Torres-Llosa said.  “The economy is doing well,” he said. “Slowing the pace
of credit doesn’t hurt anyone.”  Policy makers are considering an increase in loan
provisions to stem a rise in consumer borrowing in dollars, said
Oscar Rivera, president of the country’s banking association,
Asbanc. Lower interest rates on dollar loans and the sol’s
appreciation are spurring demand for car and home loans in the
U.S. currency, he said.  “Recent monetary policy measures are aimed at easing the
pace of currency appreciation and slowing credit in a preventive
way,” Guerrero said. “Probably they’ll keep on raising reserve
requirements. They’re not done yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  