-- Philippines Sells $750 Million Peso Bonds for Debt Buyback
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-11-09T05:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/philippines-sells-750-million-of-peso-bonds-for-debt-buyback.html
The  Philippines  raised the equivalent
of $750 million from a sale of 10-year peso bonds overseas as it
seeks to lower interest expenses and retire costlier dollar debt.  The peso notes, which will be settled in dollars, were sold
at a yield of 3.9 percent, about 25 percent less than similar-
maturity securities in the domestic market and below the
indicative rate of 4.1 percent, according to a government
statement today. The proceeds will be used to redeem global
bonds denominated in euros and the U.S. currency, it said.  “The transaction allowed global investors the opportunity
to participate in the impressive growth story of the Philippine
economy, which is considered today to be one of the safest
emerging-market sovereigns to invest in,” Manila-based Finance
Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a statement today.  President  Benigno Aquino  has won upgrades to the nation’s
credit ratings this year from Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s  as he takes steps to reduce the  budget deficit 
and lure foreign cash. An agreement with Muslim rebels in
Mindanao last month aimed at ending a four-decade insurgency in
the south of the country may also improve investor sentiment.  Debt Orders  Investors bid for 7.2 times the amount on offer, which
newly appointed Philippine Treasurer Rosalia De Leon said was
originally slated for as much as $1 billion. Funds from the U.S.
accounted for 41 percent of the sale,  Asia  30 percent and  Europe 
29 percent, the statement said.  “We still like the Philippines given the improving
fundamentals,” Wee-Ming Ting, Singapore-based head of Asian
fixed-income at Pictet Asset Management, which oversees more
than $24 billion in emerging-market debt globally, said in an
interview yesterday. “We believe Philippine bonds overall will
do well, including this global peso bond.”  The government cut the issuance size after deciding to buy
the additional foreign currency for the debt purchase from the
central bank,  De Leon , who previously held the job of finance
undersecretary, said today.  International reserves  in the
Philippines reached a record $82.1 billion in October, more than
double what they were at the end of 2008.  “The yield would have stayed at 3.9 percent even if we got
$1 billion,” De Leon said in an interview today from  Manila .
“We have a lot of cash, it would help Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas with the peso if we tap the reserves.”  Peso Management  Bangko Sentral Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in a
text message this week that the authorities have been “very
vigilant” in curbing volatility in the peso. Prolonged currency
appreciation could be “destabilizing,” he added. The peso has
gained 6.6 percent this year, the second-best performance among
11 of Asia’s most-traded currencies, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “Future losses from the appreciation of the peso on the
central bank’s holdings of dollar-denominated assets will be
reduced once they sell those dollars,” Joey Cuyegkeng, an
economist in Manila at ING Groep NV, said in an interview today.  The government hired Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank
AG and HSBC Holdings Plc to manage the bond sale and debt
buyback, according to an official statement. The repurchase
offer will expire on Nov. 15 at 5 p.m.  New York  time and
settlement is Nov. 27, it said.  The Philippines raised $1.25 billion from its second sale
of peso-denominated bonds in the international market in January
2011. The 25-year notes were issued at 6.25 percent, or 185
basis points lower than rates in the domestic market at that
time. The securities have since returned 19 percent. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The nation’s debt rating was raised to Ba1, one step below
investment grade, by Moody’s on Oct. 29, while S&P boosted its
ranking to the equivalent level of BB+ in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  