-- Picasso $41.5 Million Canvas Fails to Lift Sotheby’s Sale
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/picasso-41-5-million-canvas-fails-to-lift-sotheby-s-sale.html
The art market stayed in the doldrums
last night as  Sotheby’s (BID)  New York recorded its smallest tally for
an evening sale of Impressionist and modern art sale since May
2009.  As with Wednesday night’s Christie’s auction, almost a
third of the lots found no buyers. The $163 million total fell
short of the low presale estimate of $169 million.  While the stock market again dropped, with a 3.6 percent
decline over two days in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, signs
of balky buyers also recalled the tepid action at Christie’s.
Only a few perceived trophies seemed to excite bidders.  “There isn’t that exuberance,” New York dealer David Nash
said. “Collectors are more careful with their money.”  Simon Shaw, a Sotheby’s senior vice president and head of
the Impressionist and modern art department in  New York ,
referred to a “pushback against high estimates” in the post-
sale press conference. Casualties included Picasso and Degas
paintings, a Matisse drawing and a Rodin sculpture.  “It’s a smart market today,” said New York dealer
Christoph van de Weghe. “If things are priced right, they sell.
If they are priced even a tad higher, they don’t.”  The top lot was Picasso’s “Nature Morte aux Tulipes,” a
painting of his young mistress Marie-Therese Walter that fetched
$41.5 million. It last sold at auction for $28.6 million in 2000
at Christie’s in New York and later changed hands privately
through Acquavella Galleries.  Another Walter portrait, the 1936 “Femme a la Fenetre
(Marie-Therese),” sold for $17.2 million, exceeding its presale
low estimate of $15 million.  ‘Le Viol’  Picasso’s 1940 drawing “Le Viol,” consigned by the estate
of Greek shipping magnate George Embiricos, sparked active
bidding in the room and on the phones. It sold for $12.1
million, twice the presale high estimate.  The evening’s other big success was an 1881 landscape by
 Claude Monet  sold by the  Cleveland Museum of Art  to raise funds
for future acquisitions. Estimated between $5 million and $7
million, it went for $12.1 million after prolonged bidding.  Dealers said they perceived more energy in the salesroom
than at Christie’s. Dealer Asher Edelman said the evening was
Ferrari-like compared with the night before.  “But it wasn’t a very fast Ferrari,” he said.  ‘Come On’  The bidding for “Nature Morte aux Tulipes” didn’t burn up
the road. Philip Hook, senior specialist at Sotheby’s  London ,
bought it for a client on the phone. The underbidder, art dealer
David Nahmad, was urged on by auctioneer Tobias Meyer.  “Come on, it’s beautiful!” Meyer implored.  At once a portrait and a still life, the work depicts
Walter’s sculpted white head on a pedestal next to a bouquet of
tulips and sexually suggestive fruit. It was estimated at $35
million to $50 million.  The seller was guaranteed a minimum undisclosed price,
provided by Sotheby’s, a third party or combination thereof,
according to the catalog. A third party also provided Sotheby’s
with an irrevocable bid on the lot, ensuring that the work would
sell.  Picasso’s paintings of Walter have been popular with
collectors; his “Nude,  Green Leaves  and Bust” went for $106.5
million at Christie’s in New York in 2010.  Sotheby’s charges buyers 25 percent of the hammer price up
to $50,000, plus 20 percent from $50,000 to $1 million and 12
percent above $1 million. Pre-sale estimates don’t include the
buyer’s premium.  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on
 movies , Patrick Cole on  philanthropy .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 