-- Pimco’s El-Erian Says Spain Must Apply for ECB Aid: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-11-09T16:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/pimco-s-el-erian-says-spain-must-apply-for-ecb-aid-tom-keene.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian said Spain must request support from the
European Central Bank to halt the contagion in the region from
the rise in the nation’s bond yields.  “We need Spain to get its act together, to apply to the
ECB and to get support,” El-Erian, chief executive officer of
the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “It is important that Spain does everything it can to
bring down its yields. If it doesn’t then Italian yields, which
today went to 5 percent, will continue to head north.”  Spain’s  10-year yield  rose 16 basis points to 5.82 percent
this week. Yields have climbed about 60 basis points since
falling to 5.26 percent on Oct. 19, the least since April.
 Italy ’s 10-year debt yield rose reached 5.07 percent today, the
highest since Oct. 11.  Yields on the euro-area’s most indebted nations, including
Spain and Italy, had fallen since the European Central Bank
unveiled its Outright Monetary Transactions bond-buying plan,
known as the OMT, in September, pledging to spend as much as
needed to restore confidence in government bond markets.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said yesterday
that there would be no relaxing of the conditionality of the
program, which pledges unlimited support to debt-strapped
nations if they sign up to economic reforms as part of a bailout
from  Europe ’s rescue fund.  ECB Window  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said on Nov. 6 he
needs to know how much the ECB would push down Spain’s borrowing
costs before his government applies for aid and signs up to the
conditions attached.  “There is a lot that Europe has to do and unfortunately
the time that has been bought by Mario Draghi’s very bold
actions starting on July 26 -- that window -- is not being
exploited enough,” El-Erian said.  Draghi vowed on July 26 to do “whatever it takes” to
defend the euro, helping to stem a slide that pushed the 17-
nation currency down about 6 percent since late March against
its major counterparts as the region’s sovereign crisis
intensified. Draghi’s comments came after Spain and Cyprus
joined  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  in seeking bailouts.  Draghi said yesterday the economic outlook is worsening and
the bank stands ready to activate its bond-purchase program if
governments fulfill the necessary conditions.  European Growth  Separate reports today showed industrial production slumped
in  France , Italy and  Finland .  French industrial production shrank 2.5 percent in
September from a year earlier, after declining an annual 0.9
percent in August, the national statistics office said. Factory
output slid 4.8 percent in Italy and 1.7 percent in Finland.  In Italy, industrial output declined the most in five
months in September, signaling the country remained mired in
recession in the third quarter. Output fell 1.5 percent from
August, when it rose 1.7 percent, national statistics office
Istat said in  Rome  today.  “Europe has hit our screens again, and in a big way,” El-
Erian said. “It’s not just about Spain or Greece. It’s
unambiguous evidence that  Germany  is slowing and that France has
gone into contraction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  