-- Pluristem: Second Patient With ‘Life-Saving’ Cells Died
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-11-09T21:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/pluristem-second-patient-with-life-saving-cells-died.html
Pluristem Therapeutics Inc. (PSTI)  said a
second of the three patients given the company’s experimental
stem cells has died after Pluristem touted the treatments as
“life-saving.”  Pluristem shares soared after the Haifa, Israel-based
company issued news releases in May, August and September
announcing the treatments. Pluristem raised $34 million in a
share sale in September without announcing that the first of
those patients, a 7-year-old girl with a bone-marrow disease,
had died. The company issued a press release today acknowledging
the death of a second patient, though it wouldn’t say when the
death occurred.  Pluristem sank the most in 21 months in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading yesterday after Bloomberg News reported Pluristem hadn’t
disclosed the girl’s death before the share sale. The company
said today it wasn’t aware of her death at the time of the
offering.  “The pediatric patient referred to in the Bloomberg
article survived for six months, another patient survived for
four months, and the third is still alive,” the company said in
today’s statement. “Pluristem believes that these results
exceeded longevity expectations. The unfortunate deaths of the
patients do not diminish these results.”  ‘Medical Miracle’  The May 9 announcement of the girl’s treatment was
headlined, “Compassionate Use of Pluristem’s PLX Cells Saves
the Life of a Child After Bone Marrow Transplantation Failure.”
On Aug. 6, the company said the cells had been administered to a
54-year-old woman with cancer suffering from bone-marrow
failure. Pluristem quoted her doctor in the news release
describing her subsequent recovery “as a medical miracle.” On
Sept. 9, the company said a 45-year-old man with leukemia had
received a “life-saving” treatment with the cells.  A spokeswoman for Pluristem declined to say today whether
it was the 54-year-old woman or the 45-year-old man who had
died, or provide any details about the death.  Pluristem’s announcements helped lift the stock from its
2012 low of $2.02 in March to an intraday high of $5 on Aug. 17.  “Such press releases risk misleading investors by creating
overly optimistic account of scientific research,” Leigh
Turner, an associate professor at the  University of Minnesota
Center for Bioethics , said in a  blog posting  yesterday. “More
importantly, press releases describing miracles and life-saving
cures are harmful because they give seriously ill individuals an
unrealistic account of effectiveness of experimental stem cell
interventions.”  Stock Sale  The stock plunged after the company announced on Sept. 12
that it planned to sell shares to raise money for research
expenses. Pluristem completed the sale Sept. 19. The girl died
Sept. 12, a company spokeswoman said last month.  Pluristem didn’t announce the girl’s death because it
stopped following her progress after she left the hospital,
Chief Executive Officer Zami Aberman said in an interview last
month. She had been critically ill, and her death was unrelated
to the stem-cell treatment, the company said in today’s
statement. Pluristem learned of her death “at the discretion of
her family and physician” in her home country of  Romania  after
the stock sale, the company said.  Pluristem acquired the rights to the technology underlying
its PLX stem cells in 2003. The cells aren’t approved for sale
anywhere in the world. The company has completed two early-stage
clinical trials in a total of 27 patients.  Israel , like many
countries including the U.S., allows so-called compassionate use
of unapproved medicines in patients for whom no other treatment
options exist.  Pluristem rose 14 percent to close at $3.24 in  New York 
trading, giving the company a market value of $186 million. The
stock dropped 23 percent yesterday, the most since Jan. 27,
2011.  “Pluristem wishes to emphasize that compassionate-use
cases are entirely experimental and last-resort efforts in
desperate situations and obviously not predictive of ultimate
success or failure,” the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  