-- Precision to Buy Simmons’s Timet for $2.9 Billion
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-11-14T22:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/precision-to-buy-titanium-metals-for-2-9-billion.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph of story published Nov. 9 to
show CEO’s comments were made on a conference call.)  Precision Castparts Corp. (PCP) , the maker
of metal forgings for  jet engines , agreed to buy Texas
billionaire Harold Simmons’s   Titanium Metals Corp. (TIE)  for $2.9
billion in its largest acquisition in almost two decades.  Titanium Metals stockholders will get $16.50 a share, 44
percent more than the Dallas-based company’s closing price
yesterday, according to a statement. Entities controlled by
Simmons have agreed to sell their 45 percent stake in the
company, known as Timet, Precision Castparts said.  The deal, Precision’s largest since at least 1995, extends
an acquisition spree under Chief Executive Officer Mark Donegan,
who has overseen more than two dozen purchases in the past
decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Planemakers  Boeing Co. (BA) 
and Airbus SAS have urged suppliers to consolidate to help
support record increases in jet output.  Donegan said in a July conference call that he foresaw at
least $1 billion in merger opportunities in the next 16 months.
 Portland , Oregon-based Precision agreed last month to acquire
pipe processor Texas Honing Inc., and said in July it was buying
four factories from Canadian landing-gear maker  Heroux-Devtek
Inc. (HRX)  to expand in the aviation-parts industry.  The 44 percent premium compares to an average 37 percent
for 23 non-ferrous metals companies in the U.S. bought in the
past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
deal price represents a multiple of about 1.7 times total
assets, compared with the 1.96 median of four deals, data show.  Simmons’s Holdings  The acquisition, which is not contingent on Precision
obtaining financing, is scheduled to close next month, the
companies said. Funding will come from a combination of cash and
short- and long-term debt, Precision said.  Precision has  climbed  4 percent this year to $171.33,
trailing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Industrials Index. Titanium
Metals dropped 23 percent to $11.57 in the same period.  Simmons, 81, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call and
an e-mail seeking comment on the transaction.  His Contran Corp. holds stakes in companies that include
 Keystone Consolidated Industries Inc. (KYCN) , a maker of wire products,
and  Valhi Inc. (VHI) , whose products include titanium products and
titanium dioxide pigments.  Simmons has long been active in Texas politics and made
forays into national elections as well. He gave $2.3 million to
the Restore Our Future super-PAC that backed Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , and in 2004, he donated $4
million to Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, a group that
questioned Democratic nominee  John Kerry ’s Vietnam War service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  