-- Prospect Mortgage Hires Brandt to Target Correspondent Lending
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-11-09T19:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/prospect-mortgage-hires-brandt-to-target-correspondent-lending.html
Amy Brandt, the former head of a
 General Electric Co. (GE)  home lender, joined Prospect Mortgage LLC
as the company targets a segment of residential lending that
larger firms retreated from.  Brandt will serve as the company’s president of
correspondent lending, in which closed  mortgages  are bought from
other originators, and servicing as it expands in those
businesses, the  Sherman Oaks , California-based firm said today
in an e-mailed statement.  “We see a tremendous opportunity to greatly expand our
national correspondent lending platform” and fill “a void that
currently exists in the marketplace,” Chief Executive Office
Ron Bergum said in the statement. “Amy knows how to build a
successful business. She will play a critical role in guiding
the strategy.”  Prospect Mortgage, which is backed by private-equity firm
Sterling Partners, joins companies including  PennyMac Mortgage
Investment Trust (PMT) ,  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  and  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) 
in seeking to take advantage of a retreat from correspondent
lending by some larger financial firms including Bank of America
Corp.  In the business, mortgages are usually bought from smaller
originators and then resold as government-backed bonds, with the
middleman retaining contracts to service the debt, or handle
payments and collections.  Ocwen, PennyMac  Bank of America and MetLife Inc. are among companies that
have exited correspondent lending since the middle of last year
amid new capital rules and servicing regulations.  The contraction is allowing remaining firms to acquire
servicing rights at “significantly” lower prices, Ocwen said
in a Nov. 2  filing . Ocwen agreed last month to buy a servicer
and lender from  Wilbur Ross ’s WL Ross & Co. for $750 million.  PennyMac, led by former Countrywide Financial Corp.
executives, said yesterday that its volumes rose by 87 percent
from the second quarter to $6.3 billion in the period ended
Sept. 30.  Brandt helped private equity firm  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO)  in 2007 create Vantium Capital Inc., which owns a servicer
of troubled mortgages, according to today’s statement. She
previously led WMC Mortgage, a lender specializing in so-called
subprime and Alt-A loans that GE bought from Apollo in 2004 and
shuttered in 2007 as defaults on such loans began to soar.  Prospect Mortgage described itself in the statement as
among the top 10 providers of loans for home purchases in the
U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 