-- Putin Dismisses Military Chief After Defense Minister Ouster
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-11-09T10:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/putin-dismisses-military-chief-after-defense-minister-ouster-1-.html
President  Vladimir Putin  fired
Russia’s top military commander, three days after ousting the
defense minister, removing the architects of the biggest
overhaul of the armed forces since the  Cold War .  Nikolai Makarov , who served as the head of the military’s
General Staff, was also dismissed as first deputy defense
minister and discharged from the military, the Kremlin said in
an e-mailed statement. Valery Gerasimov, a 57-year-old former
Soviet tank regiment commander who had been Makarov’s first
deputy, was named the new military chief at his meeting with
Putin and Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu in Moscow today.  “Comrade Commander-in-Chief, the General Staff’s entire
task is to achieve one key goal, to maintain the armed forces’
military capability,” Gerasimov told Putin at the meeting.  Russia plans to spend 23 trillion rubles ($729 billion)
this decade on the largest rearmament since the 1991 collapse of
the  Soviet Union . The ousted defense minister, Anatoly Serdyukov, was unpopular in the military because he sharply
reduced headcount and overhauled procurement as part of a drive
to make the armed forces more efficient, according to  Ruslan Pukhov , head of the Center for Analysis of Strategies and
Technologies in Moscow.  The Russian leader criticized the outgoing Defense Ministry
command for imposing too many changes on military contractors.  “We need to focus on cutting-edge equipment but we also
need a certain degree of stability here,” he said today.  Overenthusiastic Chief  The ousted military chief had been “very enthusiastic”
about the efforts to reduce waste and make the armed forces more
professional, said Pavel Felgenhauer, an independent defense
analyst based in Moscow.  “This signifies the end of the Serdyukov reforms,”
Felgenhauer said by phone. “Putin’s main task is rearmament,
which is what the Soviet Union was doing.”  The former defense chief, who reduced military personnel by
300,000 to about a million and cut the officer corps by almost
40 percent, had set the goal of increasing sevenfold the ratio
of “state-of-the-art” equipment in  Russia ’s arsenal by 2020,
including by buying foreign weapons.  Then-President Dmitry Medvedev called for an overhaul of
the armed forces and their communications systems after the
five-day war with U.S.-ally Georgia in August 2008.  Putin also dismissed First Deputy Defense Minister
Alexander Sukhorukov, according to the Kremlin statement.  Serdyukov, 50, who became the first Russian defense
minister with no military or intelligence background in 2007,
was removed after a probe into an alleged $95 million fraud at
the ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  