-- Qatar Sheikh Pledges Most Expensive Watch to Sotheby’s
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-11-09T20:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/qatari-sheik-pledges-most-expensive-watch-to-sotheby-s.html
A member of the Qatari royal family
has pledged the world’s most expensive watch and other
collectibles valued at almost $83 million to  Sotheby’s (BID)  to cover
debts owed to the auction house, according to court documents.  Sheikh Saud Bin Mohammed Bin Ali Al-Thani, a cousin of the
Emir of  Qatar , provided Sotheby’s with items from diamond
jewelry to tribal art and four vintage watches made by Patek
Philippe of Geneva,  Switzerland , the auction house said in an
Oct. 12 filing with the  New York  Department of State. The
timepieces include a pocket watch known as the Henry Graves
Supercomplication, which an anonymous bidder bought for a record
$11 million in a Sotheby’s auction in 1999.  Al-Thani has been hit with two lawsuits since the end of
September, one of which alleges the sheikh failed to pay for
$19.8 million of ancient Greek coins that he bid on in January.
A U.K. court, in a judgment today extending a freeze on $15
million of the sheikh’s assets at the request of the coin
dealers, said Al-Thani appears to have left at least 11 auction
houses and dealers unpaid in the last 18 months, including $42
million owed to Sotheby’s.  Al-Thani couldn’t be reached for comment. A man who
identified himself as a “private employee” at an office the
sheikh maintains in a residential tower complex near  London ’s
Portman Square said Al-Thani was out of the country for a month.
Andrew Gully, a spokesman for New York-based Sotheby’s, said the
firm doesn’t comment on private business arrangements.  Family Rule  “It’s not unheard of in the auction business, when clients
run into cash problems, for auction houses to take property in
lieu of payment,” said Michael Plummer, the cofounder of
Artvest, a New York-based firm that provides investment advice
for the art market and a former chief operating officer of the
financial-services unit at auction house Christie’s. Plummer
said he had no knowledge of Al-Thani’s specific situation.  Al-Thani’s direct family once ruled Qatar, with both his
grandfather and uncle serving as emirs for the Gulf nation,
according to  David Roberts , the deputy director of the  Royal
United Services Institute  in Doha. Al-Thani formerly ran Qatar’s
National Council for Culture, Arts and Heritage, where he
spearheaded a national effort to furnish a new museum complex by
spending as much as $1.5 billion on artwork and collectibles
during the decade ending in 2005, according to ARTnews.  2005 Arrest  He made bids to snap up iconic works for himself and Qatar,
paying $15 million for 136 vintage photographs, including work
by the late Alfred Stieglitz, and $8.8 million for John
Audubon’s Birds of America, according to Daniel Wade, editor of
a news site run by Paul Fraser Collectibles in Bristol, U.K.  In early 2005, Al-Thani was placed under arrest in Doha,
Qatar, under suspicion of misusing public funds, according to
reports in magazine ARTnews and the Telegraph newspaper in the
U.K. No official record could be located on whether Al-Thani was
charged, and a spokesman for the Qatari embassy in  Washington 
didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.  The sheikh resurfaced in the art market several years later,
and ARTnews named him as one of the world’s top 10 collectors in
August 2011. At the time, the publication estimated that Al-
Thani had spent several hundred million dollars on art during
the preceding two years.  “He is a connoisseur,” said  Peter Finer , a London-based
dealer of fine antique arms and armor whose website lists
clients such as the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art in New York and
the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. Finer said he has been
selling items to Al-Thani since the 1990s, at one point for an
“enormous sum of money,” and added that the sheikh had always
conducted himself “impeccably.”  Greek Coins  Al-Thani in January successfully bid on coins including a
$3.25 million single gold piece from the Ancient Greek city of
Pantikapaion that bears the head of a bearded satyr, according
to an Oct. 9 lawsuit filed in Washington, D.C., by A.H. Baldwin
& Sons Ltd. of London, M&M Numismatics LLC of Washington and
Dmitry Markov Coins and Medals of New York. Al-Thani hasn’t paid
for any of the coins, and the plaintiffs are charging the sheikh
monthly interest of 2 percent, according to the ruling today in
London, which extended an asset freeze on $15 million in
connection with the suit filed in the U.S.  While the sales agreement between Al-Thani and the coin
dealers required all disputes to be resolved in Washington,
D.C., courts, the plaintiffs had sought the asset freeze in the
U.K. because the sheikh owns property there.  ‘Inexplicable Behaviour’  “This pattern of behaviour is both unexplained and
inexplicable,” the London court said in today’s order. “The
sheikh’s royal status is irrelevant. We are all equal in the eyes
of the law.”  Stephen Rubin, an attorney representing Al-Thani in the
case, declined to comment.  Michael Ward , an attorney at SJ
Berwin LLP, a firm that is also representing the sheikh, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.  According to the judgment today, Sheikh Saud is awaiting
payment of $100 million for a wildlife preserve and a natural
history collection that he sold to Qatar and the Qatar Museums
Authority. In contesting the asset freeze, the sheikh’s attorneys
said he had no plans to flee London, that there are no
allegations of fraud, and that the debt owed to the coin dealers
is “modest” relative to his assets.  Less than two weeks before the U.S. lawsuit, London auction
house Bonhams 1793 Ltd. filed a suit against Al-Thani and a
colleague in the U.K.  High Court  of Justice. The suit, while
listed on the court’s docket, is not yet publicly available and
Julian Rupe, a spokesman for Bonhams, declined to comment. Al-
Thani owes Bonhams 4.3 million pounds ($6.85 million) plus
interest on unpaid auction debt, according to today’s judgment.  Imperial Egg  On Oct. 12, Sotheby’s Financial Services Inc. disclosed a
six-page list of about 240 collectibles that Al-Thani had
pledged to the auction house’s lending unit, including a dozen
pieces of jewelry, almost 80 tribal works of art from African
and Polynesia, artifacts from Ancient Rome, antique books,
illustrations and other printed works by 95 authors, and “a
highly important Faberge Imperial Easter Egg.” Also on the
list: six watches, among them the Graves Supercomplication.  Graves, a private banker in New York, commissioned the
watch in 1928, and when it was delivered five years later, the
timepiece had more than 900 parts and a then-record 24
complications, the term for mechanical features that go beyond
basic timekeeping, according to Artfact.com. Graves paid 60,000
Swiss francs for the watch, or $265,000 in today’s U.S. dollars,
according to historical currency data from Measuringworth.com
and an inflation calculator on the website of the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  Graves Supercomplication  The Sotheby’s filing reveals for the first time that Al-
Thani is the owner of the Graves Supercomplication, which has a
star chart showing changes in the night sky over  Manhattan  and a
minute recorder that plays the same melody as Big Ben, the bell
of the clock tower at the Palace of Westminster in London.
Following the 1999 Sotheby’s sale, the pocket watch went on
display as part of the  Patek Philippe  Museum’s collection in
Geneva.  Sotheby’s filed the list with the New York Department of
State, a standard procedure to notify other potential creditors
that the firm had a priority claim on Al-Thani’s artwork. The
auction house primarily provides cash advances on the future
sale of such collateral, though the firm will also make fixed
loans on art that isn’t being auctioned off, according to its
regulatory filings.  Sotheby’s, which also makes loans to clients secured by
their artwork, didn’t say in the filing why the collateral was
pledged.  Al-Thani’s Assets  Firms such as Sotheby’s will also accept artwork and
collectibles from bidders who can’t come up with the cash they
need to pay for artwork purchased at auction, according to
Artvest’s Plummer. The firms will either sell the collateral in
future auctions to recoup the amount owed or hold the property
until the bidder repays the debt with interest, Plummer said.  The total owed to Sotheby’s includes a loan for $29.8
million and unpaid auction debts of $12.2 million, according to
today’s judgment in the U.K., which didn’t list the collectibles
Al-Thani pledged. Other auction houses and dealers that are owed
money by the sheikh include Kuenker’s auction house in  Germany ,
and Giuliano Russo of NAC Numismatics Ltd. of London.  In addition to real estate with an unencumbered value of
19.2 million pounds, the sheikh has assets with an estimated
value of at least 77 million pounds outside Qatar, according to
the judgment, among them possessions worth 67 million pounds in
 England . That includes 47 million pounds “in the possession of
Sotheby’s, who are exercising security rights over them in
respect of sums allegedly due to Sotheby’s from the sheikh.”
Sotheby’s is holding another 5 million pounds of assets in the
U.S.  Precious Time  Under Sotheby’s standard auction terms, payments are due
from buyers within 30 days of the sale date, according to a Form
10-Q that the company filed yesterday with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. Extended payment terms, usually of no
more than one year, are sometimes granted to support a sale. As
of Sept. 30, the company had $32.8 million due from one buyer
classified as a long-term asset, according to the filing.  Prices are climbing for vintage watches, particularly those
made by Patek Philippe, whose roots date back to 1839; Sotheby’s
reported that a gold Patek Philippe from the Graves collection
sold for $2.99 million in June, more than triple the $800,000
high estimate by the auction house. Still, the Graves
Supercomplication may not top its $11 million record should the
watch wind up being offered for sale, said Alfredo Paramico, the
manager of Precious Time, a Luxembourg-based vintage watch fund.  “The Graves Supercomplication is the most important pocket
watch ever made,” Paramico said in a telephone interview. “But
not many collectors could go beyond the 5 million or 6 million
euro threshold and no one would be able to compete with the
Patek Philippe Museum,” a probable bidder, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  