-- Mr. Xi, Tear Down This Firewall!
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/mr-xi-tear-down-this-firewall-.html
This week’s meeting in Beijing of the
18th National Congress of the Communist Party of  China , which
will inaugurate a new slate of leaders, has not exactly brought
a golden dawn of free expression. In addition to cracking down
on all forms of media, China’s creatively paranoid security
forces are on the lookout for threats such as taxi passengers
carrying pingpong balls that they might slip through windows to
deliver subversive messages.  Such off-the-wall measures, however, usefully highlight one
of the central challenges that will confront Xi Jinping, the
princeling pegged to be China’s next president, and his new
colleagues on the elite Politburo Standing Committee: how to
maintain the flow of information vital to economic growth and
public wellbeing in China without undermining the party’s
legitimacy and primacy.  An explosion in Chinese Internet use and the rise of social
media have made it harder for the outgoing duo of Party
Secretary and President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao to
maintain a  “harmonious”  society, to use one of Hu’s favorite
adjectives. The number of Internet users has jumped to 538
million from 20 million in 2001; China also has about 274
million microblog accounts. To keep tabs on them and block
information it doesn’t like, China’s government has built a
sophisticated regime of technological  filters  and human minders.
Access to foreign websites is routed through only a few
entry/exit points.  Deceitful Web  Within China itself, layers of formal and informal
arrangements seek to create a well-tended simulacrum of the
Web’s wide-open spaces. At Sina Weibo, China’s most popular
microblogging site, users are given 80 points, which can be
deducted for various anti-social offenses; hundreds of its
employees are engaged 24/7 in deleting posts or rendering them
invisible to followers, closing accounts, or doctoring search
results. Under Hu and Wen, China has also  insinuated  more
censors and moles into newsrooms and management offices of
traditional media.  These and other repressive measures have raised hackles
(and lowered press freedom  rankings ) without tamping down
popular discontent over corruption, pollution and other hot-
button issues. The number of protests and social disturbances
has  grown  by some estimates to about 500 per day, up almost
fourfold from a decade ago. To their credit, in areas such as
pollution and food safety, Chinese authorities recognize that
social media can help them do their jobs by exposing problems
and focusing public ire. China has also begun to use the Web to
promote greater  transparency  about government decision-making,
not least for foreign  consumption .  Still, those who violate Beijing’s taboos on topics of
public discussion or journalistic inquiry -- whether about the
Dalai Lama, restive Xinjiang province, Falun Gong or the Party’s
leadership -- are persecuted. For instance, Freedom House noted
that during 2011’s short-lived Jasmine Revolution (a phrase
inspired by the Arab Spring, and quickly blocked on Chinese
social networking sites and chat rooms), dozens of Chinese
bloggers, activists and lawyers were abducted and imprisoned.  Since Bloomberg News reported this summer on the $376
million in assets controlled by the extended family of incoming
leader Xi Jinping, its website and that of Bloomberg
Businessweek have been blocked within China -- a fate that also
befell the  New York  Times several months later when it published
its report on the family of Wen Jiabao. Chinese journalists are
penalized or imprisoned for crossing the Party’s redlines; the
reporters and staff of foreign news organizations, including
Bloomberg, have been harassed and interrogated.  Apparatchik Apps  Chinese Communism and Western journalism may never mix, but
China’s leaders have at times championed greater public access
to reliable information. During the early 1980s, for example,
when the economic reforms of Deng Xiaoping were just gearing up,
one of his pet projects was a joint venture with Encyclopaedia
Britannica to create reference books that would help lead the
Chinese out of the dark night of the Cultural Revolution.  China has come a long way since then, and print
encyclopedias are going the way of the dodo, but as the country
grows richer and the challenges of development become more
complex, public access to wider sources of information is even
more essential. Just as the Internet and social media have
helped shine a spotlight on pollution and food safety, they can
also help curb financial fraud, corruption and abuses of power -
- all stated goals of the Chinese Communist Party. And without
greater Internet access, Chinese companies will find it harder
to climb the value chain or compete in the services market.  Outsiders have worked to punch holes in China’s Great
Firewall. The U.S. Congress has appropriated about $95 million
since 2008 for the State Department and USAID to support proxy
servers, websites, apps and software targeting users in China
and a dozen other countries. Other groups such as the
Broadcasting Board of Governors, which oversees Radio Free Asia
and other U.S. international broadcasters, are also involved.
More money for such efforts would help, especially if it
provided more bandwidth and  training  for users. Groups such as
Freedom House and the  Open Net Initiative  deserve wide public
support for exposing censorship, filtering and surveillance. And
all foreign media organizations operating in China have a shared
interest in protesting censorship, regardless of whom it targets
-- something that hasn’t happened often enough in the past.  The genius of what Internet researcher Rebecca MacKinnon
calls China’s  “networked authoritarianism,”  however, is that it
focuses on satisfying average users who don’t need or want
access to foreign sites, and relies on self-censorship to
achieve its goals. To push for change to China’s intranet means
finding a way to target Baidu and other domestic providers.
Legislative proposals to require U.S.-listed companies such as
Baidu to disclose their censorship arrangements to investors
make sense if they are tailored in a way that doesn’t swamp an
already overburdened Securities and Exchange Commission.  As we have argued about Iran and  Syria , we are less
enthusiastic about legislating broad new export controls on U.S.
Internet technology than about enhancing the effectiveness of
voluntary groups such as the Global Network Initiative, which
seeks to minimize the potential for censorship and other human-
rights abuses while maximizing the span of the Web.  We are skeptical about any proposals for “reforming”
Internet governance that China itself may offer at next month’s
meeting in Dubai organized by the International
Telecommunication Union. That said, the former U.S. Ambassador
 Jon Huntsman  recently  predicted  that Xi Jinping and his
colleagues will inevitably have to re-balance China’s own
Internet policies in favor of more openness. That would indeed
be harmonious, and we hope he’s right.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  political imperative of
immigration reform ; Jonathan Alter on how  Obama and business can
heal their breach ; Margaret Carlson on why  another “Year of the
Woman” is nothing to celebrate ; Stephen L. Carter on why  we
shouldn’t worry about low voter turnout ; William Pesek on a
 possible thaw between the two Koreas ; Jonathan Weil on  one
honest man on Wall Street ; Adam Minter on the  view from Beijing
during the party congress ; Sean West on  why the fiscal cliff
game has changed .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 