-- Treasuries Gain for Third Day as Fiscal Cliff Concern Increases
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-11-09T22:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/treasury-10-year-yield-erases-drop-after-reaching-two-month-low.html
Treasury 10-year yields fell for a
third day following the re-election of President  Barack Obama  as
investor concern increases that political gridlock may derail
chances of an economic recovery.  The benchmark yield has been pushed down as voters returned
the president, a Democrat, to the White House and backed a
Republican majority to the House of Representatives. Obama
invited Democratic and Republican leaders in Congress to the
White House next week to begin negotiations to avert the so-
called fiscal cliff -- $607 billion in automatic spending cuts
and tax increases scheduled to take effect starting in January.  “It’s going to be a bumpy ride going into the end of the
year,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York, one of the 21 primary dealers
that trade with the Federal Reserve. “The market reaction to
the elections was that it’s not good for risk assets, so because
that’s the case, the market flew back into Treasuries.”  The 10-year  yield  declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point to 1.61 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note due in November 2022 rose 2/32 or 63 cents per $1,000 face
value to 100 5/32. The yield earlier dropped to 1.578 percent,
the lowest level since Sept. 5.  The yield declined 11 basis points this week.  After Voting  “We’ve had a pretty good move since the Obama victory,”
said Thomas Roth, senior Treasury trader in New York at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. The market has backed up as
“we’ve run a long way.”  U.S. government securities traded at the most expensive
levels in five weeks. The 10-year term premium, a model created
by economists at the Fed that includes expectations for interest
rates, growth and inflation, reached negative 0.94 percent, the
most costly since Oct. 3. A negative reading indicates investors
are willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.
The average this year is negative 0.76 percent.  The difference between the yields on two-year and 10-year
notes, the so-called yield curve, narrowed to as little as 132
basis points, the least since Sept. 5. Historically, a so-called
flatter yield curve reflects higher demand from investors
anticipating slower economic growth and inflation.  Pimco’s Shift  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund,
increased his holdings of Treasuries for the first time since
April as traders increased bets that the Fed would add to
stimulus measures.  Gross raised the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt at Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $281 billion Total
Return Fund to 24 percent of assets last month, from 20 percent
in September, according to a report on the Newport Beach,
California-based company’s website. Mortgages remained the
fund’s largest holding at 47 percent, down from 49 percent a
month earlier. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes
in its portfolio holdings.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for November increased to 84.9 from
82.6 the prior month. Economists projected a reading of 82.9 for
the gauge, according to the median forecast of 71 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Obama won re-election Nov. 6 amid concern the two parties
will have trouble agreeing on a budget that will keep the nation
out of recession.  Budget Plans  “The American people voted for action,” Obama said today
at the White House, giving his first public remarks on the
budget and deficit since winning re-election Nov. 6. He again
said any solution must include spending cuts and raising
revenue, including raising taxes on the wealthiest.  House Speaker John Boehner called for a “simpler, cleaner,
fairer tax code,” staking out the Republican position before
Obama spoke.  Obama backs the Fed’s plan to boost the economy through
bond purchases. The central bank has bought $2.3 trillion of
Treasuries and mortgage-related bonds and instituted plans to
purchase $40 billion of home-loan securities a month.  The Fed is also swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its
holdings with those due in six to 30 years as part of its
efforts to put downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.  Fed Buys  The central bank purchased $1.4 billion of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities maturing from January 2019 to
February 2042 today as part of the program, according to the Fed
Bank of New York’s  website .  The 10-year yield will rise to 1.70 percent by the end of
the year, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-long position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending Nov. 6, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 110,357 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-long positions fell by 59,099 contracts, or
35 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  