-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Falls to 2-Month Low on Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-11-09T14:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/treasuries-head-for-weekly-advance.html
Treasuries rose, with 10-year yields
reaching a two-month low, amid speculation U.S. lawmakers face
headwinds to agree on measures to avoid the so-called fiscal
cliff.  Benchmark yields headed for their biggest weekly drop since
August as President  Barack Obama ’s re-election this week against
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  fueled bets the  Federal
Reserve  will maintain bond purchases, known as quantitative
easing. The fiscal cliff refers to more than $600 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts scheduled to take effect
automatically next year unless Congress acts. The difference
between the yield on the two-year note and the 10-year security
narrowed to the least in two months.  “The market feels that it’s not going to get resolved this
year,” said Thomas di Galoma, a managing director at Navigate
Advisors LLC, a brokerage for institutional investors in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The general sentiment is that we’re
probably going to see more muddling through on the economy and
we’re probably going to see more QE in the next two to three
years. That’s propelling bond prices higher.”  The 10-year  yield  dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.59 percent at 9 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note due in November 2022 rose 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 10/32. The yield earlier dropped to 1.578
percent, the lowest level since Sept. 5.  The yield has declined 12 basis points this week, the most
since the period ended Aug. 31.  Expensive Debt  U.S. government securities traded at the most expensive
levels in five weeks. The 10-year term premium, a model created
by economists at the Federal Reserve that includes expectations
for  interest rates , growth and inflation, was negative 0.94
percent, the most costly since Oct. 3. A negative reading
indicates investors are willing to accept yields below what’s
considered fair value. The average this year is negative 0.76
percent.  The difference between the yields on two-year and 10-year
notes, the so-called yield curve, narrowed to 132 basis points,
the least since Sept. 5. Historically, a so-called flatter yield
curve reflects higher demand from investors anticipating slower
economic growth and inflation.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer
sentiment index climbed to 82.9 this month from 82.6 in October,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a
preliminary reading of the gauge today. That would be the
highest since September 2007.  Cliff Rally  The fiscal cliff appears to be an issue” behind the rally
in Treasuries, said Michael Markovich, head of global interest-
rates research at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “It is also
clear Mr. Bernanke will have stronger political support than he
would have with a Romney win.”  Romney had said he wouldn’t reappoint Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  The longest maturities, those most sensitive to inflation,
rose the most this week. The difference between five- and 30-
year yields shrank to as little as 2.10 percentage points today,
the narrowest since Sept. 6.  The  spread  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, fell
one basis point to 2.45 percentage points. Consumer prices have
increased at an average rate of 2.5 percent for the past decade.  Fed Role  As Obama won re-election Nov. 6, Republicans kept control of
the U.S. House of Representatives and Democrats held a majority
in the Senate, raising concern the two parties will have trouble
agreeing on a budget that will keep the nation out of recession.  Obama backs the Fed’s plan to boost the economy through
bond purchases. The central bank has bought $2.3 trillion of
Treasuries and mortgage-related bonds and instituted plans to
purchase $40 billion of home-loan securities a month.  The Fed is also swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its
holdings with those due in six to 30 years as part of its
efforts to put downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.  The central bank is scheduled to buy as much as $1.5
billion of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities maturing from
January 2019 to February 2042 today as part of the program,
according to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  The 10-year yield will rise to 1.70 percent by the end of
the year, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  