-- Rentokil Chief Prepared to Turn Back the Clock With Disposals
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-09T12:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/rentokil-chief-says-open-to-offers-for-unprofitable-city-link.html
Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO)  Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Brown  said there’s scope to narrow the service
provider’s focus to pest-control and facilities management once
an overhaul is completed and financial markets recover.  Management’s focus is centered on improving profit and
efficiency for now, yet the company remains open to takeover
offers for parcel-delivery business City Link, Brown told
reporters on a call.  Selling units would be turning the clock back on Rentokil’s
emergence in its current form in the mid-1990s following the
 purchase  of BET Plc, which created the world’s largest business
services company with interests spanning tropical plants for
offices and dryrot treatments.  “It really depends a lot on market conditions and demand
for the other assets that are not so close to the core,” said
Brown, the former finance chief of Imperial Chemical Industries.
“If an opportunity came up to streamline our portfolio for the
group as a whole we would do that, but for the moment our key
objective is to pursue our operational excellence program.”  Brown is in the midst of a struggle to restore City Link to
break-even point. It’s slated to generate a 25 million-pound
($39 million) loss this year compared with an earlier prediction
of a 20 million-pound loss. The revamp of the unit is “broadly
on track,” he said.  The parcel business is generally seeing growth driven by
double-digit increases in Internet shopping although
profitability is hampered by a large number of competitors.
Measures are in place to target smaller customers where there is
better pricing, Brown said. The company previously focused on
medium and larger business customers.  Rentokil fell as much as 4.8 percent and was trading at
86.05 pence in London at 10:52 a.m., valuing the business at
1.53 billion pounds.  Christmas at City Link  Volumes at City Link continued to be “quite strong”
through the end of October and beginning of November, Brown
said, ahead of the seasonal surge leading up to Christmas.  Brown said other operations are also suffering from
weakened economies in the U.K. and across  Europe . The company
put in place a 50 million-pound cost-cutting program for 2012 to
counteract those conditions, and Brown said management may
achieve 55 million pounds in savings this year. A similar
initiative will be on the agenda for next year too, he said,
declining to give an outlook for 2013 performance.  Rentokil maintains an interest in acquisitions after buying
Western Exterminator in the U.S. to give the pest-control
business coast-to-coast U.S. coverage. The deal has yet to
complete. Brown said more deals in the six to nine month time
frame are being looked at and pest control is a key opportunity
for external growth.  Rentokil today reported a 9.9 percent increase in pre-tax
profit to 36.3 million pounds, on a 1.6 percent drop in sales to
626.7 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  