-- ResCap Affiliate, GMAC Mortgage, Sued by Mortgage Trustee
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-11-09T21:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/rescap-affiliate-gmac-mortgage-sued-by-mortgage-trustee.html
GMAC Mortgage LLC, an affiliate of
bankrupt Residential Capital LLC, withheld monthly loan payments
due to investors and charged excessive rates for insurance, a
trustee for mortgage holders claimed in a lawsuit.  In a suit filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan,
American Residential Equities LLC accused GMAC of failing to
properly service pools of  mortgage loans  bought by investors and
of driving up the price of insurance on mortgaged properties in
order to collect “kickbacks.”  “GMAC has unjustly enriched itself at the expense of ARE,
and should be required to disgorge those wrongful gains,”
American Residential said in its complaint.  ResCap, GMAC and their affiliated companies filed
bankruptcy in May with plans to sell ResCap’s servicing
business, the fifth-biggest in the U.S. ResCap is a unit of
Ally, a Detroit-based auto lender that is majority-owned by U.S.
taxpayers.  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  and  Walter Investment
Management Corp. (WAC)  won an auction for the unit last month with a
bid worth about $3 billion.  Susan Fitzpatrick, ResCap’s communications director,
declined to comment, saying the company hadn’t yet seen the
lawsuit.  American Residential is the trustee for investors who
bought pools of non-performing mortgages and hired GMAC to
service the loans, including trying to collect monthly payments
from borrowers and foreclosing when necessary.  Excessive Rates  American Residential claimed that GMAC conspired with
Balboa Insurance Co. to charge excessive rates for so-called
forced-place insurance, which is placed on properties when a
borrower fails to pay insurance. In return for placing the
insurance with Balboa, GMAC received a kickback, according to
the complaint.  Deanna Lewis, a spokeswoman for Balboa, said the company
couldn’t immediately comment because it hadn’t seen the lawsuit.  American Residential is seeking an unspecified amount of
damages.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  