-- Richemont Profit Up on Asian Tourists Spending in Europe
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-11-09T06:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/richemont-profit-rises-on-asian-tourists-spending-in-europe.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the
second-biggest luxury-goods company, reported first-half profit
that beat analysts’ estimates on sales of  Cartier  jewelry to
Asian tourists. The company said Johann Rupert will resign from
his post as chief executive officer next year.  Net income in the six months through September increased 53
percent to 1.09 billion euros ($1.4 billion), the Geneva-based
company said today in a statement. The average estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 1.02 billion euros. Bernard Fornas and Richard Lepeu will become joint CEOs in April after
Rupert, 62, steps down, Richemont also said.  The maker of  Jaeger-LeCoultre  watches outperformed its
August forecast that first-half profit would rise as much as 40
percent as European sales rose 19 percent in local currencies,
twice as fast as the pace in the  Asia Pacific (APB)  region. The weaker
euro helped drive profit growth as it boosted sales in  Europe  to
the detriment of  China , Richemont said. The company’s operating
margin widened 1.5 percentage points to 27 percent.  “The margin was better than expected, driven by pricing
power in watches and jewelry, while Asian tourists in Europe
remain the growth driver,” said Jon Cox, head of Swiss research
at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.  The dollar was on average 13 percent higher against the
euro during the period.  CEO Change  Rupert, the company’s controlling shareholder and chairman,
became CEO in 2010 after Norbert Platt, who had held the job
since 2004, stepped down. Richemont named Lepeu as deputy CEO
and Gary Saage as chief financial officer in 2011. Fornas has
led Cartier for a decade and Richemont said he would leave his
position of CEO of that brand at the end of this year.  The Swiss company said it expects the foreign currency
impact to become “less favorable” during the second half of
the financial year.  Sales in October increased 7 percent in local currencies
after first-half revenue rose 21 percent to 5.11 billion euros,
or 12 percent excluding currency shifts.  The growth in October “looks reasonable,” Cox said.
Still, “it appears Asia and Americas local currency sales
declined in October, which some might highlight as a negative.”  Revenue from the company’s watch division climbed 25
percent to 1.46 billion euros, beating the 1.45 billion euro
average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The maker
of Vacheron Constantin timepieces got more than a quarter of its
sales in the six months through September from specialist
watchmakers.  Sales from Richemont’s jewelry unit increased 20 percent to
2.61 billion euros, trailing analyst estimates of 2.63 billion
euros. The division generates about half the company’s sales.
Richemont also gets revenue from businesses including Purdey,
the luxury hunting gun maker founded in 1814, and  Alfred
Dunhill , the London-based maker of  leather goods , fashion and
lighters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  