-- Rona CEO Dutton Exits After Earnings Miss, Lowe’s Rebuff
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-11-09T16:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/rona-ceo-dutton-exits-after-earnings-miss-lowe-s-rebuff.html
Rona Inc. (RON)  said Chief Executive
Officer Robert Dutton, who rebuffed a hostile bid from Lowe’s
Cos., is stepping down after 35 years at the Canadian home
improvement retailer. The stock had its biggest gain in more
than three months.  Rona didn’t give a reason for Dutton’s departure, and said
Dominique Boies, the chief financial officer, will be acting CEO
until a replacement is found, according to a statement today.  The retailer, based in Boucherville,  Quebec , rejected a
takeover bid from Lowe’s in September after saying a sale to the
U.S. competitor wasn’t in the best interest of shareholders.  Rona reported third-quarter profit on Nov. 7 that missed
analysts’ estimates, sending the stock as much as 35 percent
below the C$14.50 a share offer from Lowe’s.  Rona climbed 6.5 percent to C$9.96 at 11:26 a.m. in
Toronto, the biggest gain since July 31. Its shares have dropped
46 percent in the five years through yesterday.  “New leadership may be what Rona needs,” Irene Nattel, a
consumer analyst at Royal Bank of Canada in  Montreal , wrote in a
note to clients today. “The reality is that earnings have been
on a downward trajectory for five years, and possibly a sixth in
2012.” She rates the stock sector perform.  Rona’s earnings fell to 66 cents a share in 2011, adjusted
for certain items, from C$1.60 in 2007. Profit dropped to 27
cents a share in the third quarter, missing the average estimate
of 40 cents of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rona Expansion  “During Mr. Dutton’s 20 years at the helm, Rona’s
consolidated sales increased from C$450 million to over C$4.8
billion and the Rona chain grew from less than 500 affiliated
stores to over 800 corporate, franchised and affiliated
stores,” Rona said in a statement.  Lowe’s, based in Mooresville,  North Carolina , withdrew its
bid in September after opposition from Rona’s board and the
Quebec government.  Valerie Lamarre, a Rona spokeswoman, and Stephane
Milot, senior director of  investor relations , didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  