-- Russia Refrains From Rate Increase After Inflation Eased
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-11-09T10:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/russia-refrains-from-rate-increase-after-inflation-eased.html
Russia, the largest emerging economy
to raise  interest rates  this year, refrained from increasing
borrowing costs after inflation unexpectedly slowed in October
for the first time in six months.  Bank Rossii left the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent at a
meeting in Moscow, half a percentage point above the record low,
the regulator said in a  statement  on its website today. The move
was forecast by 21 of 23 economists in a Bloomberg  survey .
Policy makers held their main short-term lending and deposit
rates at 5.5 percent and 4.25 percent.  The decision follows a surprise increase in September that
policy makers today credited for tamping down inflation
expectations. The central bank also cited a stabilization in
food costs that pushed price-growth beyond this year’s target
range. The statement’s wording suggests an end to the “mini-
cycle” of rate increases, according to Vladimir Kolychev, chief
economist at Societe Generale SA’s OAO  Rosbank (ROSB)  unit in Moscow.  “The rhetoric looks to be less hawkish as domestic demand
continued to slow down recently, while inflation showed
encouraging signs of stabilization,” Kolychev said in an e-
mailed response to questions. While price growth may still reach
7 percent in December, the weakening core inflation may be a
more important sign, he said.  Ruble Slumps  The ruble weakened 0.2 percent to 31.5483 per dollar as of
12:27 p.m. in Moscow. Forward rate agreements showed the three-
month MosPrime rate may fall 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, in the next three months, up from a 2 point fall before
the announcement, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overnight borrowing costs on  Russia ’s interbank market also
fell, dropping 13 basis points to 5.7150 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A close at that level would be the
lowest since Oct. 8.  The currency will probably continue to be driven by
external factors, while short-term interest rates will respond
to fluctuations in the amount of rubles available to lenders
domestically, according to ING Groep NV.  “For non-resident investors expecting the final
liberalization of the OFZ market in early 2013, the less hawkish
central bank stance could be viewed as a good sign in terms of
interest-rate risk,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist at ING
Groep NV in Moscow, said in a note to clients.  Ignatiev’s Tenure  Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, whose third and final
term at the helm of Bank Rossii ends in 2013, needs to rein in
price gains next year as the economy slows and his counterparts
from  Poland  to the  Philippines  reduce borrowing costs.  Consumer-price growth slowed to 6.4 percent as of Nov. 6
from a year earlier, Bank Rossii said today. That’s down from
6.5 percent in October.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile
costs such as energy, decelerated for a first time on a monthly
basis since May, the Federal Statistics Service said Nov. 6.  “There was a stabilization of growth rates for all the
main consumer inflation components, including food, that were
the main source of accelerating inflation in recent months,”
policy makers said in the statement. September’s rate increases
has led to “more measured” expectations for inflation, the
regulator said.  Below 7%  Russia may hold inflation below 7 percent this year,
central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in the
State Duma today, Interfax reported. Consumer prices may advance
0.6 percent in November from the previous month, Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  said at a press conference in Moscow
today. Prices rose 0.5 percent in October and 0.6 percent in
September on a monthly basis.  Most Russians named rising prices as their biggest concern,
topping corruption, poverty and drug abuse, in an August poll
published by the Moscow-based Levada Center. Combatting
inflation is the government’s top priority, even at the expense
of short-term growth, President  Vladimir Putin  said at an
investment conference in Moscow on Oct. 2.  Monetary-policy makers said in today’s statement that there
were signs of “stabilizing” lending, while economic indicators
for September maintained the earlier trend that suggested a
“cooling” of growth.  “At the same time, the threat of a substantial economic
slowdown linked to monetary tightening is seen as
insignificant,” the central bank said.  Russia’s M2, the broadest measure of  money supply , grew
14.8 percent in September, the slowest since November 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  2013 Goal  Policy makers want to hold inflation at 5 percent to 6
percent next year, half a percentage point higher than
previously targeted, after conceding consumer-price growth
breached that range in 2012.  “As in the previous months, the central bank did not
include the paragraph on the short- and medium-term adequacy of
the interest rates,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , head of research at
Deutsche Bank AG in Moscow, said in an e-mail.  “The central bank is aiming to secure some room for
maneuver going into the end of this year, though clearly
compared to earlier statements the tone of the central bank is
more dovish,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  