-- RWE Said to Delay Czech Gas Pipeline Bids Amid Gazprom Dispute
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-11-09T15:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/rwe-said-to-delay-czech-gas-pipeline-bids-amid-gazprom-dispute.html
RWE AG (RWE) , the second-largest utility in
 Germany , has pushed back the deadline for final bids for its
natural gas pipeline unit in the Czech Republic as a dispute
with its biggest supplier,  OAO Gazprom (OGZD) , complicates the process,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Binding offers for Net4Gas are now due by February instead
of the end of November, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because talks are private. They have been asked to
reconfirm this month their interest in the asset, which may
struggle to fetch about 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion), said
one of the people.  The German utility is selling the Czech operator of about
2,500 kilometers of gas pipelines as part of a disposal plan
aimed at raising as much as 7 billion euros by the end of next
year. RWE is hoping to cut debt by cashing in on interest from
investors in infrastructure assets.  EON (EOAN)  AG, RWE’s larger German
competitor that is also selling assets, agreed in May to sell a
network of natural-gas pipelines for 3.2 billion euros.  RWE spokeswoman Annett Urbaczka declined to comment. RWE
said in February that it hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to advise it
with the sale.  The remaining bidders include KKCG Group, a Prague-based
private equity company, a group led by Czech utility Energeticky
a Prumyslovy Holding AS, Global Infrastructure Partners in New
York, Australia’s  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and a consortium of the
German insurer  Allianz SE (ALV)  and Borealis Infrastructure, said one
of the people. Gaz-System SA, the state-controlled operator of
Polish gas pipelines, has dropped out, they said.  Supply Contract  RWE’s Czech unit, RWE Transgas AS, last month won an
arbitration hearing against Gazprom over the volumes of natural
gas it has to buy under a supply contract with the Russian gas
exporter. Still, the main arbitration over oil-linked pricing in
 Stockholm  hasn’t yet been resolved. The current contract, under
which Gazprom supplies as much as 9 billion cubic meters of gas
to RWE Transgas a year, runs until 2035.  European customers, including EON and  Eni SpA (ENI) , have sought
to review gas contracts with Gazprom after being forced to buy
gas at prices linked to oil and selling at lower spot-market
rates. A global production boom led by U.S. shale gas has led to
an increase in cheaper supply. Still, Gazprom’s natural gas
customers in  Europe  pay about three times the U.S. price.
European utilities are demanding and winning price concessions
that are weighing on Gazprom’s profit.  French Pipeline  The Net4Gas transaction faces competition for a similar
asset in  France .  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-largest oil producer,
plans to sell its TIGF natural-gas network in France in a
transaction that may fetch about 2.5 billion euros, two people
familiar with the process said in July.  The French company has sent out initial information to
buyers, who are seeking to team up with French partners to
improve their chances of winning the bidding, two people said
this week. Macquarie, Borealis,  AXA SA (CS) ’s private equity arm and
CDC Infrastructure may consider offers for TIGF, said the
people.  Total’s Chief Financial Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere
said Oct. 31 that the process would take “several months.” The
oil company set a deadline of mid-November for indications of
interest, he said.  Enagas SA (ENG) , the operator of Spain’s gas
delivery network, said on Oct. 30 that it may team up with
partners to bid for TIGF.  Spokesmen at Macquarie, Allianz, EP Holding, AXA and GIP
declined to comment. Officials at Borealis and CDC
Infrastructure couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  