-- Sandy Homeless Trapped by Forces of Nature, NYC Market
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-11-10T01:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/sandy-homeless-trapped-by-forces-of-nature-nyc-market.html
Lorraine Massoni crawled north on
 Brooklyn ’s Coney Island Avenue in a rented minivan along with
her three children, hoping she wouldn’t miss an apartment
viewing in her hunt to relocate from a flooded Rockaway home.  “I have reached out to I can’t even tell you how many
Realtors,” Massoni, 44, said as traffic slowed beside yet
another blocks-long line for gasoline. “They tell you they have
places, they say, ‘Let me talk to the landlord and see if they
take dogs,’ then nothing. They don’t even call you back.”  Sandy’s hurricane-force winds drove surging Atlantic Ocean
floodwaters into her New York neighborhood Oct. 29, and the
Massoni family joined thousands suddenly left homeless by the
storm. With temperatures near freezing, her family has shuttled
among friends and relatives while she looks at apartments like
the two-bedroom in Kensington, where the $2,150 rent tops the
$2,495 she got for two months from a federal relief agency.  With rental vacancy rates in the city’s Brooklyn and Queens
boroughs hovering between 2 percent and 3 percent, many
dislocated  New Yorkers  are having trouble finding a new place to
live, buffeted by the forces of nature and the market. The
1,200-square-foot apartment Massoni walked through, on the
second floor of a century-old row house, is half the size of her
home -- inadequate for her family of five. She kept looking.  Bad Timing  “It couldn’t be worse timing,” says  Jonathan Miller ,
president of Miller Samuel Inc. in New York. The market in
Brooklyn is tight partly because banks are reluctant to write
mortgages, so few renters are buying a home and moving out, he
said. With hotel occupancy rates at high levels, Miller said,
“there’s just not a lot of places to stay.”  When apartments do come on the market, prices can be steep.  In Brooklyn, the average rent for a two-bedroom unit was
$3,148 in September, up 11 percent from a year earlier,
according to  MNS Brands Inc.  in New York, which produces
property reports. Restrictions on available rent-stabilized
apartments force landlords to demand at least a one-year lease,
said Andrew Westphal, the broker at the Kensington apartment.
The Massonis aim to be back home within six months, she said.  “Coming to the open market to look for a rental, that’s
not what these people are prepared to do,” Westphal said of the
costs confronting the Massonis and other Sandy refugees. He said
displaced homeowners, unfamiliar with the rental market and
looking for temporary quarters, are often shocked at the prices
for apartments in the city.  Another Blow  For the Massonis, it’s just one more blow in the past two
weeks.  When Sandy swept over the Queens peninsula where they
lived, Massoni and her husband, Paul, 44, were home with their
children, 20-year-old Paul Jr., 17-year-old Michael and 9-year-
old Valentina. They had ignored an evacuation order for their
low-lying seaside community issued by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg .
The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  “I had a false sense of security” after  Hurricane Irene 
hit in August 2011 and failed to do as much damage as forecast,
Massoni said. Then when floodwaters breached the basement garage
door last week, she said, “it was like the Titanic.”  As many as 30,000 people in damaged homes may need
temporary housing as cold weather makes their places unlivable,
Bloomberg said today.  Wrecked Lives  The next day, the Massonis’ lives were a sodden wreck. An
insurance adjuster will come next week to look at the family
cars, and they’re still waiting for a flood-insurance adjuster
to assess the cost of rebuilding the basement and re-equipping
their home with a boiler and fixing the electrical system.  Their homeowner’s insurance won’t cover belongings lost to
floods, including power tools that will cost thousands of
dollars for Paul Sr. to replace. A construction worker, he needs
them to repair the house. Insurance also won’t cover their
ruined washer and dryer, or the cost of six months rent they’ll
need until they can return home.  Two of the children have missed a week of school. Paul Jr.
lost his car and his job, delivering prescriptions for a local
pharmacy that was flooded. Now he has no easy way to get to
classes at the  City University  of New York’s Brooklyn College,
at 2900 Bedford Avenue, where he’s a junior.  As Westphal showed her the Kensington apartment, he said
the owner wants a tenant with “strong financials.” Paul
Massoni has only just returned to his job and Lorraine hasn’t
gone back to work at a skating rink. Besides replacing clothes
and lost belongings, the Massonis still have a mortgage to pay.  Dog Friendly  The apartment is a little far from the family’s commuting
patterns. Lorraine says they need to be closer to schools while
being able to drive to their Rockaway neighborhood each day to
clean up the cold, dark house. And she wants an apartment that
will accept Valentina’s two Chihuahuas, Pixie and Little Dog.  Westphal has little available. With school in session, few
families will move until classes end in June, he said. For the
Massonis, that adds to the difficulty of navigating the
Balkanized neighborhood boundaries of the city.  Lorraine Massoni has appealed for humane treatment.  “We already lost our home, my kids can’t go to school, I’m
trying to find some semblance of normalcy, and you’re saying you
can’t take my dogs?” Massoni said, recalling a conversation
with a landlord this week. “Have some decency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net  