-- Blackout-Weary Towns Left in Dark by Utilities
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n ,   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-11-09T15:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/sandy-s-blackout-weary-towns-left-in-dark-by-utilities.html
Residents in  Tewksbury , New Jersey,
haven’t seen one utility truck since  Hurricane Sandy  knocked out
power to their town on Oct. 29, and they’re making sure Mayor
Dana Desiderio knows how they feel.  The Republican mayor of this affluent township of about
6,000 has had people shoving her at the post office, screaming
at her at the firehouse and banging on her front door.  “They feel like people have forgotten about them,”
Desiderio said in a telephone interview yesterday. “All we’d
like to see is one or two trucks or a few homes get power back,
at least then we’d have hope.”  As utilities zeroed in on the last 8 percent of customers
still blacked out 10 days after Sandy struck, frustration was
running deep over the slow pace of repairs and poor
communication for residents and mayors facing more of the cold
and dark.  “I’ve tried calling eight, 10 times a day and no one’s
picking up a phone,” said Jon Soldo, a resident of Huntington,
 New York , of his efforts to contact Long Island Power Authority.  What isn’t being said, according to one former power
company official, is that no one really knows when the last
tree-damaged line will be repaired.  Restoration Time  “Utilities won’t admit it, but in a major storm, it is
just very difficult to be able to say, ‘I will be at this
address on that day and restore service,’” Matthew Cordaro, a
40-year power industry veteran and former chief operating
officer of Long Island Lighting Co., said in a telephone
interview.  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) ’s Jersey Central Power & Light,  Public
Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG)  and  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) ,
which owns New York’s utility, reduced the storm’s blackout
count to 761,000 customers as of 2 p.m. yesterday from as many
as 8.5 million. They restored large swaths of service by
focusing recovery efforts on the hardest hit coastal areas and
densely populated cities.  Total blackouts fell to about 550,000 this morning,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from websites of
utilities.  Long Island  accounted for about 46 percent of that
total and about 31 percent were in New Jersey.  For Con Edison, “the vast majority” of customers will
have power back by Nov. 11, leaving a few in the dark next week,
said Michael Clendenin, a spokesman.  ‘Hand-to-Hand’  “We’re down to a small number of outages and it’s a longer
process to restore one or two or five people,” he said. “In
the beginning it was a large-scale offensive, now you are in
hand-to-hand combat.”  New Jersey power losses are also likely to run through Nov.
11, Governor Chris Christie said yesterday.  “With the exception of a few outliers in some very
difficult areas like the barrier island towns, especially
between Point Pleasant Beach to Seaside Heights, most people
will have power by Saturday,” Christie told reporters
yesterday.  Long Island Power Authority, based in Uniondale, New York,
still had 207,000 customers without power today, about 54
percent in Nassau County, according to its  website . Con Edison
reported that 37,400 customers were still blacked out, 29
percent in Queens.  Darkened Streets  Mayors and residents of smaller towns, many of them wealthy
enclaves, said they’ve been left in the dark about when crews
will repair tree damage and downed  power lines . Warren Township
Mayor Carolann Garafola said yesterday half of the the 6,000
homes and businesses in her New Jersey community still don’t
have power based on a police tally of darkened streets.  About 59 percent of Tewksbury, or 1,585 customers, was
blacked out this morning, according to Jersey Central’s website.
Desiderio, Tewksbury’s mayor, said she’s been given a succession
of dates for the return of power to her town.  “The bottom line is, I don’t really know when we’re going
to get power back,” she said.  FirstEnergy’s Jersey Central utility expects to spend more
than $500 million to restore power to 2.3 million customers
affected by the storm. Almost all of its 1.1 million customers
in  New Jersey  lost power, Anthony Alexander, chairman and chief
executive officer of Akron, Ohio-based FirstEnergy, told
analysts during a conference call yesterday.  ‘Short Straw’  “They got hit disproportionately hard,” Governor
Christie, a Republican, said of Jersey Central. “And they have
most of the New Jersey coastline. So they drew the short straw
on this one just from a logistics perspective.”  Jersey Central estimates 149,000 customers affected by
Sandy will have power by the end of this weekend. About 120,000
customers who lost power after a second storm moved through the
state, dropping as much as 12 inches of wet, heavy snow on Nov.
7, would be restored throughout “next week,” according to a
company statement.  Based on restoration estimates posted yesterday on the
company’s website, about 47,800 customers will still lack power
by Nov. 11. Ron Morano, a spokesman for Jersey Central, said he
couldn’t verify that number and that the restoration times
posted on the utility’s website were “estimates, which can and
do change.”  Jersey Central has dispatched area managers to address
questions and concerns with local officials and is hosting a
daily conference call with mayors, Morano said.  Online Petition  That communication effort hasn’t satisfied some local
officials. Desiderio said she has put herself in the queue to
ask a question on the call each day, but hasn’t been successful.
Her deputy mayor did manage to ask yesterday when the town could
expect power back. Utility officials didn’t have an answer, she
said.  Soldo, a Long Island computer consultant, has been turned
into an activist by the 10-day blackout that has left his wife
and three-month-old child in a house chilled to 46 degrees
Fahrenheit (7.8 degrees Celsius).  He drafted a petition on the website SignOn.org, calling on
New York lawmakers to hold Long Island Power Authority
accountable for its storm planning. More than 3,500 people had
signed the petition yesterday, less than a day after it was
posted.  Long Island Power Authority’s clean-up efforts were delayed
by the second storm, which knocked out power to another 123,000
customers, said Elizabeth Flagler, a spokeswoman for the
municipal power provider.  ‘Do Better’  Before that, the utility was on track to get 90 percent of
customers restored. Sandy and the second storm damaged 1,230
miles (2,000 kilometers) of wire, she said. All customers will
have power by the end of next week. Flagler said.  After spending five days without power in the aftermath of
 Hurricane Irene  last year, Soldo has lost patience with the
utility’s explanations.  “The No. 1 priority right now is to get everyone power,
get everyone heat,” Soldo said in a telephone interview. “Once
this is resolved and people are back to normalcy, they have to
do better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  