-- SEC Fires Investigator Who Alleged Ethics Lapses, Lawyer Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-11-09T22:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/sec-fires-investigator-who-alleged-ethics-lapses-lawyer-says.html
David Weber , a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission internal watchdog who was put on leave after
co-workers accused him of being a security threat, has been
fired by the agency, his lawyer said.  Weber, who was chief investigator in the inspector
general’s office, raised allegations in March that H.  David Kotz , the agency’s former inspector general, may have had
personal relationships that tainted reports on the SEC’s failure
to catch the  Bernard Madoff  and R. Allen Stanford Ponzi schemes.  Weeks later, a number of Weber’s co-workers submitted
complaints that he was creating a hostile work environment
through his suggestions that he and others should be able to
carry guns on the job. The SEC used an external security
consultant to review whether Weber was a threat and then placed
him on administrative leave in May.  Weber also reported to the SEC that he found evidence of
possible espionage by foreign nationals related to a case he was
investigating. The matter involved unencrypted computer hard
drives that contained sensitive stock exchange information.  Cary Hansel, Weber’s lawyer, said that Weber received a
letter from the SEC last week informing him he had been fired.  “We believe he was terminated in advance of what amounts
to a whitewash of the allegations he brought forward,” said
Hansel, a partner at the Joseph, Greenwald & Laake  law firm . He
said Weber plans to contest his firing in a lawsuit that also
would detail allegations he raised about poor computer security
and data breaches at the agency.  Internal Review  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Weber’s original complaints prompted the SEC to bring in
 David Williams , the inspector general of the U.S. Postal
Service, to conduct a review. Williams concluded that Kotz
violated ethics rules by overseeing probes that involved people
with whom he has “personal relationships.” Kotz resigned in
January amid questions about his tactics and conduct.  Williams also said in his report that he didn’t find any
evidence that indicated Weber’s conduct was improper or raised
security concerns. Based on the report, Weber asked the SEC to
reinstate him.  Weber, Hansel said, is in the process of opening a law firm
with his wife that will represent federal government whistle-
blowers.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 