-- SEC Begins Formal Inquiry Into Knight Related to Computer Error
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-11-09T23:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/sec-begins-formal-inquiry-into-knight-related-to-computer-error.html
Knight Capital Group Inc.’s (KCG)  $457.6
million trading error in August is the subject of a formal
investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Federal examiners are assessing the firm’s compliance with
a rule governing risk-control procedures in its trading
operation and other regulations, the company said in a filing
with the commission yesterday. Knight was also the subject of
on-site examinations into its capital and liquidity conditions,
it said. Those inquiries have concluded.  The trading mishap, which Knight blamed on faulty software,
pushed the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based firm to the brink of
bankruptcy and accelerated an industrywide assessment of how to
improve controls in electronic trading systems. SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  described the mishap as “unacceptable” and
promised to issue regulations to help prevent similar events.  “It was expected that the SEC would look into Knight’s
operations,”  Richard Repetto , a New York-based analyst at
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said in a phone interview.
“There are rules in place that would presumably prevent these
mishaps, but then again human errors do occur.”  The SEC is examining Knight’s compliance with the so-called
 market-access rule , adopted in 2010 to reduce the risk of
trading disruptions and improper and manipulative activity. The
rule, which went into effect last year, requires brokers to
employ risk checks on orders before they’re sent to markets to
make sure they aren’t erroneous and don’t exceed preset capital
and credit levels.  Erroneous Orders  “The item in the 10-Q relates to ongoing discussions with
the SEC since early August, discussions which have been
previously disclosed, including the third-quarter conference
call,” Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman for Knight, said in an
e-mail about the regulatory filing.  Knight bombarded U.S. equity exchanges with erroneous
orders on Aug. 1 after improperly installing software that
malfunctioned, according to CEO ThomasJoyce. The trading caused
volume to surge and prices to swing in dozens of securities
listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NYSE Arca.  Knight was taken over by six Wall Street firms including
Jefferies Group Inc. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in August after
losses associated with the computer malfunction depleted its
capital. The investors, who paid $400 million for securities
convertible into more than 70 percent of Knight’s equity, are
represented by three new Knight directors.  Technology Chief  In September, the firm consolidated oversight of its
finances and operations under a single executive and reassigned
its technology chief. Steven Bisgay, Knight’s chief financial
officer since August 2007, was named to the additional post of
chief operating officer. Steven Sadoff, the executive who had
been in charge of operations and technology, moved to a role
with Knight’s clearing, prime brokerage and futures businesses.  Knight has separated its processes for developing software
and installing it to ensure they’re now done by different
people, Joyce said on a conference call Oct. 17. It instituted
more checks and balances to reduce the chance of a similar
mistake occurring and implemented controls on systems that send
orders to markets “so we can get to the router faster and stop
it from creating problems sooner,” he said.  Knight was “close to having resolution” with the SEC
about its Aug. 1 trading, Joyce said at the time.  Kill Switches  A group of market and trading professionals said exchanges
should introduce so-called kill switches or mechanisms that shut
down a firm’s trading if it exceeds a specified maximum to help
limit errors by customers. They may have reduced Knight’s losses
on Aug. 1, the group told the SEC in September. Controls should
supplement curbs put in place by brokers, who remain responsible
for their own trading malfunctions, the executives  said.  “That’s really meant to be a second stop to some of the
requirements that are already out there around market-access
controls,” the testing of software and the supervisory
responsibilities of brokers, Joe Mecane, head of U.S. equities
at NYSE Euronext, said at an online conference sponsored by the
 Investment Company Institute  on Nov. 2.  There’s no “silver bullet” for technology malfunctions,
James R. Burns, deputy director of the SEC’s division of trading
and markets said at the conference. He said the SEC is working
on a proposal to convert guidelines from two decades ago about
how exchanges manage their automated systems into a regulation.
This is an “area that has long deserved revisiting,” he said
of the so-called automation review policy program.  Dark Pools  The requirements may be extended to large brokers and dark
pools, venues that don’t display price quotations, David Shillman, associate director in the SEC’s division of trading
and markets, said at a conference in New York in September. The
aim is to codify and expand rules designed to enhance market
stability and make them enforceable, he said.  The SEC has moved under Schapiro to get a better handle on
changes to fast-paced, electronic markets. In January 2010,
before the so-called flash crash, the agency issued a paper
seeking comments on a wide range of issues, including high-
frequency trading, dark pools and new trading strategies.  It implemented circuit breakers for individual stocks and
approved regulations laying out the rules for breaking erroneous
trades later in 2010. At least five stocks were halted on the
NYSE on Aug. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In May, the agency approved two plans to lessen the chances
of sudden market swings. One system, known as limit-up/limit-
down, will prevent trades at prices outside a specified range.
The other plan will make it easier to trip the market-wide
circuit breakers, introduced after the 1987 crash, that are
designed to halt trading during routs. The index triggering the
curbs and the price decline required to stop all trading were
changed. The rules will go into effect in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  