-- SEC Sues Louisiana Fund Firm for Hiding Mortgage-Linked Loss
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-11-09T03:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/sec-sues-louisiana-fund-firm-for-hiding-mortgage-linked-loss-1-.html
A  Louisiana  hedge fund firm hid $32
million in losses tied to investments backed by residential
mortgages as prices collapsed in 2008, U.S. regulators said.  Walter Morales instructed employees at his Baton Rouge-
based firm Commonwealth Advisors Inc. to conduct a series of
manipulative trades between funds they advised to conceal losses
after investing in the riskiest slices of a collateralized debt
obligation known as Collybus, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said today in a lawsuit filed at federal court in
Louisiana.  Commonwealth clients, which included pension funds and
individual investors, were sustaining heavy losses as mortgage
markets began to decline in 2007 and rating firms began to
downgrade securities with lower  credit quality , the SEC  said .
Rather than come clean with its investors, Morales directed
employees to execute more than 150 deceptive trades between two
 hedge funds  they managed at prices below its own valuation for
those securities.  After the trades were conducted, Morales instructed an
employee to mark the securities at fair market value, creating a
fraudulent $19 million gain for the acquiring hedge fund at the
expense of the funds that sold, the SEC said. Morales falsely
represented that the transactions were for a legitimate business
purpose and at prevailing market prices, according to the
 complaint .  ‘Deserve Better’  “Morales and Commonwealth Advisors concealed significant
hedge fund losses from investors, including pension fund
investors, instead of owning up to them and facing the
consequences,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in
a statement. “Investors put their fundamental trust in the
hands of their  investment adviser , and they deserve better than
being manipulated and lied to through deceptive trades and phony
documents.”  Frederick Tulley, an attorney for Morales and Commonwealth,
said his clients intend to fight the SEC’s claims.  “We seriously dispute the SEC’s version of what
happened,” Commonwealth said in an e-mailed statement. “We
plan to vigorously defend the action and we are confident that,
in the end, the decisions made by Commonwealth and its
management will be vindicated in the courts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  