-- Serbia to Sell Srbijagas-Controlled Plants, Keeps Gas Company
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-11-09T15:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/serbia-to-sell-srbijagas-controlled-plants-keeps-gas-company.html
Srbijagas JP,  Serbia ’s natural gas
monopoly, will sell its fertilizer, poultry and chemical
companies to prepare for market liberalization while the
government keeps the utility state-owned.  The sales will include fertilizer maker HIP Azotara DOO,
poultry producer Agroziv AD and the Metanolsko Sircetni Kompleks
AD chemical company, which Srbijagas acquired by swapping their
debt to the gas company into equity, Energy Minister Zorana
Mihajlovic told reporters in Belgrade today.  “We’ll carry out a deep reform, after a detailed analysis,
to restructure the company and divest non-core activities that
burden the core activity,” she said. The process may take a
year and a half, she said.  The parliament approved guarantees for Srbijagas’s
borrowing of 190 million euros ($241 million) this week to help
it cover some of last year’s debts, while Finance Minister
Mladjan Dinkic pledged to end state-backed liquidity loans.  Srbijagas owed more than 60 billion dinars ($678 million)
to banks at the end of 2011, while also claiming at least 650
million euros from consumers for gas delivered. It sold a glass
factory in July, acquired through debt conversion.  “Srbijagas has serious financial problems, but still it
doesn’t mean it will be privatized,” Mihajlovic said.  Srbijagas’s management has repeatedly said that its gas
business is losing money because government-regulated retail
prices are lower than the rates the company pays for imports
from  Russia , Serbia’s main source of gas.  Mihajlovic spoke after signing a preliminary agreement with
more than 30 local companies that seek to become gas
distributers and retailers ahead of an expected opening of the
market next year.  -Editor:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  