-- U.K. Shale Production to Take Up to 5 Years to Start
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-11-12T08:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/shale-gas-production-in-u-k-will-take-up-to-5-years-to-start.html
(Corrects story published on Nov. 9 to show Eric Vaughan’s
position in Cuadrilla to chief operating officer.)  Producing shale gas on a commercial
scale in the U.K. will take as long as five years as explorers
get to grips with local geology.  “Until we have the chance to explore more, to know more
about the geology of U.K. shale, we can’t do much about it,”
said Richard Smead, director in the energy practice of  Navigant
Consulting (NCI) , who’s assesed the performance of U.S. fields.
“Plus, the government has to find a way to share the benefits
of shale gas exploration with local communities and
landowners.”  The Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has promised
tax breaks to encourage the development of shale reserves to
replace aging gas fields in the  North Sea . Politicians are
looking at the U.S., which became the world’s largest gas
producer after drillers used pressurized water, sand and
chemicals to force fuel from shale rock.  Explorers need to drill multiple wells before they can
assess how much gas shale rock in the U.K. will yield and
whether recovery rates will match the U.S., Nick Riley, head of
science policy at the British Geological Survey, said yesterday
at an industry conference in  London .  “From the talks I’ve had with companies, they need to
drill between five to seven wells to feel what’s the
potential,” Riley said. “It will certainly take a number of
years because of all the different rules and regulations, it
will never go as fast as in the U.S.”  Resume Exploration  Energy Minister  John Hayes  said last month the U.K. plans
to allow companies to resume shale gas exploration this year to
take advantage of “an exciting opportunity.” Exploitation of
the U.K.’s shale-gas reserves may meet 10 percent of U.K. demand
for more than 100 years, according to  the Institute of
Directors.  Exploration in the U.K. was supended after drilling by
Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. in northwest  England  caused two small
earthquakes last year. The Department of Energy and Climate
Change is completing an assessment into the impact of shale
drilling. Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, the technique used
to get gas out of shale rock, has been criticized by
environmental campaigners, who say it risks polluting water.  “The good news is that we know there is a lot of gas, that
the shale is thick and that we operate in a high-price
environment,” said Andrew Austin, chief executive officer of
 IGas Energy Plc. (IGAS)  “What we need to see is the rate at which it
flows.”  The company has  appointed the investment bank  Greenhill &
Co. (GHL)  to help find an investor in a shale discovery in the Bowland
Shale prospect in northwest England and expects to announce a
partner by the end of the year.  Open Fissures  Cuadrilla, which estimates it has more than 200 trillion
cubic meters of shale gas beneath its acreage in the Bowland,
said it is still at the phase of analyzing “if it’s
economically viable to drill a well or not,” said the company’s
chief operating officer, Eric Vaughan. “The regulation here is
stricter than in the U.S.”  Companies with licenses in areas possibly holding shale-gas
resources in the U.K. include IGas,  Dart Energy Ltd. (DTE) ,  BG Group
Plc (BG/) , Celtique Energie Ltd. and Reach Coal Seam Gas Ltd.,
according to the department of energy.  Chancellor of the ExchequerOsborne announced on Oct. 8
possible tax breaks for shale gas, “so that Britain is not left
behind as gas prices tumble on the other side of the Atlantic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  