-- Sharp Says Foxconn Talks Could Continue Beyond March Deadline
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-11-09T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/sharp-says-foxconn-talks-could-continue-beyond-march-deadline.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ’s talks with  Taiwan ’s
Foxconn Technology Group over a capital tie-up could continue
beyond a March deadline if a deal isn’t reached by then, a
senior executive at the Japanese electronics maker said.  While the two companies previously agreed on a March 26
target, negotiations could be extended “depending on the
situation,” the executive said at a press briefing given
yesterday on condition of anonymity. Sharp, the maker of Aquos
televisions and supplier to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , has been renegotiating
terms of a proposed stake sale to Taipei-based Foxconn after its
share price plunged amid widening net-loss estimates.  Sharp,  Japan ’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, on
Nov. 1 forecast a record  net loss  of 450 billion yen ($5.7
billion) for the year ending March 31 amid falling demand for
its panels and TVs. The company hasn’t been able to reach a new
deal with Foxconn, founded by billionaire Terry Gou and which
initially agreed in March to buy a 9.9 percent stake in Osaka-
based Sharp for 550 yen a share, or 67 billion yen.  “Sharp has to develop a revival plan that assumes it won’t
get the planned investment from Foxconn,” said Hideki Yasuda,
an analyst at Ace Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Foxconn can’t
justify to its shareholders a purchase of Sharp stock above the
current market price.”  Sharp rose 2 percent to 155 yen in Tokyo trading yesterday,
narrowing this year’s decline to 77 percent, the  worst performer 
among more than 1,600 companies in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of
developed nations.  ‘On Schedule’  The Japanese company assumes a deal with Foxconn can be
reached, President Takashi Okuda said Nov. 1.  “Everything is on schedule,” Gou said Nov. 7 when asked
about the talks.  In July, Sharp sold a stake in an LCD factory in Sakai,
central Japan, to Gou, who will jointly run the 10th-generation
facility that is the most advanced in the industry. The tie-up
is a “major success” and has increased operation rates at the
plant, the senior Sharp executive said yesterday.  Faced with falling demand for TVs and a surging yen that
erodes the repatriated value of overseas sales, Sharp, Sony
Corp. and Panasonic Corp. plunged to record losses last year.
After failing to come up with hit products to challenge Samsung
Electronics Co. and Apple, the Japanese consumer-electronics
companies have resorted to closing factories, eliminating jobs
and cutting costs to revive profit.  Fitch Ratings cited Sharp’s growing liquidity risks in
cutting the company’s  credit rating  Nov. 2 by six levels to B-,
a junk rating defined as “highly speculative.”  ‘Material Doubt’  Sharp said in a financial statement on Nov. 1 there was
“material doubt” about its ability to survive.  Interest-bearing debts swelled to a record 1.2 trillion yen
as of Sept. 30, the company said Nov. 1. The equity-capital
ratio as of Sept. 30 stood at 10.3 percent, less than a third of
what it was a year ago, the company said.  The electronics maker sought banks’ support to help
refinance its commercial papers after its  credit rating  was cut,
and the company secured 360 billion yen in loans in September
from  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc., its two main banks.  Sharp pledged as collateral a total of 741 billion yen in
assets as of Sept. 30, up from 19 billion yen six months
earlier, according to its quarterly report. Assets under
collateral included 259 billion yen of properties, 201 billion
yen of inventory and 44 billion yen of machine equipment,
according to the report.  Convertible Bonds  With 200 billion yen of convertible bonds maturing in 2013,
Sharp may have to ask the state Enterprise Turnaround Initiative
Corp. or Innovation Network Corp. of Japan for money, Fumiaki Sato, co-founder of Sangyo Sosei Advisory Inc., a turnaround
advisory firm in Tokyo, said earlier this month.  Sharp hemorrhaged 103 billion yen in cash from operations
in the first half of the year. A bailout may follow the
precedent set by the government rescue of Japan Airlines Corp.
two years ago that wiped out shareholders while keeping planes
in the air.  Sharp must put together a plan to revive its fortunes
before any injection of public funds can be considered, Akira Amari, the policy chief of Japan’s main opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party , said in an interview this month.  The company has no plan to seek public funds, the senior
Sharp executive said at yesterday’s briefing.  Sharp’s turnaround plan includes seeking 2,000 voluntary
retirements, cutting salaries, selling assets and reducing
capital investments, the company said Nov. 1. The manufacturer
is considering several partnerships as talks with Foxconn
continue, Okuda has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  