-- Simpson Thacher, Allen & Overy, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-09T12:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/simpson-thacher-allen-overy-skadden-business-of-law.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
trader on trial over a $2.3 billion loss, is being wrongly
blamed for the bank’s layoffs and poor reputation, his lawyer
said today in closing arguments.  “He has had to bear the brunt of the problems at UBS,”
his lawyer Charles Sherrard told jurors in a  London  criminal
court. The prosecution made false claims about Adoboli because
it “can’t get around the evidence.”  Adoboli also faces “outrageous allegations” and false
claims that he invented a fake defense and manipulated evidence,
Sherrard said.  Adoboli, originally from  Ghana , is accused of fraud and
false accounting for a $2.3 billion trading loss. Prosecutors
say he hid the risk of his trades by booking fake hedges at the
 Swiss bank  and then masking profit to cover future losses before
market fluctuations made his positions untenable.  Sherrard said Adoboli lied at work to protect the other
three traders on the exchange-traded funds desk, who he claims
were involved. The other men, who deny involvement, have
“amnesia,” Sherrard said.  Prosecutor Sasha Wass ended her closing argument today by
saying Adoboli is arrogant, reckless and dishonest. She said he
lied to his colleagues to cover his crime, and then lied in the
trial using “long-winded, convoluted answers” to explain
himself.  “We invite you to see through those lies and convict Mr.
Adoboli,” Wass said to the jury as Adoboli shook his head back
and forth.  Wass compared his actions to those of shoplifters,
pedophiles and rapists who admit their crimes and then blame
their victims.  “Isn’t that just a little bit much?” Sherrard said to the
jury, referring to Wass’s comparison to rape.  BP, Plaintiffs Ask Judge to Approve $7.8 Billion Spill Accord  BP Plc (BP/)  and the lead lawyers representing victims of the
2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill asked a judge yesterday to approve
a proposed $7.8 billion partial settlement of claims, while
attorneys for thousands of plaintiffs sought rejection or
modification of the agreement.  BP, based in London, reached the settlement in March to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and injuries related to the explosion of the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig and subsequent spill. U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier , who granted preliminary approval to the
settlement in May, is considering arguments on the agreement at
a fairness hearing that started yesterday in New Orleans.  The BP settlement underpays some claimants and unfairly
excludes others, lawyers for the objectors said in court papers
before yesterday’s hearing. Lawyers representing more than
13,000 spill victims have attacked the settlement’s fairness, BP
said in a filing last month seeking approval from the judge.  “Two identical businesses across the street from each
other received dramatically different” settlement offers based
on the deal’s terms, Stuart Smith, a lawyer for Florida business
owners objecting to the accord, said at yesterday’s hearing.
“It doesn’t make any sense and it isn’t fair.”  The accord will resolve more than 100,000 damage claims
tied to the spill, plaintiffs’ attorney James Roy told the judge
yesterday while urging him to approve the agreement.  The claims process set up after the settlement was
announced has already paid out more than $1 billion, before
final approval, said Roy, co-lead attorney on the plaintiffs’
steering committee, which has pursued the litigation against BP.  The BP settlement “was a hard-fought negotiation. Nothing
was easy,” Roy said. “This is not a group of insurance
adjusters trying to save money for BP.”  The civil case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans). 
The criminal case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-00171, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Moves  Simpson Thacher Hires Private-Equity Partner in London  The global co-head of Allen & Overy LLP’s private-equity
sector group, Derek Baird, is joining Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
LLP as a partner in the corporate practice in London.  Baird’s practice focuses on mergers and acquisitions,
particularly private-equity transactions. He has represented
private-equity firms on domestic and cross-border leveraged
buyouts, public to private transactions and exits.  “Derek’s experience and recognized expertise fit well with
our highly regarded mergers and acquisitions and acquisition
finance practices,” Pete Ruegger, chairman of Simpson Thacher’s
executive committee, said in a statement.  Simpson Thacher, based in New York, has more than 850
lawyers and 11 offices in the U.S., Asia, London and Sao Paulo.  Fees  Ex-Cameron Aide Coulson Appeals News Corp. Legal Fees Ruling  Andy Coulson, a former editor of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the
World tabloid and U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron’s ex-press
chief, asked an appeals court to make the company pay his legal
fees in a criminal phone-hacking case.  Coulson’s lawyers told the Court of Appeal in London
yesterday that his 2007 termination contract with News Corp.
requires the company to pay legal fees relating to his duties as
editor. Coulson was charged in July with conspiring from 2000 to
2006 to intercept the mobile-phone messages of more than 600
people, including U.S. actors Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie.  The connection between the charges and Coulson’s job at the
tabloid are “a no-brainer,” his lawyer, Thomas Linden, said.
“Coulson is charged with five counts of conspiracy with others
at the News of the World, including his boss,” Rebekah Brooks,
who stepped down as chief executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K.
unit two days before her arrest last year.  News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch, a friend of Brooks,
closed the News of the World in July 2011 to help quell public
anger after it emerged that journalists accessed messages on a
murdered schoolgirl’s mobile phone almost a decade earlier. The
investigation spawned parallel probes of computer hacking and
bribery and led to the arrests of more than 80 people, including
the unit’s former head of security and its top lawyer.  Coulson, 44, and Brooks are among eight people accused of
conspiring with  Glenn Mulcaire , the company’s former private
investigator, to hack phones for news stories. Another group,
including Brooks’s husband, Charlie Brooks, was charged with
conspiring to cover up the conspiracy by hiding evidence. They
are due to stand trial together in September 2013.  Coulson, who denies the charges, argues his former employer
is wrongfully assuming he’s guilty by refusing to pay legal fees
for someone it says broke the law. He also cited press reports
saying the company is paying Brooks’s expenses. The appeals
judges said they would assume the claim about Brooks was true if
News Corp. didn’t challenge it. It didn’t.  “Mr. Coulson does dispute the allegations and he’s
entitled to be presumed innocent,” Linden said.  His contract “covers doing his job as editor and it is not
part of his job to hack phones,” said Christopher Jeans, the
lawyer for London-based News International, adding if any fees
are paid, it should come after he’s proved innocent.  For more, click here.  Verdicts & Settlements  AstraZeneca Settles Toprol XL Generics Suit for $11 Million  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and affiliates will pay as much as $11
million to settle claims the company violated antitrust and
consumer-protection laws by keeping generic versions of the
heart drug Toprol XL off the market.  Consumers and other buyers who paid for the drug from 2005
to 2012 may share in the fund by filing claim forms, available
through  www.ToprolSettlement.com , according to a statement
yesterday from law firms including  Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check
LLP . A federal judge will consider approving the settlement and
attorneys’ fees of as much $3.5 million at a March 7 hearing in
Wilmington,  Delaware , the lawyers said.  The AstraZeneca defendants denied any wrongdoing, and
agreed to the settlement partly “to avoid further expense,
inconvenience” and uncertainties of protracted litigation, the
London-based company said in court papers.  The case stems from lawsuits filed in 2006 by drug
wholesalers and health and welfare funds contending AstraZeneca
used unfair trade practices, partly by bringing sham patent-
infringement lawsuits against makers of low-cost generics.  About half of the settlement fund will be used to pay
consumer claims and the other half will go toward claims by
insurers and employee-benefit plans, the law firms said.  The case is In re Metroprolol Succinate End-Payor Antitrust
Litigation, 06-cv-71, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  News  Monitor Company Files for Bankruptcy, Deloitte to Buy Assets  Monitor Company Group LP, the Cambridge, Massachusetts
consulting firm that last year apologized for helping to improve
the image of former Libyan dictator Muammar Qaddafi, filed for
bankruptcy protection.  The company, in a Chapter 11 petition filed Nov. 7 in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware, listed assets and debt
of $100 million to $500 million each.  Monitor Group said in a statement that its U.S. business
would be acquired by Deloitte Consulting LLP while its practices
outside the U.S. will be acquired by other member firms of
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.  Pepper Hamilton LLP is listed as bankruptcy counsel for
Monitor in court papers. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP is representing Deloitte in its asset-purchase agreement
with Monitor Group. The Skadden team includes partners James
Schell, investment management; Eileen Nugent and Neil Stronski,
mergers and acquisitions; and J. Gregory Milmoe, corporate
restructuring.  Monitor Group was co-founded in 1983 by Michael Porter, the
Harvard Business School management expert. Politico reported on
Feb. 21, 2011, that the Qaddafi regime paid the company a fee of
$3 million a year, plus expenses, to run what the firm called
“a sustained, long-term program to enhance international
understanding and appreciation of Libya.”  The case is In re Monitor Company Group LP, 12-13042, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Deals  Mayer Brown Advises Gulf Oil in $1.05 Billion Deal for Houghton  Mayer Brown LLP New York partner Edward Davis led the team
advising  Gulf Oil Corp. (GULF) , controlled by the billionaire Hinduja
brothers, which agreed to buy  Houghton International Inc.  for
$1.05 billion in the second-biggest acquisition planned by an
Indian company this year.  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP advised
Houghton with a team led by corporate partner Christopher Ewan.  Gulf Oil agreed to buy Houghton, whose chemicals and
lubricants are used in the metalworking and automotive
industries, from a U.S.-based private-equity fund, the
Hyderabad, India-based company said in an exchange filing. New
York-based AEA Investors LP bought Houghton in 2007.  Indian companies have announced international deals worth
$10.2 billion in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Gulf Oil’s planned acquisition is second only to Indian Hotels
Co.’s $1.86 billion offer last month to buy Hamilton, Bermuda-
based  Orient-Express Hotels Ltd. (OEH)   Houghton, based in Valley Forge,  Pennsylvania , posted sales
of $858 million in the year ended Sept. 30, according to Gulf
Oil. The Indian company may consider acquisitions to expand its
lubricant-making capacity by at least 50,000 metric tons a year,
President Ravi Chawla said last year.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Morrison & Foerster Names Brett Miller New York Managing Partner  Brett Miller, a partner in Morrison & Foerster LLP’s
bankruptcy and restructuring group, was named managing partner
of the New York office. He succeeds litigator Charles L. Kerr,
who has led the office since 2008.  Miller, who is co-chairman of the distressed real estate
group, represents clients in Chapter 11 cases, out-of-court
restructurings, bankruptcy-related acquisitions, cross-border
insolvency matters and bankruptcy-related litigation. His
clients have included Louis J. Freeh, Chapter 11 trustee for  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , and the unsecured creditors’ committee of
the Los Angeles Dodgers.  “Brett has the combination of qualities needed to lead one
of our most important offices: strategic focus, enthusiasm and
proven leadership ability,” said Larren Nashelsky, chairman of
Morrison & Foerster.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers in 15
offices in the U.S., Asia and  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  