-- Sony Downgraded by Moody’s on Falling Demand for TV, Cameras
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-11-09T09:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/sony-downgraded-by-moody-s-on-declining-demand-for-tvs-phones.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , the Japanese electronics-
maker reeling from four straight annual losses, had its  credit
rating  cut to the lowest investment grade by Moody’s Investors
Service, citing falling demand for its televisions and cameras.  The long-term credit rating was cut one level to Baa3 from
Baa2, Moody’s said in a statement today, assigning a negative
outlook. Sony, which unexpectedly reported a seventh straight
quarterly  loss  earlier this month, had its short-term rating cut
to Prime-3, also the lowest investment grade, from Prime-2.  Sony has been downgraded continuously by six levels from
its Aa3 rating in 2003 as the maker of Walkman music players
struggled without a hit product to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co. Ratings companies also downgraded  Sharp
Corp. (6753)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  this year as  Japan ’s electronics
industry reels from competition with  South Korea ’s Samsung,
rated A1 at Moody’s.  “Overall earnings will stay weak due largely to prolonged
operating losses in TVs and mobile phones, as well as
significant declines in earnings from digital imaging products
and games,” Moody’s said in today’s statement. “The company is
not expected to reduce debt significantly without resorting to
cuts in capital expenditure or the sale of non-core assets.”  Samsung, LG  Sony fell 0.9 percent to close at 879 yen in  Tokyo trading 
today, before the announcement. The stock is down 36 percent
this year, extending a 53 percent loss last year. Samsung has
gained 27 percent in  Seoul , while  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , with a
Baa2 rating at Moody’s, has risen 3.4 percent.  Sony posted a  net loss  of 15.5 billion yen ($195 million)
for the quarter ended Sept. 30, compared with the 15.6 billion-
yen  average  profit of three analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg before the Nov. 1 announcement. The company retained
its forecast for a full-year net income of 20 billion yen.  Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  is cutting 10,000 jobs
and selling assets as he focuses on mobile devices, games and
digital imaging to revive the Tokyo-based company. Sony sold a
chemical-products making unit, stakes in two display-making
ventures and invested in  Olympus Corp. (7733)  to revive growth after
racking up 692 billion yen in losses selling TVs in the past
eight years.  Net  debt  for Sony’s non-financial services businesses
increased by 400 billion yen from March to September, partly
because of higher financial needs, Moody’s said in the
statement. Gross debt for Sony’s non-financial services
businesses increased to about 1.25 trillion yen in September
from 1.15 trillion yen in March. Cash and deposits decreased to
about 420 billion yen from about 720 billion yen.  Today’s downgrade is Sony’s third this year by Moody’s.
 Standard & Poor’s  has cut the company’s long-term rating twice
so far this year.  Sharp, the maker of Aquos TVs, was downgraded to junk by
 Fitch Ratings  earlier this month. Panasonic, Japan’s second-
largest TV maker, was downgraded by Standard & Poor’s after
forecasting a loss 30 times bigger than analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  