-- South Africa’s Vineyard Protest Talks Unresolved After Two Days
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-11-09T18:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/south-africa-s-vineyard-protest-talks-unresolved-after-two-days.html
The second day of talks to resolve
unrest in South Africa’s biggest table grape-growing region
ended without resolution.  Employees have been protesting for better wages and living
conditions this week, the Congress of South African Trade
Unions, the nation’s biggest labor federation, said in an e-
mailed statement on Nov. 6. Talks have been held between Agri
Wes-Cape, the Western Cape province’s agricultural trade
association, unions representing the workers, the  Commission for
Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration , and Tina Joemat-
Petterson, the national minister of agriculture, in De Doorns,
140 kilometers (87 miles) northeast of Cape Town.  The region affected by the unrest has 4,800 hectares
(11,861 acres) of vineyards. South Africa is the continent’s
biggest grower of the fruit.  “No agreement or settlement was reached,” Lookington
Ndongeni, provincial secretary for the Food and Allied Workers
Union, an affiliate of COSTU, said by mobile phone in Cape Town
today. “Some farmers are willing to give the workers an extra
25 rand ($2.86) a day on top of what they are earning, while
others are not.”  “Tomorrow a meeting will be held with the leadership of
the unions and the national minister of agriculture,” Ndongeni
said.  Agri Wes-Cape asked farm workers to return to work on
Monday and hold direct talks with their employers, Porchia
Adams, a spokeswoman for the trade association, said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Earlier this year, labor unrest rocked the mining and
manufacturing industries in South Africa, where a quarter of the
workforce is unemployed and almost a third of the population of
51.8 million receives welfare grants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  