-- Spielberg’s ‘Lincoln’ Risks Losses for DreamWorks Studio
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-11-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/spielberg-s-lincoln-risks-losses-for-dreamworks-studio.html
Steven Spielberg  spent tens of
millions of dollars and about a decade to get his movie about
Abraham Lincoln to the big screen. Will the effort pay off for
his DreamWorks Studios?  “Lincoln,” an early favorite to win Oscar nominations, is
no shoo-in at the box office. The movie, opening today in
limited release, chronicles the 16th president’s campaign to end
slavery, starring Daniel Day-Lewis. It faces competition from
two of the biggest pictures of the year -- “Skyfall,” the
latest James Bond installment, and the finale of the
“Twilight” vampire series.  Spielberg, whose movies have included blockbusters such as
“Jurassic Park” and “Raiders of the Lost Ark,” has had mixed
results with historical drama. “Schindler’s List” reaped
profits and the best-picture Oscar, while “Amistad,” depicting
the trial after a slave rebellion, was a commercial
disappointment. “Lincoln” is estimated to generate $94 million
in North American ticket sales, according to researcher Box
Office.com, which may mean it will lose money unless it pulls in
crowds overseas.  “‘Lincoln’ needs to catch on internationally to be
profitable,” said Phil Contrino, vice president and chief
analyst at BoxOffice.com. “Ninety-four million domestically
would be seen as successful, but success at home is not enough
these days. I’m sure they spent a lot of money marketing it.”  DreamWorks Studios has split the movie’s expenses with
partners Participant Media and Twentieth Century Fox, part of
 News Corp. (NWSA)  They spent about $65 million to make “Lincoln.”
Typically, another 50 percent to 100 percent of a movie’s budget
is spent on marketing. If those breakdowns hold, the total cost
would be between $97 million and $130 million.  Finish Line  Revenue splits from ticket sales vary, though U.S. theaters
usually take about 50 percent. Such a division means DreamWorks
Studios and its partners would take in less than $50 million
from domestic ticket sales if the movie were to perform as
expected. To make money, they would have to make up the
difference from overseas theaters, DVD sales and other sources,
according to Contrino.  “This movie, because of the quality of it, is going to
hang in there,” Stacey Snider, the Los Angeles-based studio’s
chief executive officer, said in an interview. “It isn’t where
we start. It’s where we finish.”  Snider said she expects the movie to do well, without
offering specifics. Another dialogue-heavy film, “The King’s
Speech,” competed with a “ Harry Potter ” in 2010, building
slowly to $414 million in global sales and winning the best-
picture and best-director Oscars.  Legislative Bribes  “Lincoln” opens in 11 theaters, including locations in
 Los Angeles  and  New York , before expanding nationwide on Nov.
16. In the film, Spielberg shuns his trademark action sequences
to focus on the president’s determination to pass the Thirteenth
Amendment in early 1865, which permanently ended slavery.  For Spielberg, the film is the result of a lifelong
fascination with Lincoln. He told reporters last month he began
pitching the role to Day-Lewis eight years ago, and worked with
playwright Tony Kushner for almost a decade to develop the
script.  Ultimately, they focused on a few weeks near the end of
Lincoln’s life, as he badgered, bribed and intimidated members
of the  House of Representatives . Lincoln was desperate to pass
the amendment before the Civil War ended, worried that his
Emancipation Proclamation, issued in 1863 under special war
powers, was unlikely to survive the peace.  Even in the North, many politicians were ambivalent about
granting equality to blacks. Scenes in the movie show
legislators, all representing union states, debating whether the
amendment should simply end slavery or put blacks on equal
social footing with whites.  Father, Husband  Tension over the political wrangling often spilled over
into the Lincoln household, allowing the filmmakers to examine
Lincoln’s burdened family life as well as the weight he carried
because of war casualties and political struggle.  “We needed to focus on a working president and father and
husband,” Spielberg said at a press conference promoting the
film. “We couldn’t do that with a ‘greatest hits’ list of
Lincoln’s life. We would have been giving you just headlines and
nothing of Lincoln’s character.”  Screenings at the New York Film Festival and the American
Film Institute’s AFI Fest have helped to build anticipation.
“Lincoln” received 94 percent approval in reviews compiled by
Rottentomatoes.com, and, perhaps more important, a “want-to-
see” rating of 98 percent. Goldderby.com, which aggregates
critics’ Oscar predictions, lists it among probable best-picture
and best-director nominees.  7,000 Biographies  “Skyfall,” from  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.,
has already taken in $321 million outside of  North America . For
a domestic theater run starting today, the latest 007 is
estimated to take in $230 million. “The Twilight Saga: Breaking
Dawn Part 2,” opening next week, is projected to generate $294
million at the U.S. box office.  “The reviews indicate that it delivers a strong emotional
current and I think viewers will respond to that,” Contrino
said of “Lincoln.” “It’s hitting very well on Twitter. Every
time they put a new trailer out there, there’s a lot of
activity.”  The film is based on historian Doris Kearns Goodwin’s
“Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of  Abraham Lincoln ,” one
of more than 7,000 books that have been written about him,
Spielberg said.  “There is more written about Lincoln than movies made
about him or television stories portraying him,” Spielberg
said. “He’s kind of a stranger to our medium.”  ‘Amistad,’ ‘Schindler’  “Amistad,” released in 1997, generated $44.2 million on a
production budget of $36 million, according to Box Office Mojo.
1993’s “Shindler’s List” was a home run financially and
critically. The film, made for $22 million, returned $321.3
million in global ticket sales and won seven Oscars, including
best picture and best director.  Success with “Lincoln” would provide a financial boost to
DreamWorks Studios, which has struggled since becoming
independent in 2008.  Spielberg, former  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  executive  Jeffrey
Katzenberg  and Geffen Records founder  David Geffen  created
 DreamWorks SKG (DWA)  in 1994, envisioning a studio that would combine
live-action films, animation and record production. In 2004, the
animation unit was split off into publicly held DreamWorks
Animation SKG, led by Katzenberg. The remaining live-action
DreamWorks was sold to  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures  in 2006,
before breaking off on its own two years later under Spielberg
and Snider, the former Universal Studios chairman.  Bad Timing  The timing, at the outset of the financial crisis, was
almost disastrous. It took almost a year for DreamWorks Studios
to land as much as $850 million in financing that included a
$325 million loan led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and an equity
stake of an equal amount from Mumbai-based Reliance Big
Entertainment. Disney, based in Burbank,  California , agreed to
lend as much as $200 million to gain U.S. distribution.  The path since then has remained rocky. “Cowboys &
Aliens,” a sci-fi Western featuring “Bond” star  Daniel Craig ,
cost $163 million to make while generating $175 million in 
worldwide ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo. The comedy
“Dinner for Schmucks” brought in $86 million on a $69 million 
budget. One hit was “The Help,” which cost $25 million and 
generated $211.6 million worldwide.  ‘Better Mousetrap’  In April, DreamWorks Studios reached a new financing
agreement that provided a $200 million infusion, and signed
foreign distribution deals that give the studio a measure of
financial stability. In the future, Snider said she expects
fewer co-productions like on “Lincoln” and on Spielberg’s next
film, “Robopocalypse,” which also has Fox as a partner.  With that movie, a science-fiction thriller, DreamWorks
Studios returns to the commercial action fare that made
Spielberg the top-grossing director of all time, based on
domestic ticket sales. The studio also is planning “Need for
Speed,” based on the auto-racing  video game , and has set the
Vince Vaughn comedy “The Delivery Man” for release in October.  “We really spent the last period of time figuring out how
we can protect the downside, how we build a better mousetrap,”
Snider said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  