-- Stanford-Rooted Companies Would Form World-Sized Economy
-- B y   A l i s o n   D a m a s t
-- 2012-11-09T16:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/stanford-rooted-companies-would-form-world-sized-economy.html
Almost 40,000 active for-profit
companies trace their roots to  Stanford University , and if they
formed an independent country, it would be the world’s 10th
largest economy, a study found.  The companies’ combined annual sales of about $2.7 trillion
have generated an estimated 5.4 million jobs since the 1930s,
according to the study released last month by Charles Eesley, an
assistant professor in management science and engineering, and
William Miller, an emeritus professor of public and private
management, at the college near Palo Alto, California.  The entrepreneurial community at Stanford played a key role
in attracting future business founders to the school, Miller
said. In the past decade, 55 percent of alumni who started
companies said they chose Stanford specifically because of its
entrepreneurial environment, the study found. The university
first offered classes in small business and entrepreneurship
after World War II.  Stanford graduates  have also created about
30,000 nonprofit organizations.  In 2011, Eesley sent an e-mail survey to 142,496 Stanford
alumni, current faculty and selected research staff. He received
responses from 27,780 individuals. About 23 percent of survey
recipients with connections to the business school responded.  The study doesn’t name the companies that participated and
offers only a partial list of those that didn’t respond,
including  Hewlett Packard Co. (HPQ) , Cisco Systems Inc., Yahoo! Inc.
and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the Internet giant founded by alumni Sergey Brin and  Larry Page . These companies aren’t figured into the
methodology.  The Stanford study was modeled after a similar study Eesley
helped conduct when he was a doctoral student at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , based in Cambridge,
Massachusetts. By the end of 2006, that study found that living
MIT alumni had created 25,800 still active companies, which
employed 3.3 million people and produced annual global revenues
of almost $2 trillion, the school said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Damast in  New York  at 
 adamast@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Lavelle at 
 llavelle@bloomberg.net  