-- Statoil Looks to Debt Sales to Meet Dividend Goal: Nordic Credit
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-11-09T08:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/statoil-looks-to-debt-sales-to-meet-dividend-goal-nordic-credit.html
Statoil ASA (STL)  signaled it’s ready to
sell debt to make up for declining  oil prices  as  Norway ’s
biggest oil and natural gas producer looks for ways to pay for a
planned increase in dividends.  “Borrowing money is absolutely fine,” Statoil Chief
Financial Officer Torgrim Reitan said in a Nov. 7 interview with
Bloomberg Television. “It’s sort of a tool that’s there and we
do that from time to time. We have a great set of opportunities
for the future that we really would like to realize, and
borrowing money is a natural thing to do.”  Nordic companies have been issuing debt at a record pace
this year to tap demand after the region emerged as a haven from
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Yields on bonds sold by Scandinavia’s AAA
rated governments have eased to record lows, even slipping below
zero in Denmark and  Finland . That’s pushed investors in search
of higher yields in the region into corporate debt markets.  Statoil wants to give shareholders a “predictable, growing
 dividend ,” Reitan said in connection with the company’s third-
quarter report, and expects  capital spending  next year to rise
from an estimated $18 billion in 2012. At the same time, the
company’s total output will fall next year because of a sale of
Norwegian offshore assets to Wintershall AG and due to lower-
than-planned shale gas production in the U.S.  A total of $185 billion in corporate bonds have been sold
this year in the region, up from $174 billion last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spread Narrows  The spread on Statoil’s benchmark 4.375 percent euro note
maturing in 2015 relative to similar-maturity German bunds has
narrowed to about 57 basis points as of today, according to bid
prices, from as wide as 170 basis points in October last year.  Statoil’s shares rose 0.2 percent to 137.7 kroner as of
9:04 a.m. in Oslo.  Analysts including  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s Helge Andre Martinsen
argue that the Stavanger, Norway-based company is relying on
unrealistically high oil prices to fund investments and
dividends from its cash flow next year.  Delays in developing fields in Norway’s booming oil
industry will also make Statoil’s production targets harder to
reach, Martinsen said in September. He argues Statoil would need
 Brent crude  to average a “whopping” $127 a barrel next year to
cover investments and dividends from its cash flow.  That compares with about $107 today and an average of $112
this year. Benchmark U.S. oil slid to a four-month low of $84.44
a barrel on Nov. 7.  “The fields have gotten smaller or much more expensive”
to develop over the past decade, said Arctic Securities analyst
Trond Omdal. “A lot of the profits have disappeared into oil
services.”  Raising Cash  Statoil would need a Brent price of more than $125 a barrel
next year to fund dividends and capital expenditure with free
 cash flow , Omdal estimates. The asset sale to Wintershall, which
will bring in $1.35 billion, “almost covers the gap,” he said.  The company is estimated to pay a 6.71 kroner dividend a
share for 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of 32 analysts.
It paid shareholders 6.5 kroner for 2011.  Statoil will probably sell bonds to raise the cash, said
Teodor Sveen Nilsen, an analyst at Swedbank First Securities. To
avoid selling debt, Statoil would need an average Brent price of
around $120, according to Sveen Nilsen’s calculations. “It’s a
little alarming, but this applies to many  oil companies .”  The 67 percent state-owned company, which is rated AA- at
 Standard & Poor’s , last year sold three dollar-denominated
bonds, raising a total of $1.75 billion. Its $650 million, five-
year bonds were sold at a coupon of 1.8 percent.  The company, which hasn’t sold debt since last year, is
very “financially solid” and expects it would meet ample
demand should it decide to issue bonds again, said Reitan.  Statoil bonds “are a popular paper in the markets, strong
 credit rating , Scandinavian paper and all of that,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net 
Ryan Chilcote in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo on  at
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  