-- U.K. Stocks Decline for Third Day on U.S. Fiscal Concerns
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-11-09T17:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/u-k-stocks-drop-as-fitch-warns-on-u-s-economy.html
U.K. stocks  fell for a third day,
extending the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index’s biggest weekly drop since
September, as concern about the impending U.S. fiscal cliff
weighed on investor sentiment.  Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO)  declined 1.2 percent after saying
“challenging conditions” limited revenue growth in the third
quarter. Tullett Prebon Plc sank the most in more than two years
after the inter-dealer broker said sales declined amid subdued
trading. International Consolidated Airlines Group climbed 1.6
percent after announcing job cuts at its Spanish unit.  The FTSE 100 slipped 6.37 points, or 0.1 percent, to
5,769.68 at the close in London. The benchmark gauge has
retreated 1.7 percent this week, the biggest decline since Sept.
28. The broader FTSE All-Share Index lost 0.2 today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.1 percent.  “The post-election setback in global equity markets has
caused consternation for investors,” Ian Williams, a strategist
at Peel Hunt LLP in  London , wrote in a note to clients today.
“The removal of one area of uncertainty was supposed to refuel
risk appetite. Why the opposite reaction of the past two
sessions? Concerns about the U.S. fiscal cliff provide one
obvious explanation.”  Equities have slumped around the world this week as
investors’ focus turned to the impending U.S. budget debate
after President  Barack Obama ’s re-election on Nov. 6. Obama’s
victory and a split Congress raised concern lawmakers will be
unable to compromise and avoid $607 billion of automatic
spending cuts and tax increases at the beginning of next year.  Recession Possibility  The Congressional Budget Office yesterday reaffirmed its
previous projection that allowing the budget measures to take
effect would lead to a U.S. recession in the first half of 2013.
Fitch Ratings Managing Director  Ed Parker  also said in an
interview yesterday that the world’s largest economy will tip
back into contraction should policy makers fail to reach a deal.  The U.K.’s FTSE 100 has still climbed 3.5 percent in 2012
and 9.7 percent from this year’s low on June 1 as central banks
around the world stepped up stimulus measures to drive economic
growth. U.S. data today showed confidence among U.S. consumers
rose more than forecast this month.  Rentokil paced declining shares, falling 1.2 percent to 87
pence, after the world’s largest pest-control company said
“challenging conditions” across  Europe  and the U.K. held back
revenue growth in the third quarter.  City Link  The company also said its City Link business will report a
fourth-quarter loss of 25 million pounds ($39.9 million), wider
than an earlier forecast of 20 million pounds.  Tullett Prebon (TLPR)  plunged 8.4 percent to 240 pence, the
biggest drop since May 2010, after the broker reported a 12
percent decline in four-month revenue to 276 million pounds.  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker of transactions
between banks, lost 1.2 percent to 311.4 pence.  Talvivaara Mining Co. plummeted 15 percent to 103.5 pence,
the lowest in almost four years, as the army was called in to
help plug a leak of uranium that has collected in the Finnish
nickel producer’s waste pond.  IAG gained 1.6 percent to 170.6 pence after the parent of
British Airways said it will eliminate 4,500 jobs at Iberia and
cut 25 aircraft from the Spanish unit’s fleet to reduce capacity
by 15 percent in 2013.  The company said there will also be “permanent salary
adjustments” as it seeks a turnaround in profitability of at
least 600 million euros ($766 million) from this year’s level.  Admiral Group  Admiral Group Plc (ADM)  added 3.4 percent to 1,054 pence after
Bank of America Corp. raised its recommendation for the car
insurer to buy from underperform, saying it now views the
company as an income stock. Admiral has the highest 2013
estimated dividend yield within the industry at 9.1 percent,
according to a report sent to clients today.  Croda International Plc (CRDA)  increased 2.8 percent to 2,271
pence after Barclays Plc upgraded the world’s second-largest
maker of cosmetic ingredients to equal weight from underweight,
meaning investors’ holdings should match the level represented
in benchmark indexes.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  climbed 1.9 percent to 877 pence
after the second-biggest maker of commercial  aircraft engines 
confirmed its full-year guidance and said it expects “good
growth in underlying revenue and underlying profit.”  The company also named Alain Michaelis to replace retiring
Chief Operating Officer Mike Terrett. Michaelis also runs the
company’s gas turbine supply chain operation.  The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE 100 companies
today was 8.6 percent lower than the 30-day average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  