-- Loan Fund Inflows Most Since March ’11, Bank of America Says
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-11-09T18:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/u-s-loan-fund-inflow-most-since-march-11-bank-of-america-says.html
Investors poured $579 million into
U.S. loan funds this week, the biggest weekly inflow since March
2011, according to a report from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Floating-rate bank debt has attracted as much as $7.7
billion this year, or 14.5 percent of assets, according to the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank. The funds have seen money
coming in for 21 straight weeks and more than $7.7 billion for
the year, while those that purchase high-yield bonds have
reported a second week of outflows, Bank of America said.  Investors are turning to loans as prices rally, with the
JPMorgan Leveraged Loan Index rising 0.1 to 186.78 yesterday,
the highest on record. Money managers are seeking higher yield
as sales of speculative-grade bond and loans exceeded $269
billion this year, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. report
last month.  “This volume of inflows is the beginning of a long-term
trend and not a one-time fluke,” Oleg Melentyev, a  New York- 
based credit strategist at Bank of America, said in a telephone
interview. “Expectations for higher rates remains in the
market. Also, valuations have been in favor of loans over bonds
for quite some time now.”  An increase in interest rates will lead to higher returns
from floating-rate debt, which is usually tied to a benchmark
rate. The Federal Open Market Committee said on Oct. 24 that it
expects to keep the federal funds rate low through at least
mid-2015, repeating a pledge from Sept. 13.  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds
are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  