-- Humala Resumes War on Shining Path to Stifle Peru Cocaine Boom
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-11-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/humala-resumes-war-on-shining-path-to-stifle-peru-cocaine-boom.html
As an army captain in the early
1990s, Ollanta Humala fought the Shining Path guerrillas in the
Peruvian jungle to end one of  Latin America ’s bloodiest civil
conflicts.  Now president of the region’s fastest-growing economy,
Humala is looking to finish the job, re-equipping the nation’s
armed forces and police to capture holdout members of the
Maoist-inspired insurgency and deal a blow to the cocaine trade
that funds their activities.  The government will boost defense and counter-narcotic
spending next year as it taps record  tax revenue  from copper and
gold exports to halt a boom in the coca crop that the United
Nations says now rivals  Colombia ’s as the world’s largest. In
Humala’s sights is the valley of the Apurimac, Ene and Mantaro
Rivers, or VRAEM, the last bastion of the Shining Path. The
group has stepped up attacks against companies working on a
natural  gas pipeline  crossing the country’s largest coca-growing
area, threatening $1.5 billion in annual gas exports and 40
percent of the country’s power supply.  “Shining Path remnants pretty much have a free rein over
the area and want to keep it that way to support their main
interest, drugs,” said Jaime Garcia, a former deputy interior
minister, in an Oct. 15 phone interview from  Lima . “They’ve
placed in jeopardy gas exports as well as supplies to the rest
of the country.”  At risk is an $850 million plan to double the capacity of
the pipeline that crosses the VRAEM on its way from the Camisea
gas fields to the capital, Lima. The project will help prolong
an economic boom that has seen the economy expand an average 6.4
percent over the past 10 years.  No Doubts  Transportadora de Gas del  Peru , owned in part by Italian
billionaire Paulo Rocca through Techint SA, and closely held
Texas-based Hunt Oil Co. and Buenos Aires-based Pluspetrol SA,
built and operate the pipeline under a 33-year concession that
started in 2000.  The conduit runs through the heart of the VRAEM, more than
30,000 square kilometers (11,580 square miles) of mountains and
forests near the cities of Ayacucho and Cuzco.  Mounting violence in the region means the expansion project
is already a year behind schedule and won’t start operating
before 2016, Barbara Bruce, country manager for Hunt Oil, said
by phone on Oct. 30.  “If there was ever any doubt about how vital this project
is, that’s been dissipated,” by the government’s determination
to protect the installations, Bruce said.  Skanska Attack  Work to expand the pipeline has slowed since April after
guerillas abducted 40 people, mostly employees of Swedish
construction company  Skanska AB (SKAB) , in the jungle adjacent to the
VRAEM.  Eight police and military officers were killed during an
operation to free the kidnapped workers, who were released
unharmed after five days. The government’s failure to capture
any rebels led the defense and interior ministers to resign.  Transportadora temporarily stopped maintenance work on the
pipeline on Oct. 6 after rebels broke into an airfield at Kiteni
in Cuzco and blew up three helicopters used to inspect the
conduit.  The incidents raise the possibility of an attack on the
pipeline itself and the loss of power in Lima, which accounts
for about half of Peru’s gross domestic product, said Humberto Speziani, president of the country’s business confederation, in
an Oct. 22 phone interview.  Goaded  The mounting threat has goaded Humala into action, Speziani
said. In September, the government budgeted a 68 percent
increase in spending on the VRAEM to 2.75 billion soles ($1.1
billion) next year, including new military bases and night
vision equipment.  Defense Minister Pedro Cateriano said Oct. 13 the
government is also seeking to purchase 20 helicopters for
operations in the region, while police officers will receive new
firearms for the first time in 25 years.  The Shining Path has about 400 fighters in VRAEM and a
smaller faction in the Alto Huallaga valley to the north,
another coca-producing region, according to Ricardo Soberon, a
Lima-based drugs specialist and former adviser on drug issues to
Humala.  They are the remnants of a Maoist-inspired movement that
had an estimated 2,700 fighters in 1990, before a series of
arrests and military setbacks in the 1990s.  The Shining Path has survived by collaborating with drug
traffickers, overseeing a 25 percent increase in Peru’s coca
production in the past six years, according to the  United
Nations .  ‘Terrible Violence’  The Shining Path have increased their attacks in the past
five years as drug output booms, with about 84 members of the
security forces killed since 2008, according to Jaime Antezana,
an independent analyst on the drug trade. That compares with a
government-estimated death toll of about 69,000 in the civil war
between 1980 and 2000, including 1,674 police and military
officers.  “The remnants of the Shining path have become stronger in
the last few years as they’ve narcoticized,” Garcia said.
“They’ve no real political agenda or ambition for power. They
exist at the moment because of the drug trade.”  Responding to calls for the release of those imprisoned
during the years of terror, Humala said on Nov. 6 that the
government won’t drop its guard. “Peru has suffered terrible
violence in the past decades and that’s why we’re committed to
fight against terrorism.”  Driving Growth  The attack in Kiteni was probably a warning to the
authorities after police killed a senior member of the group in
the VRAEM in September, Speziani said.  Still, government measures to boost security along the most
vulnerable parts of the pipeline are reassuring and the attacks
are unlikely to dent private investment, he said.  The Lima Stock Exchange’s  benchmark index  has advanced 8.4
percent this year and the sol has appreciated 3.4 percent
against the  U.S. dollar . The extra yield investors demand to own
Peruvian government dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  has
decreased 92 basis points to 124 basis points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Annual inflation was 3.25 percent last
month, the slowest since June 2011.  Colombia’s Cano Limon pipeline, operated by Los Angeles-
based Occidental Petroleum Corp. and state-run Ecopetrol SA, has
been attacked more than 1,000 times since it was built in 1986,
causing oil spills and curbing exports and tax revenue. The pace
of attacks slowed after the U.S. government increased military
aid to Colombia under a 2000 accord.  Foreign Investment  Peru lured $1.6 billion of foreign investment to develop
the Camisea fields in 2000, at the time Peru’s biggest-ever
investment project. Since 2004, revenue from the Camisea fields
and a mining boom have tripled Peru’s gross domestic product to
about $200 billion this year.  About half of Camisea’s gas is exported to  Mexico  and the
remainder fuels  power plants  and factories outside Lima. The
expansion of the pipeline will boost supplies to industry and
the government expects it to spur as much as $16 billion of
investment in petrochemical complexes and power plants over the
next decade.  “It’s incredible the government’s not provided the
necessary security to protect such a strategic infrastructure
investment,” Garcia said.  Transportadora spokesman Rafael Guarderas, didn’t respond
to phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment. Alejandro Lujan, a
spokesman for the armed forces, wasn’t immediately able to
comment.  ‘Resting on Its Laurels’  Humala, whose family hails from Ayacucho, the region where
the Shining Path began its insurrection, says previous
governments ignored the threat posed by the guerillas in the
VRAEM. Police stations and military bases have fallen into
disrepair and the local population lacks basic public services
and infrastructure, he told reporters Sept. 12.  “The state has been resting on its laurels,” he said.
“Our troops are in a precarious situation.”  Farms in the VRAEM and the region around Cuzco accounted
for half of the country’s 62,500 hectares of coca crop last
year, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime said Sept.
26. Peru’s output has increased for six straight years to meet
demand for crack and cocaine in Europe and Brazil, which is the
largest market in the Americas after the U.S.  Yet, until now, the government had focused its drug
eradication efforts on the Alto Huallaga valley, uprooting about
10,000 hectares a year of coca in a campaign partially financed
by the U.S.  Coca Crop  The government won’t stop the guerillas or halt the traffic
of drugs through Peru’s southern borders if it gives priority to
a military solution to pacify the VRAEM, said Soberon in a Sept.
24 interview. More money should be spent on public works and
improving police intelligence, he said. Soberon was replaced as
Humala’s drugs czar after five months as the government took a
harder line on coca eradication, a practice he had criticized.  Eradication and programs to provide farmers with
alternatives to growing coca are the most effective ways of
limiting Peru’s coca production and weakening the guerrilla’s
grip on the VRAEM, said Carmen Masias, who took over from
Soberon in January. The government has increased the counter-
narcotics budget to $223 million, from 13 million soles ($5
million) a decade ago to boost eradication, aid crop
substitution and tighten the control of chemicals used to
produce cocaine, she said in an Oct. 26 interview in Lima.  “This government is putting more money into the drugs
fight than any before it,” Masias said. “The Shining Path have
taken it to another level by attacking strategic targets so the
government’s following a new strategy to deal with the threat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 