-- Unilever’s Skippy Said to Attract ConAgra, B&G
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-11-09T15:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/unilever-s-skippy-said-to-attract-conagra-b-g.html
Unilever (UNA) , seeking a buyer for its
Skippy peanut butter brand, has attracted interest from
suitors including  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  and  B&G Foods Inc. (BGS) ,
said three people familiar with the matter.  The unit may fetch as much as $500 million, said two of
the people, who asked not to be named because the process is
private. The consumer-products company, which had sought
preliminary offers by Oct. 25, wants to complete a deal by 
year-end, two of the people said.  Skippy also attracted interest from Pinnacle Foods Group
LLC, the food producer owned by New York-based private-equity
firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , said one of the people. Pinnacle is no
longer looking at the asset, according to another person.
Unilever Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman is weighing the
sale as he sharpens his focus on health and beauty brands, such
as Tresemme hair products and Dove moisturizer.  “The future of Unilever is not peanut butter, it’s not
Skippy,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said in an interview. “It’s a very local brand and has no real
global opportunity. So it makes perfect sense to sell.” Skippy
gets about 70 percent of its $370 million in sales from the
U.S., according to market researcher Euromonitor International.  Bloomberg News reported last month that Unilever hired
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to sell the label. Skippy is the second-most-popular
peanut-butter brand in the U.S., trailing J.M. Smucker Co.’s
Jif. ConAgra’s Peter Pan brand is third in the U.S.  Representatives at Unilever didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment. Matt Lindberg, an outside spokesman for B&G,
declined to comment, as did  Teresa Paulsen , a spokeswoman for
Omaha, Nebraska-based ConAgra.  Other Transactions  Unilever, based in Rotterdam and London, has done business
with both ConAgra and B&G in the  past year . In August, Unilever
sold its P.F. Chang’s and Bertolli frozen meals businesses to
ConAgra for $267 million. Parsippany, New Jersey-based B&G
acquired brands including Mrs. Dash and Molly McButter from
Unilever at the end of November 2011.  Unilever’s food business, which includes brands such as
Hellmann’s mayonnaise and Ragu pasta sauce, accounted for about
30 percent of the company’s 46.5 billion euros ($59 billion) in
sales last year. That doesn’t include sales from the refreshment
unit, which has products such as ice cream and tea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  