-- Urban Renaissance Sells Majority Stake for $200 Million
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/urban-renaissance-sells-majority-stake-for-200-million.html
Urban Renaissance Group, a real
estate owner and manager led by a former Equity Office
Properties Trust executive, got a $50 million pledge for
investments and $150 million of assets from Joshua Green Corp.
in a deal that gives the family-owned company a majority stake.  “This dramatically changes our asset base and our balance
sheet, which is always a positive thing in the real estate
business,” said Patrick Callahan, chief executive officer of
Urban Renaissance, who founded the Seattle-based company in 2006
after 15 years at Equity Office. He was Northwest regional
manager at the Chicago-based company, the largest U.S. office
landlord until  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  bought it in 2007.  The investment by Seattle-based Joshua Green will enable
Urban Renaissance to buy real estate in cities including
Seattle, Denver,  San Francisco  and  Portland ,  Oregon , Callahan
said in a telephone interview. Joshua Green is the owner of the
landmark downtown building that bears its name, which is
included in the deal.  Urban Renaissance’s expansion comes as prices for top-tier
office buildings in West Coast markets such as Seattle and San
Francisco jump, propelled by investor appetite for higher-
yielding investments with  interest rates  at record lows. The
company invests in office buildings, retail centers and mixed-
use properties.  “There has been a lot of activity in really the Class A
‘core’ assets -- the highly stabilized assets,” Callahan said.
“There’s a large range of market opportunities. Those that are
more value-add are less robustly priced.” Value-add properties
are those that require work such as fixing up lobbies or filling
vacancies to increase  cash flow .  Suburban Properties  Buildings in suburban markets may present opportunities for
Urban Renaissance, Callahan said. Many investors shunned suburbs
following the credit crisis, favoring central business districts
that they believed to be less risky.  The company plans to invest the $50 million in partnership
with institutions such as private-equity funds, Callahan said.
Urban Renaissance may put in 5 percent or 10 percent of the
equity in a deal, with a partner contributing the rest, then
borrow an amount similar to the equity, he said.  Urban Renaissance ultimately may acquire $1 billion of
properties, Callahan said. The company will consider assets from
as small as 70,000 square feet (6,500 square meters) to “big
high-rises,” he said. It may buy a real estate operating
company as well as individual assets.  The  real estate  from Joshua Green increases Urban
Renaissance’s holdings to 6.5 million square feet from 6
million, the companies said. Joshua Green owns shopping centers
and office buildings in the  Seattle  area and Spokane,
 Washington .  “We owned real estate asset by asset” in the past, said
Stan McCammon, president and CEO of Joshua Green. “We think the
better expertise is investing in people.”  Real estate represents a minority of Joshua Green’s
holdings, McCammon said. Its other investments include stakes in
companies that make fly-fishing gear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  