-- Turkey Yields Drop Most in 3 Months on Basci’s Rate-Cut Comment
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-11-09T15:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/turkey-bond-yields-fall-5th-day-on-basci-interest-rate-cut-talk.html
Turkey’s  bond yields  dropped the most
since August and the lira weakened after central bank Governor
Erdem Basci said he may cut the lower end of his interest-rate
corridor to curb unwarranted lira appreciation.  Two-year benchmark bond yields fell 17 basis points to 6.57
percent, the lowest level since at least 2005, extending this
year’s slump to 444 basis points. The lira slid 0.2 percent to
1.7898 per dollar by 5:05 p.m. in Istanbul. It lost 0.1 percent
to 2.0328 against the equally-weighted euro and dollar basket.  Basci may cut the 5 percent overnight borrowing rate if the
appreciation pressure on the lira builds, he said in an
interview on SkyTurk360 TV today. The lira jumped to its
strongest level since May on Nov. 6 after Fitch Ratings boosted
 Turkey  to investment grade. The governor will act if the
currency’s gain threatens to worsen the current-account deficit,
Gulay Girgin, an economist at Oyak Securities in Istanbul, said
in an e-mailed note today.  “The lira weakened against the euro/dollar basket after
the central bank said it could cut the policy rate and the lower
end of the interest rates,” Murat Yardimci, the head of trading
at ING Bank As in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Turkey’s current-account deficit narrowed for a 10th
consecutive month to $1.2 billion in August, the smallest since
2009.  Rating Boost  Today’s decline in the lira pared its gain this week to
less than 0.1 percent and two-year bond yields extended their
advance to 6.8 percent in the five days as Fitch boosted
Turkey’s foreign-currency ranking one step higher to BBB- with a
stable outlook on Nov. 5. A second rating upgrade could trigger
at least $2 billion in inflows through entry into benchmark
investment-grade indexes,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said in a note yesterday.  The central bank sold one-month repurchase agreements at a
record low rate of 5.59 percent at an auction today. The average
rate of funding for lenders fell to 5.74 percent yesterday, a
record, and less than the bank’s one-week benchmark rate of 5.75
percent.  “The central bank’s effective interest rates have already
fallen below the policy rate,” Bulent Topbas, a fund manager at
Strateji Menkul Degerler in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  