-- Murray Energy Fires 163 Workers, Citing a ‘War on Coal’
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-11-09T17:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/murray-energy-fires-163-workers-citing-a-war-on-coal-.html
Murray Energy Corp., the largest
closely held coal company in the U.S., is firing 163 workers
at three subsidiaries, citing a “War on Coal” by the Obama
administration.  “The actions of Mr. Obama and his appointees in the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency,  Department of Interior , Office
of Surface Mining, and Department of Labor, have already led to
the closure by 2014 of 204 American coal-fired  power plants ,”
the company said in three statements e-mailed today.  Murray dismissed 54 employees at The American Coal Co.,
based in Galatia,  Illinois , 102 workers at  Utah  American Energy
Inc., in East Carbon, Utah and seven workers at Kanawha
Transportation Center Inc., in Wheeling,  West Virginia .  U.S. coal producers have shut mines and fired thousands of
workers this year after cutting tens of millions of tons of
output in the face of weaker demand and prices. Coal use has
declined as some power stations switched to burning natural gas.
The industry is also facing regulations from the Environmental
Protection Agency that restrict the burning of coal to produce
power and limit new mining permits.  “The decision to lay people off was difficult and
complicated. First, the Obama Administration’s War on Coal has
already destroyed coal markets and resulted in the need for some
layoffs,” Gary Broadbent, a spokesman for St. Clairsville,
Ohio-base Murray Energy, wrote in an e-mail today.  “Second, the layoffs were more severe due to the
anticipation of further damage to coal markets caused by the
Obama Administration’s disastrous War on Coal.”  Chief Executive Officer Robert Murray read a prayer to
workers asking God’s forgiveness for “decisions that we are now
forced to make to preserve the very existence of any of the
enterprises that you have helped us build,” the Washington Post
reported.  Murray is the country’s largest privately owned coal
company, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  