-- Venezuela to Take Over Anglo American Nickel Concession
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-11-09T18:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/venezuela-to-take-over-anglo-american-nickel-concession-1-.html
Venezuela  will take control of a
nickel concession operated by  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  when it expires
tomorrow, said an official from the Oil and Mines Ministry.  The official briefed on the matter, who isn’t authorized to
speak publicly, responded to questions today by e-mail.  Concessions and permits for the London-based company’s
Minera Loma de Niquel expire tomorrow, Claudia D’amato, a Sao
Paulo-based spokeswoman for Anglo American, said today in a
telephone interview. The operation accounted for 13,400 metric
tons of Anglo’s 29,100 tons of nickel production  last year .  “We will provide an update regarding Loma when
appropriate,” she said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Venezuela had already canceled 13 Loma de Niquel
concessions and three remaning concessions are due to expire on
Nov. 10, the company said in a production report on Oct. 25.
Production at the mine was halted in September, according to the
report.  “If there is no development in this situation in the
coming weeks, then there will be no further production
contribution from this operation,” the company  said .  The mine’s proved and probable ore reserves totaled 4.6
million metric tons at the end of 2011, Anglo American said in
last year’s annual report, adding that it took an $84 million
charge “mainly arising” from the Venezuelan concessions.  Anglo American has a 91.4 percent stake in Loma de Niquel,
the company said in the report.  The company’s shares fell 1 percent to 1,866 pence at the
close in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  