-- BNY Mellon Currency-Trade Fraud Suit Settled by Virginia
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-11-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/virginia-drops-bny-mellon-currency-trade-fraud-lawsuit.html
  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
largest custody bank, reached a deal to end a lawsuit accusing
it of defrauding state pension funds through foreign-currency
transactions, according to a spokesman for  Virginia  Attorney
General Kenneth Cuccinelli.  The settlement provides $1.14 million to Grant Wilson, a
former foreign exchange trader at the bank who made the
allegations, said a person familiar with the matter who asked
not to be identified because a judge hasn’t signed off on the
request to dismiss the case.  The money is being paid by the state and not the bank, the
person said. The state and the bank filed a request to dismiss
the case in state court. The filing couldn’t be immediately
confirmed from court records.  “The litigation is over and BNY Mellon and the funds have
extended their respective business relationships for 10 years,”
Brian Gottstein, a spokesman for Cuccinelli, said yesterday in
an e-mail. “The case has been resolved by agreement of the
parties, which allowed for the reworking and extension of the
funds’ contracts with the bank. This resolution has conferred
significant financial benefits for Virginia employees and
retirees.”  BNY Mellon (BK)  has been sued by several states and the U.S.
attorney in  Manhattan  over pricing of foreign-currency trades on
behalf of clients. Cuccinelli sued the New York-based bank in
August 2011, claiming it violated state law by charging
“undisclosed markups” on currency-exchange trades to six
retirement funds. Virginia was seeking about $931.6 million in
damages.  “BNY Mellon did not make any payments to the whistle-
blower,” Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the bank, said in an e-
mailed statement. “The whistle-blower case was dismissed by the
court.”  Standing Instruction  The cases against BNY Mellon and other custody banks center
on the pricing of small foreign-exchange transactions handled
automatically on behalf of the pension funds, a service known as
standing instruction.  The banks say they acted as a principal, selling one
currency for another in arms-length transactions at a set price
that customers were free to accept or reject.  The states claim the banks were obliged to act as an agent,
obtaining the best possible  exchange rate  in the interbank
 currency market . Banks misled clients on how they set prices,
the states contend.  The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Bank of  New York 
Mellon Corp., 09-15377, Circuit Court for the County of Fairfax,
Virginia (Fairfax).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  