-- Visa, MasterCard $7.25 Billion Fee Deal Wins Approval
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/visa-mastercard-fee-deal-falls-too-short-retailers-claim.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s
proposed $7.25 billion settlement of a merchant fee price-fixing
case won preliminary approval from a federal judge in  Brooklyn ,
 New York .  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson made his ruling in court
yesterday after considering arguments by retailers opposed to
the deal. The judge’s decision allows plaintiffs to begin
signing up more than 7 million retailers that might be eligible
to participate. The settlement will be subject to a final
approval at a later date.  “I don’t mean to suggest for a moment that there are not a
number of issues that are going to require significant
scrutiny,” Gleeson said. “I’m not persuaded that the
deficiencies are the obvious deficiencies that ought to derail
preliminary approval.”  Estimated to be the largest-ever antitrust settlement, the
deal would end a seven-year-long case alleging that the card
companies conspired with major banks to fix interchange, or
swipe, fees charged to merchants when customers pay with
plastic. Retailers opposed to the deal claim it forces them to
give up too many rights to sue over card company practices in
the future.  After the hearing, representatives for Purchase,  New York- 
based MasterCard and  Foster City , California-based Visa said
they were pleased with the decision.  ‘Fair, Reasonable’  “Our belief that the agreement will eventually receive
final approval was strengthened today,” Visa General Counsel
Josh Floum said yesterday in a statement. “As we have said from
the beginning, this settlement is a fair and reasonable
compromise for all parties.”  Opponents of the deal said they are exploring legal
options, including the possibility of an appeal.  “We respectfully disagree with the court’s assessment of
the proposed settlement,” said  Mallory Duncan , general counsel
of settlement opponent the  National Retail Federation , in a
statement. “Retailers, their customers and competition would
suffer irreparable harm if this one-sided deal is allowed to
move forward.”  Several trade groups and about 1,200 retailers, including
Target Corp.,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , Neiman
Marcus Group Inc., and  Saks Inc. (SKS) , are opposed to the deal,
according to court papers.  ‘Not Daunted’  In an Oct. 24 order, the judge said the deal would likely
meet requirements for the initial sign-off, a threshold he said
is “meaningfully lower” than that of a later final approval.
Still, lawyers for the opponents were hopeful they could change
his mind, given that there were provisions in the deal allowing
some elements they claim are unfair to go into effect at the
preliminary stage.  “We’re not remotely daunted by this ruling,” said Jeffrey Shinder, a lawyer for some of the settlement opponents, after
the hearing. “I have every expectation the opposition will only
intensify as this process proceeds.”  The settlement includes $6.05 billion in cash payments and
a temporary interchange fee abatement, which plaintiffs estimate
will bring the total to about $7.25 billion. A separate group of
large merchants including  Kroger Co., (KR)   Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and  Safeway
Inc., (SWY)  struck their own deal with the card companies over the
fees, adding to the amount, according to court filings.  ‘Far Below’  Opponents of the settlement say the total is far below what
could have been won if the case went to trial. Damages might
have been as much as $300 billion, a lawyer for one group of
objectors said in an Oct. 18 court filing, referring to an
August  analysis  by Georgetown University law professor Adam Levitin.  The objectors also argued that the settlement contains
overbroad releases protecting Visa and MasterCard from future
lawsuits by retailers, including those not yet in existence,
over a wide spectrum of the card companies’ practices. A twist
in the structure of the settlement prevents retailers from
opting out of that part of the deal, lawyers for the objectors
contended.  Stephen Neuwirth, an attorney for Home Depot, said that the
company is particularly concerned with the legal releases.  “It’s so obvious Visa and MasterCard were prepared to make
a large payment because of the scope of the releases being
given,” he said. “It’s all one quid pro quo and merchants like
the Home Depot are being denied the chance to opt out of that
quid pro quo and say this is a bad deal.”  Dropped Out  Plaintiffs in favor of the deal include Payless ShoeSource
Inc. and eight other businesses including Photos Etc. Corp.,
Discount Optics Inc. and Leon’s Transmission Service Inc.,
according to court papers.  Another 10 retailers and trade groups that were previously
among the plaintiffs named in the suit decided to drop out of
the deal after it was made public in July.  During the hearing yesterday, lawyers for plaintiffs in
favor of the settlement said the objectors were misinformed or
had other agendas.  Patrick Coughlin, a lawyer for plaintiffs favoring the
deal, said that some large merchants oppose it because they are
starting a competing payment network, the Merchant Customer
Exchange. The exchange, or MCX, was formed by merchants
including  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which also
oppose the settlement.  “That’s what I believe is at the root of some of the large
merchants that form the basis of the objections,” Coughlin told
Gleeson in a standing-room-only courtroom, adding that the
opposition is “literally orchestrated by a small group.”  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  