-- Volatility at Record Low Signals More BOJ Stimulus: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2012-11-09T01:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/volatility-at-record-low-signals-more-boj-stimulus-japan-credit.html
The drop in a measure of potential
swings in Japanese government bonds to a record low is a signal
of more monetary easing to come as the economy shrinks.  Implied volatility in JGB futures, a gauge of expected
moves used to price options, dropped to 1.27 percent, the least
since at least 2002 and compared with 3.71 percent for similar
U.S. contracts, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Japan ’s 10-year
note yield slid to a three-month low of 0.73 percent today,
extending its decline from yesterday when data showed machinery
orders decreased more than estimated. Central bank interest
rates near zero are limiting the scope for bond yields to
decline, keeping volatility low.  The government and domestic companies have ramped up
pressure on Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa to add to
stimulus as the strong yen weighs on exports from the world’s
third-biggest economy. Japan’s gross domestic product probably
shrank the most since last year’s record earthquake in the third
quarter, according to a survey of economists by Bloomberg News
before a report due Nov. 12.  “The Japanese economic numbers we are seeing are so bad
that they give me the chills,” said Teruyoshi Sotome, a Tokyo-
based senior bond strategist at Mizuho Securities Co., one of
the 25 primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.
“Bond yields are more likely to fall when the economy and
monetary easing are considered.”  Implied volatility declined as investors sold more put
options, or rights to sell an asset for a predetermined price,
signaling little concern that debt values will drop, according
to Sotome. Bond futures climbed to as high as 144.61 today, a
level unseen since July 25.  GDP Contraction  Japan’s  machinery orders  decreased 4.3 percent in September
from the prior month, a report from the Cabinet Office showed
yesterday, compared with the 2.1 percent drop estimated by
economists. Separate government data is likely to show next week
that GDP  shrank  an annualized 3.4 percent in the three months
through Sept. 30, economists forecast.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets,  Hokuriku Electric
Power Co. (9505)  set the coupon on 10 billion yen of four-year notes at
0.5 percent, according to a filing yesterday with the Ministry
of Finance.  The city of Nagoya hired banks for a 20 billion yen
offering of 10-year securities, according to a statement from
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , which is managing the deal with
Bank of America Corp. and Daiwa Securities Group Inc.  Japan’s corporate debt has handed investors a 0.13 percent
loss since the end of September, compared with a 0.15 percent
return for the nation’s sovereign notes, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Corporate bonds worldwide have
returned 1.48 percent during the period, the data show.  Treasuries, Bunds  Japanese investors bought a net 1.26 trillion yen of U.S
government debt in September, the largest figure since the same
month last year, Ministry of Finance data showed yesterday. Net
purchases of German bunds totaled 881.5 billion yen, the highest
since June 2010.  The  extra yield  that investors demand to hold U.S. two-year
Treasuries rather than similar maturity Japanese bonds narrowed
to 15.8 basis points yesterday, the least since Oct. 15,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shirakawa has said the
spread has a relatively high correlation with the dollar-yen
rate. One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The yen strengthened as much as 0.9 percent yesterday to
79.32 per dollar, and traded at 79.50 at 10:16 a.m. in Tokyo.
That compared with the post-World War II record of 75.35 reached
a year earlier.  Current Account  Japan posted a 142 billion-yen deficit in its  current
account  on a seasonally adjusted basis, a Ministry of Finance
report showed yesterday, the first shortfall since at least
1985. The country had an annual surplus in the broadest measure
of trade since that year, enabling the world’s most-indebted
nation to finance a government deficit domestically for lower
borrowing costs.  “A current-account deficit should mean a higher bond yield
and a weaker yen, but that’s not what we get,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , the Tokyo-based chief strategist at Toyota Asset
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $23 billion in
assets. “A deficit will create weakness for the country, though
it doesn’t mean Japan will lose its credibility all at once.”  A 399.6 billion-yen sale yesterday of 40-year debt, Japan’s
longest-maturity bonds, attracted bids valued at 3.82 times the
amount on offer, up from 3.48 at the previous auction in August,
according to Finance Ministry data.  CDS Drop  The cost to insure JGBs against nonpayment for five years
was at 68 basis points yesterday, down from this year’s high of
154 basis points on Jan. 11, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Investor confidence in Japan’s finances improved even after
the country announced 750 billion yen of fiscal stimulus on Oct.
26, or equivalent to 0.2 percent of the country’s annual
economic output. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  increased its asset-purchase
program by 11 trillion yen to 66 trillion yen four days later,
saying the central bank and the government will make “ utmost ”
efforts to overcome deflation.  “Because there is little room for government spending,
Japan has no choice but to rely on monetary easing to shore up
the economy,” said Shogo Fujita, the chief Japanese bond
strategist in Tokyo at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  As the BOJ expands bond buying, 10-year yields may slide to
as low as 0.55 percent by the end of March, Fujita forecast.
That would be below the 0.72 percent level reached in July that
was the least since all-time lows were set in 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in  Tokyo  at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  