-- When Republicans Deliberately Sowed a Financial Crisis
-- B y   H e a t h e r   C o x   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-11-09T15:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/when-republicans-deliberately-sowed-a-financial-crisis.html
This week, President  Barack Obama  won re-election in a victory that so surprised many
of his ideological opponents that they have spent the hours
since wailing that the country is going to wrack and ruin.  With a divided and polarized government, and a battle
looming over a “fiscal cliff” of more than $600 billion in
tax increases and spending cuts scheduled for next year,
Obama faces a rocky term ahead -- even assuming his
Republican opponents negotiate in good faith.  But good faith fiscal negotiation isn’t something a
president can always count on. In 1892, a dramatic
Democratic victory prompted Republicans to sabotage the
economy in order to ruin the incoming administration.  Then, as now, Republican insiders couldn’t believe
that misguided voters had bucked the wise business leaders
who backed the Republican incumbent. At the annual meeting
of the  New York  Chamber of Commerce, held at the fancy
Delmonico’s restaurant shortly after the election, members
commiserated over vintage wine and an expensive dinner.
Republican railroad baron Chauncey Depew snarled to his
comrades about the Democrats who had just taken over
Congress and the White House for the first time since the
Civil War. “Business interests” were dangerous, he warned,
and the Democrats had better be careful.  Businessman’s Administration  Outgoing President Benjamin Harrison and his men had
presided over what they dubbed a “businessman’s
administration.” The nation’s industrial giants ran their
corporations without the nuisance of foreign competition,
thanks to a high tariff wall the Republicans had maintained
since 1861. Safe behind this wall, men like Andrew Carnegie
and J.D. Rockefeller could carve up markets and charge
whatever prices they wanted. When workers and farmers
complained that high prices were ruining them, the
Republican Congress responded in 1890 by raising rates even
higher. The Harrison administration had been “beyond
question the best businessman’s administration the country
has ever seen,” the members of one Republican business
association insisted.  Farmers and workers agreed, and they turned away from
the Republican Party. In 1892, voters re-elected Democrat
Grover  Cleveland  (who had already served a term as
president from 1885 to 1889) to the White House on a
promise to reform the tariff that protected big business.
They also elected a Democratic Congress.  Republicans were outraged. The Democrats would destroy
the economy, they predicted. Their policies would throw
people out of work. The unemployed would starve in the
streets. But, the staunchly Republican Chicago Tribune
mused, “perhaps the working classes of the country need
such a lesson.”  Businessmen set out to teach it to them. Although
economic indicators remained steady, Republicans trumpeted
that businessmen feared a coming catastrophe. The Democrats
had only won with the votes of “socialists and anarchists,”
Republican Senator Henry Teller of  Colorado  railed. Such
men would deliberately create rampant inflation to wipe out
their debts. Or they might slice away the tariffs
altogether, throwing industry into a global market where
foreign competition would instantly undercut it. Businesses
would fail overnight. Newspapers warned investors to avoid
stocks, which could only plummet under the new
administration.  Abandoning Hope  Within days of the election, Wall Street was feeling a
strain and gold was flowing out of the country as foreign
investors brought their money home. “WALL STREET DAZED,”
said a Chicago Tribune headline. “Republican millionaires
are in the dumps.”  The situation deteriorated rapidly. “OPERATORS ABANDON
HOPE,” announced the Washington Post in mid-February. J.P.
Morgan rushed to Washington to beg the president to issue
bonds to replenish the Treasury. But Harrison rebuffed him,
and Treasury Secretary Charles Foster airily announced that
the Republicans were only responsible for the nation’s
finances until March 4, Inauguration Day. All they had to
do was “avert a catastrophe” until then.  Harrison’s men didn’t quite make it. On Feb. 20, 1893,
Wall Street crashed, taking more than $20 million with it.
The next day, the plunge continued. Businesses folded
overnight, starting the Panic of 1893. Over the next two
years, the country convulsed with riots, strikes, and
marches on  Washington  by farmers and workers demanding
relief.  Republicans had set out to sow fear and panic in
advance of the transfer of power. It worked. The crisis hit
in the last days of the Harrison administration, but the
Republicans successfully blamed the chaos of 1893-1894 on
the Cleveland administration and the new Congress. The
falling wages, unemployment, business failures, strikes and
desperation all proved what they had always said: Democrats
destroyed the economy.  As they planned for midterm elections in 1894, the
National Republican Congressional Committee published a
“Campaign Text Book” promising that a new Congress with
their party in charge would restore the nation’s economic
health. Businessmen would no longer worry about the safety
of their money, knowing that Republicans would legislate in
their favor. With business safe, the economy would recover.
Workers would have jobs again. This all added up to one
conclusion: Republican government was the only way to
ensure a sound economy.  Persuasive Argument  Although the economy was slowly improving by mid-1894,
voters found this argument persuasive. The 1894 election
remains the largest midterm turnover in the nation’s
history. Republicans gained an astonishing 130 seats in the
House and regained control of the Senate. The economy
recovered, in part because of increased investment, in part
because of the discovery of gold in the Klondike.  Mostly, though, it recovered because investors had
confidence again. With the election results, “American
manufacturers and merchants and business-men generally will
draw a long breath of relief,” the Chicago Tribune
promised.  While big-business Republicans had managed to scuttle
the Democrats and regain control of the government, their
victory was short lived. Within a decade, younger members
of their own party, led by Theodore Roosevelt, would
challenge the Old Guard’s determination to promote business
at the expense of workers and farmers. Unlike the
Democrats, they would succeed.  After an election fought largely over Obama’s handling
of the economy, it’s hard not to note the similarities
between 1892 and 2012. And the fight over taxes, spending
and jobs will only intensify in the months to come. Noting
the relative positions of Benjamin Harrison and Theodore
Roosevelt in our national memory, though, might encourage
Republicans to consider a more conciliatory approach.  (Heather Cox Richardson is a professor of history at
Boston College and the president of the Historical Society.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Heather Cox Richardson at  heather.richardson@bc.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 