-- World Bank Director Sees 1.5% Decline in Serbian GDP This Year
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-11-09T16:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/world-bank-director-sees-1-5-decline-in-serbian-gdp-this-year.html
Serbia’s economy will contract 1.5
percent this year and rebound in 2013, as agriculture recovers
and  Fiat SpA (F)  increases car exports from the Balkan country, the
 World Bank ’s Western Balkan Director Jane Armitage said.  The economy is expected to grow “at least 2.5 percent next
year,” Armitage told reporters in the capital Belgrade today.
The World Bank will step up support for Serbia and other western
Balkan countries to help reduce their budget deficits and reduce
the size of the public sector, Armitage said.  International lenders pledged yesterday more than 30
billion euros in the next two years to eastern Europe to shield
it from the impact of the euro area’s debt crisis.  As part of the plan, Serbia will receive $400 million in
support next year and a further $200 million in 2014, Armitage
said.  Serbia  does not need any cash this year “following a
successful Eurobond issuance” in September, she said.  An International Monetary Fund mission is due in Belgrade
on Nov. 13 for the first round of talks on a new loan program
and will return by February for final discussions. The
government “has taken some very important and courageous
steps” including an increase in the sales tax and excise duties
to bolster budget revenue and made efforts to restrain public
wages, Armitage said.  Double-Dip  The western Balkans, which also include Albania, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia, Kosovo
and Montenegro, has been hit by a “double-dip recession”
because of the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe . The region needs
investment in infrastructure, mainly transport and energy,
Armitage said.  “Billions of dollars of investments are needed” and those
necessary investments in infrastructure “will have to go hand
in hand with structural reforms,” she said. Serbia will need to
reduce the public wage and pension bill, which together account
for 24 percent of gross domestic product, to release cash for
investment, Armitage said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  