-- TMX Group Posts Third-Quarter Profit After Maple Takeover
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-11-09T21:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/tmx-group-posts-third-quarter-profit-after-maple-takeover.html
TMX Group Ltd. (X) , the Toronto Stock
Exchange owner bought by a group of banks and pension funds,
posted third-quarter profit after a C$3.73 billion ($3.7
billion) takeover combined  Canada ’s stock markets with
securities clearing.  TMX, which reported two months of earnings from the
takeover, had net income of C$15.3 million, or 53 cents a share,
the Toronto-based company said in a statement today. Revenue was
C$113.4 million.  TMX Group Inc. was acquired in September by Maple Group
Acquisition Corp. as part of a takeover that combined its
competitor, Alpha Group, and the Canadian Depository for
Securities Ltd. clearinghouse. Maple, comprised of 12 Canadian
banks and pension funds, was renamed TMX Group Ltd. on Aug. 10.  Revenue fell 3 percent to C$162.3 million on a slowdown in
trading volume and listing fees, when combining results of TMX
Group Inc., CDS and Alpha for the period, the exchange owner
said.  “It’s quite clear that the global market environment has
continued to affect TMX Group’s financial performance,”  Thomas Kloet , TMX chief executive officer, said today on a conference
call. “It appears that the global economic recovery remains
fragile, moving at what some would call a glacial pace.”  ‘Key Priority’  TMX was expected to report profit of 74 cents a share
excluding some items for three months, according to the average
 estimate  of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shares of the exchange owner  fell  0.6 percent to C$48.38 at
4 p.m. trading in Toronto.  TMX will cut 100 jobs over the next 12 months as it
integrates Alpha and CDS, Kloet said. Alpha is now overseen by
Robert Fotheringham, senior vice president of equity trading,
following last month’s departure of CEO Jos Schmitt. TMX has
reversed Alpha’s plans to become a listing venue, and its
operations will be migrated onto the TMX Quantum trading engine
by the end of June, Kloet said.  TMX’s “key priority” remains integration, though
takeovers will be considered as they arise, according to Kloet.  “We’re very focused on the integration but we’re still
watching these opportunities come forward,” Kloet said. “Our
pencil is very sharp.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  