-- Lyon Among Six Teams Advancing in Europa League; Atletico Loses
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/lyon-among-six-teams-advancing-in-europa-league-atletico-loses.html
Lyon and  Inter Milan  were among six
teams advancing to the knockout stage of Europa League, as
defending champion  Atletico Madrid  saw its 16-match winning run
in European competition ended.  Lyon’s 3-2 victory at Athletic Bilbao last night left it
the only team to have won all four of its group matches. Lyon
and Inter, which won 3-1 at Partizan Belgrade, are joined by
Rubin Kazan,  Bayer Leverkusen , Metalist Kharkiv and Hannover in
advancing.  The top two teams in each of the 12 groups qualify for the
round of 32 alongside the eight third-place finishers from the
elite  Champions League  group stage. Two rounds of group matches
remain to be played in Europe’s second-tier club competition.  Atletico’s streak ended with a 2-0 loss at Academica, while
Dnipro also lost for the first time, 4-2 at Napoli. Newcastle
and Tottenham both won and Liverpool was beaten 1-0 by Anzhi
Makhachkala.  Lyon leads Group I with 12 points, five more than  Sparta
Prague , which drew 1-1 with Hapoel Kiryat Shmona. Three-time
champion Inter Milan beat Partizan Belgrade 3-1 to join  Rubin
Kazan , a 1-0 winner at Neftchi, in advancing from Group H.  Bayer Leverkusen beat Rapid Vienna 3-0 and Metalist Kharkiv
defeated Rosenborg 3-1 to guarantee both a top-two finish in
Group K. Hannover qualified from Group L with a 3-2 win over
Helsingborg, while Levante and  FC Twente  finished goalless.  Atletico Loses  Atletico Madrid’s loss left it tied atop Group B with
Victoria Plzen, which beat Hapoel Tel-Aviv 4-0. Edinson Cavani
scored all four goals as Napoli beat Dnipro in a matchup of the
top teams from Group F, while AIK defeated PSV Eindhoven 1-0.  Newcastle rallied for a 2-2 tie at Bruges to stay at the
top of Group D, one point ahead of Bordeaux, which beat Maritimo
1-0. Jermain Defoe’s hat trick led Tottenham past Maribor 3-1 in
Group J to move within two points of Lazio, which beat
Panathinaikos 3-0.  Lacina Traore scored as Anzhi jumped a point ahead of
Liverpool and  Young Boys , which beat Udinese 3-2, atop Group A.
Fenerbahce leads Group C after a 2-0 win over AEL, with
Marseille and Monchengladbach tied for second after a 2-2 draw.  Steaua Bucharest remained first in Group E with a 2-1 win
over Molde, as Stuttgart beat Copenhagen 2-0. Genk still leads
Group G after drawing 1-1 at Sporting Lisbon, while Basel beat
Videoton 1-0.  The next round of group matches will be played Nov. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  