-- Yuan Snaps 13-Week Gain on Speculation Export Outlook Worsening
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-11-09T10:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-09/yuan-gains-most-in-two-weeks-tests-trading-band-on-inflation.html
China’s  yuan  snapped a 13-week rally,
its longest winning streak since March 2008, on speculation the
nation will struggle to boost export growth as the fiscal cliff
looms in the U.S. and  Europe ’s debt crisis remains unresolved.  Overseas sales  probably climbed 10 percent in October,
compared with a 16 percent increase in the same month last year,
a Bloomberg survey shows before a report due tomorrow. The
currency rose 2.4 percent since reaching this year’s low on July
25, and tested the upper limit of its trading band for a fifth
day today.  Consumer prices  rose 1.7 percent in October from a
year earlier, the least since January 2010, data showed today.  “Easing inflation signals  China ’s growth is still
subdued,” said Bruce Yam, a currency strategist at Sun Hung Kai
Financial Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Room for further yuan
appreciation is limited by the poor outlook for exports.”  The yuan dropped 0.06 percent this week and 0.03 percent
today to close at 6.2450 per dollar in  Shanghai , according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The onshore spot
touched 6.2382 earlier, exceeding the central bank’s daily
fixing. The People’s Bank of China strengthened the  reference
rate  by 0.08 percent today, the most since Oct. 17, to 6.3012.  The yuan will retreat 0.9 percent by the end of December,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  President  Hu Jintao  said at the Communist Party Congress
yesterday that China must double per-capita income by 2020 and
boost domestic demand. The economy slowed in each of the last
seven quarters and exports are threatened by $600 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts in the U.S. set to take effect in
January, the so-called fiscal cliff.  Trading Band  China should widen the trading band soon to avoid “huge”
capital outflows, China Securities Journal said today in a
commentary, citing unidentified analysts. PBOC Governor  Zhou
Xiaochuan  said yesterday the nation will gradually realize yuan
convertibility under the capital account, without giving a
timetable.  Growth is expected to rebound in the fourth quarter and the
first quarter of 2013, Yao Wei, China economist for Societe
Generale SA in  Hong Kong , said yesterday. Gross domestic product
expanded 7.4 percent in the third quarter and is forecast to
climb 7.7 percent in the current period, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan was headed for a
15th straight weekly advance, the longest winning streak since
trading began in the third quarter of 2010. The currency gained
0.14 percent this week and 0.05 percent today to 6.2328 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Offshore Yuan  “While it is fair to assume that the onshore spot rate
will be stable during the congress, the offshore yuan will take
the lead with regards to the reaction,” said Pack Mackel, the
head of Asian currency research at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong
Kong.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.14 percent
today to 6.3463 per dollar, a 1.6 percent discount to the
onshore spot rate. The contracts advanced 0.16 percent this week.
One-month implied volatility for the onshore yuan, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was steady at 1.6
percent today and this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  