-- Last Hawk Stevens Faces Currency War Fallout in New Term
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-04T03:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/-last-hawk-stevens-faces-currency-war-fallout-in-new-rba-term.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens ’s reappointment pits the inflation-focused central
banker against counterparts using near-zero  interest rates  and
quantitative easing to drive down their currencies.  While Stevens has reduced the key  rate  to match a 53-year
low of 3 percent, Australia’s dollar remains resilient as the
yield gap with the U.S., Europe and Japan lures investors. In
contrast with  Switzerland , which has capped its currency, and
 New Zealand , which is considering lending curbs to dampen  home
prices , Stevens has stuck with the cash rate as his main tool.  “Stevens’s biggest challenge is a currency that’s damaging
his economy,” said Martin Whetton, an interest-rate strategist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “He’s one of the last hawks.
But he’s able to remain one because he’s in the enviable
position of having an economy that’s grown for 21 years and
isn’t having to resort to desperate measures to keep it alive.”  Stevens, whose term was extended by three years yesterday
by Treasurer  Wayne Swan , has grappled with a currency that
averaged 39 percent higher in the past two years than in the
prior decade. That’s bankrupting manufacturers unable to compete
with cheap imports, discouraging international tourists as
prices rise, and weakening retailers as consumers spend online.  Currency Recognition  The 55-year-old governor and his board reduced the
benchmark rate by 1.75 percentage points in six steps in the 14
months through December before pausing this year. While the
policy stance isn’t seeking a particular  exchange rate  response,
it is “being set with a recognition of the exchange rate’s
effect on the economy,” Stevens told a parliamentary panel in
February.  “The other tool that may be available is, of course,
intervention,” he said Feb. 22. “I think the truth is that,
with the power of the forces at work here, you would need to be
pretty confident that it is seriously overvalued or that the
market is behaving in some quite irrational way before you would
launch on large-scale intervention.”  Pressure from the exchange rate has exacerbated divisions
in an economy where resource-rich regions in the north and west
boomed on the biggest mining investment expansion in more than a
century, while the south and east dominated by manufacturing and
construction stagnated.  Stevens’s other major challenge is managing the crest in
resource investment that the RBA predicts will occur this year.
In addition to offsetting the impact of the currency, lower
rates aim to spur industries such as building, which employs
almost four times as many workers as mining.  ‘Big Challenge’  “If the currency stays high and growth remains a little
bit sub-trend, do you keep cutting interest rates to support the
economy?” asked  Peter Jolly , Sydney-based head of market
research for National Australia Bank Ltd. “I think that will be
a big challenge for monetary policy making over the next few
years, how you manage the economy through that.”  Jolly noted that some central banks concerned about the
impact of an extended period of low rates are considering macro-
prudential tools to target borrowing and prevent bubbles.  Across the Tasman, New Zealand’s Governor Graeme Wheeler is
considering lending restrictions to curb rising house prices as
that nation’s surging currency rules out rate rises.  Wheeler, a former managing director of the  World Bank  who
returned to his homeland in September to take the reins at the
RBNZ, said on March 14 the central bank is working “quite fast
on the macro-prudential instruments.” The “last thing” New
Zealand needs is “a housing price bubble,” he said after
keeping the benchmark rate unchanged at a record-low 2.5
percent.  Draghi, Bernanke  New Zealand’s changing of the guard is part of a global
trend of turnover among central bank chiefs. That began with the
arrival in November 2011 of  Mario Draghi  at the  European Central
Bank , Canada’s  Mark Carney  at the  Bank of England  and the  Bank
of Japan (8301) ’s new governor Haruhiko Kuroda. The shift could
culminate a year from now if Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  is succeeded by someone even bolder.  Swan, announcing Stevens’s three-year extension, described
the governor as “one of the best” policy makers in the world
and said he has made an “enormous contribution” to Australia’s
economic performance.  Australian sovereign debt gained 54 percent since Stevens
became governor in September 2006, the most after New Zealand
among developed nations. The so-called Aussie dollar climbed
against all 16 major peers in the period and was the best
performer against the greenback, surging 39 percent.  Only One  The announcement extended Australia’s tradition of keeping
the central bank chief in-house, with only one governor named
from outside since it was founded in 1960. The three-year term
also clears the path for Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe , who was
appointed the No. 2 official in February 2012, giving him time
to prepare for succession in 2016. Stevens served for five years
as deputy to Ian Macfarlane before taking over from him in 2006.  It also prevents a central bank succession debate becoming
a political issue ahead of elections due Sept. 14, three days
before the governor’s current term is due to expire.  “The reappointment effectively defuses a potentially
volatile political issue,” said Norman Abjorensen, a political
analyst at the  Australian National University  in Canberra and
author of “Australia: The State of Democracy.” “Leaving the
reappointment open, given the timing of the election and the end
of Stevens’s contract, would have unnecessarily politicized both
the bank and the appointment. Business demands certainty and
it’s got it with this decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  