-- Adani Power Rises After Regulator’s Tariff Backing: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-04-03T08:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/adani-power-rises-after-regulator-s-tariff-backing-mumbai-mover.html
Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) , controlled by
Indian billionaire Gautam Adani, surged in Mumbai trading after
the national electricity regulator decided to compensate the
utility following an unexpected increase in coal costs.  The shares rose as much as 15 percent to 50.25 rupees, the
most since their Aug. 20, 2009 debut, and traded at 49.40 rupees
as of 1:28 p.m. local time. The gain helped the stock pare this
year’s loss to 20 percent.  A shortage of local coal supplies and Indonesia’s move to
link its coal prices to international benchmark rates have led
to cost increases for Indian power companies and rendered their
contract tariffs unviable. Utilities including Adani and  Tata
Power (TPWR)  Co. have little choice, as bringing coal from other
supplying nations would mean higher shipping charges.  “Any kind of compensation will boost the stock as it will
help cut  Adani Power ’s losses,” said Chinmay S. Gandre, an
analyst at KR Choksey Shares and Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.
“We’ll watch out for what the actual compensation is.”  The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission said
yesterday Adani Power deserves compensation over the agreed
tariff for its 4,620 megawatts Mundra plant in the western
coastal state of Gujarat. The regulator  ordered  the formation of
a panel comprising officials of the company, the customer states,
a financial analyst and a banker, to assess the impact of the
higher cost of imported coal.  Tata Power, which is also seeking a tariff revision for its
Mundra plant that runs on Indonesian coal, gained as much as 6.4
percent to 101.40 rupees and traded at 98.25 rupees. The
regulator has yet to grant Tata’s request.  Adani Power reported a 5.07 billion rupee loss for the
quarter ended Dec. 31, the  fifth consecutive quarterly loss ,
after expenses surpassed sales.  While considering Adani’s demand for compensation and a
tariff renegotiation, the regulator rejected the claim that
 Indonesia ’s change of coal prices can be brought under force
majeure or a change in law. The clause about a change in law in
bidding documents doesn’t refer to foreign laws, the regulator
said in its order yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Indranil Ghosh at 
 ighosh@bloomberg.net  