-- Hagel Says Budget Cutbacks Offer Chance to Pare Weapons
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-04-03T16:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/hagel-says-budget-cutbacks-offer-chance-to-pare-weapons.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said
the Pentagon must use defense budget cuts as an opportunity to
excise waste, reexamine weapons systems and reorganize 30-year-
old command structures.  Hagel, who already has ordered a review of strategic
choices facing the Defense Department, said today in his first
major policy speech as secretary that the exercise can’t be
limited to “just tweaking or chipping away at existing
structures and practices, but where necessary fashioning
entirely new ones.”  The strategic review being conducted by Deputy Defense
Secretary  Ashton Carter  and Army General Martin Dempsey, the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, is due May 31. It must
“challenge all past assumptions, and we need to put everything
on the table,” Hagel said, according to prepared remarks for
the address at the National Defense University in  Washington .  A defense official has described Hagel’s directive to
Carter and Dempsey as a hunting license to comb through the
 Pentagon budget  from top-to-bottom in the face of spending
constraints, such as the across-the-board cuts called
sequestration, and in light of the latest threats.  Among defense programs likely to get fresh scrutiny are the
number and mix of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35s the services will
require, the number of aircraft carrier battle groups the Navy
needs and whether cruise missiles make unnecessary a new
penetrating long-range bomber for the  Air Force , according to
the official, who asked not to be identified discussing Hagel’s
thinking.  Doing so would mean that the former enlisted veteran of the
 Vietnam War  would have to take on the Pentagon brass, the
defense contractors with lobbying clout and congressional
supporters of weapons programs. Hagel won Senate confirmation on
a 58-41 vote on Feb. 26 after a prolonged fight.  ‘Defining’ Challenge  While the U.S. military emerges from a decade of wars in
Iraq and  Afghanistan , it continues to face threats from
extremists in the  Middle East  and North Africa, weapons
proliferation and cyberattacks that “barely registered as a
threat a decade ago,” Hagel said. Risks from computer attacks
have “grown into a defining security challenge,” he said.  Striking a different tone than his predecessor  Leon Panetta , who referred to sequestration as a “doomsday”
scenario, Hagel said today that while cuts of as much as $1
trillion in planned spending over the next decade present
“challenges and uncertainties,” the Pentagon also must
“recognize the opportunities inherent in budget constraints.”  Taking aim at the Pentagon bureaucracy, Hagel said that
“despite good efforts and intentions, it is still not clear
that every option has been exercised or considered to pare back
the world’s largest back office.”  Corporate Lessons  Although the Pentagon can’t be run like a corporation, the
department should learn from business practices over the last
three decades in which “reducing layers of upper and middle
management not only reduces costs and micromanagement, it also
leads to more agile and effective organizations and more
empowered junior leaders,” Hagel said.  Hagel isn’t the first defense secretary who vowed to go
after the bureaucracy. Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  warned
on September 10, 2001, in a Pentagon Town Hall meeting against
“an adversary that poses a threat, a serious threat, to the
security of the  United States ” that “stifles free thought and
crushes new ideas” and places “the lives of men and women in
uniform at risk.” The threat he identified was “the Pentagon
bureaucracy.”  Rumsfeld’s push for an overhaul was set aside after the
terrorist attacks the next day and the surge in  defense spending 
that followed.  ‘Vastly More Expensive’  Pentagon acquisition programs, which consume about one-
third of defense spending, remain bloated even after reforms
have culled many weapons, Hagel said.  “Despite pruning many major procurement programs over the
past four years, the military’s modernization strategy still
depends on systems that are vastly more expensive and
technologically risky than what was promised or budgeted for,”
Hagel said.  Any effort to rein in weapons costs could add to the
difficulties facing defense contractors in a time of declining
federal spending. Pentagon spending on contracts fell 3.1
percent in fiscal 2012 to $360.8 billion, from $372.2 billion
the prior year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lockheed is the biggest Pentagon contractor, with $30
billion in defense work last year. It was followed by  Boeing Co. (BA) 
with $28.7 billion in contracts and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  with
$13.9 billion.  ‘Lean’ Years  Challenging a belief that reduced defense spending leads to
poor military preparedness, Hagel offered examples of new
technology developed in times of declining budgets.  In the “lean interwar years between World War I and World
War II during the Great Depression, a group of far-sighted
officers -- with virtually no-funding or prospect of promotion -
- conceived important new platforms” in armored warfare,
amphibious assault, aircraft carriers and long-range bombers, he
said.  Again during the so-called procurement holiday of the
1990s, when defense spending fell, the military invested and
developed satellite guidance systems, and remotely piloted
aircraft “that have been game changers during the last decade
of war,” Hagel said.  Hagel also called for reforming the military command
structure, which was last reorganized in 1986 under the
Goldwater-Nichols Act.  The law strengthened the “Joint Chiefs and the Combatant
Commands, but it went about doing this by layering joint
organizations and processes atop service organizations and
processes,” Hagel said.  While the operational forces of the military have been
steadily shrinking since the end of the  Cold War , “three- and
four-star command and support structures sitting atop these
smaller fighting forces” have been “actually increasing in
size and rank,” he said.  For Related News and Information:
Hagel Orders Pentagon Strategy Review in Time of Uncertainty  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  