-- Thai Stock Index Slumps Most in Asia on Property Curb Concern
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-04-03T10:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/thai-stock-index-slumps-most-in-asia-on-property-curb-concern.html
Thai  stocks  dropped the most in Asia
as central bank comments about high credit growth and elevated
asset prices triggered speculation about new curbs on property
lending.  The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  slid 1.9 percent, the most since
March 22, to close at 1,520.52 in Bangkok. The gauge’s 30-day
 volatility  rose to 19.9, the highest since June 22.  Land &
Houses Pcl (LH) , the nation’s biggest residential property developer
by market value, tumbled 4.8 percent, the most since Aug. 24.  The Bank of  Thailand  said it would be vigilant about asset-
price risks as it left its benchmark interest rate unchanged for
a fourth straight meeting. The central bank may take steps to
curb property prices after detecting hot spots especially in the
condominium segments, The Nation reported today.  “Potential curbs on  mortgage loans  will hurt investor
sentiment on commercial banks and residential property
developers,” Pongrat Ratanatavanananda, an analyst at Maybank
Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl, said by phone today. “That
would affect the outlook for loan growth and residential
property sales.”  The central bank is concerned that a jump in property
prices in some areas may create a “bubble risk,” Bank of
Thailand Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said today.
Low  interest rates  will encourage people to invest in risky
assets, which may lead to asset prices rising “beyond
fundamental levels,” he said.  Developers, Banks  Quality Houses Pcl (QH)  dropped 8.9 percent to 3.90 baht, the
biggest decline since May 2009.  SC Asset Corp. (SC) , controlled by
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s family, lost 5.5 percent to
30 baht.  Among lenders,  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl  slipped 3.6 percent to
33.25 baht. Kasikornbank Pcl fell 1.5 percent to 203 baht.  The Thai gauge has gained 9.2 percent this year, extending
a 36 percent  rally  in 2012, as domestic investment and
consumption recovered from floods in 2011 that were the worst in
almost seven decades. The government has increased minimum wages
and offered tax incentives for automobile purchases to boost
economic growth.  -- With assistance from Suttinee Yuvejwattana. Editors: Darren
Boey, Tony Jordan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  