-- Thailand Holds Policy Rate Even as Kittiratt Pushes for Cut
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-04-03T09:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/thailand-holds-benchmark-rate-even-as-kittiratt-pushes-for-cut.html
Thailand ’s central bank held its
 interest rate  for a fourth straight meeting and said it would be
vigilant about asset-price risks, even as it resisted the
government’s calls for monetary easing. Stocks fell.  The Bank of Thailand kept its  one-day bond repurchase rate 
unchanged at 2.75 percent, with the monetary policy committee
voting five to one to hold, it said in Bangkok today. One member
voted for a quarter of a percentage-point cut. Twenty of 21
economists in a Bloomberg  survey  predicted today’s decision,
while one called for a quarter-point reduction.  The central bank has rebuffed repeated calls by Finance
Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong for lower borrowing costs, as it
grapples with rising inflows that have stoked credit growth and
asset prices, and last month boosted the baht to its strongest
level in almost 16 years.  Fitch Ratings  raised its assessment of
Thailand last month, citing a resilient economy and a more
stable political climate.  “With concerns about credit growth and the long-term
inflation outlook, it’s quite difficult for the central bank to
cut rates despite government pressure,” said Tohru Nishihama,
an economist covering  emerging markets  at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “The economy is in a good condition,”
he said, adding that while policy makers may be concerned about
the baht’s gains, they may use other measures to control it.  The  Stock Exchange of Thailand  index fell 1.9 percent at
the close, led by property stocks, on concerns that the central
bank may unveil measures to curb mortgage lending, said Narumon Ekasamut, an analyst at Bualuang Securities Pcl in Bangkok. The
baht rose 0.2 percent to 29.37 per dollar. It is the biggest
gainer this year among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Asset Prices  The central bank said today it will raise its gross
domestic product estimate for a second time this year from 4.9
percent earlier, after faster-than-estimated expansion in the
fourth quarter. Exports should expand slowly, the monetary
authority said, while upward price pressure warrants monitoring.  The central bank said it will monitor foreign-exchange and
capital flows, and that it is still concerned about high credit
growth and elevated asset prices.  “We need to be watchful for financial stability, which may
worsen,” Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan told a news
briefing. “Low interest rates will encourage people to invest
in risky assets, which may lead to rising asset prices. We need
to be vigilant,” he said, adding that the central bank has
already factored in the impact of a strong baht on the economy.  Arbitrage Room  The  finance ministry  last week raised its GDP forecast for
this year to 5.3 percent from 5 percent. Kittiratt said today he
isn’t comfortable with the level of the policy rate, without
saying what it should be.  “I don’t think it has to be that high,” Kittiratt said in
an interview in Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei before the decision.
“It has opened up some room for arbitrage.”  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has boosted the minimum
wage and handed tax incentives to first-time car buyers as she
sought to spur economic growth after the 2011 floods. Automakers
Nissan Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. have stepped up
production in Thailand as local sales rose to a record last year.  Demand for personal loans jumped 22 percent in 2012, the
biggest increase in seven years, adding debt risks that threaten
to heighten the economy’s vulnerability to a slowdown. Thai
 exports  fell for the first time in six months in February, while
 consumer prices  rose 2.69 percent in March from a year earlier,
slowing from a 3.23 percent pace the previous month.  The central bank remains “cautious about risks to domestic
financial stability, and “despite the tension between the
central bank and the ministry of finance, we expect the rate
will be held amid the strong growth prospects,” said Jackit Wong, a regional economist in  Hong Kong  at Natixis Asia Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  