-- Air Arabia Gains Most Since January on Tourism Boom: Dubai Mover
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-04-03T13:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/air-arabia-gains-most-since-january-on-tourism-boom-dubai-mover.html
Air Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI)  climbed the most in
three months on optimism the airline would post bigger earnings
as the nation’s tourism industry continues to grow.  The stock rose for a second day, adding 3.7 percent, the
biggest  single-day gain since Jan. 2 , to 79 fils at the close in
Dubai. Air Arabia was the third-most traded stock by volume on
the benchmark DFM General Index, which increased 0.6 percent to
1,854.01 points.  Passenger traffic through the  United Arab Emirates  has
risen as the nation’s economy picks up and airlines based in the
country add new destinations. Air Arabia, the  Middle East ’s
biggest no-frills airline, last year started flights to nine
additional stops including destinations in Iraq and  Russia  from
its hub in the U.A.E emirate of Sharjah.  “The business model remains solid,” said Tariq Qaqish,
deputy head of asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital
PSC. “The company continues to achieve strong results supported
by the robust tourism sector in the U.A.E.”  The carrier in 2012 flew 13 percent more passengers, a
record 5.3 million, helping boost profit by 56 percent, it said
last month. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its price estimate
for the airline in February and increased its 2013 profit
estimate by 5 percent.  Tourism Boom  Dubai, owner of the world’s biggest airline by
international traffic, expects the economy to expand at a
“relatively high rate” in 2013, driven by a tourism boom, Sami Al Qamzi, director general of Dubai Department of  Economic
Development , said in March.  Passenger traffic through the emirate’s airport rose 13
percent in 2012 to 57.7 million, making it the world’s third-
busiest, according to Dubai Airports.  Air Arabia’s 2013 net income may increase 14 percent,
according to the  mean estimate of seven analysts  compiled by
Bloomberg. “We believe Q1 numbers will easily beat Q1 2012,”
 Al Mal ’s Qaqish said. Net income in the first quarter 2012 rose
12 percent to 47.7 million dirhams.  Five analysts recommend investors buy the shares, while six
have a hold rating on the stock and one advises selling it,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  