-- Malaysian Stocks Tumble as Volatility Jumps Before Election
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-05-03T09:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/malaysian-stocks-fall-most-in-10-weeks-before-polls-announcement.html
Malaysian  stocks  fell the most in
almost three months as price swings in the nation’s benchmark
index jumped before national elections on May 5.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  sank 1.1 percent at the
5 p.m. close in  Kuala Lumpur , the biggest decline since Feb. 6.
The measure’s 30-day volatility advanced to 7.6, the highest
level since March 5. Trading volumes were 46 percent above the
30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prime Minister Najib Razak’s 13-party  Barisan Nasional
coalition , which won the 2008 national vote by its slimmest
margin, faces a resurgent opposition alliance led by former
deputy prime minister  Anwar Ibrahim . Najib said last month a win
by a fractious opposition could bring “catastrophic ruin.”  “It’s going to be the closest election Malaysia has ever
seen since its independence,” Kishore Mahbubani, dean of the
Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the  National University 
of Singapore, told Bloomberg TV’s  John Dawson  today.  Malaysia’s ruling coalition and opposition were “evenly
tied” in a survey by Merdeka Center for Opinion Research
conducted between April 28 and May 2, according to an e-mailed
statement today. Forty two percent of voters agreed that
opposition group  People’s Alliance  should be given a chance to
govern, while 41 percent said only Barisan Nasional can rule,
the survey showed.  Shares of  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  led declines in the Malaysian
benchmark index. Genting, a casino and power group, sank 4.9
percent.  Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd. (KLK)  dropped 3 percent and  Felda
Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV)  lost 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  