-- Male Baldness Is Linked to Increased Heart Disease Risk
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-04-04T09:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/male-baldness-linked-to-increased-heart-disease-risk.html
Losing hair at the crown of the head
may signal an increased risk of heart disease in men.  The strength of the association depends on the degree of
baldness, researchers at the University of Tokyo’s department of
diabetes and metabolic diseases found by reviewing past studies.
No link to heart disease was found for men with a receding
hairline, said the scientists, who reviewed six studies with a
total of almost 37,000 participants. Their findings were
published today in the BMJ Open medical journal.  Hair loss has been associated with the risk of developing
prostate cancer in previous research. Baldness may be a sign of
increased resistance to insulin, a precursor to diabetes; a
state of chronic inflammation; or increased sensitivity to the
male sex hormone testosterone, and those conditions may lead to
the development of cardiovascular disease, the researchers said.  “The present meta-analysis provided useful evidence
regarding the potential influence of baldness on coronary heart
disease,” the authors said in the published paper. “Patients
and physicians should consider the possibility that baldness is
associated with an increased risk.”  Three of six studies analyzed tracked the participants’
health for at least 11 years. They suggested that men who had
lost most of their hair were a third more likely to develop
heart disease than peers who retained a full head of hair.  Relative Risk  The other three studies showed that balding men were 70
percent more likely to have heart disease, the researchers
found. The more extensive the baldness, the higher the risk,
they said. The scientists got no specific grant to fund the
study, they said.  “It is important to remember that the study reports an
increase in relative risk,” said Patrick Wolfe, a professor of
statistics at University College London.  Comparing two non-smoking males in good physical condition,
one of of whom is bald and the other not, their absolute risks
for heart disease are likely to be very small, even if their
relative risks may be different, Wolfe said.  “In the meantime, it’s a case of focusing on the things
that we can control -- our diet, exercise regimes and other
risks factors -- to lower our overall risk for heart disease,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  