-- Taliban Bomb Attack on Provincial Court Kills 44, Wounds 91
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-04-03T15:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/taliban-attack-on-compound-of-afghan-governor-wounds-60-people.html
     April 3 (Bloomberg) --At least 44 Afghans were killed in
the biggest daily death toll this year as Taliban guerrillas
attacked court facilities near the compound of a provincial
governor following a suicide car bomb explosion.  Nine Taliban fighters armed with grenades, rocket
launchers, Kalashnikov rifles and suicide vests carried out the
assault, Abdul Rahman Zhowandai, a spokesman for Farah province,
said in a phone interview. Eight insurgents managed to enter the
court and attorney general’s office after a man “blew himself
up” in a car near the provincial court’s entrance gate,
Zhowandai said.  The dead included 10 Afghan security personnel, Zhowandai
said. At least 91 people, including 20 members of Afghan
security forces, were wounded, he said. A Taliban spokesman,
Qari Yousef Ahmadi, claimed responsibility in a phone interview,
saying members of the group were on trial in the court.  The battle, in a province that borders  Iran , lasted eight
hours. The dead and wounded included some government workers who
had been taken hostage, Zhowandai said.  Afghan forces are taking lead in many security operations
ahead of the withdrawal of U.S.-led international forces by the
end of 2014.  “Taliban are still powerful and significantly supported
militarily,” Jawid Kohestani, a Kabul-based political analyst,
said in a phone interview today. “Taliban’s well-coordinated
assault is giving the incentive for foreign troops to prolong
their presence and not to leave  Afghanistan  by 2014 until the
war ends completely.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has ordered the withdrawal of
half of the roughly 68,000 American troops by next February.
American officials have said the president is considering
keeping 8,000 to 12,000 forces from the U.S. and NATO to support
and train Afghans or play a limited role fighting terrorists if
an agreement can be reached to secure their immunity from local
prosecution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  