-- Alwaleed Says Saudi Bourse Should Open to Foreign Investors
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-04-03T06:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/alwaleed-says-saudi-bourse-should-open-to-foreign-investors-1-.html
Saudi Arabia , the Arab world’s
biggest economy, should open its stock market to foreign
investors, billionaire  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal  said.  “Effective measures to invite foreign investors from any
state must be taken to allow them to invest in Saudi Arabia,”
he said in an interview with Rotana Khalijiah television late
yesterday. “Of course there is a fear that it will lead to so-
called hot money, which is to enter the market and exit quickly,
but we can set regulations to control that.”  International banks are boosting their presence in Saudi
Arabia as investors seek greater access to the Arab world’s
largest bourse and the second-fastest growing economy in the
 Persian Gulf  after Qatar. Direct foreign investment in Saudi
stocks may attract as much as $30 billion of inflows when it
opens,  John Burbank , founder of $3.7 billion San Francisco-based
hedge fund Passport Capital LLC, said Feb. 7.  Saudi Arabia, which last year said it will open the gauge
gradually, only allows non-resident foreigners outside of the
six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council to invest through equity
swaps and exchange-traded funds. A relaxation of restrictions on
foreign investment in the $392 billion stock market may reduce
the influence of individual investors, Jamal Alkishi, chief
executive officer of Deutsche Securities Saudi Arabia, said in
an interview in Riyadh Feb. 11.  Saudi Arabia “needs to rely less” on individual
investors, Alwaleed said. In Saudi Arabia, as much as 95 percent
of trades are from retail investors, and the remaining 5 percent
institutional, which is “the opposite situation of what is
happening in America,  Europe ,” he said.  The Saudi benchmark index fell 10 percent in the past year.
That compares with an 8.6 percent gain during the same period
for Dubai’s DFM General Index. The Saudi measure rose 0.2
percent yesterday to 7,172.57.  The Saudi economy may expand 4.2 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  