-- Ameren Nuclear Plant Accident Injures Three in Missouri
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-04-03T17:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/ameren-nuclear-plant-accident-injures-three-in-missouri.html
Ameren Corp. (AEE) , owner of  Missouri ’s
biggest utility, said three people were injured yesterday at its
nuclear power plant. It was the second worker accident at a U.S.
atomic facility this week.  The accident involved an “electrical flash” in the
switch-yard area of Ameren’s Callaway Energy Center at 5:06 p.m.
local time, the St. Louis-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The 1,900-megawatt plant wasn’t affected by the
accident and continues to operate, Ameren said.  The three injured workers were transported to local
hospitals, Ameren said. An emergency call reported burn victims,
including two with burns to their faces, Callaway County
Emergency Management Director Michelle Kidwell said in a
telephone interview.  Ameren didn’t provide additional details about the victims
out of respect for their privacy, according to the statement.
The company is investigating the cause of the accident at the
plant about 100 miles (160 kilometers) west of St. Louis.  The event comes after one worker was killed and eight
injured in a March 31 accident at  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Arkansas
Nuclear One plant about 65 miles northwest of Little Rock. A
crane accidentally dropped a 500-ton generator component that
was being moved out of the turbine building at unit 1, which was
shut down for a refueling outage, Victor Dricks, spokesman for
the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission said in an April 1 blog
post.  The plant’s other reactor, which was operating at full
power at the time of the accident, tripped offline after the
accident damaged electrical equipment and caused a reactor
coolant pump to lose power, Dricks wrote. An emergency diesel
generator is supplying power to key safety systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  