-- Analyst Teeple Released on $200,000 Bond in Insider Case
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-03T19:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/analyst-teeple-released-on-200-000-bond-in-insider-case.html
Hedge fund analyst Matthew Teeple
was released on $200,000 bond in New York in connection with
what prosecutors call a $27 million insider-trading scheme.  Teeple, an analyst for an unidentified San Francisco-based
hedge fund, didn’t enter a plea today before Magistrate Judge
Kevin Nathaniel Fox in Manhattan federal court to charges of
conspiracy and securities fraud.  David Riley, the former chief information officer for
Foundry Networks, was charged in March in a felony complaint
filed in Manhattan accusing him of tipping Teeple about
Foundry’s acquisition by  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD) 
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also sued the two,
as well as a third man, John V. Johnson.  Eric Bruce , a lawyer for Teeple, declined to comment on his
client’s court appearance today or name the hedge fund where
Teeple works or if he is still employed there.  As part of the bail requirement, Teeple’s travel is
restricted to New York and New Jersey and he must turn over his
passport. Other requirements include alcohol tests to check for
excessive use. If he tests positive he will undergo drug
testing, the judge said. Teeple’s next hearing is set for April
25.  Latest Charges  Teeple, dressed in a gray suit, spoke only to confirm he
understood the judge’s instructions.  Riley, Teeple and Johnson are the latest to be charged as
part of a law enforcement initiative by Bharara’s office and the
FBI in New York against insider trading at hedge funds. At least
80 people have been arrested since August 2009 as part of the
insider-trading crackdown. Bharara’s office has won convictions
of at least 72 people.  Teeple was first arrested by FBI agents in March in San
Clemente,  California . He appeared before a federal magistrate in
Santa Ana, California, and was released on two $100,000 bonds
secured by his wife and his father.  Riley also was charged with conspiracy and securities
fraud. The most serious charge of securities fraud carries a
sentence of as long as 20 years in prison, Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara’s office said.  ‘High Stakes’  Johnson, 46, of Arvada,  Colorado , who the U.S. said was a
portfolio manager for a Denver-based firm, pleaded guilty to
insider-trading charges on March 18 before U.S. District Judge
John Keenan in New York.  “When David Riley and Matthew Teeple chose to traffic in
inside information involving high-tech companies, they embarked
on a high-stakes game that has repeatedly proven to be
unwinnable,” Bharara said in a statement in March.  On July 16, 2008, Riley provided secret tips about Foundry
being acquired by Brocade to Teeple before the deal was
announced on July 21, 2008, prosecutors said. Within two hours
of his conversation with Riley, Teeple called an analyst at the
unidentified investment adviser, causing the fund to execute
trades based on the inside information, according to the U.S.  In total, trading on the tips, one investment adviser
earned more than $16 million and avoided losses of more than $11
million, Bharara’s office said.  The U.S. said Teeple also provided tips about Foundry’s
2008 acquisition by Brocade to two acquaintances, Johnson and
Karl Motey, a California-based investment adviser. Johnson
traded the information and made more than $136,000 in profit,
prosecutors said.  Pension System  The investment adviser, which wasn’t named by the U.S., is
a registered investment adviser based in San Francisco that
serves multiple hedge funds that have about $1.7 billion of
assets under management, the SEC said.  The SEC identifies Johnson as currently serving as the
chief investment officer of a state pension system. At the time
the SEC alleges the insider trading occurred, Johnson was
unemployed and traded securities in his and his family members’
personal brokerage accounts.  Motey, a former technology stock analyst, pleaded guilty
and has been cooperating with the U.S. in its insider-trading
investigations. He testified for the government in two insider-
trading trials and secretly recorded more than 400 conversations
for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York.  Motey testified against Doug Whitman, the founder of
Whitman Capital LLC, and James Fleishman, a former executive for
Primary Global Research LLC. Both Whitman and Fleishman were
convicted after federal trials in New York. Motey was sentenced
in February to time served.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Riley, 13-mag-00806, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ). The
SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Teeple, 13-cv-
02010, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  