-- Areva Sees New Bank-Loan Rules Hurt Exports of Reactors
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-04-03T15:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/areva-sees-new-bank-loan-rules-hurt-exports-of-reactors.html
Areva SA (AREVA) , France’s nuclear power-
plant developer, said new banking rules have boosted borrowing
costs, leaving it at a disadvantage in exports to Japanese and
U.S. suppliers with access to cheaper state loans.  “Our competitors are financing new nuclear plants at about
4 percent interest,” Chief Operating Officer Philippe Knoche
said today at a conference in Paris. “New prudential mechanisms
in Europe are pushing banking loans to 7 percent,” more than
doubling the cost of projects such as nuclear plants.  Lenders are being forced under a set of international
rules, known as Basel III, to increase capital and liquidity to
protect against borrowers’ failure to pay. Banks have said they
may cut back on loans to businesses and households in response.  The French government “is thinking of mechanisms to make
up for this banking problem,” Knoche said. The measures,
targeted at export aids for small and medium-sized businesses,
need to go “much further” in helping larger producers match
foreign rivals, Knoche said.  Competition for Paris-based Areva is increasing as demand
for nuclear projects has declined, in part because of the March
2011 tsunami in Fukushima, Japan, that led to a partial reactor
meltdown, and as gas becomes more plentiful as a fuel. Areva’s
last orders for nuclear reactors date back to 2007. Since then,
it has failed to win tenders in the United Arab Emirates and the
Czech Republic.  Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel is targeting 10 orders
for Areva’s EPR nuclear reactor model by 2016, seeking contracts
in countries such as the U.K., China, India, Poland and Saudi
Arabia. Areva is currently building an EPR reactor in Finland,
one in France, and two in Taishan, China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  