-- Maryland House Passes O’Malley’s Push for Tighter Gun Law
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-04-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/maryland-house-passes-o-malley-s-push-for-tighter-gun-law.html
Maryland  lawmakers passed a ban on
sales of assault-style weapons and high-capacity ammunition
magazines, a step sought by Governor Martin O’Malley in response
to the December school massacre in Newtown,  Connecticut .  The measure approved 78-61 yesterday by the House of
Delegates would also impose new licensing requirements for
handgun buyers and bar the mentally ill from owning firearms.
The state Senate, which already approved the bill, must consider
it again because of changes made in the House.  Final passage would add Maryland to a growing list of
states tightening gun controls following the murder of 20
youngsters and six educators Dec. 14 in Newtown’s Sandy Hook
Elementary School.  New York  passed a law in January,  Colorado 
followed and legislative leaders in Connecticut reached an
accord on new steps this week. Enactment also would give a win
to O’Malley, a potential 2016 Democratic presidential contender.  The Maryland bill would ban several types of semiautomatic
rifles and handguns and limit magazine capacity to 10 rounds. It
also would require pistol-permit applicants to take a gun-safety
course and give their fingerprints to the state police.  The legislative session ends on April 8, so the Senate must
act on the bill by then for it to become law this year. If
enacted, it wouldn’t take effect until Oct. 1, and it would
allow owners of banned weapons to keep them.  National Trend  The Dec. 14 Newtown shooting prompted a renewed national
debate about gun control. In U.S. statehouses, more than 600
bills have been filed to tighten firearm limits, according to
the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a San Francisco group
that advocates for stricter laws. While President  Barack Obama ,
a Democrat, has sought passage of similar steps in Congress,
opposition from lobbyists such as the National Rifle Association
has slowed progress on the proposals.  In Maryland, a Democratic stronghold, hundreds of opponents
and supporters gathered in Annapolis, the capital, earlier this
year as O’Malley’s measure advanced in the Senate. The effort
was also criticized by Accokeek-based gunmaker Beretta U.S.A.
Corp., which said other states were courting it for relocation.  During yesterday’s House debate over the bill, supporters
said it would help reduce gun violence.  “I don’t think Baltimore needs assault weapons,” said
Delegate Talmadge Branch, a Democrat from the state’s most-
populous city. “I don’t see what need it would serve except to
use them in some harmful way.”  Opponents said it would curb the rights of law-abiding gun
owners and wouldn’t prevent tragedies like the one in Newtown.  Republican Delegate Donald Elliott, who represents rural
areas west of Baltimore, said that the legislature is misguided
to ban the types of guns residents can buy, saying it would do
little to deter criminals intent on acquiring one.  “A person inclined and mentally disturbed will find a
gun,” he said. “The focus on the gun is misguided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 