-- Asian Palm-Oil Planters Head to West Africa
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-04-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/asian-palm-oil-planters-head-to-west-africa.html
Surveying miles of palm trees
swaying softly in the tropical breeze in southwestern Ghana, Lim
Peng Hor points proudly to a terraced slope of felled trunks
that cuts through the lush landscape.  “Look at the way we have arranged the tree trunks: they
keep the nutrients in the soil,” said Hor, general manager of
 Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) ’s industrial palm-oil estate, the
second-biggest palm-oil plantation in the West African nation.
“That’s how you’re supposed to do it.”  The 4,678-hectare (11,600-acre)  Benso Oil Palm Plantation
Ltd. (BOPP)  is part of Singapore-based Wilmar’s push into  Africa .
Suitable land for palm-oil cultivation is running out in top
producers Malaysia and  Indonesia , which now account for about 85
percent of the global output. Demand for the world’s most used
cooking oil is expected to double by 2020, driven by rising
consumption in China and  India , according to the World Bank.  Wilmar is among several companies searching for land in
West and Central Africa, where the stocky, thick-stemmed oil
palm originates. Land deals have been signed with governments
ranging from Sierra Leone to Cameroon.  “These large-scale projects are very appealing,” Doug
Hawkins, an agribusiness specialist at  Hardman & Co. , a London-
based market research group, said in a telephone interview. “It
gives real economies of scale, and with large plantations
companies can operate their own oil mills and ultimately even
sustain a refinery.”  Optimism Dimmed  About a million hectares of land is available for
development in the region, according to Hawkins. Planters
include Kuala Lumpur-based  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , Singapore-based  Olam
International Ltd. (OLAM) , Golden Veroleum Ltd., London-based
 Equatorial Palm Oil Plc (PAL)  and even U.S. investment funds with no
previous experience in the industry such as  Herakles Farms .  Some of the initial optimism surrounding the expansion
drive has dimmed, said Hans Perk, the Ghana country director of
Solidaridad, a Dutch non-governmental organization that advises
the nation’s palm-oil industry. Governments have been slow to
resolve land-ownership disputes and local farmers are reluctant
to adopt new methods, he said.  Land-ownership disputes have delayed operations for Sime
Darby, which ventured into Africa in 2009 with a 220,000-hectare
lease agreement in Liberia that prompted local farmers to
complain they were being pushed off the land. So far, it has
been able to plant only 5,021 hectares with oil palms, according
to its website.  “Some companies come in and think they can always arrange
things later with the government, but it doesn’t work that
way,” Perk said in an interview in Accra,  Ghana ’s capital.
“They quickly find out they are on their own.”  Slave Ships  The West African palm-oil industry has been dominated by
smallholder farmers since the oil was used to provision slave
ships plying the Atlantic Ocean in the 16th century and later as
soap in Britain and a lubricant for the machines of the
industrial revolution.  In the post-colonial years, as production of petroleum and
minerals such as gold dominated government revenue, interest in
palm oil waned. African producers became importers of the oil in
the 1960s as companies in Asia began planting industrial-scale
highly structured palm-oil fields.  The exception is Ivory Coast, where large estates were
established under the influence of former colonial ruler  France .
Today it’s the only West African exporter of palm oil, with
local companies such as  Palmci (PALC)  SA and SIFCA Group shipping about
70,000 metric tons of the oil in 2011.  Palm oil Prices fell 2.5 percent in the first quarter. The
contract for delivery in June advanced 1.9 percent yesterday to
2,382 ringgit ($772) a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange.  Farmer Training  Wilmar International, which operates the biggest estate in
Ivory Coast in a venture with SIFCA, aims to boost production
and processing in the region, starting with Ghana and Nigeria.  The company last year acquired 35,000 hectares of oil-palm
plantations in Nigeria, West Africa’s biggest producer. It also
opened a $60 million palm-oil refinery in Tema, Ghana’s biggest
port, that will distribute edible oil to countries in the
region.  At the Benso plantation, bought in 2011 from  Unilever’s (UNA) 
Ghanaian unit, Wilmar is focusing on raising output and training
small farmers on how improved harvesting techniques and
fertilizers can boost yields.  With an average annual production of 250,000 tons, Ghana
doesn’t meet domestic demand of of 300,000 tons. Output could
double within five years if small farmers adopt new practices
and start using fertilizers, said Harrie Hendrickx, project
manager of  Solidaridad .  Land Ownership  Many farmers are content with producing an average of 4
tons per hectare, while yields can reach as much as 18 tons per
hectare if the right amount of fertilizer is applied and oil
palms are pruned regularly, said Benso Estate Manager Samuel
Avaala.  “You can do it with the same amount of work and the same
amount of land, but people have to see it and believe and mimic
what the industrial plantations do,” he said.  Other obstacles are the climate, a lack of government
support and the high costs of building roads, drains and bridges
on the plantations. Unlike Indonesia, where rainfall is year-
round, countries in West Africa experience three months of dry
weather that limits palm-oil yields.  “Sometimes it can take up to three years to start
development and planting,” Hawkins said. “Some projects will
end up much smaller than they were originally conceived to be.”  A shortage of workers has hurt production too.  Gold Fever  “There is gold in this area so people are more interested
in small-scale mining,” said Joseph Amoakwao, a 51-year-old
farmer who cultivates 4 hectares at the Benso plantation and 8
hectares outside. “Palm oil is hard work.”  Ghana’s Ministry of Agriculture says the country could
triple the 300,000 hectares of land under palm-oil cultivation.  The government allocated 1.1 percent of its 2011 budget to
agriculture, down from an average 8.7 percent from 2003 to 2009,
according to One, an international advocacy group that
 researched  how much African governments have invested in farming
in the past decade. Along with cocoa, the country depends on oil
and gold.  “I think there is a lack of interest in agriculture in
general, and a lack of investment as a result,” Santosh Pillai,
Wilmar’s West Africa director, said in an interview. “It’s a
shame because palm oil has long-term benefits for the economy:
you create more jobs than in mining or oil, and you create rural
development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in  Accra  at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  