-- Commodities, Stocks Slump as Treasuries Gain on Economy
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-04-03T20:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/asian-stocks-advance-led-by-japan-as-korean-won-drops-with-crude.html
Oil and metals led a gauge of
commodities down the most since November and U.S. benchmark
stock indexes retreated from records while Treasuries rallied
after reports on the American economy trailed estimates.
 Canadian stocks  tumbled the most since June.  The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities dropped 2 percent as
of 4 p.m. in  New York  and reached its lowest level since
December. Oil plunged the most this year after U.S. inventories
increased to a 22-year high. Gold sank 1.4 percent to the lowest
since June and to the brink of a bear market. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index slipped 1.1 percent to 1,553.69 and Canada’s
benchmark index fell more than 2 percent. Ten-year Treasury
yields lost four basis points to a three-month low.  Stocks and commodities extended losses and Treasuries added
to gains as the  Institute for Supply Management ’s gauge of U.S.
service industries fell more than economists forecast in March.
Earlier data from ADP Research Institute showed American
companies added fewer jobs than projected last month.  “The two data points that came in below expectations have
spooked the equity markets today,” Chad Morganlander, a Florham
Park, New Jersey-based fund manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
said in a phone interview. His firm oversees about $130 billion.
“People are focused on Friday’s jobs report and the
ADP number made investors more skittish.”  The S&P GSCI gauge slid 2 percent, its biggest plunge since
November, amid declines in 15 of the 24 commodities it tracks.
Crude dropped the most in more than four months, losing 2.8
percent to $94.45 a barrel, after a government report showed
that U.S. oil stockpiles climbed to the highest level in more
than 22 years.  Bear Threshold  Gold futures for June delivery tumbled 1.4 percent to
settle at $1,553.50 an ounce in New York, after touching
$1,549.70, the lowest since June 28. The metal has declined 7.3
percent in 2013, after rallying the past 12 years. Today’s
settlement leaves prices down 18 percent from a record close of
$1,891.90 on Aug. 22, 2011, bringing it closer to the threshold
of the 20 percent benchmark for a  bear market .  Copper dropped 1.3 percent to $3.333 a pound on the Comex
in New York, after touching its lowest price since August.
Silver sank 1.7 percent to $26.80 an ounce, more than 20 percent
below its Oct. 4 settlement on April 1.  Commodities’ supercycle is “probably” over and prices are
unlikely to match their performance over the past decade,
according to UBS AG. Growth in  China  is slowing and becoming
less commodity-intensive, London-based strategists Stephane Deo
and Ramin Nakisa wrote in a report dated yesterday.  ‘Wrong’ Recommendation  UBS cut industrial metals to neutral after a “wrong”
recommendation to go long in September and adding to the
position at the start of 2013, according to the report. While
commodity prices could see some gains in the near future, a
recovery would be limited and short-lived, the bank said.  The  S&P 500 index  closed at a record 1,570.25 yesterday as
concern over  Europe ’s debt crisis eased and factory orders
topped forecasts. Losses today were led by financial, energy and
consumer companies, with each group dropping at least 1.1
percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and  Intel
Corp . lost more than 1.9 percent for the biggest declines in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average .  “It’s a combination of the ISM and ADP data both being
below estimates is putting a little bit of cold water on the
market’s bullish sentiment,”  Michael James , a managing director
of equity trading at Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles ,
said by phone. “I can’t say its really a surprise the market is
pulling back a little.”  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  rallied 15 percent after saying it will
introduce real-money online gambling in the U.K.  VIX Jumps  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , which
measures the cost of using options as insurance against claims,
jumped 11 percent to 14.22 today. The gauge, known as the VIX,
is down 21 percent for the year.  Companies boosted employment by 158,000 workers in March,
less than the 200,000 gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey, ADP
Research Institute figures showed two days before the Labor
Department’s monthly payrolls report.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers almost 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 54.4 in March from 56 in the prior month. The
median forecast of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 55.5.
Readings above 50 signal expansion, and estimates ranged from
53.7 to 56.5. The ISM services survey covers industries ranging
from utilities and retailing to housing, health care and
finance.  Stock Valuations  Record stock prices mean investors have to look harder to
find attractively valued stocks, according to Norman Boersma of
Templeton Global Advisors Ltd.  “Certainly in the U.S. it’s become a bit tougher and we’re
fairly underweight in U.S. markets,” Boersma, president of
Templeton Global Advisors, said in an interview on  Bloomberg
Radio  today. “When you go looking, especially among small- and
midcap stocks, there are still some pretty good companies out
there trading at reasonable valuations.”  Canadian stocks led losses in the Americas, with the S&P
TSX/Composite Index  erasing  its gain for the year. Energy and
raw-material companies, which collectively make up more than 40
percent of the index, contributed most to declines.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.9 percent after
climbing 1.3 percent yesterday, the biggest rally in four weeks.
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. sank 4.6 percent and Kazakhmys
Plc slid 5.1 percent, leading a  gauge of basic-resources
producers  in the benchmark index to an almost 10-month low.
Vodafone Group Plc dropped 3.1 percent after Verizon
Communications Inc. said it’s not considering a bid for the U.K.
mobile-phone operator.  European Yields  Spanish and Italian bonds gained as the  International
Monetary Fund  said it had reached a staff-level agreement to
contribute about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) to aid Cyprus.
Spain’s 10-year note yield fell three basis points to 4.91
percent and Italy’s rate slipped three points to 4.59 percent.  The yields on  Germany ’s  five-year yields  were at 0.32
percent after slipping to 0.27 percent on March 28, the least
since Dec. 10, as the government sold 3.29 billion euros of the
notes at a yield of 0.33 percent. Germany last sold five-year
securities on March 6 at an average yield of 0.45 percent. That
compares with a record-low  auction yield  of 0.31 percent set on
Aug. 1.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 3 percent as the
central bank began a two-day meeting  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell for a third day,
sliding 0.5 percent. Benchmark gauges in  South Africa , the  Czech
Republic  and  Thailand  dropped more than 1 percent. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong
Kong  lost 0.5 percent and the Shanghai Composite Index dropped
0.1 percent as concern over a new strain of avian flu
overshadowed data showing growth in the nation’s services
industries.  South Korea’s Kospi index slipped 0.2 percent to a one-week
low after North Korea prevented South Korean workers from
entering a jointly run industrial park.  The dollar was weaker against 14 of 16 major peers, losing
0.5 percent to 92.96 yen and slipping 0.2 percent to $1.2848 per
euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  