-- AstraZeneca, E.Digital, ‘Papples’: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-03T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/astrazeneca-e-digital-papples-intellectual-property.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, said it may appeal a U.S. court ruling that
invalidated a patent on its Pulmicort Respules asthma treatment
and cleared the way for generic competition.  The drugmaker “strongly disagrees with” the decision by
the federal court in  New Jersey  that also said a second patent
wasn’t being infringed by producers of a generic version of the
treatment.  Actavis Inc. (ACT) , whose generic form of the
corticosteroid has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, said separately that it will begin selling its
version immediately.  AstraZeneca “has full confidence in the strength of its
 intellectual property  rights,” Paul Hudson, executive vice
president of North America, said in the London-based company’s
statement.  The ruling, which AstraZeneca said is restricted to the
U.S., doesn’t change the drugmaker’s forecasts for this year of
a mid- to high-single-digit decline in revenue excluding
currency shifts and core earnings per share to fall
significantly more than revenue, the company said. The
invalidated  patent  covered the drug’s delivery method, while the
second  patent  involved its formulation.  Generic competition will mean that royalty payments
AstraZeneca receives from  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
will decline from $260 million last year, the U.K. company said.
AstraZeneca struck an agreement with Teva in 2008 allowing the
Petach Tikva, Israel-based company to sell a generic version of
the drug beginning in December 2009 in exchange for an
undisclosed lump sum and royalty payments.  Pulmicort Respules patents expire in 2018, with protection
of the children’s version extending to 2019, AstraZeneca said.  Actavis plans to begin marketing 0.25- and 0.5-milligram
units of its asthma drug immediately, the Parsippany, New
Jersey-based company said in an April 1 statement.  Another generic copy, from Apotex Inc., was approved in the
U.S., though the Toronto-based drugmaker has been blocked from
selling the product after AstraZeneca won an injunction.  AstraZeneca will lose patent protection on some of its
best-selling drugs by 2016, including cholesterol treatment
Crestor, which had sales of $6.3 billion last year.  E. Digital Files Patent Suits Against Tech Companies, Retailers  E.Digital Corp. (EDIG) , a San Diego-based supplier of video-on-
demand support technology, filed five new patent-infringement
lawsuits in federal court in  San Diego .  These filings bring to 21 the total number of recent patent
cases the company has filed. The suits related to technology
used in smartphones and tablets, such as file-management
functionality, flash-memory integrity testing and noise
suppression.  Defendants include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Huawei Technologies Co. and
ZTE (USA) Inc. The company also sued retailers and distributors,
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , Target Corp., and Verizon
Communications Inc., E.Digital said in a statement.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  U.K. Royals Register Their Foundation’s Name, Telegraph Says  While a charitable foundation set up by  Prince William , his
wife and his brother has registered the organization’s name as a
trademark for a wide range of products and services, there’s no
plan to bring out a line of logo-marked sportswear, the U.K.’s
Telegraph reported.  The Royal Foundation of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge
and Prince Harry included “clothing, footwear and headgear”
among the categories for which it registered the mark, according
to the newspaper.  Some categories were chosen to bar others from using the
name without permission on such things as T-shirts or running
shoes, according to the Telegraph.  In 2011, the foundation raised 4.8 million pounds ($7.25
million) and made grants to a range of charities, with a
particular emphasis on those for members of the U.K. military,
the Telegraph said.  Worldwide Fruit Signs up for ‘Papple’ License, Website Says  Worldwide Fruit Ltd., a U.K.-based fruit packer and
distributor, took a license to the “Papple” trademark program
developed by the Associated International Group of Nurseries,
the Fresh Plaza produce news website reported.  “Papple” is used for a variety of Asian pear that is
round like an apple and tastes like a European pear, according
to Fresh Plaza. Papples, which look like apples with an orange
blush on a yellow background, are a cross between Chinese and
Japanese varieties of Asian pears, according to Fresh Plaza.  The fruit is being marketed with the slogan “A papple a
day keeps the doctor...baffled,” Fresh Plaza reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Jolie’s ‘Land of Blood and Honey’ Doesn’t Infringe, Judge Says  Angelina Jolie’s 2011 film “ In the Land of Blood and
Honey ” didn’t infringe the copyright of a Croatian journalist,
a federal judge in  Los Angeles  has ruled.  James J. Braddock , who also goes by Josip J. Knezevic,
claimed in his complaint that Jolie’s movie contained
“similarities so substantial” to his Croatian-language book
“The Soul Shattering” as to infringe his copyright. The suit
was originally filed in federal court in  Chicago  and transferred
to  California  in July.  Among the similarities Braddock cited were the fact that
both the book and film are love stories set in  Bosnia and
Herzegovina  in the early 1990s. The main female character in
each is a Muslim who is abused and raped by soldiers and
officers. He said that the main male character in both works is
a high-ranking “Greater Serbian” nationalist and army officer.  In her March 29 ruling, U.S. District Judge Dolly M. Gee
said the works weren’t “substantially similar” and that some
of the perceived similarities aren’t entitled to copyright
protection.  The common feature of the works’ protectable elements,
taken separately or together, wouldn’t lead a trier of fact to
conclude that the works are substantially similar,’’ Gee wrote.  Braddock claimed that he met repeatedly with a Bosnian
resident and film producer who is a co-defendant with Jolie and
that they discussed making a film from his book. He learned of
Jolie’s film in 2010 and found out that the Bosnian film
producer was “actively involved in its production.”  Braddock was seeking damages, litigation costs and attorney
fees. He also asked for an order barring the distribution and
performance of the movie.  The case is Braddock v. Jolie, 12-cv-05883, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of California (Los Angeles).  David Datuna Sued Over $210,000 ‘Steve Jobs-Ayn Rand’ Artwork  David Datuna , a mixed-media artist, was sued for copyright
infringement by a New York photographer for allegedly using a
portrait of Apple Inc. co-founder  Steve Jobs  without permission.  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court by
photographer  Albert M. Watson , involves Datuna’s “ Steve Jobs-
Ayn Rand ,” which  sold for $210,000  in 2011.  Watson said Datuna’s work makes unauthorized use of a
portrait that he shot and that was included in a series of
pictures of influential business people in Fortune magazine in
2006. The picture was also used on the cover of Walter
Isaacson’s Jobs biography.  Watson said he didn’t authorize Datuna’s use of the photo
and its unauthorized use has diminished his opportunities to
sell and license the image. The photographer is seeking money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs, and the surrender
of all infringing works and copies.  Datuna didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the suit.  The case is Albert M. Watson Photography Inc. v. Cao, 13-
cv-02175, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Wisconsin Researcher Accused of Economic Spying for China  A  Medical College of Wisconsin  researcher was charged with
economic espionage for stealing a patented cancer-research
compound to give to a university in  China .  Hua Jun Zhao, 42, may have stolen the compound from a
medical college office in Milwaukee and taken steps to deliver
it to Zhejiang University, according to the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation.  “There is probable cause to believe that Hua Jun Zhao has
committed the crime of economic espionage,” FBI Special Agent
Gerald Shinneman wrote in an affidavit in support of a criminal
complaint. Theft of  trade secrets  to benefit a foreign
government is punishable by as long as 15 years’ imprisonment.  A preliminary hearing is set for April 11 before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Patricia Gorence in Milwaukee. Dean Puschnig, a
spokesman for Milwaukee U.S. Attorney James L. Santelle,
declined to comment on the status of the case. Juval Scott, a
federal public defender representing Zhao, couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment on the charges.  Zhao conducted pharmacology research at the medical college
as an assistant to Dr. Marshall Anderson, according to
Shinneman. On Feb. 22, Anderson told college security three
bottles of a powdery compound identified only as C-25, for which
he held the patent, had disappeared from his office, the FBI
agent said. The vials were worth about $8,000, Shinneman said.  A review of security video showed Zhao was the only person
to enter or leave Anderson’s office around the time the bottles
disappeared, according to the affidavit.  College security also learned Zhao had been in China from
December to February and stated on his resume that he was an
assistant professor at Zhejiang University, Shinneman said.  Zhao claimed on the website ResearchGate that he had
discovered a cancer-fighting compound and wanted to bring it to
China, the FBI agent said.  Federal agents, with a search warrant for Zhao’s residence
on March 28, found a receipt for a package sent to his wife in
China a month earlier, together with plane tickets for a flight
from Chicago to China, scheduled to depart yesterday, Shinneman
said.  The case is U.S. v. Zhao, 13-mj-00220, U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of  Wisconsin  (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  