-- Matolcsy to Unveil Hungary Central Bank Plan on Lending
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-04-03T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/matolcsy-to-unveil-hungary-central-bank-plan-on-lending.html
Hungarian central bank President
Gyorgy Matolcsy will present a plan to boost lending as he seeks
to prove monetary policy can help end the country’s second
recession in four years.  Matolcsy will hold his first press conference as head of
Magyar Nemzeti Bank at 11 a.m. in Budapest today, followed by
presentations by central bank staff on “options to boost
lending,” according to invitations sent by e-mail yesterday.  The new monetary policy chief took office last month after
levying the highest bank tax in  Europe  as economy minister from
2010. The levy helped keep the  budget deficit  within the
European Union’s 3 percent of economic output at the cost of
damaging lending and investment. Now Matolcsy may seek to
emulate the  Bank of England  in providing cheaper financing for
lenders in return for credit expansion to boost growth,
according to  Capital Economics  Ltd. and Concorde Securities.  “To the extent any new policies are announced, they are
likely to be along the lines of a new Funding for Lending
Scheme,”  Neil Shearing , an economist at Capital Economics in
 London , said in an e-mail yesterday. “Additional provision of
local-currency finance by the” central bank “is unlikely to
provide a significant boost to lending given that there is
already a surplus of forint liquidity in the banking sector.”  The forint weakened 0.1 percent to 302.51 per euro by 6:22
p.m. yesterday in Budapest, reversing a gain of as much as 1.9
percent after the announcement of today’s central bank meeting.
It has dropped 2.6 percent in the past month, the worst
performance among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Matolcsy’s Call  Before his nomination to the central bank by Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban , Matolcsy called for the “brave” use of
“unorthodox” monetary-policy tools in December, sending the
forint to its weakest in seven months.  He said March 1 that the central bank can support the
government’s policies and boost the economy as long as it
doesn’t jeopardize price and financial stability.  The central bank can aid the economy by “helping to boost
lending or buying bonds in the secondary fixed-income market,”
said  Mihaly Varga , Matolcsy’s successor at the  Economy Ministry ,
according to the transcript of an interview published in The
Wall Street Journal on April 2.  Monetary stimulus to boost growth may damage the economy
and reduce the central bank’s credibility in a country lacking
in “regulatory certainty and predictability,” Matolcsy’s
predecessor at the central bank, Andras Simor, said on Jan. 17.
Simor said it would cause “more harm than benefit” to embark
on “general quantitative easing,” as that was done by
countries where the benchmark rate is close to zero.  Rate Cut  In Matolcsy’s first rate decision, policy makers on March
26 cut the two-week deposit rate to 5 percent, taking the
benchmark to a record low with the eighth quarter-point
reduction in as many months. Easing can only continue if
uncertainty in the market environment abates, the central bank
said in a statement, tightening its earlier conditions.  Hungary  should pause with monetary easing after a series of
“appropriate” cuts, the  International Monetary Fund  said on
March 29. A further “deep” reduction of borrowing costs raises
the risk of weakening the forint and undermining financial
stability, the Washington-based lender said.  “I would be be critical of policy makers in Hungary, in
terms of the unorthodox nature in which they set policy,”  Sam Finkelstein, who helps manage $40 billion in emerging-market
debt at Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said by phone from
London. “I don’t see a material improvement in policy despite a
modest cut from the new governor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  