-- Audits Preventing Taxpayer Overcharges Impeded by Pentagon Cuts
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-04-03T18:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/audits-preventing-taxpayer-overcharges-impeded-by-pentagon-cuts.html
U.S. budget cuts may delay the
Defense Department’s plan to eliminate a $400 billion backlog of
unaudited contractor bills by next year, a Pentagon official
said.  The Defense Contract Audit Agency has frozen hiring and
will lose about 5 percent of its workforce, or 250 employees,
this year as the Pentagon absorbs $41 billion in automatic
reductions, said Patrick Fitzgerald, the office’s director.  “It’s going to make it more challenging,” Fitzgerald said
in an interview about efforts to work through the backlog. “I’m
not willing to give up on that goal yet, even though we’ve got
some budget challenges. I think we can still come very close to
getting to that goal.”  The backlog of unaudited expenses has more than quadrupled
since 2005 as awards surged because of the wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan . Contractors that have been snared in the audit
backlog wouldn’t get paid until their requests are approved,
which might put millions of dollars on hold for years.  “For many companies, there’s real money locked up in these
incurred cost audits,” said Alan Chvotkin, executive vice
president of the Arlington, Virginia-based Professional Services
Council, which represents contractors such as  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  and  CACI
International Inc. (CACI)   Even under ideal circumstances, the goal of getting through
the backlog by Sept. 30, 2014, was going to be daunting,
Chvotkin said in a phone interview.  “It’s going to be a real, real stretch to eliminate the
backlog in ’14, given this fiscal situation and this workforce
situation,” he said.  IRS Model  The audits help ensure contractors are charging the
government a fair price when they work under cost-reimbursement
agreements, or those that aren’t awarded on a fixed-price basis.  As the audit office tries to speed its progress through the
bills, employees are focusing more attention on vendors
considered at high risk of overcharging the government,
Fitzgerald said yesterday at the Pentagon.  They include companies with at least $250 million in
expenses, first-time contractors and those with a history of
overbilling, he said. All submitted costs are examined, while
the agency audits a random sample of bills submitted by
companies presenting a lower risk.  “We’re using sort of the IRS model,” Fitzgerald said.
“Not every submission would be audited.”  Contract Overcharges  Overcharges uncovered in the backlog may amount to $4
billion, or 1 percent of submitted expenses, Fitzgerald said.
That compares with the range of $1.1 billion to $2.2 billion
estimated in 2011 by the bipartisan Commission on Wartime
Contracting.  The agency is “doing higher-quality audits these days,”
which result in more charges being questioned, Fitzgerald said.  The $400 billion backlog includes cost submissions from
2009 and earlier. Fitzgerald didn’t provide an estimate of how
much of the backlog remains to be audited.  Pentagon budget cuts may disrupt the audit agency’s attempt
to rebuild its workforce after a period of decline. Its staff
decreased by more than 40 percent between 1990 and 2008, even as
government contract spending increased more than 140 percent,
according to department data.  A study by the Army Force Management Support Agency said
the audit office needs a workforce of 6,250 by 2015, the wartime
contracting commission reported. The agency now has a staff of
about 5,200, after hiring about 1,000 people since 2009,
Fitzgerald said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  