-- Aussie Holds Gain Versus Kiwi as Retail Sales Exceed Forecasts
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-04-04T06:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/australian-dollar-holds-gains-before-retail-sales-building-data.html
Australia’s dollar held a rebound
from a three-week low against its New Zealand counterpart as
traders pared bets for interest-rate cuts after retail sales in
the larger nation climbed by the most in more than three years.  The so-called Aussie gained for a second day against New
Zealand’s kiwi dollar after government data showed that retail
sales jumped 1.3 percent in February and building approvals
rebounded. Both South Pacific currencies fell against the dollar
and surged against the yen after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded
monetary stimulus.  “The retail sales number was extremely strong,” said
Alvin Pontoh, an Asia-Pacific strategist at TD Securities Inc.
in  Singapore . “It justifies the move higher in the Aussie. The
Reserve Bank of Australia said this week that there are signs
the economy is responding to previous easing of monetary policy
and we’re clearly seeing that evidence today.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.1 percent to NZ$1.2435 at 5:42
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it also added 0.1 percent.
The pair touched NZ$1.2396 on April 2, the lowest since March 8.
The Aussie fell 0.3 percent to $1.0431, and New Zealand’s
currency lost 0.3 percent to 83.89 U.S. cents.  Australia ’s dollar jumped 2.1 percent to 99.44 yen and New
Zealand’s surged 2.1 percent to 79.96 yen.  The advance in Australia’s retail sales beat the 0.3
percent advance predicted by the the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists and was the biggest back-to-
back gain in almost four years.  Separate reports showed  building approvals  rebounded 3.1
percent in February from a revised 2.0 percent drop in January,
and a measure of the  services  industry advanced to the highest
level in 14 months.  ‘Expansionary Effect’  “There are a number of indications that the substantial
easing of monetary policy during late 2011 and 2012 is having an
expansionary effect on the economy,” Reserve Bank of Australia
Governor Glenn Stevens said in a statement on April 2 after
leaving the overnight cash-rate target at 3 percent for a third
month.  The RBA cut the key rate by 1.75 percentage points in the
14 months through December.  “Monetary policy is working,” Paul Bloxham, chief
Australia economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former
RBA economist, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.
“We think the RBA’s easing phase is done, and the next move
might be up.”  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 16 percent chance the RBA will cut the benchmark rate at
its next meeting on May 7, compared with 57 percent odds priced
in one month ago.  BOJ Stimulus  The Australian and New Zealand dollars slipped as the U.S.
currency strengthened after the Bank of  Japan  expanded monetary
stimulus. In the first policy meeting led by Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, the central bank increased monthly bond purchases to 7
trillion yen ($73 billion) and agreed to buy longer maturities
as it aims to achieve 2 percent annual inflation within two
years.  “The BOJ certainly met and beat market expectations,”
said Robert Rennie, the chief currency strategist in Sydney at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “The euro, sterling and Aussie to a
lesser extent have moved lower against the U.S. dollar after the
BOJ decision. That’s partly because of U.S. dollar gains.”  The European Central Bank and Bank of England also decide
on monetary policy today as they struggle to revive growth.  ‘Sustained Strength’  Benchmark interest rates of 3 percent in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand compared with reflationary policies in
the U.S.,  Europe  and Japan will support the Aussie and kiwi
dollars, according to Carrick Lucas, a strategist at ANZ
National Bank Ltd. in Wellington.  “There’ll be a lot more money flowing around in Asia
markets” with the BOJ expanding stimulus, he said. “Over time
that flows out into global sovereign bond markets,”
particularly Australia and New Zealand.  Australia’s 10-year bond yields fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 3.4 percent after earlier dropping to
3.35 percent, the lowest since March 5.  “The sustained strength of our dollar is now a feature of
the economic landscape,” Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard said today in a speech in Sydney. “It may persist for
some time, given Australia’s status increasingly as something of
a safe-haven currency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  