-- Australian Services Industry Index Rises to Highest in 14 Months
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-03T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/australian-services-industry-index-rises-to-highest-in-14-months.html
A gauge of  Australia ’s services
industry rose in March to the highest level in 14 months as
interest-rate cuts boosted firms linked to household spending.  The performance of services  index  advanced to 49.6 from
48.5 in February,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and the
Australian Industry Group said in Sydney today. The last time
the reading was above 50, the dividing line between expansion
and contraction, was in January last year.  The data validate  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn
Stevens ’s decision to hold rates this year after six reductions
-- totaling 1.75 percentage points -- from November 2011 to
December 2012 to help buttress the economy. Policy makers are
trying to stimulate industries outside mining, where investment
is predicted to plateau this year, and offset the drag on the
economy from a high currency.  “To see the services sector edging toward expansion is
welcome news and points to the gradually growing impact of
successive interest-rate reductions last year,” Innes Willox,
AIG’s chief executive officer, said in a statement. “Sub-
sectors closely linked to household consumption are picking up
while other sectors continue to struggle.”  Australia is due to hold elections Sept. 14 after Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  broke with tradition and announced the
date early this year. The government will deliver the budget on
May 14.  Respondents to the survey “cited uncertainties surrounding
the upcoming  federal budget  and federal election as adversely
affecting confidence,” AIG said in the statement.  Today’s report showed the index’s gauge for sales surged to
50.8 from 47.7, and the reading for new orders edged up to 48.8
from 48.7. The employment indicator slid to 50.2 from 51.7, the
report showed.  Selling prices rose to 45.7 from 44.3, while the wages
measure dropped to 53.2 from 59.8, the data showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 150 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index. The report
measures sales, new orders, deliveries, inventories and
employment for companies such as banks, real-estate agents,
insurers, restaurants, transport firms and retailers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  