-- Banco do Brasil May Raise $6 Billion With Insurance IPO
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2013-04-03T21:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/banco-do-brasil-may-raise-6-billion-with-insurance-ipo.html
Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s
biggest lender by assets, may raise as much as 12.2 billion
reais ($6 billion) in an initial public offering for its
insurance unit that would be the region’s largest since 2009.  BB Seguridade Participacoes SA plans to sell as much as 675
million of its existing voting shares, according to a statement
published today in the Folha de S.Paulo newspaper. The Brasilia-
based company estimates the price will be 15 reais to 18 reais.  The IPO would be the largest in Latin America since July
2009, when Banco Santander Brasil SA, the local unit of  Spain ’s
largest bank, raised $7.5 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Banco do Brasil and four other Brazilian companies
have announced IPO plans after Linx SA, a communications
technology provider, completed the country’s first initial
offering in nine months in February.  “BB Seguridade’s IPO will give even more capital room to
Banco do Brasil,” the bank’s chief executive officer, Aldemir Bendine, 49, said in an interview in Brasilia today. He said the
bank may make acquisitions in the U.S. and  Latin America .  Banco do Brasil is one of the top candidates to buy City
National Bank of Florida’s 26 branches from Spanish lender
Bankia SA, according to four people with knowledge of the
matter. Final bids are due in three to four weeks, said the
people, who asked not be identified because the negotiations are
private. Bendine declined to comment today on the talks. A
Bankia spokesman also declined to comment.  Banco Votorantim  Banco do Brasil offered 2 billion reais to buy an
additional 25 percent stake in Banco Votorantim, Folha de
S.Paulo reported today, citing an unidentified person. The
state-controlled bank already owns about half of Votorantim’s
voting shares. A Banco do Brasil spokesman didn’t return an e-
mail seeking comment on the report.  Banco do Brasil declined 2.2 percent to 27.05 reais at the
close of trading in  Sao Paulo , compared with a gain of 1.2
percent for the benchmark Bovespa index. The stock climbed  24
percent since Nov. 26, when it announced plans for the unit’s
IPO, through yesterday.  BB Seguridade plans to price the shares on April 23 and
start trading on the Sao Paulo exchange two days later,
according to the statement. Banco do Brasil’s investment-banking
unit is managing the offering. BB Seguridade controls all Banco
do Brasil’s insurance business, including joint ventures with
Madrid-based  Mapfre SA. (MAP)   For Related News and Information:
Banco do Brasil May Sell Shares in IPO for Insurance Businesses
IPOs Dry Up as Rousseff Rules Spur Stock Rout: Corporate Brazil
Top Underwriter BTG Sees Equity Sales Doubling: Corporate Brazil  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  