-- Bankers’ Court Wins Could Come Back to Haunt Them
-- B y   M i k e   K o n c z a l
-- 2013-04-03T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/bankers-court-wins-could-come-back-to-haunt-them.html
Banks and their lawyers have found a
surprisingly effective way to stymie financial reform: Kill new
rules in the courts. It’s a strategy that may cripple
regulators, undermine the legitimacy of the judicial system and
ultimately come back to haunt the banks.  Litigators working for the financial industry have been
scoring some important victories, using the courts to block
rules required by the Dodd-Frank  Wall Street  Reform and Consumer
Protection Act. Notably, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the D.C.
Circuit  struck down  a Securities and Exchange Commission rule
that would have given shareholders more say in the selection of
corporate directors, on the grounds that the regulation lacked
adequate cost-benefit analysis. A lower court  struck down  a
Commodity Futures Trading Commission rule imposing position
limits on traders because of supposedly ambiguous wording.  The courts are likely to keep playing an outsized role in
financial regulation. This is bad news for those seeking reform.
There are three reasons the courts are going to be stacked in
favor of industry, making them particularly useful for lobbyists
who want to weaken Dodd-Frank.  First, an asymmetry exists in the types of claims that
courts will accept. As  David Arkush , an attorney at Washington-
based law firm Gupta Beck PLLC, put it: “Businesses nearly
always have standing to challenge rules that affect them. But if
you’re someone who benefits from a rule and thinks it should be
stronger, it’s much harder to get into court.” That’s a much
less reform-friendly balance than the rule-making process, which
requires regulators to read and weigh comments from all sides
equally.  Blunt Weapon  Second, litigation is a blunt and unpredictable weapon with
the power to gut whole sections of financial reform, as opposed
to merely watering them down. It’s very hard for regulators to
anticipate exactly what parts of their rules lawyers will
challenge, and how the courts will react.  Judges are simply showing up at the end of a long process
and giving a thumbs-up or a thumbs-down ruling, with little
clarity or guidance to influence policy makers and no
institutional back and forth. As opposed to lobbying, which aims
to change legislation at the margin, court challenges block laws
completely. There may never be position limits for commodity
derivatives, and the SEC has shelved proxy access.  Third, the threat of litigation has a chilling effect that
individual lobbying successes do not. It puts pressure on
regulators to take more time writing the rules, to make them
longer and more complicated, and to tilt them in favor of
industry so that it won’t sue. The potential for courts to take
issue with specific word choices, or to set unpredictable
requirements for cost-benefit analysis, hang like a sword of
Damocles over the whole rulemaking process.  In a recent Washington Monthly  article , the journalist
Haley Edwards describes how litigation risk tips the balance of
power at regulatory agencies toward those who want less
aggressive reforms, even to the point of paralysis. A single
director showing doubts, or a single negative cost-benefit
report, can significantly increase the risk that a rule won’t
survive the unpredictable challenges of the courts.  For those, conservative and otherwise, who believe greater
transparency will lead to improved government, this is
ultimately damaging. Consider the approach to cost-benefit
analysis. Instead of setting clear parameters for how such
analyses should be done, the banks’ litigators are using cost-
benefit as a veto point to threaten regulators. This prevents a
more open and honest dialogue about the approach’s strengths and
weaknesses.  Politically Charged  As Michael Livermore of the  Institute for Policy Integrity ,
a group that favors cost-benefit analysis, argues: “the fact
that cost-benefit analysis is brought in by the courts for
financial reform in a way that is contentious, unclear, without
a lot of guidance, and in a politically charged way, entrenches
views on opposite sides of the debate.”  How can balance be restored? For one, President  Barack Obama  should put more focus on appointing judges to vacant
positions. This would help correct an ideological tilt to the
right that has made the courts particularly receptive to Dodd-
Frank challenges. Obama didn’t nominate someone for the several
vacancies on the District of Columbia Circuit Court until
September 2010. That candidate, Caitlin Halligan, asked for her
name to be withdrawn from consideration last month after even
more Senate obstruction and filibusters.  So, one means to that end would be rewriting the filibuster
rule, which has allowed senators to block Obama’s appointments.
It is paradoxical that Senator  Harry Reid , who worked so hard to
pass financial reform, could see much of it undone by his lack
of action in fixing the filibuster.  Ideally, the financial industry and the judiciary should
recognize that killing Dodd-Frank in court isn’t in their best
interests in the long term. By politicizing the courts and
subverting the will of Congress, they are undermining the rule
of law. By striking down rules wholesale, they are subverting
the process of compromise -- an approach that could lead to even
more draconian regulations on Wall Street.  Regulators, for their part, should push forward as best
they can. If they write tough rules justified with as many
arguments as they can muster, perhaps the courts will back down.
The resulting regulations will probably be longer and more
complicated, but such is the hand that the authors have been
dealt.  Finally, conservatives should make the case for their own
version of financial reform, instead of playing the role of
spoiler. Just as with the  Affordable Care Act , rooting for the
courts to save them from having to offer something constructive
is the wrong approach. It will lead the party to become more
disconnected from popular policies and more interested in the
anti-democratic impulse to recreate an activist court. This is a
losing strategy, even if it is paying dividends right now.  (Mike Konczal is a fellow at the Roosevelt Institute. His
blog,  Rortybomb , was named by Time magazine as one of the 25
best financial blogs.  E-mail  him and follow him on  Twitter . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mike Konczal at  rortybomb@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  