-- Barclays Pays Wipeout Reward on Capital Securities: U.K. Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-04-04T10:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/barclays-pays-wipeout-reward-on-capital-securities-u-k-credit.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  paid yields almost four
times those on its senior bonds to sell $1 billion of contingent
capital notes, rewarding investors who can accept being wiped
out in a crisis at the U.K.’s second-largest lender.  The 10-year bonds, which will be written down to zero if
Barclays’s  capital ratio  drops below 7 percent of risk-weighted
assets, priced yesterday to yield 7.75 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an average of
about 2 percent for the lender’s notes included in Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Banking Index.  “Either you’ve done your credit work, see Barclays as a
good bank, so you take the yield and say ‘Happy Days’,” said
Bryn Jones, a London-based  fund manager  at  Rathbone Brothers
Plc (RAT) , which manages the equivalent of $4.6 billion of fixed
income. “Or maybe it’s like in the old cartoons when you see
the characters with dollar signs in their eyes just as they race
over the edge of a cliff.”  Barclays is bolstering reserves as it seeks to meet new
Basel 3 regulations requiring banks to hold enough capital to
survive financial turmoil without government bailouts. The
London-based bank is taking advantage of demand for riskier
assets as sovereign bond yields hold close to record lows.  Junk Debt  Benchmark 10-year U.K. government bonds yield 1.75 percent.
Gilts returned 0.89 percent this year, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German bunds gained 0.44 percent and
Treasuries 0.13 percent.  Barclays offered on March 26 to buy back two issues of
subordinated bonds due 2017 and 2020. The new contingent notes
will “effectively replace” those securities, according to
 Simon Adamson , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in London. The
lender today reduced the cap on how much it will accept for the
cash tender offer, to a maximum of $850 million from $1 billion.  The contingent capital notes are expected to be rated BBB-
by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, the lowest investment-
grade rankings, Barclays told investors in a presentation on
March 26. The bank paid more to sell the notes than investors
demand to hold junk-rated debt, which yields an average of 5.58
percent in  Europe  and 6.41 percent in the U.S., according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  Investors in the contingent notes will take losses before
shareholders or deeply subordinated Tier 1 bondholders.  “It’s a horrid structure,” said Robert Kendrick, a credit
analyst at Legal & General Investment Management in  London ,
which oversees about $585 billion. “You are explicitly
subordinated to shareholders. That being the case, you should
get paid more than Barclays’s cost of equity and I don’t think
anyone believes that is 7 or 8 percent.”  Equity Capital  Barclays puts its cost of equity capital at about 11.5
percent, a figure that reflects the market consensus, according
to Shailesh Raikundlia, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank in London.  Barclays is “profitable, strong and well-capitalized,”
London-based spokesman John McGuinness said in an e-mailed
statement.  Under new, stricter criteria on what counts as capital that
regulators are introducing, Barclays will probably be obliged to
hold loss-absorbing instruments, including common equity,
equivalent to 9 percent of risk-weighted assets. The bank plans
to hold a minimum ratio of 10.5 percent, according to the
presentation made to investors.  Barclays first issued contingent capital notes in November,
when it raised $3 billion in 10-year bonds priced to yield 604
basis points more than Treasuries. The deal, which ING Groep NV
analyst Mark Harmer said attracted more than $17 billion in
orders, now yields 600 basis points more than  U.S. government
debt , or 7.77 percent. The bond pays a coupon of 7.625 percent.  KBC Groep (KBC)   KBC Groep NV,  Belgium ’s biggest bank and insurer by market
value, issued $1 billion of contingent capital notes in January,
paying a coupon of 8 percent.  Barclays can buy back its new securities after five years,
which gives the bank the flexibility to replace them with more
junior securities, according to Steve Hussey, a London-based
analyst at AllianceBernstein Ltd., which manages $430 billion.  About $49 billion of contingent capital securities have
been issued so far, data compiled by Bloomberg show, and Hussey
estimates that as much as 300 billion euros ($385 billion) of
the notes may be sold within the next five years.  The debt is comparable with low-rated corporate issues, he
said. Company bonds ranked four to six levels below investment
grade yield an average 7.10 percent, according to Bank of
America’s Single-B Euro High Yield Index, compared with 7.75
percent for the Barclays deal.  “For the yield and returns you’re getting, these make
sense for a high-yield mandate,” said Hussey. “People talk
about the dangers of these being triggered but, aside from a
catastrophic, one-time loss, regulators should have stepped in
and forced the bank to act before you get anywhere near that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  