-- Barclays Report Finds Bonuses Incapable of Justification
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-04-03T16:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/barclays-report-finds-bank-too-complex-criticizes-pay.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
largest lender by assets, paid investment bankers bonuses
“incapable of justification” as employees focused on revenue
at the expense of clients, according to an internal report.  In the report commissioned by the bank after it was fined
290 million pounds ($428 million) for manipulating Libor in
June, Rothschild vice chairman Anthony Salz criticized the
lender for failings in its culture and urged it to improve its
openness and transparency. In parts of the company, there was
“a sense that senior management did not want to hear bad
news,” which “contributed to a reluctance to escalate issues
of concern,” according to the 236-page report published today.  “Based on our interviews, we could not avoid concluding
that pay contributed significantly to a sense among a few that
they were somehow unaffected by the ordinary rules” Salz wrote.
“A few investment bankers seemed to lose a sense of proportion
and humility.”  Antony Jenkins , 51, who replaced  Robert Diamond  as chief
executive officer in August, is seeking to rein in pay and boost
 profits  to shareholders to help restore investor confidence in
the wake of the Libor scandal. The London-based bank plans to
eliminate some 3,700 jobs this year after posting an annual loss
of 1.7 billion pounds.  Barclays  fell  2.8 percent to 289.3 pence in London. The
stock has increased 10.3 percent this year, making it the best
performer among Britain’s five biggest lenders.  ‘Reputational Problems’  “We concluded that the reputational problems for Barclays
stem in part from the perception that, at least in the U.K.,
some bankers have appeared oblivious to reality,” Salz wrote.
“Despite billions of pounds of liquidity support from
taxpayers, many senior bankers seemed still to be arguing that
they deserved their pre-crisis levels of pay.”  Barclays paid its top 70 executives “consistently and
significantly above” the  industry norm , according to the
report. Managing directors at Barclays’s investment bank
received base pay of about 150,000 pounds to 300,000 pounds, as
well as an average bonus of about 70 percent of their salary in
2012. Some senior employees received bonuses equivalent to more
than double their base pay, it showed.  ‘Uncomfortable Reading’  “They have singled out the top 70 managers for being paid
too much,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in
London with a buy rating on the bank. “Most people would agree
with that. The good news for Barclays shareholders is this
doesn’t appear to change anything.”  The bank’s consumer unit, which Jenkins ran before becoming
CEO, said in October it will stop awarding bonuses to employees
based on sales and instead focus on customer satisfaction.  “The report makes for uncomfortable reading in parts,”
Barclays Chairman  David Walker  said in an e-mailed statement.
“Our initial review of the report’s recommendations is that
they are substantially aligned with work already progressing.”  Jenkins and Walker both declined to be interviewed about
the report, John McGuinness, a London-based spokesman for the
lender, said by telephone.  Barclays Fines  Focusing pay on revenues encouraged misselling of products
such as the wrongly sold loans insurance, the report said.  Barclays’s revenues from so-called payment-protection
insurance, net of claims and provisions for alleged misselling,
was about 940 million pounds in the ten years through 2012, it
said. One undisclosed sales person was found earning 2 1/2 times
more commission for selling a loan with PPI than without,
according to the report.  Barclays paid 70.8 million pounds in fines to the Financial
Services Authority in the three years through 2012, according to
the report. It set aside 2.6 billion pounds to compensate
clients who were wrongly sold PPI.  “Financial contribution was paramount,” Salz wrote. “In
both the retail bank and the investment bank, the success
stories were largely attached to strong personalities,
successful sellers and revenue earners and individuals who
demonstrated cleverness and an ability to win.”  The lender’s structured capital-markets business, or SCM,
which U.K. lawmaker  Nigel Lawson  described as “a fancy name for
 tax avoidance ,” in 2007 made 1.19 billion pounds of revenue for
the lender. The division, which hasn’t before reported its
revenue, “adopted a policy of transparency” with the U.K.’s
tax office, according to the report.  ‘Highly Abusive’  SCM, which Jenkins said he plans to close, was behind two
tax loopholes the U.K. Treasury called “highly abusive” last
year, depriving the public of more than 500 million pounds.  “We consider that this is another example of Barclays’s
failure to assess adequately the reputational damage of its
actions, inclining to rationalise its behaviour on technical
arguments rather than reaching a broader judgment of reasonable
public expectations,” Salz wrote in the report. “In doing so,
it further eroded trust in Barclays.”  Salz also criticized the bank’s dealings with regulators as
being focused on the letter rather than the spirit of the law.  That “institutional cleverness,” he wrote, “stretched
relationships with regulators and resulted in them and the
market questioning some of Barclays’  financial information ,’’
such as its valuations of illiquid assets and control systems.  Current Investigations  Barclays is being investigated by the U.K.’s Serious Fraud
Office for fees it paid in 2008 to Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund
as the lender sought money to avoid a government bailout. Salz
said in a telephone interview today that the report didn’t cover
current investigations because “we were never going to do
enough to be useful,” he said.  “We were not asked in our review to personalize findings
or place blame on particular individuals,” Salz said. “We
tried to link the failings to recommendations to change and find
a blueprint for the future rather than spend too much time
looking at the past.”  The review cost 17 million pounds, including costs for
legal advice paid by Barclays and 1.5 million pounds paid to
Rothschild for Salz’s time. Salz wasn’t paid directly by
Barclays.  Pensions & Investment Research Consultants Ltd., a
corporate-governance adviser based in  London , said in an e-
mailed statement following today’s report that “an obvious
conclusion is that Barclays has become too big to understand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  