-- Blackstone Said to Plan Marketing Start for SeaWorld IPO
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2013-04-03T19:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/blackstone-said-to-plan-moving-ahead-on-seaworld-ipo-this-month.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is moving ahead
with the initial public offering of  SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. (SEAS) 
as soon as this month after rejecting takeover bids for the
theme-park operator, said a person familiar with the matter.  Blackstone will probably begin marketing the sale to
investors in the last two weeks of April, said the person, who
asked not to be named as the process is private.  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  and Onex Corp. each made bids for Orlando-based
SeaWorld, people with knowledge of the matter said in February.  The IPO would be at least the second for a Blackstone
portfolio company this year as the world’s largest buyout firm
takes advantage of investor optimism, which has buoyed  equity
markets  to record highs. Blackstone peers such as Apollo,
Carlyle Group LP and Warburg Pincus LLC also are readying
holdings for public debuts as they begin to exit some of their
biggest investments.  Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, declined to comment, as did  Charles Zehren , a
spokesman for Apollo at Rubenstein Associates Inc. A
representative at Toronto-based Onex didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  SeaWorld filed for a U.S. IPO last year using a placeholder
amount of $100 million, filings show. The company may raise $500
million in the offering, people familiar with the matter said in
December. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are
leading the sale.  IPO Window  IPOs in the U.S. raised $8.9 billion from the beginning of
2013 through March, 44 percent more than a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as record highs in the
Dow Jones Industrial Average and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
spurred companies and their owners to sell new shares.  U.S. initial offers this year have handed buyers an average
gain of 23 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
compelled companies such as Warburg Pincus’s Bausch & Lomb
Holdings Inc., Madison Dearborn Partners LLC’s CDW Corp. and
Bain Capital LLC and TPG Capital’s Quintiles Transnational
Holdings Inc. to file IPO plans since January.  Blackstone took control of SeaWorld after agreeing in 2009
to buy  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s (ABI)  amusement-park business in a
deal then valued at as much as $2.7 billion. The company
operates almost a dozen amusement parks in states such as
Florida, California and Texas and competes with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
and  Six Flags Entertainment Corp. (SIX)   SeaWorld Valuation  Six Flags trades at about 13.6 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the 12 months
through December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s also the median of a basket of comparable SeaWorld peers,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. If SeaWorld were valued at the
same rate, it would have an enterprise value of about $5.36
billion.  Revenue at SeaWorld has swelled 19 percent since 2010 to
$1.42 billion after attendance climbed and the average amount
customers spent rose. Capital expenditures have grown too,
climbing 60 percent over the same period as SeaWorld revamped
parks and added attractions such as Antarctica: Empire of the
Penguin. SeaWorld’s capital spending is equal to about 49
percent of its Ebitda. That compares with about 28 percent for
Grand Prairie, Texas-based Six Flags.  Blackstone recouped some of its initial investment in
SeaWorld, as the theme-park operator paid out a $500 million
special dividend to its owners last year, filings show.
Blackstone expects an IPO to yield better returns over time than
a possible sale, said one person.  Pinnacle’s Success  The buyout firm has already benefited from an offering last
month for  Pinnacle Foods Inc. (PF) , the maker of Hungry-Man dinners
and Duncan Hines cake mix. The Parsippany, New Jersey-based
company sold shares at the top of the proposed price range on
March 27 and had surged 17 percent from its debut level through
yesterday.  Fellow buyout firms are looking to duplicate that success.
New York-based Apollo’s Evertec LLC, which offers transaction-
processing services in Latin America and the Caribbean, is
scheduled to price its IPO April 11, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Bausch & Lomb filed for an IPO March 22 after efforts to
sell the company privately were said to falter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  