-- BOE Says Mortgage Supply Is Improving as Lenders Seek Share
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-03T08:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/boe-says-mortgage-supply-is-improving-as-lenders-seek-share-1-.html
U.K. lenders increased the
availability of mortgages in the first quarter and expect a
further improvement this quarter as they try to boost market
share, the  Bank of England  said.  While the gain was less than in the fourth quarter, a
further increase is seen this quarter, the Bank of England said
in its Credit Conditions Survey in London today. Demand for home
loans rose “slightly” in the first quarter and lenders
forecast the fastest increase in almost four years in the
current three-month period, it said. While credit availability
for companies also improved in the first quarter, according to
the survey, this was confined to large companies.  The central bank is counting on its Funding for Lending
Scheme to stoke the economy by giving banks access to cheaper
finance in return for increasing lending. Still, U.K. mortgage
approvals fell to a five-month low in February and  Nationwide
Building Society  said that the outlook for the housing market is
“unusually uncertain.”  “The FLS was widely cited as a factor pushing down on bank
funding costs and borrowing costs for households,” the BOE said
today. “Lenders reported that market-share objectives had been
the main contributor to the rise in availability, although an
increased appetite for risk and improved wholesale funding
conditions had also played a role.”  Construction Slump  A separate report today showed construction shrank more
than economists forecast in March. Markit Economics said its
 index of building  rose to 47.2 from 46.8 in February. That’s
below the reading of 48 estimated in a Bloomberg News survey.  The pound erased its advance against the dollar after the
report. It traded at $1.5101 as of 9:36 a.m. in London, little
changed from yesterday.  According to the BOE survey, an index of the availability
of secured loans to households was at 17 after 26.2 in the
fourth quarter. A gauge on the outlook for availability this
quarter was at 15.8. The measure on the outlook for mortgage
demand was at 30.4, which would be the highest since the third
quarter of 2009. The BOE’s survey of banks was conducted from
Feb. 8 to March 1.  The FLS is aimed at reducing the cost of borrowing and is
the latest in a series of measures introduced to help the
economy recover. The BOE said today that spreads on  mortgage
loans  above the central bank’s  benchmark rate  or the appropriate
swap rate tightened “significantly” in the first quarter,
reflecting “the pass-through of cheaper funding costs, as well
as increased competition.” Lenders forecast another significant
tightening in spreads this quarter.  Corporate Credit  For companies, small and medium sized firms reported
“little change” in the availability of credit in the first
quarter. While overall corporate credit availability is expected
to be little changed this quarter, it may increase for large
companies. Demand for credit from smaller companies fell in the
last quarter, though is expected to increase in the current
period.  With the economy struggling to recovery, the BOE is
maintaining stimulus for the economy. The Monetary Policy
Committee will announce its monthly decision at noon in  London 
tomorrow and will keep the target of its  bond-purchase plan 
unchanged at 375 billion pounds ($567 billion), according to the
median of 37 economists in a Bloomberg New survey. Three
economists in the poll predict a 25 billion-pound expansion.  The BOE wants banks to strengthen their resilience to
shocks so they can lend more freely to companies and consumers.  While it told lenders on March 27 to raise 25 billion
pounds of additional capital, it said it doesn’t want this to
restrict lending. Still, the move prompted some government
ministers to warn policy makers from pushing banks to strengthen
their balance sheets too quickly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  