-- Boeing Rally Signals Investor Confidence in 787 Upgrades
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-04-03T20:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/boeing-rally-signals-investor-confidence-in-787-upgrades.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  investors are betting
that the 787 Dreamliner’s grounding is nearing an end, which
would allow the planemaker to resume deliveries and reap cash
from its marquee jet.  The shares have rallied 15 percent from a  2013 low  on Jan.
29, after regulators ordered 787s parked following a battery
fire on one plane and an emergency landing by another. Boeing
beat the 3 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
reached the  highest  since May 2008 last week.  While the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  hasn’t said
when the 787 can return to service, Boeing said testing on the
battery fix is more than half complete and it will submit the
proposal after ground tests and a certification flight “within
the next several days.” Having the jets sidelined stalled
Boeing’s drive to add revenue by doubling output this year to 10
planes a month from a backlog of more than 800 Dreamliners.  “Boeing has a very long record of being able to work
through engineering challenges,” said  Peter Jankovskis , chief
investment officer of Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook Investments
LLC, which manages $3.4 billion including Boeing stock. “Once
they get through this and begin ramping up 787 production again,
that’s when the cash flow turns in their favor.”  Deliveries are important because buyers typically make
large payments as they take possession of their planes. The
Dreamliner’s starting  list price  is $206.8 million, from which
customers typically get a discount.  Delivery Halt  Those handovers were halted after the FAA issued its Jan.
16 grounding directive, joined by regulators worldwide to cover
all 49 of the 787s in service. Just a month earlier, Boeing
announced a 10 percent dividend increase, the most since 2007,
and said it was resuming a $3.6 billion stock-buyback plan.  Boeing extended its advance today, rising 0.3 percent to
$84.36 in New York. The stock closed at $86.62 on March 26, the
highest since May 19, 2008, and its 12 percent gain in March
marked the best  monthly performance  in three years.  “It’s a giant cash-flow story waiting to happen,” said
 Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital Group LLC analyst in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “They were on their way prior to this incident.”  Dreamliners may fly again in June, he said. Swift FAA
approval may mean that the battery episode is eventually seen as
just a short delay in the payoff from a plane whose production
setbacks left it more than three years behind schedule,
according to Derchin, who has a buy rating on the stock.  Marc Birtel , a Boeing spokesman, declined to give a
timetable for the company’s next steps beyond “the next several
days” description for the ground test and a certification
flight with FAA inspectors. The FAA also isn’t discussing its
schedule, said  Laura Brown , an agency spokeswoman.  Battery Focus  Boeing’s rally began in earnest last month when it became
clearer that the faults were limited to the Dreamliner’s
lithium-ion battery and wouldn’t require a costly redesign of
the entire electrical system, Derchin said.  The reworked battery from supplier  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674)  includes
a steel enclosure designed to prevent a fire, more spacing
between the lithium-ion cells to reduce the chances of
overheating and new circuitry in the battery charger, according
to Boeing.  Boeing chose the more powerful  lithium-ion batteries  found
in mobile phones over traditional nickel-cadmium cells because
the Dreamliner conserves fuel by using five times more
electricity than similar jets. Boeing says the 787 provides a 20
percent gain in fuel economy over comparable wide-bodies.  Containment Approach  It’s still not certain the FAA will accept Boeing’s
“containment approach” after failing to discover the root
cause of the battery’s overheating, said Christian Mayes, an
analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres , Missouri, who has
a hold rating on the stock.  Even if the FAA does approve the fix, the agency may
restrict the distance the Dreamliner flies with the new battery
system as an added safety precaution, which would be a “de
facto continued grounding,” Mayes said.  “We’re definitely waiting and seeing,” Mayes said. “The
stock seems to price in flight resumption for the 787, but there
are risks that remain.”  The FAA grounded the 787 after a battery caught fire on a
 Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  jet parked at Boston’s airport on Jan. 7 and
the unit on an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  flight began smoldering
and spewing smoke in Japan the following week, prompting an
emergency landing.  Gary Bradshaw , a  fund manager  with Hodges Capital
Management in  Dallas  who added to his Boeing position after the
JAL fire, expects the stock to continue its climb. The shares
are still 17 percent lower than Oct. 9, 2007, the day before the
first of seven postponements in the 787 program became known.  “Once they get these 787s rolling off on a regular basis
and get up to 10 a month, they’ll have lots of cash coming in,”
Bradshaw said. “This will end up as a bump in the road.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  