-- BofA Said to Join Citigroup in Naming Rate-Trading Heads
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-04-03T23:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/bofa-said-to-join-citigroup-in-naming-rate-trading-heads.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , the second and third biggest U.S. lenders, selected new
managers to help run the firms’ rates-trading desks.  Bank of America is hiring  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s co-heads of
Treasury trading, Charles Parkhurst and Adam Brown, for
positions reporting to co-heads of North America Rates Trading
Denis Manelski and David Moore, said a person with knowledge of
the moves. At New York-based Citigroup, Roland Wikstrom will
replace Nicholas Brophy as U.S. head of G-10 rates trading,
according to Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a bank spokeswoman.  Bank of America’s investment bank, run by Co-Chief
Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag, is pursuing selective hires
after freeing payroll by cutting more than 30 employees, said a
person with knowledge of the strategy. Equities operations were
the hardest hit by cuts, the person said.  Parkhurst, 52, will run U.S. Treasuries trading and Brown,
37, will oversee North America Rates Electronic Trading at the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank, said the person, who
requested anonymity because the moves were private. Both were
managing directors at London-based Barclays. Brandon Ashcraft, a
spokesman for Barclays, declined to comment.  Citigroup’s Wikstrom previously was the unit’s head of risk
treasury, said Romero-Apsilos. Brophy’s departure ends a four-
year tenure at Citigroup during which he was one of the lender’s
most senior rates-trading executives. The rates business, run
from  London  by Andy Morton, buys and sells products including
Treasuries, inflation-protected bonds and  interest-rate swaps .  Brophy said will do more with the Worldwide Orphans
Foundation, where he has been a director since 2011. The charity
works to “transform the lives of orphaned children to help them
become healthy, independent, productive members of their
communities,” according to its  website .  He joined Citigroup in 2009, shortly after the lender’s $45
billion government bailout. He previously worked for Merrill
Lynch & Co., including roles as head of options-trading,
derivatives-trading and co-head of rates trading, according to
the Worldwide Orphans’ website.  Brophy also worked briefly at the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, where his duties included working on the fallout from
the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  