-- BofA Chief Moynihan Said to Summon Managers for Revenue Push
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-04-03T16:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/bofa-chief-moynihan-said-to-summon-managers-for-revenue-push.html
Bank of America Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has summoned more than 100
of his regional leaders to a private meeting today where they’ll
be pushed to boost the lender’s flagging revenue, said two
people with direct knowledge of the project.  Managers at the two-day event in  Chicago  will be judged on
how much progress they’ve made in helping to sell more products
to the 53 million customers of the second-biggest U.S. lender,
said the people, who asked for anonymity because Moynihan’s plan
hasn’t been made public.  Revenue has dropped every year of Moynihan’s three-year
tenure as he sold assets, repaired the firm’s balance sheet and
settled more than $40 billion in claims tied to defective
mortgages. He’s integrating the remaining units more closely to
coax extra business from clients, a tactic known as cross-
selling that has worked for  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  while falling
short at firms such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “We’re now at the point with Bank of America when it’s
about boots on the ground rather than the latest lawsuit,” said
 Nancy Bush , an analyst at SNL Financial LC, a bank research firm
in Charlottesville, Virginia. In the past, the lender was
“notably lousy” at cross-selling, she said.  The strategy typically could involve asking a depositor to
take out a mortgage, add a  credit card  or sign up with the
Merrill Lynch brokerage. Former Citigroup CEO Sanford “Sandy” Weill used the idea to justify his 1998 creation of the so-
called financial supermarket by merging a consumer bank with an
insurer, theoretically providing one-stop shopping.  Financial Supermarket  Vikram Pandit, Citigroup’s CEO until last year, disowned
the strategy before his ouster from the New York-based company.  Under Moynihan’s plan, regional leaders will be graded and
ranked on whether they meet targets in about 30 categories of
referrals, said the people. One metric could be how many leads
commercial bankers are sending to financial advisers, said one
person. Referrals reached 1 million last year, said the person.  The regional leaders, called market presidents, previously
had a largely ceremonial title as a bank representative for
activities including charitable giving in their city or state,
according to the people. Most also have full-time jobs in  areas 
including  wealth management  and corporate banking.  Moynihan’s push coincides with Bank of America’s new
marketing campaign, scheduled to be introduced this month, which
emphasizes the ways customers can be served by deposit, credit-
card, mortgage, wealth-management and investment-banking units,
said the people.  Mixed Record  “We’re very focused on managing the company to harness the
power of every connection we can make for our customers and
clients,” said  Larry DiRita , a spokesman for the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based bank.  Cross-selling has had a mixed record in banking, said
Charles Peabody, an  analyst  with Portales Partners LLC in  New
York . Among U.S. banks, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo does it
best, he said. The most valuable lender by market value sells 6
products per retail household, and almost 7 per corporate
relationship, the firm said in a  presentation . That helped
revenue advance 6 percent last year.  “Everyone says they can do this, so it’ll be interesting
to see if Brian can pull it off,” Peabody said. Bank of
America, which set an $8 billion goal for annual cost cuts, must
also improve revenue to reach profit targets, he said.  Progress Report  Moynihan was promoted to CEO in late 2009 in part on his
plan to shun takeovers and better integrate the $130 billion in
businesses bought by his predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis .
Moynihan, 53, made Thomas K. Montag and David Darnell co-chief
operating officers in late 2011, charging them with improving
cooperation among institutional and retail divisions. They are
expected to attend the Chicago meeting, the people said.  Market presidents gathered for the first time in November
as the project started, and this week’s meeting will measure
progress made since then, said one of the people. The lender has
named at least 10 new local leaders in the past year, including
Adriana Kong Romero, who covers Tucson, and David Millman, who
was is responsible for  Maryland .  Obstacles may include complaints about the bank’s customer
service, mostly stemming from mortgage servicing. Bank of
America had the lowest satisfaction  rating  of the four biggest
banks in 2012, according to the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based
American Customer Satisfaction Index. It also had the most
complaints lodged with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  “We have been intensely focused on improving the process
for our mortgage servicing customers and, importantly, virtually
all (98 percent) of the mortgage-related files received from
CFPB since the process was initiated have been closed,” said
 Rick Simon , a spokesman for the lender, in an e-mail.  Stock Performance  Bank of America shares rose 4.7 percent this year in New
York  trading  through yesterday, following the 109 percent surge
in 2012 as capital levels and the  U.S. economy  improved. Revenue
fell as the company sold businesses and assets worth $60 billion
and faced new limits on debit-card fees, sliding 11 percent to
$84.2 billion last year and 15 percent to $94.4 billion in 2011.  At Bank of America’s most recent town hall-style meeting in
January, an employee asked Darnell, 60, how managers intended to
replace the lost money.  “As you go from a primary relationship with us, to credit,
investments, small business and all the things that we can
provide, the  revenue (BAC)  multiplier as you go up those stair steps
is powerful,” Darnell said. “Multiply that times the numbers
of customers we can apply that to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  