-- BP Appeals Oil Spill Court Approval of Official’s Payouts
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-04-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/bp-appeals-spill-court-s-approval-of-claims-official-s-payouts.html
BP Plc (BP/)  is appealing a trial court
ruling upholding decisions by the administrator of its $8.5
billion settlement over the 2010 oil spill that the company says
will force it pay billions of dollars more than expected.  U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier affirmed the
interpretations by claims administrator Patrick Juneau in a
March 5 order. BP complained he was misinterpreting the
settlement agreement and overpaying.  BP filed a notice of appeal yesterday of Barbier’s order
with the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans. The appeal is
“timely” under federal rules because it was lodged within 30
days of Barbier’s order, BP said in the one-page filing.  BP last month separately asked Barbier to issue an
injunction stopping Juneau from paying certain claims,
contending that some payments were going for “fictitious”
losses. A hearing on this request, and a lawsuit filed by BP
against the administrator over the issue, is scheduled to go
before Barbier tomorrow.  A nonjury trial over fault for the blow-out of the deep-
water Macondo well of the coast of Louisiana began before
Barbier Feb. 25. The explosion sent more than 4 million barrels
of oil spewing into the Gulf of Mexico and killed 11 people. The
accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP,
rig-owner  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided
cement services.  Apportioning Responsibility  Barbier will determine responsibility for the disaster and
whether any of the companies acted with willful or wanton
misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal requirement for
establishing gross negligence.  Last year’s settlement between BP and lawyers representing
spill-damage victims resolved most economic and medical-injury
claims by private parties.  That accord didn’t include damage claims by financial
institutions, casinos and companies claiming harm from the Obama
administration’s deep-water drilling moratorium, which was
imposed after the spill. It also didn’t include claims by the
U.S. government and the states of Louisiana and Alabama.  As a result of policy decisions on certain business
economic-loss claims by court-appointed administrator Juneau,
“BP is already exposed to hundreds of millions of dollars in
fictitious ‘losses’ that were never contemplated by the
agreement,” BP said in its motion for an injunction last month.  “Although the ultimate exposure is at this time
inestimable, it grows daily and could cost BP billions,”
according to the motion.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  