-- Buffett Foot-to-Floor Plan Stalls at PacifiCorp Unit
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-04-03T19:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/buffett-foot-to-floor-plan-stalls-at-pacificorp-unit.html
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., one
of the  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  units that billionaire Chairman
 Warren Buffett  relies on to deploy profits, is scaling back its
targets for capital spending.  The electric utility and operator of natural gas pipelines
projected that expenditures would be $2.4 billion less than
previously planned through 2021 amid flat or declining demand at
its PacifiCorp unit, according to slides being presented today
at a fixed-income conference in New York.  Homes and businesses have been installing energy-saving
gadgets and appliances to curb electricity use. The gains in
efficiency have begun to pressure sales at U.S. utility owners
such as Akron, Ohio-based FirstEnergy Corp. and Minneapolis-
based  Xcel Energy Inc. (XEL)  even as the economy expands after the
biggest slump since the Great Depression.  “A large amount of utility growth is predicated on people
using increasing amounts of electricity,” Paul Patterson, a New
York-based analyst with Glenrock Associates LLC, said in a phone
interview today. “If that doesn’t materialize, then the need
for some these projects becomes questionable.”  PacifiCorp’s Rocky Mountain Power, which serves customers
in Utah, Idaho and Wyoming, projected that demand will contract
0.6 percent this year as energy efficiency improvements eclipse
gains expected from new commercial and residential customers.
Sales to industrial clients are projected to fall as more
generate power themselves.  ‘No Recovery’  The Pacific Power utility that sells electricity in Oregon,
Washington and Northern California signaled that there would be
“no recovery” in demand in 2013 after five straight years of
weather-normalized declines.  Both units of PacifiCorp projected that capital spending
over the next decade would be 13 percent less than previously
planned, the slides show. Rocky Mountain and Pacific Power plan
to boost efficiency and cut costs as demand flattens, including
revising design and construction standards, the presentation
shows.  “Our plans are based on customer needs,” said Tina
Potthoff, a spokeswoman for Des Moines, Iowa-based MidAmerican.
She said the company doesn’t speak for Buffett, who is also
chief executive officer of Berkshire. Buffett didn’t return a
message left with an assistant seeking comment.  Electricity use in the U.S. is expected to rise 0.4 percent
this year, according to Energy Department  data , as consumers buy
light bulbs that burn 25 percent fewer watts and install
technology that turns off appliances during hot summer days and
other periods when the power grid is strained.  Electricity Sales  “Flat to declining electricity sales volumes will force
many utilities to re-examine their business models, and
transition from simply delivering volumes of electricity,” Sam Brothwell, senior utilities analyst with Bloomberg Industries,
wrote in an April 1 research note.  Buffett, 82, has highlighted how MidAmerican and railroad
Burlington Northern Santa Fe provide an attractive way for
Berkshire to spend its mounting profits because they require
lots of capital and can generate decent returns. The two
businesses were the biggest drivers of the Omaha, Nebraska-based
company’s $9.8 billion in capital expenditures last year and
Berkshire will probably spend more this year, Buffett wrote in a
 letter  to shareholders last month.  “We will keep our foot to the floor and will almost
certainly set still another record for capital expenditures in
2013,” he wrote. “Opportunities abound in America.”  Retained Profits  The billionaire built Berkshire over the last four decades
by using profits and other funds from units to buy  stocks , take
over more businesses and reinvest in operations with the
potential to expand. Buffett’s company had about  $47 billion  in
cash at the end of 2012.  MidAmerican differs from other Berkshire units because it
retains its profits, rather than sending them to Buffett to
allocate. The energy company plans to accelerate capital
expenditures during the next three years, spending a total of
about $11.8 billion through 2015, according to today’s
presentation. After that, spending is projected to slow.  Capital expenditures at the PacifiCorp unit are projected
to be less than previously planned this year through 2021,
according to a bar chart in the presentation that doesn’t list
exact totals.  The reductions should please investors because it signals
that the company’s leaders are being thoughtful about spending,
said James Armstrong, president of Henry H. Armstrong
Associates, a Pittsburgh-based investment manager that oversees
about $400 million, including Berkshire shares. The projections
will probably change over the next several years, because
MidAmerican has a track record of being an opportunistic
acquirer of energy assets and utilities, he said.  ‘Not Starving’  “They’re not starving the business,” Armstrong said in a
phone interview today. “I’d be concerned if they were
indifferent to an efficient match” between spending and
customer demand, he said. “As a shareholder, what I don’t want
to see is what you do see in some other companies, which is
growth at all costs.”  A renewable energy unit that the company formed last year
is expected to account for about $4.3 billion in spending over
the next three years, the company said. MidAmerican has invested
in solar power projects in California and Arizona and wind farms
in Illinois.  Renewable Energy  MidAmerican Chief Financial Officer Patrick Goodman said in
November that the company was targeting renewable energy deals,
in part, because utility valuations were high. Berkshire’s
taxable income from other operations create an “economic
advantage” for the renewables unit, according to today’s
presentation.  The energy unit may also get a boost from its Iowa utility,
which is projecting an increase in demand through 2014.
MidAmerican’s net income climbed to $1.47 billion last year from
$1.33 billion in 2011.  The company’s $550 million of 5.95 percent notes due in
2037 advanced 0.5 percent to $124.14 as of 8:52 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt, which isn’t
backed by Berkshire, has climbed from $120.73 in April 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  