-- Bulgarian Prosecutor Seeks Criminal Probe of CEZ Utility
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-04-03T10:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/bulgarian-prosecutor-seeks-criminal-probe-of-cez-utility.html
CEZ AS, (CEZ)  the Czech Republic’s largest
power producer, may face a criminal investigation in Bulgaria as
it fights the energy regulator’s effort to revoke its license.  The probe would establish whether CEZ violated the
country’s law in outsourcing contracts, Chief Prosecutor Sotir
Tsatsarov told reporters in Sofia today.  The move marks the latest escalation in tensions between
Bulgaria and the Prague-based utility. CEZ is suspected of 21
violations including evasion of public procurement laws, the
nation’s energy regulator said Feb. 20 as it started procedures
to revoke the company’s license.  Bulgaria’s energy regulator has moved to strip CEZ of the
right to operate its power-distribution network as prosecutors
investigate CEZ,  EVN AG (EVN)  and another Czech utility, Energo-Pro,
after high utility bills triggered protests that brought down
the government of Boyko Borissov. President Rosen Plevneliev
appointed an interim government led by Premier Marin Raikov
March 12 to organize and hold early elections May 12.  CEZ shares fell as much as 2.8 percent today, the most in a
week, and were down to 585 koruna at 11:54 a.m. in Prague. The
stock lost 13 percent of its value last year and a further 14
percent since the beginning of this year.  Albanian Woes  The trouble in Bulgaria came only weeks after Albanian
authorities seized CEZ’s assets and drove it out of the country.
Both cases show that Prague-based CEZ, which went on a Balkan
buying spree in the last decade under former Chief Executive
Officer Martin Roman, underestimated the perils of investing in
one of the poorest parts of Europe.  CEZ filed a complaint against Bulgaria at the European
Commission on March 29, claiming that the country’s regulator
was breaking both national and EU laws. The utility has asked
the commission for an independent review.  “We maintain that we haven’t broken any laws in
Bulgaria,” CEZ spokeswoman Barbora Pulpanova said when reached
by telephone. “At this point we must wait for the results of
the investigation before we take any further steps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  