-- Bullard Says Fed ‘Full Steam Ahead’ With Bond Purchases
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-03T22:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/bullard-says-fomc-full-steam-ahead-with-easing-as-prices-low.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the Fed is in no hurry to reduce
its record bond buying with inflation running below its 2
percent target.  “It is full steam ahead right now,” Bullard said today on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “That
is exactly what  the committee  is doing.”  A voter on  monetary policy  this year, Bullard was one of
the first Federal Open Market Committee officials to urge
slowing the pace of bond purchases in 2013 if warranted by
economic reports, a position taken by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
last month. In 2010 Bullard initiated calls for a second round
of bond buying, which ran from November 2010 until June 2011.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell today
to a three-month low, showing there’s little concern among
investors about inflation risk. The note yielded 1.81 percent in
 New York , down from 1.86 percent yesterday.  Consumer prices rose just 1.3 percent in February from a
year earlier, according to an inflation gauge favored by the
Fed, and growth has been too weak to generate jobs for millions
of fired workers. Unemployment in February was 7.7 percent.  Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  and San Francisco Fed President
 John Williams  said today it’s too early to begin slowing the
pace of bond purchases.  Tarullo, speaking on CNBC, said that while some economic
data have exceeded expectations, he would like to see more
consistent job growth before he can support curbing the bond
buying.  ‘Healthy Peaks’  “What I’d like to see is some good healthy peaks that have
 job creation  well above the rate of new entrants into the labor
market, followed not by valleys that take back some of that
progress but at the very least by a nice plateau that can be the
basis for some more peaks later,” he said.  The benefits from bond buying outweigh the risks from the
record expansion of the Fed’s balance sheet, Williams said. He
does not vote on policy this year.  “It will take more solid evidence to convince me that it’s
time to trim our asset purchases,” Williams said in a speech in
 Los Angeles . “Continued progress depends critically on support
from the  Federal Reserve .”  Monetary policy is currently “appropriate,” Bullard said
in the radio interview, adding that he didn’t call for a
reduction in asset purchases at the FOMC’s meeting in March.  ‘More Comfort’  “I don’t think we have to be in any hurry” to cut
 stimulus , Bullard said. “The committee has more comfort in a
situation in which inflation is low.”  The FOMC has leeway to review economic data in the next few
months and determine whether to pare back asset purchases known
as quantitative easing, Bullard said.  “We are not forced into a decision right now,” he said.
“If we continue to get good data on the economy, then we will
have a decision to make.”  The FOMC has the option to expand its monthly purchases if
inflation were to slow, Bullard said today to reporters.  “If inflation drifted down in conjunction with renewed
economic weakness,” the committee may consider increasing its
monthly bond buying, he said.  Financial markets don’t show signs of “frothy behavior”
that would warrant Fed action, Bullard said, adding that the
central bank will watch for any risks of financial instability
including asset price bubbles.  The economy is likely to grow around 3 percent this year,
Bullard said. “Things are pretty good right now for the  U.S.
economy ,” he said. “The surprise has been to the upside.”  Growth Pickup  Recent economic data have shown a pickup in growth and an
improvement in the labor market. About 195,000 jobs were added
last month and the  unemployment rate  stayed at 7.7 percent,
according to the median estimates of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ahead of an April 5 report.  Bullard said he is less worried than some private
forecasters about a “spring swoon,” or a mid-year slowdown
that has occurred during the past two years. Risks from the
 European debt crisis  have waned during the past two years, so
global conditions probably won’t impair growth, he said. Also,
fiscal tightening may crimp  consumer spending  less than many
economists estimate.  The St. Louis Fed chief said when it comes time to slow
purchases, he favors reducing the pace by small increments in
response to changes in the economy.  “I would be very comfortable moving in small amounts --
$10-or-$15 billion at a time,” Bullard said in the interview at
the St. Louis Fed. “We are getting much closer” to the
committee agreeing to a tapering approach, as indicated by
Bernanke’s comments last month.  Small changes in bond buying probably won’t disrupt stock
or bond markets, Bullard said. In contrast, a sudden halt in the
buying could jolt investors, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  