-- Cameron Dismissed From All Claims in BP Gulf Spill Case
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r . ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-04-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/cameron-dismissed-from-all-claims-in-bp-gulf-spill-case.html
Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  won
dismissal from all claims arising from BP Plc’s 2010  Gulf of
Mexico   oil spill  after a judge said there was no evidence
showing the company was at fault for the disaster.  Cameron, which made the so-called blowout preventer
designed to stop explosions in BP’s oil well, was named in
multiple lawsuits claiming the equipment was defective.
Witnesses testifying at a  New Orleans  trial over fault for the
disaster have said the blowout preventer wasn’t properly
maintained by the  Transocean (RIG)  Ltd. crew manning the drill rig.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans had earlier
ruled out punitive damages against Houston-based Cameron,
finding no proof of gross negligence. He dismissed all remaining
claims yesterday.  “I’ve heard no evidence during this trial or seen no
evidence to support a finding of negligence against Cameron that
could have in any way caused or contributed to the accident, to
the casualty,” Barbier said.  The blowout of the deep-water Macondo well off the coast of
 Louisiana  sent more than 4 million barrels of oil spewing into
the Gulf of Mexico and killed 11 people. The accident sparked
hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP, Transocean and
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cement services.  Jeff Altamari, a spokesman for Houston-based Cameron,
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment on the judge’s
ruling.  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, declined to comment.  Liability Trial  A trial over liability for the spill and explosion began
Feb. 25 in federal court in New Orleans. Barbier will determine
responsibility for the disaster and whether any of the companies
acted with willful or wanton misconduct or reckless indifference
-- the legal requirement for establishing gross negligence.  If BP is found grossly negligent, it may be liable for more
than $17 billion in pollution fines, as well as punitive damages
to claimants who weren’t part of an $8.5 billion settlement of
lawsuits. For Transocean and Halliburton, a similar finding
would mean they could face punitive-damages awards.  The government and spill victims contend  BP (BP/)  was over budget
and behind schedule on the Macondo well, prompting the company
to cut corners and ignore safety tests showing the well was
unstable.  Defective Job  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation and not providing adequate training for its
crew.  Cameron was sued because its equipment didn’t stop the
blowout. Barbier found the evidence presented at trial didn’t
establish the company improperly designed or manufactured the
safety system. Witnesses testified the Deepwater Horizon’s
blowout preventer suffered from faulty wiring and a dead
battery.  “The evidence is directed not at Cameron itself but rather
at Cameron’s customers,” BP and Transocean, Barbier said in
court yesterday.  BP and Transocean are “sophisticated customers,” Barbier
said. “They specified and selected the type of blowout
preventer, the components, the arrangement of the components and
made decisions, whether those decisions in the end were right or
wrong or proper or not, they made decisions as to how this
blowout preventer would be configured and arranged and its
capacity,” he said.  Upgrade Decision  The other defendants “also made decisions as to whether
and when to upgrade the blowout preventer,” the judge added.  Last month, Barbier also threw out all claims against M-I
Swaco, a  Schulmberger Ltd. (SLB)  unit that provided the rig’s drilling
fluids. The judge concluded the government and spill victims
presented no evidence the company played any role in the
disaster.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  