-- Canadian Dollar Falls From 6-Week High as Crude Oil, Stocks Drop
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-03T21:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/canadian-dollar-at-almost-6-week-high-on-australian-trade-data.html
The Canadian dollar weakened from an
almost six-week high against its U.S. counterpart as crude oil,
the country’s biggest export, posted its biggest drop in more
than four months.  The Canadian currency fell against the majority of its 16-
most traded peers as a private report showed companies in the
U.S. added fewer jobs than forecast in March, prompting
speculation the government figures may trail projections when
they are released April 5. A separate report will show Canada
created 6,500 jobs in March after adding 50,700 the month
before, according to a Bloomberg survey of 24 economists. U.S
stocks fell the most in a month.  “Equities are getting killed, commodities are being sold
off, and everyone is wondering why the Canadian dollar is not
weaker than it is,” Darcy Browne, managing director of
currencies at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World
Markets unit, said by phone from Toronto. “You have the key
employment data coming on Friday, so I don’t think anyone wants
to push it too far from here, especially two days ahead of
potentially the dynamic in the market changing.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at
C$1.0146 at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The loonie touched C$1.0125 today
and yesterday, matching the highest since Feb. 20. One loonie
buys 98.56 U.S. cents.  Bonds Gain  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  government bond  rose with yields
falling five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.83
percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 rose 42
cents to C$96.99.  Futures on crude oil fell 2.7 percent to $94.55 per barrel
in New York, after falling the most since Nov. 20. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks declined 1.1 percent, after
falling the most since Feb. 25.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities fell 2 percent.  The U.S. added 158,000 jobs in March, the smallest since
October, after a revised 237,000 gain the prior month, figures
from the Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute
showed today. The median forecast of 39 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 200,000 advance.  “The ADP number is certainly not the most encouraging sign
for our largest trading partner.” said David Watt, chief
economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc., by phone
from Toronto.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
was 0.92 percent yesterday, almost its lowest in 10 weeks as
traders bet the currency will rise.  The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate fell
to 0.9 percent on April 1, the lowest since Jan. 23, the day
Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said slower economic growth
meant the need to raise interest rates was “less imminent.”  Options Data  The change in guidance sent the loonie on its longest
stretch of weekly losses in eight months and the cost of risk
reversals to a five-month high. Risk reversals measure the
premium on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus
buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  The loonie strengthened earlier today as Australia’s Bureau
of Statistics said imports outpaced exports by A$178 million
($186 million) in February. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted a A$1 billion shortfall.  “It’s been a strong start for the commodity currencies,
despite the fact it’s been a pretty poor day for commodities,”
said Shaun Osborne, chief currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank. “Canada is perhaps along for a bit of a ride on
their coattails and some short-covering, given the rather
excessive positioning we’ve had in the market over the last
little while.” A short position is a bet that an asset will
decline in value.  The Canadian dollar has risen 1.5 percent in the past month
against the currencies of nine developed-nation peers tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has
risen 0.1 percent and the euro has declined 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  