-- EU Carbon Fix That Boosts Power Prices ‘Stupid,’ UBS Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-04-03T15:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/carbon-market-fix-that-boosts-power-prices-stupid-ubs-says.html
A European Commission proposal to
boost carbon prices as a way to spur investment in clean energy
technology is misguided because it would push power costs to
“unacceptable” levels, according to a  UBS AG (UBSN)  analyst.  “That viewpoint is rather stupid, because we need to get
the carbon price to at least 25 euros ($32) a metric ton for it
to stimulate emissions savings,” Per Lekander in Paris wrote in
an e-mailed response to questions. “Such a carbon price would
increase the German wholesale electricity price by 50 percent
and thus it wouldn’t be acceptable.”  The euro area’s slowing economy has cut demand for carbon
emission permits, aggravating a surplus that drove prices in the
world’s biggest greenhouse-gas market to a record-low 2.81 euros
a ton in January. Europe’s parliament votes April 16 on part of
a plan by the region’s regulator to temporarily withhold the
sale of some allowances over the next three years.  Carbon permit prices have plunged 83 percent since 2008,
according to ICE Futures Europe exchange data. Contracts for
delivery in December rose 1.2 percent today to 5 euros a ton at
3:37 p.m. in London.  The commission’s proposal is known as backloading because
it would cut the supply of permits covering 900 million tons of
emissions through 2015 and reintroduce the allowances near the
end of the decade. The surplus has grown to about 1.9 billion
tons, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Backloading would push prices to about 13.50 euros a ton in
2015, New Energy Finance estimates show.  Emission Limits  The EU’s cap-and-trade system, introduced eight years ago
to help meet greenhouse gas-reduction targets, imposes emission
limits on power plants and factories. The program allocates
permits to polluters that must surrender enough allowances to
cover their discharges of carbon dioxide or pay fines.  The low cost of carbon allowances means the penalty for
burning cheaper fossil fuels such as coal is relatively small.  “I think it will be very hard to get the needed agreements
to get the carbon market going,” Lekander said. “It will
continue to exist but really be rather irrelevant.”  Incomplete data from the commission published yesterday
showed emissions in the EU’s carbon market program probably
dropped about 1.4 percent in 2012.  German power for 2014 reached a record-low 40.20 euros a
megawatt-hour on March 20 and was at 41.45 euros today,
according to data from brokers. It was as high as 61.75 euros in
April 2010.  Backloading Opposition  EU Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard is confident her
plans to bolster carbon prices will be enacted as policy makers
realize inaction may lead to the demise of the emissions trading
program, she said March 27.  Poland, Europe’s third-biggest carbon emitter, is among
nations that oppose backloading.  “The market is sound if it works, and it does,” Marcin Korolec, Poland’s environment minister, said on his Twitter Inc.
account today.  The commission’s proposal may make the surplus of
allowances even worse closer to 2020 as withheld permits are
released back to the market, said Daniel Rossetto, director of
Climate Mundial Ltd., a London-based adviser on carbon markets.  “Backloading won’t fix the problem,” he said in a March
28 e-mail. If the bloc abandons the plan, policy makers must
reassure the market they will adopt a better fix as soon as
possible, he said.  A unified statement from the commission, parliamentarians
and nations “would avert a big sell-off if people know that
backloading is being ditched to make way for a more
comprehensive reform,” Rossetto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  