-- Cardenas Sees March Cut Lifting Colombian Growth to Potential
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-04-03T13:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/cardenas-sees-march-cut-lifting-colombian-growth-to-potential.html
Colombia’s economy can grow at its
full potential with the central bank’s policy rate at its
current level, Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said.  “If everything stays the same, if conditions in the
economy don’t change, we should be able to achieve our potential
growth with this interest rate,” Cardenas told reporters in
Bogota last night.  The central bank has cut its policy rate two percentage
points to 3.25 percent since June, the lowest among major Latin
American economies, as growth cooled and the inflation rate fell
to a six-decade low. Cardenas, who chairs the central bank’s
policy committee, has argued for a rate cut at every meeting
since he became Finance Minister in September.  “No one knows what may happen next month, or what
information could come out, so the central bank needs its
autonomy to set rates as it sees fit,” Cardenas said. “But,
based on the information we have today, the economy should be
able to recover its full speed.”  Monetary policy “isn’t all powerful” and should also be
supplemented by fiscal policy and regulatory policy, Cardenas
said, without providing details. The economy expanded 3.1
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
pace in the Andean region.  The Finance Ministry estimates that the economy can grow as
fast as 4.8 percent per year without stoking inflation.  Inflation accelerated to 1.99 percent in March, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 19 analysts,
from a six decade-low of 1.83 percent in February. The
statistics agency is scheduled to release the inflation figure
on April 5.  The central bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus one percentage point.  Policy makers don’t want inflation that is “excessively
low”, Cardenas said. “So long as inflation is between 2% and
4%, everyone is calm,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  