-- BAE Worker Missing From Alabama Shipyard After Incident
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-04T01:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/carnival-triumph-breaks-loose-from-dock-in-alabama-in-heavy-wind.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  said one of its
employees is missing from a Mobile, Alabama, shipyard, where
high winds blew  Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s Triumph cruise liner from its
moorings yesterday while it was being repaired.  Two employees fell into the water and one was rescued, BAE,
the London-based operator of the shipyard, said in an e-mailed
statement. The company is working with the U.S. Coast Guard and
local officials to search for the missing worker.  “We are offering our full support to officials as they
work diligently during this critical time,” BAE said in the
statement. “Our focus is on our missing employee and the
family, and we ask everyone to keep them in their thoughts and
prayers.”  Carnival, the world’s largest cruise operator, said the
Triumph was towed to the Mobile Cruise Terminal by tugboats
after the incident. Damage to the vessel was limited, Carnival
said in an e-mail. Winds exceeded 70 miles per hour, the company
said.  The Triumph was under repair after a fire and engine
failure in February left 3,100 passengers adrift off the Mexican
coast without electricity and working toilets. The ship was
scheduled to return to service June 3.  Carnival said all of the 600 crew members and 200
contractors who were working aboard the ship were accounted for
and that there no reports of injuries.  Last month , the company had to fly passengers back to the
U.S. from St. Maarten after the emergency generator
malfunctioned on its Dream liner. Last year, more than two dozen
passengers on Carnival’s Costa Concordia lost their lives after
the ship hit a rock off the Italian coast.  Carnival  fell  1.7 percent to $33.63 yesterday in New York,
the most in two weeks. The stock is off 8.5 percent this year.
BAE fell 1.5 percent to 390 pence yesterday in  London  and is up
16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  