-- Cerberus Said to Name Goldman, JPMorgan, BofA for IPO
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-04-04T08:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/cerberus-said-to-tap-goldman-jpmorgan-bofa-for-ipo.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP, the
private-equity firm led by Stephen Feinberg, is moving ahead
with an initial public offering of its German retail-property
assets after hiring three banks to manage the sale, people with
knowledge of the plan said.  Cerberus, which owns buildings valued at about 2 billion
euros ($2.6 billion) that house German department stores, is
working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Bank of America Corp ., said two of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the plans are private. The IPO could take
place in the second half, they said.  Foreign investors are seeking to profit from soaring demand
for German property assets. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised
about 1.3 billion euros in January with the IPO of residential
landlord LEG Immobilien AG.  Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG, Germany’s biggest
residential landlord and a unit of Guy Hands’ Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd., in February chose JPMorgan and Morgan
Stanley to help manage its initial public offering, two people
with knowledge of the decision said.  Spokeswomen for Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan
declined to comment on the transaction.  Retail Purchase  Cerberus is one of Germany’s most active foreign real
estate investors. In 2011, the  firm bought 45 stores  from  Metro
AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, including 42 Cash & Carry
wholesale shopping buildings. The properties, located in large
cities, had 900,000 square meters (9.7 million square feet) of
rentable space.  In 2011, Cerberus sold its stake in  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB) ,
Germany’s third-largest residential landlord by market value.
That IPO raised 468 million euros.  In 2007,  Cerberus bought 112 buildings  leased to the
retailer Woolworth, according to a statement by Linklaters LLP,
a law firm that advised Cerberus on its investments.  The FTSE EPRA NAREIT index of German property stocks has
gained 16 percent in the past 12 months, while the German
benchmark DAX Index has gained 12 percent.  Bayerische Landesbank, a German state-owned lender, is
selling 32,000 homes valued at about 2.4 billion euros in what
would be  Germany ’s largest property sale in five years. The
company plans to complete the sale by the end of this month,
people familiar with the transaction said in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  