-- Chilean President Dismisses Concern Economy Is Overheating
-- B y   P h i l i p   S a n d e r s
-- 2013-04-03T15:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/chilean-president-dismisses-concern-economy-is-overheating.html
Chilean President Sebastian Pinera
dismissed concern the economy is growing in an unsustainable
fashion, one day after his finance minister said the government
may take measures to avoid overheating.  “I am convinced that the Chilean economy is growing in a
healthy, solid and sustainable way, and that it can continue to
grow at this rhythm,” Pinera told reporters in Santiago today.  Gross domestic expanded 5.6 percent last year, exceeding
analysts’ estimates in nine of the 12 months, as foreign
investment in the mining industry helped fuel a boom in consumer
spending. The accompanying surge in demand for imports pushed
the  current account deficit  to 3.5 percent of GDP, the widest
since 1998.  The deficit is being financed, “not by debt, but by
foreign direct investment,” Pinera said. Moreover, “the
majority of investment in Chile is financed by Chilean savings.
Only a small part is financed with external savings.”  The central bank yesterday raised its growth forecast for
this year to a range of 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent from 4.25
percent to 5.25 percent, while cutting its inflation estimate to
2.8 percent. Domestic demand growth needs to slow this year to
avoid imbalances, the bank said.  Finance Minister Felipe Larrain later wrote on his Twitter
account that the “central bank report confirms the good outlook
for the Chilean economy in 2013. We will take the necessary
safeguards to avoid overheating.”  Central bank President Rodrigo Vergara also stressed the
need to remain vigilant to the threat of excessive growth.  “Today our message is that internal risks are becoming
more relevant,” Vergara told a business forum today. “There’s
a risk that this vigor will remain without converging gradually
to more sustainable rates, widening the current account deficit
and later producing pressures on inflation. That’s not something
we see today, but it could happen later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Sanders in Santiago at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 