-- Chilton Seeks End-User Enforcement Delay for CFTC’s Swaps Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-04-03T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/chilton-seeks-end-user-enforcement-delay-for-cftc-s-swaps-rules.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission should refrain from sanctioning so-called end-users
of swaps for six months while the agency seeks to clarify its
Dodd-Frank Act rules, Commissioner  Bart Chilton  said today.  Commercial and energy companies deserve a more transparent
rulemaking process that provides greater certainty, Chilton said
in comments prepared for a telephone news conference to propose
what he called an End-User Bill of Rights.  “Dodd-Frank needs to be implemented and needs to be
implemented quickly, but that does not mean it should be done so
harshly,” Chilton said in a statement prepared for the news
conference. “End-users and other market participants should
have little doubt as to the status of their activities.”  Chilton, one of three Democrats on the five-member CFTC,
said he won’t vote until Oct. 31 to approve enforcement action
against any end-user making an effort to comply with the rules
being imposed under Dodd-Frank, the 2010 regulatory overhaul.  Derivatives provisions of Dodd-Frank were enacted to give
regulators more oversight of the $639 trillion global swaps
market after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission
were authorized to write rules requiring that trade information
be reported to so-called swap data repositories that function as
central record-keepers.  Overwhelmed Computers  The rules are failing to give regulators a full picture of
the swaps market and wouldn’t help them detect a loss similar to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s London Whale trades,  Scott O’Malia , a
Republican CFTC commissioner, said March 19. The information
isn’t usable in its current form and has overwhelmed the CFTC’s
computer systems, O’Malia said. The CFTC has approved three
databases operated by the Depository Trust and Clearing Corp.,
 CME Group (CME)  Inc. and Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  The CFTC has set an April 10 deadline for reporting of
information about trades involving end-users. Chilton called on
the agency to give the firms a six-month delay for reporting
historical information.  Energy and commodity traders have pressed the CFTC to grant
a delay in the reporting requirement, arguing that the rules are
burdensome and the databases are still implementing their
procedures.  “Even today, certain questions remain unanswered regarding
transactions that might qualify as swaps,” the Commercial
Energy Working Group said through lawyers at Sutherland Asbill &
Brennan LLP in a March 1 letter to the agency seeking a six-
month delay.  Lobby groups representing  Barclays Plc (BARC) , JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have also urged that the CFTC
delay the reporting rules for their clients. In a March 28
 letter  to the CFTC, the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc. and Financial Services Roundtable said bank
clients need a delay because they lack the resources necessary
to comply with the agency’s rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  