-- China Pear Buying Helps U.S. in Push for New Farm Export Record
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-04-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/china-pear-buying-helps-u-s-in-push-for-new-farm-export-record.html
U.S. farm exports may top the record
$142 billion forecast in February as agreements with China and
 Russia  reduce trade barriers and buyers replenish supplies at
lower prices, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  Shipments valued at  $55 billion  through January, a third of
the way through the fiscal year, show the U.S. on a path to sell
the most exports ever, Vilsack said yesterday in an interview in
Washington.  The department today is announcing that Russia, Belarus and
 Kazakhstan  have agreed to accept shipments of day-old chicks and
hatching eggs, as well as agreements allowing live dairy-cattle
exports to  Iraq  and the first sales of pears to China, Vilsack
said. The Asian nation is forecast to be the biggest buyer of
U.S. farm products for a second straight year.  “We’re looking at a very, very strong trade year,”
Vilsack said.  China , with projected $22 billion in purchases of mostly
soybeans and cotton this year, has emerged as a key source of
U.S. growth even as it continues to ban U.S. beef, a prohibition
noted as a “serious problem” by the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office earlier this week. Selling pears, while
unrelated to the meat impasse stemming from the first U.S. case
of mad-cow disease in 2003, will help build ties leading to
resolution of other disputes, Vilsack said.  Farmer net  income  will be a record $128.2 billion in 2013
as growers rebuild drought-depleted inventories, the USDA said
in February. Corn, the biggest U.S. crop, entered a  bear market 
on April 1, having fallen more than 20 percent from its peak in
August. The lower price may increase U.S. sale volumes,
compensating for lost revenues, Vilsack said.  Exports for the 2012 fiscal year totaled $135.8 billion,
according to the department, which will update its agricultural
trade estimates in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  