-- China Flags Risks of Weakening Yen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-03T09:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/china-flags-risks-of-weakening-yen.html
China  said a falling yen may cause
Asian neighbors to weaken their currencies and intensify trade
disputes, reiterating concerns as the  Bank of Japan (8301)  prepares to
increase stimulus under new Governor Haruhiko Kuroda.  “A weakening yen may cause a beggar-thy-neighbor effect,”
as economies compete in electronics, automobiles and industrial
products, China’s foreign-exchange regulator said today in its
annual report on international payments. “If other Asian
economies follow  Japan ’s suit, trade disputes and policy
competition may intensify to hinder regional cooperation and
economic integration.”  China’s criticism builds on comments last month by South
Korea Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok that the yen is “flashing a
red light” for his nation’s exports. The yen has fallen about
17 percent against the  yuan  over the past six months, and
Japan’s central bank is likely to boost bond purchases tomorrow
in its first meeting under Kuroda, according to a Bloomberg News
survey.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange said in the
report that while a weaker yen may in the short term help the
Japanese economy and make the nation’s companies more
competitive, depreciation “can’t solve structural problems in
Japan, and if managed improperly, it may cause macroeconomic
policy risks” including inflation and capital outflows.  A yen that falls more than expected may also raise “doubts
about the sustainability of Japanese government debt to shake
market confidence,” SAFE said.  Yi Gang, head of SAFE, said in January that he’s concerned
about the potential fallout from expanded asset-purchases
programs and near-zero  interest rates  in the world’s advanced
economies.  “Quantitative easing for developed economies is generating
some uncertainties in financial markets in terms of capital
flows,” Yi told reporters in Davos,  Switzerland . “Competitive
devaluation is one aspect of it. If everyone is doing super QE,
which currency will depreciate?”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  