-- Cisco to Buy Ubiquisys for $310 Million for Network Gear
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-04-03T22:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/cisco-to-buy-u-k-mobile-provider-ubiquisys-for-310-million.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  agreed to buy
U.K. networking company Ubiquisys for about $310 million,
gaining technology that helps wireless carriers provide better
service to smartphone and tablet users.  The purchase is expected to close in the fourth quarter of
Cisco’s 2013 fiscal year, the  San Jose , California-based company
said today in a statement. Ubiquisys employees will join Cisco’s
service provider mobility business, reporting to Partho Mishra.  Cisco, the world’s largest maker of networking equipment,
is using deals to add products that can help it get more
business from wireless companies as soaring use of mobile
devices boosts demand for tools to manage voice and data
traffic. Ubiquisys provides what’s known as small-cell
technology that can help carriers extend their coverage areas
and increase network capacity during peak usage times.  “Small-cell technologies are one of the most cost-
effective ways to add data capacity and will grow in importance
as service providers address the explosion of mobile network
traffic,”  Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group, wrote in a
research report today. “The acquisition adds to the mobility
capabilities Cisco has been building up.”  Ubiquisys was co-founded in 2004 by Will Franks, a former
Lucent Technologies executive who wanted to create more reliable
and affordable mobile coverage, according to the company’s
website. Investors in the closely held company include  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Accel Partners , Advent Venture Partners and T-Mobile
Venture Fund.  Base Stations  In addition to small cell-technology -- tiny base stations
used to create wireless hot spots for homes, businesses and
public spaces -- Ubiquisys also gives Cisco software for
managing 3G and long-term evolution, or LTE, wireless networks.  With the purchase, Cisco steps up competition with Alcatel
Lucent and Ericsson AB, which sell small-cell technology in
Europe, said Joanna Makris, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc. Ubiquisys would also help Cisco curb reliance on  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
its partner for providing base stations in the U.S.  Cisco agreed to buy  Israel ’s Intucell Ltd. for $475 million
and San Francisco-based Meraki Inc. for $1.2 billion in recent
months to gain technologies for managing wireless networks. In
March of last year, Cisco agreed to buy NDS Group Ltd. for about
$5 billion to tap demand for technologies that deliver and
protect pay-TV content.  Cisco is also shedding units. In January, the company said
that it sold its Linksys home-router unit for an undisclosed
price, which followed earlier moves to exit consumer businesses
such as the Flip video-camera unit.  Cisco’s shares slipped less than 1 percent to $21.20 at the
close in  New York . The stock has gained 7.9 percent this year,
compared with an 8.9 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  