-- Citigroup Names Wikstrom for Rates Trading as Brophy Resigns
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-04-03T19:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/citigroup-names-wikstrom-for-u-s-rates-trading-as-brophy-leaves.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , said Nicholas Brophy, U.S. head of interest-rates
trading, left the firm.  Roland Wikstrom will replace Brophy as U.S. head of G-10
rates trading after serving as that unit’s head of risk
treasury, said Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the
New York-based company. Brophy left the firm for personal
reasons, he said in a phone interview.  Brophy’s departure ends a four-year tenure with Citigroup,
during which he was one of the lender’s most senior rates-
trading executives. The rates business, run from London by Andy Morton, buys and sells products including Treasuries, inflation-
protected bonds and  interest-rate swaps .  “I’m going to live life, enjoy it and spend time with my
kids,” Brophy said. “I’m very sad to leave the bank, but it
was my decision. I leave behind a great franchise and a great
successor.”  Brophy also wants to do more work with the Worldwide
Orphans Foundation, where he has been a director since 2011, he
said. The charity works to “transform the lives of orphaned
children to help them become healthy, independent, productive
members of their communities,” according to its  website .  He joined Citigroup in 2009, shortly after the lender’s $45
billion government bailout. He previously worked for Merrill
Lynch & Co., including roles as head of options-trading,
derivatives-trading and co-head of rates trading, according to a
biography on the Worldwide Orphans’ website.  Brophy also worked briefly at the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York , where his duties included working on the fallout from
the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  