-- Coal Seen Stalling After Best Quarter Since 2011: Energy Markets
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-04-03T05:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/coal-seen-stalling-after-best-quarter-since-2011-energy-markets.html
Coal prices in  Asia  are poised to
stall after the biggest quarterly gain in two years as demand
from China fails to absorb increased exports from  Australia ,
 Colombia  and  Indonesia .  Thermal coal at the Australian port of Newcastle, the
benchmark grade for the region, has risen 9 percent to average
$91.62 a metric ton in the period ended March 22, heading for
the biggest jump since the first quarter of 2011, when flooding
cut output from Australia, according to data from IHS McCloskey.
Prices will average about $95 this quarter, according to a
survey of eight analysts at banks including Barclays Plc and
Deutsche Bank AG.  Rising hydro power output and swelling coal stockpiles are
eroding China’s import needs, threatening returns for producers
such as  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  that are seeking to curb
costs to offset falling prices. At the same time, output is
increasing from Colombia and Indonesia, the world’s biggest
exporter, according to a report last month from Australia’s
Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics.  “There isn’t a number two option after China,” said
 Michael Parker , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong
Kong. “You’re going to see a decrease in thermal-coal imports
into China this year because we have a situation where coal
prices are now falling at a time of year when they should be
going up.”  Price Rally  Coal at Newcastle has  climbed  13 percent since Oct. 19,
when it reached a three-year low of $78.05 a ton, according to
IHS McCloskey, a Petersfield, England-based data provider. The
fuel fell $1.25 to $87.90 in the seven days ended March 22.
Prices surged 19 percent to average $128.20 in the first quarter
of 2011 after rain swamped mines and rail lines in Australia,
the world’s second-biggest exporter. They will average $95 this
year according to the median estimate in the Bloomberg survey of
analyst forecasts this year.  Power-station coal with a heating value of 5,500
kilocalories a kilogram at Qinhuangdao, China’s biggest port for
the fuel, has dropped 4 percent since mid-October and averaged
615  yuan  ($99) a ton as of March 31, according to the China Coal
Transport and Distribution Association in Beijing.  Stockpiles at Qinhuangdao climbed to 8.3 million tons as of
March 24, the highest level in 32 weeks, according to the
association. They slid to 7.4 million tons as of March 31.  ‘Well-Supplied’  “The market is well-supplied in China,” Andrew Driscoll,
the head of resources research at CLSA Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said
in an e-mail. “We forecast thermal coal imports down a little
this year to 160 million tons.”  Coal purchases in China, the world’s biggest consumer, rose
to a record in December as buyers stocked up before mines closed
for the Lunar New Year holiday that ended in February. The
country  imported  23.3 million tons that month, down from 30.6
million in January and 35.1 million in December, data from the
Beijing-based General Administration of Customs show.  The nation’s imports might not be enough to absorb the
excess supply this year, Deutsche Bank said in a March 25 note.
The bank reduced its 2013 estimate for Newcastle coal by 3
percent to $92 a ton.  Increased hydro generation in China has reduced demand for
coal,  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.
who predicts Newcastle coal may average $97 a ton this year,
said in an e-mail. Coal stockpiles have risen while power
generation failed to see a “significant” increase in the first
quarter, she said.  Hydro Power  Power generation from China’s hydro plants increased 24
percent to 82 billion kilowatt-hours in the first two months,
data from the China Electricity Council showed March 18. Thermal
power gained 1 percent to 643 billion kilowatt-hours.  China’s electricity consumption still had the weakest start
to a year since at least 2010 as industrial output slowed. Power
demand in January and February rose 5.5 percent from the same
period in 2012 to 789.2 billion kilowatt-hours, the National
Energy Administration said March 14. That’s the slowest pace in
NEA data going back to 2011. Growth was 6.7 percent in the first
two months of last year and 12.3 percent in 2011.  Australia’s coal exports are projected to rise 11 percent
this year to 189 million tons, the nation’s Bureau of Resources
and Energy Economics said. Indonesia may increase shipments by 6
percent to 335 million tons, while volumes from Colombia are
forecast to climb to 79 million tons, the forecaster said.  Colombia Output  Strikes at the Cerrejon mine in north Colombia and a
suspension of operations that lasted one month at Drummond Co.’s
port near Santa Marta in February may still limit export growth
this year, the bureau said. Cerrejon, whose owners include  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Xstrata and  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , has also been
hurt by sabotage at the mine and railway links.  “With Australia, Colombia and Indonesia all ramping up
exports, the recent recovery in China’s imports of thermal coal
might not suffice to absorb all the oversupply this year,”
Merrill Lynch analysts including Sydney-based  Peter O’Connor 
said in a March 25 note. “Low prices might be necessary for
longer to force production cuts and project reviews.”  Xstrata last month said it would consolidate its Australian
coal operations, while  Rio Tinto  said it was taking steps to
reduce costs in an industry facing a challenge to remain
globally competitive.  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  cut workers because
of continued weakness in prices, an unfavorable foreign  exchange
rate  and increasing pressure on operating margins.  India, Japan  Even rising demand in  India  won’t be enough to soak up
additional supply as the nation’s imports, transportation and
generation capacity remains constrained, according to Parker.  “You often get conversations about India, but when you
look at port capacity, power generation and transportation
capacity domestically, it’s really difficult to get more than an
incremental 20 to 30 million tons a year into the country from a
seaborne perspective,” he said.  India’s thermal-coal imports may rise to 110 million tons
this year if prices stay at the current level, Amulya Charan,
chief mentor for power trading and advocacy for Tata Power, said
in a conference presentation in Singapore Feb. 20. The nation
purchased 101 million tons last year, Australia’s Bureau of
Resources and Energy Economics said in a  report  last month.  Japan , which imports most of Australia’s thermal coal, may
negotiate the lowest contract price for the fuel in three years
in talks with Xstrata, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Newcastle coal may trade within a range of $85 a ton and
$95 a ton from 2013 to 2014 as exporters compete with domestic
output in  China , Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts including Colin Hamilton in  London  said in a March 27 note. The fuel may trade
toward the bottom end of the range in the near term, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  