-- Cohn Says Banks Other Than Goldman, JPMorgan Retrenching
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   A d r i a n a   A r a i
-- 2013-04-03T19:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/cohn-says-banks-other-than-goldman-jpmorgan-retrenching.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among the only top banks in the world
that aren’t reducing capacity, Goldman Sachs President  Gary Cohn 
said.  “You’re seeing big international banks, outside of
ourselves and JPMorgan, really taking a pretty substantial step
back from the markets, and we hadn’t seen that in the entire
history of banking,” Cohn, 52, told journalists today at
Goldman Sachs’s office in Sao Paulo.  Cohn cited plans by Zurich-based UBS AG and Credit Suisse
Group AG to cut risk-weighted assets, reduce balance sheets and
withdraw from certain markets and regions after suffering losses
during the credit crisis. Deutsche Bank AG plans to reduce
balance-sheet leverage as well, and London-based Barclays Plc is
facing restrictions from the U.K. government, he said.  “The only capacity we’ve ever seen taken out of banks is
banks merging with each other over the last 50 years,” Cohn
said. “Now we are actually seeing banks withdraw from
 investment banking  and the capital-markets business.”  While competition from major international institutions is
easing, New York-based Goldman Sachs is confronting stronger
local banks in regions including Brazil, Singapore, Japan and
Hong Kong, Cohn said. Goldman Sachs faces the strongest local
competitors in Brazil, Cohn said.  Local Competitors  Local rivals in France, Spain, Italy and Portugal have gone
“completely the other way,” Cohn said.  In the past, French corporations that wanted to borrow 500
million euros ($643 million) could call  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  or
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and get the loan without a problem, Cohn
said.  “Today there’s not a bank in France that would do that,”
he said. “So they have to call ourselves and do a public debt
issuance.”  Cohn said Goldman Sachs plans to boost hiring in  Brazil  and
increase investment-banking coverage of companies there to 300
from 200. Hiring plans include at least 50 additional people in
Brazil this year, mostly in private-wealth management and
bankers with knowledge of local states.  Goldman Sachs just moved to a new office in Sao Paulo and
has “well over” 300 full-time workers in the country, he said.  The firm doubled equity capital in the Brazil unit last
year to $400 million, according to Cohn. The wealth-management
business in the country has $1 billion under management, he
said.  Goldman Sachs, which doesn’t disclose Brazil revenue or
profit, said last month that Fabio Bicudo and Antonio Pereira
would become co-heads of investment banking for the country
after Daniel Wainstein retired.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai in Sao Paulo at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  