-- Corn Joins Crop Bear Market on Slow Demand, More Planting
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-03T20:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/corn-joins-crop-bear-market-on-slow-demand-more-planting.html
Nine months after a U.S. drought
sparked a surge in global crop prices, corn has joined soybeans
and wheat in a bear-market slump as demand slows and farmers
prepare to boost output in 2013.  Corn futures in  Chicago  plunged 13 percent since the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said March 28 that inventories were
bigger than analysts forecast and that farmers will plant the
most acres this year since 1936. Corn, soybeans and wheat, the
biggest U.S. crops along with hay, have tumbled into bear
markets with drops of more than 20 percent from 2012 highs.  Exports of corn from the U.S., the world’s largest grower,
are at a 41-year low, while high grain costs last year forced
beef producers including Cargill Inc. to close plants and
ethanol makers such as  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  to shutter
distilleries. South American farmers are adding to supply with
record harvests, and global food prices tracked by the  United
Nations  dropped for five straight months through February.  “Corn is the basis for where we start in looking at cost
of production for food,” said John Nalivka, a former USDA
economist and the president of Sterling Marketing Inc., an
agricultural economic research and advisory company in  Vale ,
 Oregon . “Right now, whether it be supply driven or demand
driven, our food prices are not going to be as high as it
appeared they were going to be nine months ago.”  The Standard & Poor’s Agriculture Index of eight
commodities has declined 21 percent from a peak on July 20,
including a 26 percent slump in wheat, which entered a  bear
market  in early January. Soybeans, down 22 percent from a
closing high in September, first reached a bear market in
November. Coffee and sugar also are in bear markets.  Inventory Surprise  While the USDA forecast in February that domestic corn
production would surge this year by 35 percent to a record 14.53
billion bushels, prices on the Chicago Board of Trade reached a
seven-week high on March 27 because of concern that inventories
would get too low before the harvest in September.  On March 28, the USDA estimated March 1 corn inventories at
5.399 billion bushels, 8.1 percent more than the 4.995 billion
analysts predicted in a Bloomberg survey and a sign that demand
had slowed. The government also said U.S. farmers will sow
97.282 million acres.  That day, prices fell by the 40-cent exchange limit. The
next session, they plunged 7.6 percent, the biggest drop for a
most-active contract since 1988. The two-session slide of 13
percent was the biggest since before 1960, erasing $4.8 billion
in value based on the March 1 inventories.  ‘Game-Changing’  “The larger corn supply was a game-changing event and
shifted  market psychology  from fears of shortages to worries
about excesses,” said  Roy Huckabay , an executive vice president
for the Linn Group in Chicago. “The markets are pricing in
bigger supplies.”  Corn futures rose 0.2 percent today to settle at $6.415 a
bushel at 2 p.m. on the CBOT, while soybeans declined 1 percent
to $13.8025 a bushel. Wheat climbed 3.8 percent to $6.965 a
bushel.  Last year’s rallies “have crushed demand, and it will be
much slower to respond to increased supplies and lower prices,”
said Joel Karlin, the commodity sales coordinator for Western
Milling LLC in Goshen,  California . The inventory report “was a
huge shocker and signals an end to high grain prices,” he said.  The USDA report last week implied that cattle, hog, poultry
and dairy herds probably cut corn-feed use by 30 percent in the
quarter ended Feb. 28, Karlin said. Livestock consume two of
every five bushels of corn grown in the U.S.  Feed Use  “The biggest bearish factor is the market overestimated
the feed demand,” Christopher Narayanan, the New York-based
head of agricultural commodity research at Societe Generale SA,
said in an April 1 interview on Bloomberg Television. “The
ending inventories came in higher than what the market was
expecting, and it just sent the market into a tailspin.”  Growers in  Brazil  and  Argentina  are harvesting 27 percent
more soybeans in 2013, while corn output gains 5.3 percent, both
records, USDA data show. Brazil may top the U.S. as the world’s
leading soybean exporter this year, and Argentina is the second-
largest seller of corn, according to the department.  “The story in corn is good prices in the last few years
have induced farmers to plant a lot more,” said  John Stephenson , a senior vice president and portfolio manager who
helps manage about C$2.7 billion ($2.7 billion) at First Asset
Investment Management Inc. in Toronto.  Weather Risk  Even after this year’s decline, corn prices are averaging
$7.0775 in 2013, higher than last year’s record average of
$6.89, and the U.S. harvest is still at least five months away.  Many Midwest farmers won’t sow fields until May and the
harvest isn’t until September or October, leaving ample time for
unusual weather to delay planting or damage crops. Last year’s
drought was the worst in the U.S. since the 1930s, reducing corn
and soybean output for a third straight year. With the dry spell
lingering in the Great Plains, 34 percent of the winter-wheat
crop was in good to excellent  condition  as of March 31, compared
with 58 percent a year earlier, the USDA said on April 1.  While corn may slip below $6 if U.S. output returns to
normal, any weather threat to Midwest crops would spur a rebound
to $6.75 to $7, according to Jeffrey Sica, who helps oversee
more than $1 billion as president of SICA Wealth in Morristown,
 New Jersey .  “Memories are still very fresh in our minds about corn
prices moving up because of the drought,” Sica said. “The
minute there is any indication of any drought, it’s going to
send the price of corn back up.”  Improving Conditions  Soil conditions are improving in the Midwest after winter
snowstorms and rain, data from the U.S. Drought Monitor show.
About 35 percent of the country had severe to exceptional
 drought  conditions on March 26, compared with 42 percent on Jan.
1. The dry spell will ease further through June 1 in the western
Midwest, Great Plains and parts of the Southeast, according to
forecasts from the U.S. Climate Prediction Center.  “Drought areas will continue to shrink the next month with
more rain that may cause some minor planting delays,” Drew Lerner, the president of World Weather Inc. said yesterday.
“The western third of the Midwest and parts of the Plains will
not see soil moisture fully recharge before temperatures warm in
June and July and soil evaporation increases. But we will not
see a repeat of extreme dryness and prolonged period of searing
heat like last year.”  Farm Income  A slump in corn may threaten farm income, which is
projected to reach a record $128.2 billion this year, according
to the USDA. Farmers were protected against losses last year by
 crop-insurance  payouts that reached an all-time high of $16.1
billion.  “The fact that prices are going to start to decline means
you have this one really bright spot in the economy starting to
look shakier,” said Johanna Nesseth Tuttle, a director for
global  food security  at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in  Washington . “It means that you could
potentially have farmers with a little bit less robust outlook
than they’ve had. Farmers have had some really great years.”  The USDA said in February that food inflation would ease
later in 2013 as larger crop inventories reduce cost pressures.
The effects of the 2012 drought will decline this year as grain
harvests replenish supplies and agribusinesses worry less about
shortages, USDA economist Richard Volpe said at a USDA
conference in Arlington,  Virginia , on Feb. 21.  Consumer Prices  Consumers may pay as much as 4 percent more for food this
year, compared to a 2.6 percent increase in 2012, according to
the latest USDA food-inflation forecast on March 25. That’s
above the five-year average of 2.9 percent inflation.  “I don’t see any cause for alarm in terms of huge
increases at the grocery store,” U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said yesterday in an interview in Washington.  The recent drop in corn prices will take pressure off food
companies and livestock producers, said Chad Hart, an economist
who specializes in agriculture at  Iowa State University  in Ames.
Food inflation should moderate and be closer to 2.5 percent to 3
percent by the end of the year and early 2014, Hart said.  The “real relief” from food inflation because of lower
corn prices will come in 2014, after a normal crop is actually
produced, said Bill Lapp, the president of Advanced Economic
Solutions in Omaha,  Nebraska .  Moderation in food prices won’t come right away because
corn, while down from record highs, is still elevated, Lapp
said. Futures closed 16 percent above the five-year average
yesterday. “Significant lags” in production cycles mean it can
take a while for lower corn costs to move through the system, he
said.  “In 2014, you can begin to become optimistic on food costs
if weather cooperates,” Lapp said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  