-- Corn-Price Drop Won’t Deter Sugar Buys for Ethanol, Vilsack Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-04-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/corn-price-drop-won-t-deter-sugar-buys-for-ethanol-vilsack-says.html
Corn’s 25 percent drop from a record
reached in August  won’t affect possible purchases of sugar for
use in ethanol as the government tries to stem a sweetener glut,
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  A projected  record corn harvest  won’t influence the U.S.
Department of Agriculture as it decides whether to purchase
sugar for use in ethanol plants, potentially increasing a glut
of the grain while decreasing sugar inventories, Vilsack said
yesterday in an interview. The agency is required to manage
sugar supplies under federal law, and biofuel use is one tool to
prop up prices that are approaching levels at which the
government is required to buy up inventories, he said.  “There’s obviously a significant oversupply, and the law
requires us to deal with an oversupply,” Vilsack said. “There
are consequences if we don’t deal with it that are fiscally more
dire than if we do deal with it,” possibly by buying sugar for
biofuels plants, he said. Nearly all U.S. ethanol is made from
corn.  Prices for domestic sugar dropped 40 percent in the 12
months ended yesterday as stockpiles climbed to their highest in
a decade, potentially triggering federal purchases. Corn has
plummeted from its Aug. 10 record of $8.49 a bushel as the worst
drought since the 1930s gave way to forecasts for the biggest
harvest ever this year, which would triple inventories by 2014.  The USDA last month said it’s considering “several
options” to support prices, including purchasing excess
sweetener, possibly for sale to ethanol plants, or restricting
imports to the minimum required by international treaty. Vilsack
yesterday said the department continues to weigh its options
without committing to any one path.  “You have to be sure that once you pull the trigger,
you’re pulling it in a way that’s going to actually do what it’s
supposed to do, which is to stabilize things and to minimize the
cost to taxpayers,” Vilsack said.  The department would need to buy 534,000 short tons
(484,000 metric tons), 5.8 percent of this year’s  estimated
production , to reduce the surplus to the government’s desired
level, according to Frank Jenkins, president of Jenkins Sugar
Group in Wilton, Connecticut, the largest broker of U.S. sugar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Steve Stroth
at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  