-- Cyprus Turks Share Pain as Banking Crisis Revives Talk of Unity
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-04-03T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/cyprus-turks-share-pain-as-banking-crisis-revives-talk-of-unity.html
For five years, Ertan Ercantan made
a living selling Turkish rugs to Greek Cypriots coming across
the border that splits Cyprus’s capital Nicosia in half.
Overnight, they’re gone, he said.  “If things are bad for them, they are bad for us too,”
Ercantan, 70, said as he smoked a cigarette and sipped
traditional Turkish coffee in his empty shop on March 27. “Look
at the street here. Normally these streets are full of people.
Now, they are empty.”  Turkish and Greek Cypriots have been arguing over territory
for half a century, yet in the island’s Turkish-controlled north
there are no signs of schadenfreude over the financial crash in
the internationally recognized state to their south. Instead,
Turkish Cypriots expect to share the pain because cross-border
business has thrived since 2004, even after the failure of a
United Nations plan to unify the country.  “This isn’t going to be good for the Turkish Cypriots,
politically or economically,” said James Ker-Lindsay, a
lecturer at the London School of Economics and author of “The
Cyprus Problem.” “They have forged links with the Greek
Cypriots over the past 10 years, and a lot do cross over for
jobs. We’re talking about a potential massive contraction of the
Cyprus economy.”  Cyprus has been divided since 1974, when  Turkey  invaded
after a coup by supporters of union with  Greece . Turkey keeps
about 30,000 troops in the north and is the only country to
recognize a Turkish Cypriot state. Greek Cypriots rejected the
UN plan in a referendum nine years ago on the eve of joining the
European Union, while the Turks voted in favor.  Wealth Gap  Greek Cypriots make up more than three-quarters of the
island’s population of 1.15 million. They are two-thirds richer
than their Turkish neighbors, with per-capita output of $25,600
last year, according to the International Monetary Fund. In the
north, aid from Turkey is a key prop for an economy largely cut
off from international markets. It received 800 million liras
($440 million) of Turkish grants and loans last year.  The wealth gap may be about to narrow as Cyprus’s economy
heads for recession after the collapse of its two biggest banks
rocked European financial markets.  The Greek Cypriot government last month shut down the
entire banking industry, central to the economy’s growth, for
almost two weeks. It also agreed to an EU bailout that involves
budget austerity, seizing cash from bank depositors, and the
euro area’s first capital controls.  Jobs Threatened  Since March 28, a sign at the crossing on Nicosia’s Ledra
Street, near where Ercantan sells carpets, tells Greek Cypriots
that they can’t take more than 300 euros across the border.  There may soon be fewer Turks traveling in the opposite
direction for work, too.  As many as 3,000 Turkish Cypriots are employed in the
south, mostly in construction, and doubts about their job
prospects has businesses on the northern side worried, said
Kemal Baykalli, deputy general secretary of the Turkish Cypriot
Chamber of Commerce.  Like many Turkish Cypriots, Baykalli said he’s hopeful that
something good may come out of the banking collapse, in the form
of new momentum for reunification.  “Logic tells us that we have to find a way to cooperate on
this small island to overcome the crisis,” he said.  On the Greek side, Caesar Mavratsas, a professor of
sociology at the University of Cyprus, agrees, though that
doesn’t mean he thinks it’s going to happen.  ‘Scarce’ Rationality  “The rational or responsible thing to do at this point
would be to solve the Cyprus problem because that would lead to
economic development,” he said. “But in Greek Cypriot
politics, rationality and responsibility have been very
scarce.”  Sticking points in 2004, and in subsequent UN-backed talks,
include property rights, status of settlers from Turkey and
power-sharing in a remodeled state.  About three-quarters of Greek Cypriots found the UN
proposals on those issues unacceptable, and voted “no.” Among
the minority in favor of reunification, and one of the few
leading Greek Cypriot politicians to take that position, was
Nicos Anastasiades, who was elected president in February.  “This is a great opportunity for Anastasiades to become a
true statesman,” Mavratsas said. “I’m not very optimistic
because even members of his own party do not agree with him.”  ‘One Cyprus’  On the Turkish side of Nicosia, Melis Eroglu, 26, said she
would vote “yes” to unification, as two-thirds of Turkish
Cypriots did last time.  “My vote wouldn’t be about joining the euro zone,” she
said during her shift in a bookstore in the historic city
center. “It’s about having one Cyprus rather than a divided
country.”  Greek Cypriots are pinning their hopes on offshore natural
gas discoveries to replace some of the revenue lost from the
collapse of the financial-services industry. Mavratsas cites the
chance to develop those reserves as one advantage to a
settlement with Turkey.  “It’s going to be much more expensive for us if we send it
through Greece,” he said.  Turkey has objected to Cyprus’s search for gas on the
grounds that Turkish Cypriots should share in any benefits.
After the Greek Cypriot government authorized the start of
drilling in 2011, Turkey announced its own exploration plans off
the north, and sent sent frigates and fighter jets to escort its
seismic ship.  Turkey has shelved projects with  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  because
it’s taking part in the exploration in Cyprus, Energy Minister
 Taner Yildiz  said on March 27. “No energy project in the region
is feasible without Turkey,” Yildiz said this week.  Hotel Ruins  Mehmet Ali Talat, a supporter of unification who negotiated
with Greek Cypriots as head of the Turkish Cypriot state in the
five years through 2010, points to tourism and new construction
as another incentive for a reunification deal.  Varosha, a kind of no-man’s land on the east coast, is the
most obvious example of unused economic potential. Fenced off by
barbed wire since 1974, the resort’s hotels, restaurants and
bars, once the island’s smartest, stretch along a sandy beach
where wild cactuses grow. Many of the buildings were gutted by
rockets during the invasion, while others have fallen into ruin
since then.  Under Turkish military control, Varosha’s status is another
stumbling block in unity talks. “Investments would skyrocket”
if the talks succeed, Talat said in an April 1 interview in
Nicosia.  Gul’s Trip  Turkey is pushing for a quick resumption of talks.
President Abdullah Gul, speaking during a trip to  Lithuania 
yesterday, said the financial crisis and the change of
government in the south should be seen as an opportunity.  Cypriot Foreign Minister Ioannis Kasoulides suggested that
Turkey is trying to take advantage of a country in crisis.  “Some are calling for an immediate start to negotiations
and are trying to exploit our difficult and weak position,” he
said. “We don’t intend to immediately start negotiations.”  For all the potential economic benefits of reunification,
Greek Cypriots are probably too daunted by their country’s
financial collapse to address such a major challenge now,
according to Ker-Lindsay at the LSE.  “Cypriots tend to be quite conservative,” he said. “At
the moment, they might be surveying the economic landscape and
saying look, we just can’t risk it, it’s too big a task.”  In Nicosia, Ercantan, the rug-seller, said he’s seen plenty
of hard times before. For four of the five decades his shop has
been open, it was separated from potential Greek Cypriot
customers by armed sentries and barbed wire. Still, he said he’s
fearful of the economic crisis unfolding in the south.  “I think things will be very difficult for a long time,”
he said. “This is not good for any of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in  Athens  at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  