-- TD Bank CEO Clark to Retire Next Year
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-04-03T20:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/td-bank-ceo-clark-to-retire-next-year.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  Chief
Executive Officer  Edmund Clark , who led Canada’s second-biggest
lender in a $25 billion U.S. expansion, will retire in November
2014 after a dozen years in the post.  Clark, 65, will be succeeded by Bharat Masrani, currently
head of U.S. operations, the Toronto-based bank said today in a
statement. Masrani will become chief operating officer in July
when he returns to Toronto.  “Ed Clark is well respected in the market and it is hard
not to believe that his departure is not a net negative for
TD,” said John Aiken, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Toronto.
“That said, TD’s bench strength remains quite strong and Bharat
Masrani has done an exemplary job in growing the U.S. retail
operations.”  Masrani, 56, joined Toronto-Dominion in 1987 and held
management positions including chief risk officer. He was
charged by the bank in 2002 to help exit about C$11 billion
($10.9 billion) in corporate loans, which he reduced ahead of
schedule. He was named head of the U.S. bank in 2006.  “He helped re-shape the risk appetite of the bank, and was
critical to many of our earlier decisions,” Clark told
investors today during a conference call.  Clark has run Toronto-Dominion since December 2002. He
joined the lender in 2000 after it acquired  Canada  Trust’s
parent CT Financial Services Inc., where he was president and
CEO.  Stock Gains  Under Clark, a self-described “old-fashioned banker,”
Toronto-Dominion limited damages from the financial crisis,
taking a fraction of the write-offs recorded by U.S.
counterparts.  “Ed Clark has done a good job,” said John Kinsey, who
helps manage about C$1 billion at Caldwell Securities Ltd. in
Toronto. “Obviously his strength is in personal banking. At one
stage, TD was the fifth of the five big ones and now it’s first
or second, depending on how you measure it.”  Clark said his legacy at Toronto-Dominion will be on the
team he’s built, as well as the customer-focused business model
he brought from Canada Trust. The bank opened branches in Canada
and the U.S. during the financial crisis, with longer hours of
operation than competitors.  “Proving out that if you start with the customer and then
go to the employees that serve the customer, then the
shareholders will do very well,” Clark said today in a
telephone interview. “I think that’s a pretty simple, but it’s
a very powerful message.”  U.S. Expansion  Toronto-Dominion fell 1.2 percent to C$83.43 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto -- the biggest one-day drop since Dec. 6,  and has a
market value of about C$77 billion. The shares have fallen less
than 1 percent this year and have posted an annual total return
of about 15 percent under Clark’s tenure, the bank said.  Clark led a U.S. consumer-banking expansion that began in
2004 when the lender bought a 51 percent stake in  Portland ,
Maine-based Banknorth Group Inc. Toronto-Dominion now has more
branches in the U.S. than it does in Canada.  Clark, who was awarded C$10.9 million in compensation last
year, orchestrated the bank’s sale of its TD Waterhouse
brokerage to  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  in 2005.  Final Years  Clark told investors at last year’s annual meeting that he
was in his “final years” as CEO. He’ll remain a director until
the 2015 annual meeting. The bank holds its shareholder meeting
tomorrow in Ottawa.  Mike Pedersen, 52, head of wealth management and insurance,
will take over Masrani’s U.S. role, while  Tim Hockey , 49, head
of Canadian consumer banking, will be responsible for wealth
management in addition to his current role, the bank said. Riaz Ahmed, 50, becomes head of insurance and credit cards.  Other executives including Chief Financial Officer Colleen Johnston, 54, will have added responsibilities, while there will
be no changes in leadership at the bank’s TD Securities unit,
led by Robert Dorrance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  