-- Delta Sues Ex-Im Bank Over Non-U.S. Airline Guarantees
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-03T23:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/delta-sues-ex-im-bank-over-non-u-s-airline-guarantees.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  asked a federal
judge to block U.S. Export-Import Bank loan guarantees for
foreign carriers’ purchases of  Boeing Co. (BA)  aircraft, claiming
harm to American businesses wasn’t properly analyzed.  Delta, in a lawsuit filed today in federal court in
Washington, seeks to stop guarantees of more than $100 million
approved for Emirates Airlines, LOT Polish Airlines, Etihad
Airways,  Latam Airlines Group (LFL)  and Korean Air Lines. The bank
violated the law by approving the guarantees “without any
consideration of plaintiffs’ comments and the adverse effects on
U.S. industry and employment,” according to the complaint.  “Because Ex-Im Bank loan guarantees lower their cost of
capital, these foreign airlines will recoup their investment in
their new aircraft faster or reduce ticket prices on competing
routes without adversely impacting their relative rate of return
on those investments,” Delta said in its complaint, which was
joined by Hawaiian Airlines Inc. and the Air Line Pilots
Association.  The lawsuit today is the third one filed against the bank
by U.S. airlines seeking to stop loan guarantees to non-U.S.
airlines. A federal judge in  Washington  is currently weighing
Delta’s challenge to the bank’s regulations and guidelines on
economic procedures which are to take effect this month.  The pilots group is awaiting an appeals court ruling of a
November 2011 lawsuit claiming the bank didn’t seek public
comment or consider the effect on the U.S. airline industry
before approving $1.3 billion in loan guarantees and $2.1
billion in preliminary commitments to support the sale of 30
Boeing aircraft to Mumbai-based Air India Ltd.  Phil Cogan, a spokesman for the bank, said he wasn’t aware
of the lawsuit and couldn’t immediately comment on it.  The case is Delta Air Lines Inc. v. Export-Import Bank of
the U.S., 13-cv-00424, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  