-- Diversity Hiring Standards for Banks to Be Set by U.S. Agencies
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-04-03T16:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/diversity-hiring-standards-for-banks-to-be-set-by-u-s-agencies.html
U.S. regulators including the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will seek public input on
proposed standards to evaluate workforce diversity at banks and
other financial companies.  The agencies plan to develop a uniform standard to assess
companies’ efforts to hire women and minorities while “taking
into consideration differences such as entity size, capability,
and history,” according to a  report  by the CFPB’s Office of
Minority and Women Inclusion released this week.  The Dodd-Frank law that created the CFPB mandates the
creation of an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion in each
regulator. It directs the offices to develop standards for
encouraging diversity, promoting women- and minority-owned
contractors and assessing regulated institutions on diversity.  Other goals include coordinating between agencies, avoiding
“undue burden” on regulated companies, and using data that is
already readily available, according to the report. The work
involves the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the  Federal
Reserve , the  National Credit Union Administration , the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to the report.  The proposed standards come out of a series of “listening
sessions” during 2012 with regulated companies, including small
and large banks, and with advocacy and professional
associations. The draft standards will be issued later this year
and be followed by a public comment period, the report said.  “I firmly believe that in order to be a great
organization, we must reflect the fabric of America. Indeed, the
best way to serve our consumers is to ensure that our workforce
reflects the faces, ideas, backgrounds and experiences of the
American public,”  Richard Cordray , the agency’s director, wrote
in a letter accompanying the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  