-- Dividend King Telefonica Brasil Trading at Discount
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-04-03T20:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/dividend-king-telefonica-brasil-trading-at-discount.html
Telefonica Brasil SA (VIVT4) , forecast by
analysts to pay the Bovespa’s biggest dividend this year, is
trading at a 68 percent discount on concern tighter government
scrutiny will hurt the nation’s largest mobile-phone carrier.  Telefonica’s estimated dividend yield of 7.5 percent is
almost twice the 3.9 percent average for Bovespa companies, and
ahead of the global telecommunications industry average of 5.4
percent. The Sao Paulo-based company, which operates under the
Vivo brand, has  traded  more cheaply than the Bovespa index in
terms of price-to-earnings ratio since the end of 2011, hitting
a low this year. ​  A crackdown by President Dilma Rousseff’s government on
telecommunications providers scared away investors from
regulated industries, unfairly weighing on Telefonica, said
Andre Baggio, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. Generous
payouts and a good track record with authorities make the
company a bargain, he said.  “It’s in a good moment,” Baggio, who has the equivalent
of a buy rating on the shares, said in a telephone interview
from  Sao Paulo . “It has a strong focus on reducing costs, and
its mobile business is doing very well.”  Telefonica is expected to issue 3.95 reais per preferred
share in 2013, the largest payout of any company on the Bovespa,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The second-biggest is
Cia. de Bebidas das Americas, at 2.93 reais a share.  ‘Very Comfortable’  “It is one of the biggest dividend payers in  Brazil  and it
has a well-defined  cash flow ,” said Paulo de Sa Pereira, a
portfolio manager at pension fund Fundacao Cesp, which owns
almost 1.4 million shares of Telefonica Brasil. “I am very
comfortable with our position in Vivo.”  The phone company, a unit of Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
remains a cheap stock even after  outperforming  the Bovespa this
year. Its shares are up 7.6 percent in 2013, compared with an
8.8 percent drop for the Bovespa. Telefonica fell 0.2 percent to
52.70 reais at the close in Sao Paulo.  Analysts  favor  Telefonica, with 12 buy recommendations, six
holds and two sells. The shares have improved after declining
5.6 percent in 2012 because the parent company cut debt without
any effect on the subsidiary, Pereira said. The Spanish carrier
has sold assets, including its treasury stock, as demand fell
during the European economic crisis.  Least Complaints  Last year, Telefonica Brasil was the lone major wireless
provider out of four to avoid a ban on selling new plans in some
states for 11 days. Telecommunications regulator Anatel imposed
the moratorium to force companies to submit proposals to improve
quality.  In December, the most recent month available, Telefonica
had the  lowest  number of mobile service complaints, with 18,000,
according to Anatel. Tim Participacoes SA, the closest
competitor, had 23,600.  A reputation for quality has allowed Vivo to charge more
than rivals. The mobile-phone business collected an average of
23.9 reais a month from customers in the fourth quarter,
compared with 21.5 reais for second-place Oi SA.  “Vivo is the most attractive telecom company,” said Alex Pardellas, a CGD Securities analyst in  Rio de Janeiro , in a
phone interview. “Vivo is betting on better quality service for
a higher price.”  The company has cut costs by disconnecting customers not
actively using its services, Chief Executive Officer Paulo Cesar Teixeira said in a call with analysts on Feb. 25.  A Telefonica press official declined to comment on stock
performance, dividend payments and government intervention.  Wireless Gains  Regulation still clouds Telefonica’s outlook. Anatel is
forcing wireless companies to reduce interconnection rates --
fees charged to connect calls from rivals -- by about 25 percent
in 2014.  “There’s a perception that there’s more regulatory
oversight of the sector, and that’s typically not positive for
large companies like Telefonica,” said Richard Dineen, a New
York-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc., who has a neutral
rating on the stock.  Last month Rousseff announced a plan to grant more power to
consumer bureaus to issue fines and broker deals between
companies and customers.  “When we seek greater transparency, this can lead to lower
prices in the market,” Anatel President Joao Rezende said at a
March 15 event in Brasilia.  Telefonica also has to guard against a decline in its
landline business, where customer connections dropped 2.2
percent in last year’s fourth quarter from a year earlier. The
company is investing in fiber-optic technology to improve
television and Internet services offered over its network.  Telefonica is “recuperating,” Pereira said. “It’s the
best company in the sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  