-- Dodgers’ Kershaw Makes a Pitch to Become First $200 Million Arm
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-03T15:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/dodgers-kershaw-makes-a-pitch-to-become-first-200-million-arm.html
Clayton Kershaw ’s historic opening
day start for the  Los Angeles Dodgers  demonstrated why the 25-
year-old left-hander, who elicits comparisons to Hall of Famer
Sandy Koufax, might become the first $200 million pitcher in
Major League Baseball history.  Kershaw is making $11 million in the final season of a two-
year contract with the Dodgers, who have spent more than $600
million on player acquisitions since Guggenheim Baseball
Management purchased the club for $2.15 billion last year.  The market for elite pitchers has reached a high this year,
with  Justin Verlander  of the  Detroit Tigers  getting an extension
that guarantees him $180 million over the next seven seasons and
 Felix Hernandez  signing a seven-year, $175 million deal with the
 Seattle Mariners  before spring training. Kershaw may be next in
line and his deal, in a sport measured by milestones, could set
a new benchmark for pitchers.  “When he signs his next contract, he’ll be the first $30-
million-a-year pitcher in baseball history,” Jim Bowden, the
former general manager of the  Cincinnati Reds  and  Washington
Nationals  and now an MLB analyst for ESPN, said in a telephone
interview. “I project his next deal with the Dodgers will be
eight years and $240 million. It’s pretty clear that being 25
years old and looking at the next 10 years of his upside that
he’s the No. 1 guy on the board.”  Wayne McDonnell Jr., an associate professor of sports
management at  New York University , said the recent spike in
salaries for elite starters such as Hernandez, Verlander,  Matt Cain ,  Cole Hamels  and Zack Greinke suggest that a $200 million
contract is the next step for a player of Kershaw’s ability.  Kershaw’s Leverage  “We always talk about the dearth of elite, quality
pitching in the game,” said McDonnell, who created the
“Business of Baseball” course at NYU. “What we’re seeing is
those unique players, they’re getting handsomely rewarded.
Without question, the Verlander deal could be used as leverage
in Kershaw’s camp for a deal of that magnitude.”  Kershaw, who won the National League Cy Young Award in 2011
at age 23 and was the runner-up last year, began the regular
season two days ago by throwing a complete-game four-hitter in a
4-0 win against the  San Francisco Giants . It made him the first
pitcher to shut out a defending World Series champion on opening
day since 1988, when Rick Rhoden of the  New York Yankees  blanked
the  Minnesota Twins .  Kershaw also broke a scoreless tie with an eighth-inning
home run, becoming the first player to throw a shutout and hit a
home run on opening day since Hall of Famer Bob Lemon in 1953.  Koufax Comparisons  Now in his sixth season with the Dodgers, Kershaw has a
62-37 record with a 2.77 earned run average. He went 35-14 the
past two seasons with a 2.40 ERA and 477 strikeouts in 461
innings. His dominance has evoked comparisons to Koufax, the
Hall of Fame left-hander who pitched for the Dodgers for 12
years and won three Cy Young Awards over his final four seasons
before his career was cut short in 1966 by an elbow injury.  With Koufax throwing the first pitch of the Dodgers’ season
and Kershaw’s final pitch ending opening day, catcher A.J. Ellis
said it was “almost like a passing of the torch.”  Kershaw told reporters after his season debut that he’s
honored by the comparisons to Koufax, but doesn’t “put merit
into it. I’ve got a long way to go.” Kershaw has been even more
reluctant to talk about his contract situation.  Dodgers General Manager Ned Colletti told reporters before
the start of spring training that there was “mutual interest”
in extending Kershaw’s contract. Kershaw, who isn’t eligible for
free agency until after the 2014 season, has repeatedly declined
to comment, though he said he didn’t want negotiations to extend
into the season. If a new deal isn’t reached, the two sides
would go to arbitration to determine his 2014 salary.  On Opening Day, Dodgers minority owner  Magic Johnson  told
ESPN that Kershaw was the best in baseball and should be paid
like it.  Kershaw’s agent, Casey Close, didn’t immediately return an
e-mail seeking comment.  Greinke’s Deal  Close also represents Dodgers pitcher Zack Greinke, who got
a six-year, $147 million contract in December that made him the
sport’s highest-paid right-handed pitcher. The contracts for
Hernandez and Verlander, both right-handers, have since
surpassed that. Greinke, Hernandez and Verlander won the AL Cy
Young Award in successive years from 2009 through 2011.  The Dodgers, who in January partnered with  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)  on a 25-year, $7 billion television deal, have a $213
million payroll this season, according to  Yahoo Sports , an
increase of almost 124 percent from 2012. Greinke has the team’s
highest average salary, at $24.5 million, and Kershaw will
surely top that, said Bowden, who was voted MLB’s executive of
the year with the Reds in 1999.  Rising Payrolls  “He’s going to have to be paid the premium amount,” said
Bowden, who predicts the two sides will reach a long-term deal
after this season. “With the national and local television
deals blowing up like they are and the industry payrolls
absolutely skyrocketing, the structure has changed.”  Four major leaguers have received contracts with a total
value of at least $200 million, including  Alex Rodriguez  twice.  Rodriguez’s current deal with the New York Yankees, which
runs through 2017, is for $275 million over 10 years.  Albert Pujols  (10 years, $240 million),  Joey Votto  (10 years, $225
million) and Prince Fielder (9 years, $214 million) also
surpassed the milestone for total value of their contracts.  “The Dodgers realize who they have on their hands, the
immense talent, the type of individual he is and the kind of
statistics he can produce,” McDonnell said. “If everything
holds according to what the Dodgers plan, they could be on the
verge of doing something very unique and special with the
epicenter being Clayton Kershaw.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  