-- Downtown NYC Office Vacancies Fall on Technology Demand
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-04-03T19:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/downtown-nyc-office-vacancies-fall-on-technology-demand.html
Lower Manhattan office  vacancies 
fell in the first quarter to the lowest since 2008 as technology
and creative firms priced out of the midtown south area spilled
into the market, Cushman & Wakefield said,  The vacancy rate downtown, home to the city’s financial
district, declined to 8 percent from 9.2 percent a year earlier,
the New York-based real estate services firm said in a report
today. More than 20 percent of leasing below Canal Street in the
first quarter was by technology and media firms, Cushman said.  “A decade ago, there was this measured wall at Canal
Street,” Andrew Peretz, an executive vice president at Cushman,
said in a briefing for reporters. “Financial-services people,
they stayed on the southern side of it, and the creative people
stayed on the northern side of it.”  Leasing by technology firms helped keep the  Manhattan 
office market steady, while demand from the financial industry
remains “lagging,” said Kenneth McCarthy, Cushman’s chief
economist.  Midtown south  -- an amalgam of neighborhoods that
includes such trendy areas as the Flatiron District, the East
Village and Chelsea -- once again had the tightest vacancy rate
in the U.S., at 6.9 percent, according to the brokerage.  Total office vacancies in Manhattan were 9.1 percent, the
same as a year earlier, while the average asking rent climbed
1.2 percent to $59.60 a square foot. Downtown landlords sought
an average of $40.28, up 0.2 percent from a year earlier, while
in midtown south, rents rose 7.3 percent to $51.97.  Biggest Leases  In Midtown, roughly 30th Street to Central Park, rents
averaged $66.34 a square foot, down 0.5 percent from a year
earlier. The vacancy rate was 10.1 percent, up from 9.9 percent.  Among downtown’s largest leases in the quarter were Harper
Collins Publishers Ltd.’s deal for 179,000 square feet (17,000
square meters) at 195 Broadway; and German market-research firm
 GfK SE (GFK) ’s agreement for 75,000 square feet at Brookfield Place,
formerly the World Financial Center, according to a brokerage
Studley Inc. Both companies are moving from more expensive
markets to the north.  Lower Manhattan’s vacancy rate is poised to jump this
quarter to “between 12 and 13 percent” when former Merrill
Lynch & Co. offices at Brookfield Place enter its database,
McCarthy of Cushman said. The leases expire in September, he
said. Cushman’s vacancy data include empty space and offices
that will become available in the next six months.  New Skyscrapers  Across West Street, two World Trade Center skyscrapers are
nearing completion. Those buildings -- including the 3 million-
square-foot 1 World Trade Center -- probably would bump up the
vacancy rate even more, according to McCarthy.  Peretz said he has no doubt that the new downtown space
will appeal to technology and media firms. The area has already
attracted Conde Nast Publications Inc., which has agreed to move
its headquarters to 1 World Trade Center.  “It’s like the Berlin Wall. It’s gone,” he said. “The
World Financial Center is getting a lot of activity right now
from all different types of users. We’re just going to see a
much more diverse downtown marketplace, especially when the
World Trade Center opens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  