-- Media Stocks Best Proving Malone Wrong: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-04-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/media-stocks-best-proving-malone-wrong-riskless-return.html
Entertainment companies are proving
a safer bet than Liberty Media Corp. Chairman  John Malone 
forecast four years ago, when he predicted some would follow the
decline of music labels and newspapers amid online competition.  U.S. media stocks , instead of faltering, produced the best
risk-adjusted return since the end of 2011 of the 24 industries
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to the BLOOMBERG
RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. The stocks tied with pharmaceuticals
for the biggest improvement from the prior three years, as
concern faded that customers would cancel their pay television
subscriptions in favor of online services.  Media shares plunged in 2007 and 2008 as advertising
cratered and investors fretted that movie studios and cable-
television providers would follow the path of music labels and
newspaper chains, losing steady customers and advertisers to
free or lower-cost content on the Web. Since then, investors
have reassessed the prospects for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , Time Warner
Inc.,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and their competitors as sales and profits
climb with content providers striking additional digital
distribution partnerships.  “The stability in the cable industry really came to light
through the economic downturn,” said Thomas Lieu, a portfolio
manager at Dallas-based Westwood Holdings Group Inc., which owns
about 3 million Comcast shares. Revenues and earnings have
accelerated in recent years, he said, while “valuation still
lags given how solid their performance was and continues to
be.”  ‘Too Late’  The S&P 500  media index , made up of 15 stocks, rose 60
percent from the end of 2011 through the first quarter, topping
all groups. Its price swings were below average, leading to a
risk-adjusted return of 4.1 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Pharmaceuticals, including biotechnology and life
sciences, had the No. 2 risk-adjusted return, at 3.7 percent.
Both industries improved by 2.3 percentage points from the
2008-2011 period.  Bloomberg’s risk-adjusted returns are calculated by
dividing the total return by volatility, or the degree of daily
price variation. Higher volatility means the price of an asset
can swing dramatically in a short period, increasing the
potential for loss. The figures aren’t annualized.  Sentiment toward entertainment stocks has brightened since
July 2009, when Malone told reporters at Allen & Co.’s annual
media industry retreat in  Sun Valley ,  Idaho , “it may be too
late” for some companies to survive. “The Internet is moving
too fast, too far,” he said.  New Streams  Malone said media companies would suffer if they couldn’t
prevent users from gaining access to their content for free.  Cable, satellite and telecommunications companies added a
net 31,000 pay TV customers last year as new accounts
outnumbered cancellations, according to an April report from
Toronto-based Convergence Consulting Group Ltd. Comcast said it
would have added video customers last quarter if not for
 Hurricane Sandy . Internet services including Hulu Plus, Netflix
and Amazon Prime pay media companies for content, acting as
complements to live TV and providing additional revenue streams.  Since song sharing site Napster emerged in 1999, music
industry sales have fallen by more than half to $7.1 billion in
2012, according to the  Recording Industry Association of America 
in Washington. Advertising revenue at U.S. newspapers dropped at
a similar rate to $23.9 billion as of 2011, according to the
 Newspaper Association of America  in Arlington, Virginia, whose
figures include online sales.  ‘Convenient’ Shopping  Cable TV industry revenue more than doubled since 1999 to
$97.6 billion in 2011, based on the latest data from the
National Cable Television Association in Washington. The average
U.S. pay TV bill rose 6 percent that year to $86 a month and
will reach $123 by 2015 as companies offering a “convenient,
one-stop shop” maintain pricing power, according to market
researcher NPD Group Inc. in Port Washington, New York.  Comcast, the Philadelphia-based  owner  of  NBC Universal  and
the nation’s largest cable system, had the highest and most
improved risk-adjusted return within the media index. The shares
gained 81 percent since Dec. 31, 2011, with 19 percent
volatility, for a risk-adjusted return of 4.3 percent.  Investors sought safety in the company’s consistent
earnings and growing broadband business, said  Chris Marangi , a
portfolio manager at  Gamco Investors Inc. (GBL) , a Rye, New York-based
firm managing $36 billion in assets including holdings in
Comcast,  DirecTV (DTV)  and  News Corp. (NWS)  Comcast added 341,000 high-speed
Internet and 168,000 telephone customers in the fourth quarter,
while losing 7,000 video subscribers, the company reported in
its latest earnings release.  ‘Both Pots’  The company raised its bet on cable programming by
purchasing the remaining 49 percent of NBC Universal from
 General Electric Co. (GE)  in a deal completed last month.  “Comcast has its hand in both pots -- content and
distribution,” Lieu said.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the Bethpage, New York-based
cable TV operator, posted the worst risk-adjusted return over
the past 15 months, at 0.3 percent, with the smallest price gain
and the widest swings. The company spun off its TV networks
 Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG)  in 2010 and AMC Entertainment in 2011,
making it less exposed to improving sentiment about TV networks.  Malone’s Liberty Interactive Corp., which isn’t part of the
media index, gained 49 percent and returned a risk-adjusted 2.4
percent since 2011.  Getting Paid  Content creators such as  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and Time Warner
have taken measures since 2010 to ensure they get paid for their
programming by requiring that visitors to their websites prove
they are pay TV subscribers before they can watch most of their
shows. New York-based Time Warner has had the third-best risk-
adjusted return since 2011 among major media stocks, and
Burbank, California-based Disney ranks fifth.  Movie studios this year are likely to fall 3 percent short
of the record 2012 domestic box office sales paced by “Marvel’s
The Avengers” and “The Dark Knight Rises,” according to
analysts at Barclays Plc.  Even so, international ticket sales have been growing, and
film and TV studios are combating declining sales of DVDs by
reaching agreements with new video streaming services. Disney
signed a deal in December to provide its films to Netflix Inc.
for exclusive streaming starting in 2016.  ‘Right Price’  “They stepped up and paid the right price,” Disney
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  told analysts
on a Feb. 5  conference call .  Industrywide revenue from subscription-based streaming
services climbed 46 percent last year to $2.3 billion, and
digital purchases of movies and TV shows rose 35 percent to $800
million, according to research from Nomura Securities
International Inc. That allowed home entertainment revenue at
the major studios to hold steady at $18 billion, even as DVD
sales and rentals fell.  “Given the past rate of industry declines, this is still a
relief for the industry that maybe we have finally turned the
corner and should help further improve profitability,” Nomura
analysts led by  Michael Nathanson  said in a March 25 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  