-- Leeds United Investor Plans to Sell Stake When Price Is Right
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-04-03T12:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/leeds-united-investor-plans-to-sell-stake-when-price-is-right.html
Bahrain-based International
Investment Bank plans to sell the stake it acquired in Leeds
United last week once the value of the three-time English soccer
champion rises, its chief executive officer said.  IIB bought the 10 percent stake for an undisclosed amount
from Leeds’s Gulf-based owner GFH Capital, which is a subsidiary
of Gulf Finance House, another Bahrain-headquartered company.  “I believe this stake has a great potential in terms of
 capital appreciation ,” Abed al-Zeera, IIB’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview in Manama, Bahrain. “Maybe not
this year or next but surely over the medium term it will grow
in value.”  Leeds, whose most recent league title came in 1992, is 12th
in the second-tier Championship, five points above the
relegation zone. Manager  Neil Warnock  quit earlier this week.  When it announced the share sale, GFH Capital said bringing
IIB into the ownership group was part of a move in a long-term
strategy targeting “strategic investors.”  The sale followed speculation over the future ownership of
the club after conflicting statements from GFH Capital and its
parent company over whether it would be sold. David Haigh,
deputy chief executive officer of GFH Capital, told the club
website last week that “the introduction of IIB is in keeping
with what have always been GFH Capital’s aims for the
successful, sustainable and long-term ownership of Leeds United
FC.”  Other Investors  Leeds said other investors are expected to join as Dubai-
based GFH Capital creates an ownership structure to provide
“sound long-term finance” for a return to the Premier League,
where television income per club will top 60 million pounds ($91
million) from next season.  Earlier this week GFH Capital’s parent company responded to
a request from Bahrain’s stock exchange to clarify its plans for
Leeds. It said in its annual report in February, two months
after buying Leeds for $33 million, that it planned to sell the
team within 12 months after describing it as a “bargain
purchase.” The exchange said it asked for the clarification
following a request from  Bloomberg News .  In a letter dated April 1 to the Bahrain bourse’s head of
trading and member affairs, GFH said any sale of Leeds stock or
any of the parent company’s other investments fall within normal
investment banking activities and “can’t be interpreted as a
sign of a weak financial position.” It didn’t explain the
difference between the statements of GFH Capital and Gulf
Finance House.  Warnock Departure  In its annual report for 2012, GFH booked a $10.4 million
one-time gain on acquiring Leeds even though it hadn’t yet sold
the team. Without that income GFH’s annual profit of $10 million
in 2012 would have been wiped out. In May 2012, GFH, which
specializes in  Islamic finance , obtained permission from
creditors to restructure a $110 million debt.  Also on April 1, the Bahrain exchange issued a statement
announcing the canceling of a trade executed on March 26 for the
purchase of 35,000,000 GFH shares at $0.135 per share. The
exchange said the action had been taken because of “
confirmation that the said shares are disputed and fall within
the ambit of Bahrain Chamber for Dispute Resolution decision in
Suit number 5/2013.” No further details were provided.  Warnock left the club two days ago following a home defeat
to Derby County. Leeds had success more than a decade ago,
reaching the semifinals of  Europe ’s elite  Champions League  in
2001. The team stumbled into financial crisis by overspending on
players, and dropped out of the Premier League in 2004, at one
stage falling to the third division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  