-- Egypt IMF Bid Resumes as Tensions Mount Over Prosecutor
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-04-04T08:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/egypt-imf-bid-resumes-as-tensions-mount-over-prosecutor.html
Egypt  pushed ahead with talks on an
International Monetary Fund loan, while the presidency dug in
its heels in a dispute over the country’s top prosecutor.  Planning Minister Asharf El-Arabi said Egypt would reach a
final agreement with the IMF within the coming two weeks, after
applying for a $4.8 billion loan, the state-run Middle East News
Agency reported, citing an interview with him on Radio Sawa.  Yesterday, presidency spokesman Omar Amer rebuffed
opposition demands that Prosecutor General Talaat Abdullah be
removed from office after a court on March 27 annulled President
Mohamed Mursi’s decision to hire him, according to Ahram Gate.  Disputes over the prosecutor and the IMF loan are adding to
the political turmoil that persists in Egypt two years after the
uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . Protests are a daily
occurrence, while the economy is growing at its slowest pace in
two decades. The pound has plunged and  foreign-exchange reserves 
are 60 percent below their December 2010 levels.  Opposition groups have planned protests against Mursi for
April 6. Others called on the IMF, whose team arrived in Cairo
yesterday, to go home, saying the Washington-based lender would
compound Egypt’s troubles. The government “promised us a
renaissance project, we found increases in gas, electricity and
water bills, price hikes, a security vacuum,” the April 6 youth
group, which initially had backed Mursi, said on Facebook.  Overhaul Plans  The government has drafted an economic program including
tax increases to back its application for a $4.8 billion IMF
loan. It warned that the budget deficit could miss its target of
10.9 percent of gross domestic product for the current fiscal
year if the measures are not implemented. El-Arabi said
legislators are discussing some changes the government has made
to the plan, related to tax.  Egypt’s external financing needs for fiscal year 2014 could
be as high as $20 billion, Raza Agha, VTB Capital Plc’s chief
Middle East and Africa economist, said in an e-mail. It’s likely
to get only between $8 billion and $10.5 billion from sources
other than the IMF, he said.  “This suggests that Egypt needs a much bigger program than
the $4.8 billion negotiated earlier,” Agha said.  El-Arabi said officials are studying the financing gap. He
denied that Egypt had requested an increase in the IMF loan.  The government has been struggling to deal with a growing
budget deficit, raising prices for subsidized butane canisters
used in households and businesses as part of an effort to trim
the subsidy bill that eats up more than 25 percent of its
spending. It has also moved to limit the drop in reserves --down
to $13.5 billion in February -- through foreign currency
auctions that restrict the amount of dollars available. The
pound’s value has dropped 9.2 percent since the end of December.  No IMF  The economic plan submitted to the IMF calls for cost-
cutting measures that may carry a political price at a time when
inflation is climbing.  “We reject your visit, your loan and your anti-poor
prescription,” the Popular Current, a secular party that’s part
of the opposition National Salvation Front bloc, said in a
statement to the IMF.  Separately, former presidential candidate Khaled Ali filed
a lawsuit with the prosecutor’s office against Mursi, Prime
Minister Hisham Qandil, the finance minister and two others over
the IMF loan request, according to a statement by the Egyptian
Center for Economic and Social Rights, which he heads. The suit
accuses them of trying to sidestep parliamentary approval for
the loan.  U.S. Concerns  The dispute around Prosecutor General Abdullah, coupled
with authorities’ decision to issue an arrest warrant for Bassem
Youssef, a comedian known as Egypt’s Jon Stewart, has been the
latest catalyst for political strife.  The warrant for Youssef came days after Mursi issued a
vague warning about potentially having to act to stop spiraling
unrest. Compounding tensions is a lack of clarity about
parliamentary elections that were due this month before a court
suspended that timeline.  The U.S. has “concerns about the direction that Egypt
appears to be moving,” Secretary of State John Kerry said April
2.  The tensions have raised doubts among some economists and
analysts such as Michael Hanna of The Century Foundation about
whether the IMF deal would be concluded before the vote. Amer,
the presidency’s spokesman, said the two were in no way linked.
Mursi has said the new election date could be in October.  “It’s a deal that will involve some social dislocation,”
Hanna, a senior fellow at the think tank, said by phone from
 Washington . “Without some political consensus, which isn’t on
the horizon, I find it hard to believe a deal is possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  