-- Egypt 1-Year Yields at Highest Since September on Funding Crunch
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-04-04T15:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/egypt-boosts-short-term-borrowing-as-1-6-billion-a-week-matures.html
Egypt ’s one-year treasury bill
yields jumped to the highest level since September after the
government indicated it will sell more of its shortest-term
securities to repay about $1.6 billion a week of maturing debt.  The average yield on one-year securities climbed 33 basis
points, or 0.33 percentage point, to 14.79 percent at an auction
today, while yields on six-month notes surged 47 basis points to
14.28 percent, according to central bank data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on six-month bills for  Greece , which shares
Egypt’s B- rating at Standard Poor’s, are at 4.25 percent.  Local yields are surging and the pound is weakening in
unregulated trading as the government cuts dollar supplies to
finance imports and reserves dwindle. While seeking to quiet
protests and resolve International Monetary Fund loan talks,
Egypt needs to repay about 138 billion pounds of local debt
maturing this quarter, a 6 percent increase from the previous
three months and the equivalent of about $1.6 billion a week at
the official  exchange rate , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a problem for the government to build more debt on
the short end, but they have to,”  Win Thin , global head of
emerging-markets strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
 New York , said by phone yesterday. “It’s a real mess there in
Egypt.”  The Arab country aims to raise 79.8 billion pounds ($11.7
billion) through the sale of three- and six-month bills, up from
the previously planned 52.5 billion pounds, according to a debt
sale calender for the three months ending June 30 obtained
yesterday by Bloomberg. Combined issuance of nine- and 12-month
securities and bonds that mature in as many as 10 years will be
trimmed by 29 percent to 91 billion pounds, the document shows.  Raising Rates  Egypt’s total fundraising target this quarter is 170.8
billion pounds, according to the  Finance Ministry  calendar. The
government raised 149 billion pounds last quarter, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Policy makers in Egypt raised rates by 50 basis points,
pushing the deposit rate to 9.75 percent and the lending rate to
10.75 percent, to combat inflation after consumer prices jumped
2.5 percent in February, the most in more than two years.  The government is meeting with an International Monetary
Fund team in Cairo to secure a $4.8 billion loan that officials
say will help boost foreign reserves and lower borrowing costs.
The nation’s benchmark Eurobonds rallied today, sending the
yield on the $1 billion 5.75 percent notes due April 2020 down
32 basis points today to 8.08 percent.  Weakening Pound  The pound has depreciated almost 7 percent this year to
6.8381 a dollar as of 4:59 p.m. today in Cairo, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The currency is trading at 7.85 a dollar on the
black market, according to the average of three quotes from
money exchangers in Cairo who asked not to be named because the
trade is illegal. The rates ranged between 7.7 pounds and 7.95
per dollar.  Three-month non-deliverable forwards on the pound weakened
0.6 percent to 7.35 per dollar today.  Egypt’s domestic debt climbed 22 percent last year to about
1.3 trillion pounds, or 73 percent of economic output,  according
to data  posted on the Finance Ministry’s website. Most of the
country’s outstanding 745 billion pounds of  government
securities  is held by local banks as foreigners have sold almost
all of the 59 billion pounds of notes they held before the start
of the popular uprising that ousted former President  Hosni Mubarak , according to central bank data.  “Coming to the market more often exposes you to rollover
risks and unpredictable liquidity conditions, which could
increase your borrowing costs if conditions are adverse,” Jean- Michel Saliba, a London-based economist at Bank of America
Corp., said by phone yesterday.  Stalled Talks  Protests have flared in Egypt since November as the
nation’s first freely elected President Mohamed Mursi struggles
to deliver stability and boost living standards. Talks with the
IMF had stalled since November as the instability meant that the
government was unable to implement the measures agreed on last
year in a preliminary accord with the Washington-based lender,
including reducing the budget deficit.  Egypt “hopes” to reach agreement with the IMF during a
visit that started yesterday, Prime Minister Hisham Qandil told
reporters in Cairo. The government is striving to reduce a
 budget deficit  projected to equal 10.9 percent of gross domestic
product this year to 9.5 percent in 2014, above a 8.5 percent
goal announced in November.  The deficit and increase in public debt “are
unsustainable,” Bank of America’s Saliba said. “There needs to
be some serious fiscal consolidation in order to reverse those
dynamics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  