-- Egypt-U.S. Satirist Arrest Warrant Dispute Clouds IMF Visit
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-04-03T13:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/egypt-u-s-dispute-on-satirist-s-arrest-warrant-clouds-imf-visit.html
Egypt ’s leaders rejected U.S.
charges that they are stifling free speech, a dispute that has
clouded Egyptian efforts to nail down a $4.8 billion loan from
the Washington-based International Monetary Fund.  Loan talks resumed today, two days after State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland set off a furor in Egypt by calling
the arrest warrant against comedian Bassem Youssef an example of
increasing restrictions on free speech. Youssef, known as
Egypt’s Jon Stewart, was accused of insulting the Islamic faith
and President Mohamed Mursi and released on bail.  Mursi’s presidential office said on its Facebook page today
that “all citizens are free to express themselves without the
restrictions that prevailed” under longtime leader  Hosni
Mubarak , who was ousted in the 2011 popular uprising. Mursi’s
first legislation was to eliminate the pre-trial detention of
journalists, it said.  Yesterday, Egypt’s governing Islamist party called the U.S.
comment “blatant interference.”  The latest strain on ties between Egypt, a key American
ally under Mubarak, and the U.S. came as an IMF team arrived in
Cairo today to resume talks on the loan request, which itself
has become a source of friction between Mursi and his critics.
Some opposition groups planned to protest against the talks
today, maintaining the loan would only add to Egyptians’
burdens.  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said today the government
hopes to reach a deal during the visit that will help to revive
Egypt’s economy, which stalled after the uprising and continues
to sputter as political tensions between Mursi’s secular critics
and ruling Islamists keep investors and tourists away.  “We have made good progress in recent weeks and we look
forward to building on that work,” Masood Ahmed, the IMF’s
Middle East and Central Asia department chief, said in e-mailed
comments late yesterday.  Yields on Egypt’s benchmark dollar bonds exceeded 8.6
percent this week, the highest since January 2012, and the
currency has declined and foreign reserves plummeted. The main
stock index fell for a fourth day today, dropping 1.4 percent to
the lowest level this year. The country’s foreign currency
reserves of $13.5 billion at the end of February are enough to
cover roughly three months of imports.  The IMF has said it wants to see broad political
consensus for an economic program before the deal. So far there
has been little of that. The Popular Current, a secular party
that’s part of the opposition National Salvation Front bloc said
it opposes the loan, in a statement to the IMF on its Facebook
page.  “We reject your visit, your loan and your anti-poor
prescription,” it said. The loan “will lead to the continued
subjugation of the Egyptian economy” and the “vast majority of
Egyptians are going to bear its consequences.” The party said
it would participate in anti-IMF protests today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  