-- Telefonica’s German Unit to Sell Bonds After Shares Gain
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-04-03T18:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/telefonica-s-german-unit-to-sell-bonds-after-shares-gain.html
Telefonica SA’s German unit plans to
sell euro-denominated bonds for the first time as early as this
month as the parent seeks to take advantage of the country’s
lower borrowing costs, according to terms sent to investors.  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG hired  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Bank of
America Corp. , BayernLB and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  to help sell senior
unsecured notes maturing in five to seven years, terms obtained
by  Bloomberg News  showed. The sale would be benchmark in size,
which is typically at least 500 million euros ($640 million),
according to the documents.  Fitch Ratings   ranks  the Munich-based
unit’s debt BBB, the second-lowest investment grade.  Chief Financial Officer Rachel Empey is meeting investors
in  Frankfurt , Munich, Amsterdam, London, Zurich and Paris this
week to explain the sale. Spain’s Telefonica,  Europe ’s  most
indebted  telecommunications company, is borrowing through the
growing German unit as sales in its shrinking home economy drop.  “Telefonica is clearly seeking to tap the bond markets
through its German unit to raise financing at lower costs
compared to  Spain ,” said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based
strategist at FGA/MG Valore. “They can afford that because
Telefonica Deutschland isn’t too leveraged.”  Telefonica Deutschland had 842 million euros of net debt at
the end of 2012, compared with 51.3 billion euros for its
Spanish parent.  Loan Repayment  The new bonds will help repay a 1.25 billion-euro inter-
company loan that Telefonica made to the German unit to help
fund a 4.3 billion-euro dividend it received last September.  Miguel Angel Garzon, a spokesman for Telefonica in  Madrid ,
declined to comment.  Telefonica is also taking advantage of renewed appetite for
debt securities as the  risk premium  on Spain’s sovereign debt
narrows.  The Spanish Treasury’s borrowing costs are at 4.89 percent
for 10 years, compared with 1.3 percent for  Germany . That
compares with a euro era record of 7.75 percent on July 25,
before ECB President  Mario Draghi  brought yields down by
pledging to do “whatever it takes” to defend the euro.  Spanish sovereign debt returned investors 3 percent in the
first quarter, the second highest rate after Ireland among 26
markets tracked by indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German debt
offered 0.4 percent.  Debt Reduction  Telefonica Deutschland rose 0.5 percent to close at 6.20
euros in Frankfurt, taking its gains since the stock’s October
 debut  in Frankfurt to 11 percent and valuing the company at 6.9
billion euros. Telefonica fell 2.4 percent in Madrid, giving the
company a market value of 47.1 billion euros.  The cost of insuring Madrid-based Telefonica’s bonds using
credit-default swaps has risen more than 7 percent this year. It
slipped 0.8 percent to 237 basis points today.  The derivatives pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Telefonica is studying other options to reduce debt such as
selling corporate hybrid bonds, according to three people
familiar with the matter. A sale of such securities, which allow
companies to borrow without putting their ratings at risk
because ratings firms count 50 percent of the bonds as equity,
would follow similar moves by  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  and Telecom Italia
SpA.  German IPO  Telefonica plans to sell more non-core assets this year as
Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is trying to reduce net
debt to less than 47 billion euros this year. The plan follows
last year’s disposals, which included shares in its German
business, call-center Atento and part of its China Unicom ( Hong
Kong ) Ltd. stake. Last week, Telefonica raised about 975 million
euros selling some treasury stock.  Telefonica Deutschland, which vies with Royal KPN NV’s E-
Plus unit for the No. 3 spot in Germany behind mobile leaders
Vodafone Group Plc and Deutsche Telekom AG, had a 16 percent
wireless-service market share at the end of 2012, according to
the presentation to investors. Vodafone had 34.4 percent of the
market, Deutsche Telekom had 33.9 percent and E-Plus had 15.8
percent.  Last year, Telefonica Deutschland’s operating income before
depreciation and amortization rose 11 percent to 1.28 billion
euros. Sales climbed 3.5 percent to 5.21 billion euros.  As part of its strategic priorities for 2013, Telefonica
Deutschland plans to boost earnings through faster data
services. The company is set to start offering faster wireless
service using long-term evolution, or LTE, technology in
Germany’s biggest cities during the first half, according to the
presentation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  