-- Telefonica Is Said to Consider Next Round of Asset Sales
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-04-04T17:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/telefonica-is-said-to-consider-next-round-of-asset-sales.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Europe ’s most
indebted telephone company, is considering another round of
asset sales to help meet its target of slashing net debt by more
than 4 billion euros ($5.1 billion) this year, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  The Irish and Czech  divisions  are high on a list of
potential businesses for sale, said the people, asking not to be
identified because the deliberations are confidential. Other
candidates include Madrid-based Telefonica’s remaining minority
stake in  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  and assets in Central
America, the people said. No decision has been made and no banks
have been hired, they said.  Telefonica, a year into its most ambitious asset disposal
program, could raise 1 billion euros from its Irish and Central
American units, and another 1 billion euros by cutting its stake
in Telefonica Czech Republic AS to 50 percent from 69 percent,
according to asset manager FM Capital Partners Ltd. The 5
percent holding in China Unicom is valued at $1.6 billion.  “They’re under much less pressure than they were nine
months ago, and now they’re in business-as-usual mode rather
than a fire-sale mode,” said Stephane Beyazian, an analyst at
Raymond James Euro Equities in  London . “If they’re under the
gun, they could sell some bits and pieces.”  Dividend Halt  A spokesman for Telefonica declined to comment on the
company’s asset-disposal plans.  Telefonica Czech Republic shares fell 4.6 percent to 288.2
koruna in  Prague , the lowest level in nine years. Telefonica
added 0.2 percent to 10.38 euros on the Madrid exchange. China
Unicom rose 0.4 percent to HK$10.24 Hong Kong yesterday. The
Hong Kong market is closed today for a holiday.  After an $85 billion acquisition spree over a decade
increased debt and triggered rating cuts, Chief Executive
Officer Cesar Alierta last year began selling assets and has
suspended dividend payments. As pressure from rating companies
eased following the sale of a stake in its German business,
Telefonica has halted plans for an initial public offering of
its Latin American business, which generated about half of the
company’s 62.4 billion euros in sales last year.  Still, at 51.3 billion euros as of Dec. 31, Telefonica’s
net debt exceeds its market value. Its  stock  has lost 11 percent
over 12 months through yesterday while Spain’s IBEX Index was
little changed.  Sales Decline  Telefonica Czech Republic, which includes Slovakia,
reported 2012 operating income before depreciation and
amortization of 832 million euros, an 11 percent decline from a
year earlier, as sales dropped 5.7 percent to 2 billion euros.
In the Czech Republic, Telefonica offers services including
fixed line, Internet, mobile and pay TV, and competes with
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s local units.  The Czech unit received a takever offer from a financial
company last year but was rejected as too low, two of the people
said.  In Ireland, where Telefonica took a 513 million-euro
writedown last year, Oibda fell 37 percent to 130 million euros
as revenue declined 13 percent to 629 million euros.  Telefonica’s assets in Central America include  Guatemala ,
 Panama , Costa Rica, El Salvador and  Nicaragua .  Telefonica sold about half of its stake in China Unicom,
the country’s second-largest wireless carrier, in June last year
with a 12-month lock-up for the remaining 5 percent.  ‘Credit Concerns’  “Telefonica is trying to overshoot its debt-reduction
targets,” said Henri Alexaline, a fixed-income investor who
helps manage $1 billion at FM Capital in London. Asset sales
“will help the company ease credit concerns, avoid further
downgrades and become an attractive play for both equity and
debt investors.”  The cost of insuring the company’s bonds using credit-
default swaps rose 0.6 percent to 232 basis points today. It’s
dropped by more than half since reaching an 11-year high in
June, following downgrades by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s
Investors Service, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s still higher than competitors such as Deutsche Telekom,
 Royal KPN NV (KPN) , and  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   The derivatives pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  In addition to asset sales, Telefonica is also looking for
cheaper debt financing outside Spain. Its German unit,
Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG, is gauging investor demand
for its first euro-denominated bonds this week to take advantage
of the country’s lower borrowing costs.  Rating Upgrade?  The unit hired UBS AG, Bank of America Corp., BayernLB and
Commerzbank AG to help sell senior unsecured notes maturing in
five to seven years, terms obtained by Bloomberg News showed.
The sale would be benchmark in size, which is typically at least
500 million euros.  “Further asset disposals per se will not trigger a rating
upgrade,” said Carlos Winzer, an analyst at Moody’s, which
rates Telefonica’s debt Baa2, the second-lowest investment
grade. Its negative outlook “reflects the group’s exposure to
the Spanish market and puts it at risk given the weak
macroeconomic conditions.”  Telefonica has taken advantage of narrowing Spanish-German
10-year yield spread to sell bonds and refinance debt. The
company said last month it will exchange bonds maturing in 2015
and 2016 for bonds due in 2021.  Mobile Towers  The carrier’s other non-core assets include mobile-phone
towers.  Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE) , whose businesses expand
from toll-roads to airports and telecommunications, said in
February it’s in talks with Telefonica, Vodafone and France
Telecom’s Orange to buy more than 1,000 mobile-phone towers
mostly in Europe. Telefonica also plans to sell its 2 percent
stake in  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA. (PTC)  It also owns an indirect
holding in  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   The Spanish company should be able to meet growth and debt-
reduction goals this year, said Heinrich Ey, who helps manage
more than 250 billion euros at Allianz Global Investors in
 Frankfurt , including Telefonica shares.  Outside Spain, still its biggest market despite steeper
competition from rivals from  Jazztel Plc (JAZ)  to  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s
Yoigo unit, growing uncertainties from Cyprus and the European
Union could pose risks for the Telefonica’s operations and asset
disposal plans, Ey said.  “The company really needs to be prepared to sell such
assets as its stake in China Unicom or its business in Ireland
because their debt level remains very high,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  