-- Emerging Stocks Drop With Commodities Amid Korea Tensions
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-03T21:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/emerging-market-stocks-drop-on-malaysian-elections-north-korea.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped for a
third day as falling commodity prices dragged down materials
producers and tensions on the Korean peninsula escalated.  Gold producer  Zhaojin Mining Industry Co. (1818)  fell 4.3 percent
to a seven-month low in Hong Kong. OAO Severstal,  Russia ’s
second-biggest steelmaker, fell for a third day, and  KGHM Polska
Miedz SA (KGH) ,  Poland ’s sole copper producer, lost the most in more
than a week. South Korean stocks fell a third day. Rossi
Residencial SA led homebuilders higher in  Brazil .  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 0.4 percent to
1,024.99 in New York. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
slid the most since Nov. 7.  North Korea  prevented South Korean
workers from entering a jointly run industrial park after saying
it will restart a mothballed nuclear plant and threatening to
attack its southern neighbor.  “Commodities are a big portion of the index,” Michelle Gibley, director of international research at San Francisco-
based Charles Schwab Corp., said by phone. Her firm manages
$2.04 trillion in client assets. “When you get a flare up in
geopolitical risk, it results in market volatility. You
certainly never want to see heating up of political risk.”  Nine out of 10 groups in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) 
fell today as healthcare companies and energy producers had the
biggest losses. The broader gauge has slumped 2.9 percent this
year, compared with a 6.5 percent advance in the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  of developed-country stocks. The developing-nations
measure trades at 10.7 times  estimated  12-month earnings,
compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.8, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund dropped 1.2 percent to $41.83. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
gained 3.3 percent to 18.36.  Brazil’s Bovespa gained 1.2 percent as Rossi jumped 9.4
percent. The Mexican  IPC Index (MEXBOL)  fell 0.9 percent as America Movil
SAB, the heaviest weighed stock on the gauge, sank 1.8 percent.
Stocks in the U.S. dropped as data on private payrolls and
services-industry growth trailed estimates.  Russian shares slid as oil, the nation’s chief export
earner, dropped the most this year. Benchmark gauges in  Hungary ,
Poland and the  Czech Republic  fell at least 0.9 percent. KGHM
dropped 0.7 percent in Warsaw, while Severstal tumbled 4.3
percent in Moscow.  South Korea  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slipped 0.2 percent to the lowest
level since March 25. The won dropped as much as 0.5 percent
against the dollar to the weakest level since Sept. 20, before
closing little changed. LG Innotek Co., a South Korean maker of
light-emitting diode products, rallied 8.8 percent, the most in
the emerging markets gauge.  China’s stocks dropped to a  14-week low  in  Shanghai  as
concerns over a new strain of avian flu overshadowed data
showing growth in the nation’s services industries. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in
 Hong Kong  slid 0.5 percent. Zhaojin Mining fell 4.3 percent.  Yingde Gases Group Co. (2168)  tumbled 14 percent, the most on
record. The company, which manufactures industrial gases, was
the worst performer in the emerging markets gauge today. The
company said that the decision to loan money to shareholder
Bubbly Brooke to help fund purchase of its shares was a
“mistake” caused by “misunderstanding” of rules, according
to a Hong Kong exchange filing.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex lost 1.3 percent, while  Thailand ’s
SET Index fell 1.9 percent. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index
rose 1 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  was unchanged at 304 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  