-- Merck’s Fosamax on Trial Again After First Case Halted
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-03T22:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/merck-s-fosamax-on-trial-again-after-first-case-halted.html
The second trial over claims  Merck &
Co. (MRK)  hid risks that its Fosamax osteoporosis drug could cause
femur fractures is scheduled to start next week after the
plaintiff in the first case suffered a health problem.  The new trial, set to begin April 9 in federal court in
Trenton, New Jersey, is among more than 3,300 lawsuits alleging
Fosamax caused broken legs. Another 1,230 cases allege users
sustained jaw-related injuries, Merck has said.  The first femur-fracture trial, which started last month in
state court in Atlantic City, New Jersey, ended in a mistrial
after the plaintiff, Christina Su, had a “serious health
complication” unrelated to her use of Fosamax, Merck said in a
March 18 statement on its website.  The new trial comes about two months after Merck said it
expected  profit  to decline this year because of generic
competition to its top-selling  Singulair  and research setbacks
that slowed efforts to get new drugs to market.  Fosamax, approved for sale in the U.S. in 1995, generated
 sales  of as much $3 billion a year until patent protection
lapsed in 2008 and it faced competition from generic rivals. The
drug is often prescribed for osteoporosis in women and for
cancer sufferers worried about fractures from weakened bones.  Karen Menzies, one of Su’s lawyers, told a New Jersey jury
on the opening day of her trial that officials at Merck, based
in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, hid the risks that Fosamax
could weaken bones and lead to fractures.  Extended Use  She said Merck researchers ignored signs that extended use
of drugs known as bisphosphonates, including Fosamax, caused
femurs to deteriorate in people such as Su, while officials
disregarded safety risks and pushed the drug for women who
weren’t suffering from osteoporosis.  Merck officials contend Fosamax didn’t cause the 67-year-
old Su’s femur fracture and the company properly warned doctors
and patients about the drug’s risks.  Christy Jones, a lawyer for Merck, told jurors that Su had
no evidence to support claims the drugmaker turned a blind eye
to Fosamax’s safety problems. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration repeatedly approved the medicine as safe and
effective for women worried about bone-density loss, Jones said.  Neither Jones nor Menzies returned calls today seeking
comment on the mistrial or the new case.  The company has won five of the seven cases weighed by
juries on the jaw claims. In February, a federal jury in New
York ordered Merck to  pay  $285,000 to a woman who blamed the
drug for her jawbone injuries.  During last month’s trial, Jones also said Su’s medical
records showed her bones were strengthened by her Fosamax use
and that she fell into the category of women who were at risk
for “fragility fractures.” Jones said medical evidence would
be presented to show Su “suffered the same kind of fracture”
suffered by women who didn’t take Fosamax.  The case is Su v. Merck & Co., ATL-L-0789-11-MT, Superior
Court of New Jersey (Atlantic City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  