-- Tetangco Keeps Option of Philippine Special Deposit Rate Cut
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-04-03T03:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/tetangco-keeps-option-of-philippine-special-deposit-rate-cut-1-.html
The Philippine central bank will
keep the option of another cut in the rate it pays for funds in
so-called special deposit accounts, Governor Amando Tetangco
said three weeks before the next policy meeting. The peso fell.  “We can’t rule it out,” Tetangco said in an interview
late yesterday in Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei. “If there is
room to reduce it further, then we will do that. But we will
have to make the assessment that will underpin that decision, as
we don’t pre-commit to a specific policy direction.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has cut the SDA rate twice this
year while holding its  benchmark  at a record-low 3.5 percent as
the monetary authority shifts to an interest-rate corridor
approach for greater flexibility. The central bank will probably
relax rules on foreign-currency transactions this month to
encourage outflows, Tetangco said, as loose monetary policies in
advanced economies spur inflows to  emerging markets .  “Deposits still continue to pick up” even after the last
SDA-rate cut in March, said Euben Paracuelles, a Singapore-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “That’s going to be a strong
reason for them to cut it further,” said Paracuelles, who
expects a 50 basis-point cut at each of the next two policy
meetings. Bangko Sentral is scheduled to meet on April 25.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 40.905 per dollar as of 11:28
a.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It has advanced
more than 4 percent in the past 12 months, the biggest gain
after the Thai baht among 11 Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose 0.9 percent.
It surged to a record last week after Fitch Ratings awarded the
nation its first investment grade.  Liquidity Issues  Policy makers across Asia are battling the risk of asset-
price bubbles from increased inflows. Emerging Asia stocks had
$9.5 billion of inflows in the first quarter this year,
according to Citigroup Inc., compared with $1.8 billion of
inflows in the same period a year earlier.  Foreign portfolio inflows into the Philippines climbed to
$2.1 billion in February, about 40 percent higher from a year
earlier, after surging to a 10-year high in 2012. They are
creating “issues with respect to liquidity, inflation and
exchange-rate appreciation,” said Tetangco, who is attending a
meeting of central bankers and finance officials of the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  “It’s something that central banks need to cope with,”
said Paracuelles. “They’ve started deploying some measures, but
the effects of the inflows are probably manifesting much more.
There is a case for them to keep looking at these measures.”  Limits Imposed  Bangko Sentral had earlier imposed limits on lenders’
currency forward positions, banned overseas funds from SDAs and
expanded monitoring of banks’ real-estate exposure. Tetangco
said last week officials are also considering prohibiting
overseas funds from its reverse repurchase facility.  Philippine SDAs held about 1.95 trillion pesos ($48 billion)
and the reverse repurchase facility had 280.8 billion pesos as
of March 15, central bank data showed. Funds in SDAs climbed
from 1.93 trillion pesos the week before the March 14 rate cut.  Bank lending for property and consumers will pick up
because of the SDA-rate cuts, said James Lago, head of research
at PCCI Securities Brokers Corp. in Manila, as shares of
Philippine builders gained. Ayala Land Inc. climbed 2.6 percent.  Philippine President Benigno Aquino is increasing state
spending to a record this year while seeking more than $17
billion of investment in airports and roads to spur growth to as
much as 7 percent. The  economy  expanded 6.6 percent in 2012.  The central bank will review its balance-of-payments
forecasts when it meets and will also probably raise its
estimate for foreign direct investments this year as
manufacturing companies expand, Tetangco said. The government
expects investment pledges to exceed last year’s record $15.9
billion, Trade Secretary Gregory Domingo said in March.  Bangko Sentral is working with lenders to fix a benchmark
for loan pricing this year, Tetangco said. An overnight index
swap, which is an average of swaps and central bank facilities
such as SDAs and the reverse repurchase facility, will be used
for loans up to one year. Loans with longer tenors will be based
on a zero-yield curve priced off government securities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Bandar Seri Begawan at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  