-- EU Carbon May Rise 14% as Traders Anticipate Vote, Hudak Says
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-04-03T12:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/eu-carbon-may-rise-14-as-traders-anticipate-vote-hudak-says.html
European Union carbon permits may
rise as much as 14 percent before the bloc’s parliament votes
April 16 on a measure to boost prices, according to Milan Hudak,
a Prague-based analyst at Virtuse Energy sro.  Allowances for December have jumped 81 percent to 5.08
($7.37) euros a metric ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe since
falling to a record on Jan. 24. They may advance to 5.80 euros
as traders bet that the bloc’s assembly will approve an
amendment to the emissions-trading law that would allow the
European Commission to temporarily withhold 900 million permits
from the market, Hudak said today by e-mail.  Carbon prices tumbled 83 percent since reaching a record
29.69 euros in July 2008. A glut of permits swelled to 1.88
billion tons, or 19 percent of the total supply in the five
years through 2012, the market’s second phase, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The EU released  yesterday  data
showing that the surplus grew for a fourth year in 2012.  “Traders are increasingly persuaded that Parliament will
support backloading, so they see prices rising before and
possibly after the April 16 vote,” Hudak said. “Between now
and then we’ll probably see a cautious increase, as traders
regularly liquidate long positions to safeguard any profits.”  Fundamental Demand  There is also demand from power stations and factories
seeking to hedge forward electricity sales and to secure permits
to meet the 2012 compliance deadline on April 30, according to
Jan Frommeyer, managing director at Tschach Solutions, an
emissions market adviser.  “I don’t think the rise in prices is entirely due to
betting on the vote in Parliament,” Frommeyer said today by
phone from  Frankfurt . “There is good fundamental demand from
utilities to hedge forward power sales, and industrial companies
are having to buy for 2012 compliance.”  Factories have previously been able to use permits from the
next year’s allocation for compliance with the previous year’s
cap, according to EU rules. This so-called “borrowing” isn’t
permitted during the transition from Phase 2 of the market to
Phase 3.  “Industrials were hoping to be able to swap some Phase 3
permits for surplus Phase 2 allowances in the market to achieve
compliance,” Frommeyer said. Because the 2013 allocation hasn’t
taken place, “they have to buy outright instead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  