-- Ex-A123 Battery Maker Accord Cuts Fisker Claim by 89%
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-04-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/ex-a123-battery-maker-accord-cuts-fisker-claim-by-89-.html
The bankrupt electric-car battery
maker formerly called  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) , now renamed B456
Systems Inc., reached a settlement in which Fisker Automotive
Inc. reduced its claims by 89 percent to $15 million.  The accord with the bankruptcy’s unsecured-creditors’
committee will substantially cut Fisker’s $140 million in claims
stemming from a rejection of its supply agreement and alleged
breach of warranty obligations, according to court documents
filed April 2 in Wilmington,  Delaware . The agreement will
benefit all unsecured creditors, the committee’s lawyers said.  “This reduction will have a substantial positive effect on
the value of other unsecured claims,” lawyers for the committee
said in a court filing. The committee “analyzed the Fisker
proofs of claim, and the committee believes that the settlement
embodied in the stipulation represents a compromise that is the
best possible outcome” for B456’s estate.  Fisker’s breach-of-warranty claim will be reduced from
$48.7 million to a $15 million unsecured claim and its $91.2
million claim for damages from the rejection of its supply
agreement will be disallowed, according to court documents.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey approved A123’s
disclosure statement, an outline of its liquidation plan used by
creditors to decide how to vote on the plan, according to court
documents filed March 14.  The company will seek court approval of the plan, which
includes distributing the proceeds from selling substantially
all of its assets, at a hearing scheduled for April 30.  Nearer Confirmation  “This settlement provides that Fisker shall support the
plan, and therefore this settlement moves these cases closer
toward the ultimate goal of confirmation,” the creditors’
committee said in court papers.  The Waltham, Massachusetts-based company filed for
 bankruptcy  in October after a previous deal with Wanxiang Group
Co.,  China ’s biggest auto-parts maker, was scuttled amid
congressional Republicans’ reluctance to allow its sale to a
Chinese company.  A123, which was awarded a federal grant of as much as
$249.1 million and only used about $132 million to build two
plants in  Michigan , listed assets of $459.8 million and debt of
$376 million as of Aug. 31 in court documents.  The company got court approval Dec. 11 to sell the majority
of its assets to Wanxiang’s U.S. unit. Wanxiang America Corp.
acquired substantially all of A123’s automotive, grid and
commercial business assets for about $256.6 million. The deal
received approval from the Committee on Foreign Investment in
the U.S. on Jan. 29.  U.S.-Backed Technology  CFIUS, as it is known, is a federal interagency group led
by the Treasury Department that reviewed the sale after members
of Congress expressed national-security concerns over allowing a
foreign competitor to obtain the technology developed with
government backing.  The case is In re B456 Systems Inc., 12-12859,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 