-- Ex-Goldman Sachs Trader Taylor Said to Surrender to FBI
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-04-03T13:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/ex-goldman-sachs-trader-taylor-said-to-surrender-to-fbi.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
traderMatthew Taylor surrendered to the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  at about 8:30 a.m. this morning as part of a
U.S. securities fraud investigation, a person familiar with the
matter said.  Taylor is to appear in  Manhattan  federal court later today.
He was accused Nov. 8 in a lawsuit by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission of concealing an $8.3 billion position in
2007 that caused New York-based Goldman Sachs to lose 
$118 million.  Morgan Stanley hired Taylor in March 2008 after Goldman
Sachs fired him three months earlier. Goldman cited “alleged
conduct related to inappropriately large proprietary futures
positions in a firm trading account,” in a so-called U-5 form,
according to a Financial Industry Regulatory Authority document.  New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which had employed Taylor
before he joined Goldman Sachs in 2005, hired him after a
subprime mortgage-related trading position resulted in a
$9.4 billion writedown in December 2007.  Equity Derivative  Taylor, who handled client-related equity derivative
trading at Morgan Stanley, left the firm in July, the company
said last year. Taylor’s departure wasn’t related to the CFTC
complaint, said a person familiar with the situation who asked
not to be identified because the information was private.  According to the CFTC complaint, filed in federal court in
Manhattan, Taylor concealed his position by bypassing the firm’s
internal system for routing trades to the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange and manually entering fabricated futures trades in a
different internal system.  Goldman Sachs, which wasn’t identified in the CFTC lawsuit,
said at the time that Taylor made the trades while employed at
the firm.  The CFTC case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
v. Taylor, 12-cv-8170, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net  and;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  