-- Explosion Hits Zueitina Oil’s Pipeline Network in Libya
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2013-04-03T14:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/explosion-hits-libya-crude-condensate-pipelines-noc-says.html
An explosion hit Zueitina Oil Co.
pipelines in Libya yesterday, highlighting challenges the
country faces securing energy assets and boosting output after
the 2011 uprising that led to the ouster of Muammar Qaddafi.  Firefighters rushed to the scene after the pipeline network
was hit by a rocket-propelled grenade, the official Lana news
agency reported, citing army commander Moftah Buhariq. While
state-run National Oil Corp. said the attack targeted a pipeline
for crude and another for condensate, Lana said a single gas
pipeline was struck. Neither gave details of the extent of
damage or of disruption to shipments.  Zueitina began repairs this morning and started an
investigation into the blast, which took place at 10 p.m.
yesterday, NOC said on its website. No one was hurt in the
attack, whose reason is still unknown, NOC said.  Libya’s efforts to bring crude production back to levels
seen before Qaddafi’s toppling have been hampered by sporadic
fighting between armed groups and strikes and sit-ins at energy
installations. The latest attack comes as Deputy Oil Minister
Omar Shakmak announced in Dubai today that Libya expects output
to rise to 1.7 million barrels a day this year from 1.5 million
barrels a day.  “Obviously there is a vacuum of power in Libya and it’s
becoming an increasingly fractured nation,” Sana Abid, Oil
Analyst at KBC Energy Economics, said by phone from  London . “I
don’t see anything positive politically and these kinds of
incidents make me feel more wary of them reaching their
production target. They are going to struggle to get past 1.5
million barrels a day this year.”  Last month, gunmen attacked security forces at Waha Oil
Co.’s Dahra field, and in a separate incident, clashes erupted
between rival militias in the western town of Zuwara, forcing
the country to stop natural-gas exports to  Italy .  The pipeline that was attacked last night links Zueitina’s
export terminal to the company’s oil field number 103, the Abu
Attifel field, which is operated by Mellitah Oil and Gas, and
the Nakhla field run by Wintershall AG, according to NOC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  