-- FAA Should Shut Most Air-Traffic Radar Rooms, Study Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-03T18:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/faa-should-shut-most-air-traffic-radar-rooms-study-says.html
The U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration could save $1.7 billion up front and about $1
billion more annually by closing 187 air-traffic radar rooms and
building consolidated centers to control flights over large
regions, a study found.  Most of the U.S. centers and regional approach control
facilities “can and should be shut down,” wrote the report
authors, who included Robert Poole, transportation director for
the  Reason Foundation , and Michael Harrison, the FAA’s former
director of architectural and systems engineering.  “They can be replaced by a much smaller number of
facilities, many of which can be designed from the outset to
function in the from-anywhere-to-anywhere paradigm,” the report
said.  The study’s conclusions point to cost savings available to
the FAA apart from automatic budget cuts imposed at most U.S.
government agencies.  The $1 billion in annual savings, which the report said can
be gained in productivity, equipment and facility maintenance,
amounts to about 6 percent of the agency’s annual budget.  A planned $42 billion redesign of the U.S. air-traffic
control system could help consolidate many of the FAA’s 561
staffed facilities by upgrading technology so controllers won’t
need to work below the airspace they manage, the  Reason  report
said.  Under the redesign, flying would be made more efficient due
to technology that allows more precise aircraft tracking,
streamlined communications and more direct routing with fewer
delays, said Los Angeles-based Reason, which advocates for
smaller government.  Political Challenges  The authors didn’t calculate the costs of building new
facilities to replace the closed ones or address the obstacles
to uprooting employees including unionized controllers.  The National Air Traffic Controllers Association, a union
representing 15,000 controllers, has objected to closing
facilities in the past in West Palm Beach, Florida, and Boise,
Idaho.  “NATCA supports facility consolidations and realignments
where they enhance operational services and the safety and
efficiency of the National Airspace System,” the union said in
an e-mail statement. It is working with FAA on a plan to merge
facilities in the  New York  region, it said in the statement.  ‘Deteriorating, Outdated’  Maximizing the benefits from the so-called NextGen air-
traffic control upgrade project would require moving hundreds of
radar rooms that are obsolete or can’t accommodate new
equipment. That plan may be at risk after U.S. lawmakers blocked
several attempts to merge FAA facilities, Bloomberg reported in
November. The agency has more than 500 radar rooms, smaller
facilities than the other types where controllers work.  The Transportation Department inspector general, in a July
 report , said “many” FAA air-traffic control facilities are
“deteriorating and outdated,” especially considering the
technology upgrades being done as part of NextGen. It called on
the agency to speed up its 20-year facility consolidation plan.  NextGen  will use global-positioning satellite technology to
replace radar to track aircraft and give controllers better
communication tools including an e-mail-like link to pilots. The
FAA projects NextGen will save airlines $24 billion in fuel,
delays and other expenses by 2020 by letting planes fly more
direct routes and closer to each other.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  