-- Fed’s Tarullo Wants Consistent Job Growth Before Curbing QE
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-04-03T15:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/fed-s-tarullo-wants-more-consistent-job-growth-before-curbing-qe.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said that while some economic data have exceeded
expectations, he would like to see more consistent job growth
before he can support curbing quantitative easing.  “At the very least what I’d like to see is some good
healthy peaks that have  job creation  well above the rate of new
entrants into the labor market, followed not by valleys that
take back some of that progress but at the very least by a nice
plateau that can be the basis for some more peaks later,”
Tarullo said today in a CNBC interview.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is debating how long it
should continue $85 billion in monthly purchases of Treasuries
and mortgage bonds aimed at boosting economic growth and
reducing the 7.7 percent unemployment rate. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues reiterated March 20 they will press
on until the labor market outlook improves “substantially.”  The FOMC’s standard for substantial improvement in the job
market outlook is a “forward-leaning, forward-looking kind of
standard,” Tarullo said today. The large-scale asset purchases
“are trying to create some more traction for the economy on the
road to maximum employment consistent with  price stability , not
to actually reach that destination.”  Employers in the world’s largest economy added 236,000
workers in February, lifting the six-month average pace of job
creation to 186,500. The Labor Department may say April 5 that
payrolls last month increased by 195,000, according to the
median of 83 economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The
economy grew at an 0.4 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter, up from a prior estimate of 0.1 percent.  2010, 2011  “There have been a fair number of data points that have
been above expectations, but remember this has happened
before,” Tarullo said, citing slumps in the pace of job growth
in 2010 and 2011. “We had some increases that lasted for a few
months in  job creation  and then they were followed by valleys.”  Unprecedented quantitative easing that has expanded the Fed
balance sheet to a record  $3.2 trillion  deserves continued
support because the benefits of boosting economic growth that’s
still too weak to reduce unemployment outweigh the risks of the
asset purchase program, Tarullo said.  “Of course there could be costs but there are certainly
benefits,” Tarullo said. “At this point certainly my judgment
is that the benefits outweigh the costs and that’s why I’ve
continued to vote in favor of the program.”  The next FOMC meeting will be April 30-May 1 in  Washington .  Bank Regulation  Tarullo also said today that the Fed and other regulators
“haven’t ended” too-big-to-fail banks, and that any proposal
to break up the largest lenders is a “matter for the
Congress.” Still, the Fed can make liquidity requirements more
stringent without action from lawmakers, he said.  Tarullo, 60, has led the Fed’s effort to implement the
Dodd-Frank Act, the biggest overhaul of financial regulation
since the 1930s, and pushed to raise capital standards for the
largest banks, subject them to annual stress tests and boost
scrutiny of their lending and trading practices.  Tarullo previously was a professor at the  Georgetown
University Law Center  in Washington and an aide to President
 Bill Clinton . He was nominated by President  Barack Obama  and has
served on the Fed board since January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  