-- Fed’s Williams Says It’s Too Early to Consider Reducing QE
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-04-03T21:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/fed-s-williams-says-it-s-too-early-to-consider-reducing-qe.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President John Williams said it’s too early to begin
slowing the pace of the central bank’s bond purchases, with the
benefits outweighing the costs and risks of the record expansion
of the Fed’s balance sheet.  “It will take more solid evidence to convince me that it’s
time to trim our  asset  purchases,” Williams said in the text of
prepared remarks given in Los Angeles today. “Continued
progress depends critically on support from the Federal
Reserve.”  Williams, who said bond purchases will probably be needed
through late this year, added his voice to those of other Fed
bank presidents who are saying that continued stimulus is needed
to bring the central bank closer to its goals of full employment
and price stability.  Atlanta’s Dennis Lockhart said the Fed will probably need
to keep purchasing bonds later into this year or into 2014.
James Bullard of St. Louis said the Fed’s policy committee will
be in no hurry to slow its asset purchases this year with
inflation below its target.  The Federal Open Market Committee in March agreed to keep
buying $85 billion in bonds per month, seeking to bolster
economic growth and reduce unemployment that was at 7.7 percent
in February. Officials are now debating when to begin dialing
back the purchases as the economy shows signs of healing.  Exit Plan  “I expect we will meet the test for substantial
improvement in the outlook for the labor market by this
summer,” Williams said in his speech. “If that happens, we
could start tapering our purchases then. If all goes as hoped,
we could end the purchase program sometime late this year.”  The FOMC began a third round of  large-scale asset buying  in
September, saying that it will keep buying bonds until the labor
market substantially improves. Several officials said the Fed
should be prepared to vary the pace of asset purchases in
response to the economic outlook or a continuing analysis of the
benefits and costs to the program, minutes of the Jan. 29-30
meeting showed.  “I see the benefits of our asset purchases continuing to
outweigh the costs by a large margin,” Williams said today.
“There are still obstacles to our progress, including the
effects of  budget  cuts coming out of  Washington  and the sluggish
recovery plaguing many of our trading partners abroad,
especially in  Europe .”  Growth Outlook  The San Francisco Fed chief added that the economy will
probably grow 2.5 percent this year and 3.25 percent in 2014,
bringing the unemployment rate down to “a little below” 7
percent by late next year.  Williams told reporters after his speech that while he
expects job growth of about 200,000 a month in 2014, he’s “not
convinced” we’ve seen substantial improvement in labor markets.  “I’m looking for sustained, ongoing improvements” and
won’t “get caught up” in short-term fluctuation in the data,
he said. The Fed needs to revisit its exit strategy to gain more
policy “flexibility” than provided under its current plan,
Williams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  