-- Fiat Turns to Germany as Italy Sales Seen Worst Since ’66
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-04-04T12:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/fiat-turns-to-germany-as-italy-sales-seen-worst-since-66.html
The bottom was already falling out
of the Italian auto market. Then the political turmoil hit.  After an inconclusive election more than five weeks ago
sent weak demand spiraling further downward, sales in 2013 could
drop as much as 21 percent to 1.11 million cars, the lowest
since 1966, said Gian Primo Quagliano, head of automotive
researcher CSP in Bologna.  The plummeting deliveries are upending Italy’s auto
industry and will hit Turin-based  Fiat SpA (F)  especially hard.
Hundreds of dealerships are closing and factories are running at
half capacity. To offset the woe in Italy, which accounts for 56
percent of its European deliveries, Fiat is seeking to boost
sales in  Germany  by offering steeper discounts than any other
automaker there.  Now, even German demand is weakening: Results released
yesterday showed that, in March, deliveries tumbled 17 percent,
the biggest monthly drop since October 2010, limiting options
for Fiat and other European carmakers to offset declines
elsewhere.  Italy’s lack of political leadership is “a fundamental and
serious problem,” Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said last month. “Every period of instability, in
managing a country or a company, creates doubts and weakness
among consumers.”  Fourth Recession  Consumer confidence  in Italy fell in March after the
February election failed to produce a clear majority for a new
government as the country faces its fourth recession since 2001.
Auto sales dropped 13 percent through March to almost 355,000
vehicles, with Fiat deliveries down 9.3 percent, according to
industry group Anfia, which estimates a demand drop of as much
as 10 percent this year.  A deepening slump in Italy will make it more difficult for
Marchionne to reach a 2016 target of reaching the break-even
level in  Europe , where the  automaker  lost more than 700 million
euros ($898 million) last year.  Fiat had a sign of hope last month, as demand for the new
500L wagon helped sales in the country rise 5.3 percent. Still,
the gain was off depressed levels from March 2012, when the
country suffered from a truckers’ strike.  Italy’s woes have left their mark on Fiat’s  market value ,
which has withered to 5.1 billion euros from more than 22
billion euros before the start of the financial crunch in 2007.
 Volkswagen (VOW)  AG, aided by a more stable German market and
expansion in the U.S. and  China , has climbed in value to 70.4
billion euros from 56 billion euros over the same period.  Chrysler Hopes  Fiat shares, which have fallen 8.5 percent over the past
six months the  worst performer  in the Euro Stoxx autos and parts
index, were up 1 cent at 4.07 euros at 2:15 p.m. in Milan.  Fiat, which controls Chrysler Group LLC, is relying on the
American carmaker to sustain earnings as Italy unravels.
Chrysler sales in U.S. rose 5 percent in March for its 36th
consecutive monthly gain. To stem losses in Europe, Marchionne
plans to transform underused factories in Italy into export hubs
for more-expensive vehicles from the group’s Jeep,  Alfa Romeo 
and Maserati brands.  A decline to 1.11 million cars this year, which would
represent a 55 percent drop from 2007, “would be a horrible
outcome and may cause major disruption in the sector, which
represents about 12 percent of Italian gross domestic product,”
said Quagliano, describing the forecast as a worst-case
scenario.  Political Limbo  Italy’s political impasse extended into a second month as a
10-person committee named by President Giorgio Napolitano
started work on building consensus toward a new government
before his term expires in six weeks. The country won’t likely
have a new government in place before the next president is
elected. A recovery of the car market is only expected once a
new government succeeds in reducing taxes and boosting
consumption, according to auto group Anfia.  The last time  Italy ’s car sales were this low was 47 years
ago, the year Marchionne, now 60, left the country with his
family to move to  Canada . Italians bought 1 million cars in
1966, the year Alfa Romeo -- now part of Fiat -- introduced its
Duetto Spider.  This time around, the CEO is trying to escape to Germany.
Fiat will sponsor the top-division  Eintracht Frankfurt  soccer
team for at least three years and will put the Alfa Romeo logo
on the team’s jersey next season.  German Deals  To move cars now, the Italian carmaker’s dealers in Germany
offered an average discount of 16.5 percent off list prices in
February, the highest in the sector, according to data from
trade publication Autohaus PulsSchlag.  Fiat isn’t alone in turning to Germany, which accounts for
25 percent of the region’s deliveries. The industrywide discount
in Germany widened to an average 11.7 percent in February from
11.5 percent a year earlier, PulsSchlag estimates.  “Carmakers will look for demand elsewhere, so it becomes a
fight on prices on a European level, not just an Italian one,”
Marchionne said at an event in Geneva on March 19.  The problem for carmakers is that there’s not much room
left to maneuver. Four of the region’s five biggest auto markets
shrank in February, with the decline steepest in Italy.  There were no signs of a letup in March. Sales in  Spain 
fell 14 percent even though the government is offering 2,000-
euro rebates on cars. Italian deliveries declined 4.9 percent.  Dealer Closings  For Italy’s auto dealers, there is no way out of the
downward spiral other than cutting costs and closing locations.
The number of dealerships has shrunk 20 percent in the last five
years to about 2,800 outlets, according to industry group
Federauto.  Gruppo Colaneri has just two dealerships left in the
country, down from six in 2008. It has reduced its workforce at
its auto business by 75 percent to 50 employees.  “We had to take painful restructuring measures because the
car dealership business is dying in Italy,” said Angelo Colaneri, who has been selling cars at Gruppo Colaneri in  Rome 
for more than 50 years. “You can’t find a profitable dealer
anywhere in the country.”  With austerity measures and a government hunt for tax
cheats that targets luxury-car drivers, sales of premium
vehicles and  sports cars  have also plunged.  Deliveries at Volkswagen’s Porsche in Italy tumbled 36
percent in the first three months of the year, while its
Lamborghini brand dropped 13 percent. Sales at Fiat’s Ferrari
nameplate fell 36 percent in the country.  Japan Surge  In a rare bright spot, Ferrari deliveries in  Japan  for the
12 months ended March 31 surged to the highest in 12 years,
according to data from Japan’s auto importers association. The
growth there doesn’t offset weakness at home.  “Italy in 2008 was a market of 2,000 high-end super cars a
year,” Lamborghini CEO Stephan Winkelmann said at the company’s
headquarters in Sant’Agata Bolognese, in the countryside between
Modena and Bologna. “Last year, it shrunk to 400 units, so it’s
already a disaster” and the trend isn’t changing.  The crisis has created the best opportunities for those few
who are indeed buying.  Andrea Visconti, a 37-year-old optician near Milan, wasn’t
desperately looking for a new car when  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) 
offered him a 30 percent discount a C3 Picasso wagon, on top of
a generous valuation for his Peugeot 207. He didn’t hesitate.  “I will just pay 8,000 euros in cash for a car worth
20,500 euros,” he said. “So I jumped at the offer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  