-- Forint Strengthens to Three-Week High as Budget Concern Eases
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-03T10:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/forint-strengthens-to-three-week-high-as-budget-concern-eases.html
The forint strengthened to a three-
week high as Hungary’s government cut the budget deficit and
reiterated its rejection of currency devaluation as a way to
boost the economy.  The currency advanced for a fourth day after data showed
yesterday that the fiscal gap came in at 2.1 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012, below the European Union’s 3 percent
limit. There are enough budget reserves to weather risks this
year, Economy Ministry State Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay said
today. Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  opposes devaluing the
forint to increase exports and wants a stable currency, the Wall
Street Journal reported yesterday.  “The government has signaled they don’t want to create
uncertainty and forint weakness, their communication has become
more open toward investors,” Andrej Taraczky, head of currency
trading at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt., said by phone from Budapest
today. The improvement in the budget has also helped support the
forint, Taraczky said.  The forint climbed 0.5 percent to 300.55 per euro by 11:41
a.m. in Budapest. Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-year
bonds fell 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage points, to 6.13
percent.  “The favorable budget deficit data may be a good basis for
forint appreciation,” Imre Kerekgyarto, a Budapest-based trader
at Commerzbank AG, wrote by e-mail today.  The forint has gained 1.8 percent since  Hungary ’s central
bank urged caution in monetary easing after cutting the
benchmark rate by 25 basis points to a record low 5 percent on
March 26.  While the government “clearly prefers” lower rates, the
central bank’s easing may be approaching a point which causes a
selloff in some bonds, Varga said, according to the Wall Street
Journal report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  