-- France Telecom CEO Says Frugal Buyers Threaten IPhone Sales
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-04-04T20:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/france-telecom-ceo-says-frugal-buyers-threaten-sales-of-iphone.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  Chief Executive
Officer Stephane Richard, head of one of Europe’s largest
wireless carriers, said the increasing frugality of customers is
threatening sales of pricey phones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  “We are in a period of changing consumer behavior,”
Richard said this week during an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York. There are fewer shoppers in search of
the latest and greatest gadget, and more of them are seeking
lower prices on wireless service, he said.  The shift has been especially severe in Europe, where more
customers are keeping the same phone when they switch carriers.
Amid a slumping economy and mounting competition, France Telecom
has seen prices drop 25 percent over the past three years,
squeezing profit margins and its stock price. Its cheapest plan
now provides unlimited calls and texting and 3 gigabytes of data
for about 20 euros ($26) a month -- about half the price of T-
Mobile USA Inc.’s $50 plan, which is touted as a U.S. bargain.  The persistent belt-tightening in France and elsewhere in
Europe has decreased the number of consumers who buy the latest
phones at top prices, Richard said. Without a carrier subsidy,
the iPhone typically sells for about $600, making it too pricey
for many shoppers, he said.  ‘More Difficult’  The change may be felt when Apple introduces its latest
iPhone this year, Richard said. The product’s annual refresh has
traditionally drawn long lines and a frenzy of anticipation
since it first debuted in 2007.  “There are fewer early adopters, and probably with the
next release of the iPhone this will be evident,” Richard said.
“Selling a phone for $600 is getting more and more difficult.”  Natalie Harrison, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment.  France Telecom is making its own changes as the carrier
tries to pull out of a funk. The Paris-based company is renaming
itself Orange to capitalize on the well-known brand it acquired
in 2000. It’s also looking to Africa and the Middle East for
growth.  In February, the one-time French phone monopoly offered a
dim outlook for 2013. It said operating cash flow will be about
7 billion euros this year, down from 8 billion euros in 2012.  EE Mandates  France Telecom is considering an initial public offering of
a minority stake in its EE wireless venture in the U.K. with
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  at the end of this year or early 2014, Chief
Financial Officer Gervais Pellissier has said.  While an IPO is the preferred option, no final decision has
been made, leaving the parent companies open to a bid for a
stake, people familiar with the matter said, declining to be
identified because the discussions are confidential.  France Telecom hired Morgan Stanley and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch to advise on options for its stake in EE, the
people said.  Tom Wright, a France Telecom spokesman, and Deutsche
Telekom’s Andreas Fuchs declined to comment on the mandates.  Shares of France Telecom rose 0.7 percent to 7.72 euros at
the close in Paris trading.  The stock  has lost about 28 percent
of its value over the past year.  In France, the company cut its mobile-service plan prices
10 percent last year and expects an additional decline this year
of between 10 percent and 12 percent, Richard said. Most of the
price pressure is coming from  Iliad SA (ILD) , a low-cost carrier that
sells service under the Free brand, he said.  To bring its prices down and keep subscribers from
defecting to Iliad, France Telecom started a low-cost brand
called Sosh in 2011. With Sosh, customers bring their own phone
and get more limited customer support. Sosh’s standard package
is more than 40 percent cheaper than the comparable subscription
under the Orange brand.  “Customers are more focused on price,” Richard said.
“Except for a few hundred thousand people who will buy the
latest iPhone -- except for that category of people -- the
majority of the market will be difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  