-- France Names Jean-Luc Martinez as New Chief of Louvre
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-04-03T15:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/france-names-jean-luc-martinez-as-new-chief-of-louvre.html
The Louvre, the world’s most visited
museum, got a new chief today as  France  appointed Jean-Luc
Martinez to replace Henri Loyrette, in the post since 2001.  Martinez, who starts April 15, runs the museum’s Greek,
Etruscan and Roman antiquities department -- one of eight Louvre
departments which together display a total of some 35,000 works.
The announcement was made by the French Culture Ministry.  Martinez takes over at a critical time: as the  Louvre 
prepares to open its first international offshoot in  Abu Dhabi ,
a project that is bringing it and French partner museums a total
of 1 billion euros ($1.28 billion) over 30 years. Martinez also
faces the challenge of upgrading an overcrowded institution at a
time when state cultural spending is shrinking.  “He is someone from a modest background who rose through
the ranks,” Culture Minister Aurelie Filippetti was quoted as
saying by  Agence France-Presse .  Also shortlisted for the position, according to the French
media, was Sylvie Ramond, who heads the Musee des Beaux Arts in
Lyon. Reports that she was the minister’s favorite on gender
grounds led Filippetti late last month to say: “I never said
that it would necessarily be a woman. It’s absurd to present
things in that way.”  In his 12 years on the job, Loyrette modernized the museum
and substantially boosted the museum’s money-raising capacity.  Islamic Art  In 2011, the Louvre generated 94 million euros in revenue,
almost as much as the 116 million euros it received in subsidy.
Loyrette also opened a series of new wings, including an Islamic
Art wing opened last September that was co-financed by
billionaire Prince Al-Waleed Bin Talal of  Saudi Arabia .  Martinez, 49, joined the Louvre in 1997 shortly after a
three-year stint in  Greece  where he took part in archeological
digs in Delos and Delphi and helping renovate Delphi’s
archeological museum. He is fluent in English, Spanish and
Greek, and also speaks Italian.  At the Louvre, he oversaw the decade-long renovation of the
Greek antiquities gallery, where the Venus de Milo is showcased.  Most recently, he curated the main gallery of the Louvre’s
new branch in Lens, northern France, a former coal-mining town.
Louvre Lens, opened in December, is the museum’s very first
offshoot outside Paris.  Loyrette, 60, announced in December that he would not seek
to renew his fourth term as Louvre president once that term
expired in April 2013. No reason was given.  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on books,  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater and  Stephanie Green’s  Scene in D.C.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 