-- French Socialists Push for Review of Hydropower-Dam Tender Plan
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-03T17:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/french-socialists-push-for-review-of-hydropower-dam-tender-plan.html
French plans to open hydroelectric
concessions to competitive bidding, as proposed by the previous
government, should be reviewed because they threaten to drive up
power prices, lawmakers from the ruling Socialist Party said.  “We could lose control over our most competitive energy,”
deputy Marie-Noelle Battistel told a parliamentary hearing
today. Competitive tenders may “go against” industry needs for
cheap power, she said.  Battistel was presenting a report on plans under former
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to invite bids for rights to run about
5,300 megawatts of hydro plants,  France ’s biggest power source
after nuclear energy. Foreign utilities Vattenfall AB,  Enel SpA (ENEL) 
and EON SE have signaled they would bid for concessions held by
former monopolies  Electricite de France SA  and  GDF Suez SA. (GSZ)   “Water is a public good,” said Francois Brottes, who
heads the economic affairs commission in parliament. Brottes
said last year that holding competitive tenders for hydro dams
wouldn’t be a priority for the government under Socialist
President  Francois Hollande , who took power in May 2012.  Socialist Party senators have already proposed that GDF and
EDF be allowed to extend their concessions by 25 years, a
suggestion that Vattenfall said may contradict national laws.  “Our patience is wearing thin,” Frederic de Maneville,
president of the utility’s French operations, said last month in
an interview.  Other European countries including Sweden, Norway and
Switzerland have failed to open their hydroelectric industries
to competition, according to Battistel, who said that companies
taking over dams would be able to sell the power abroad.  France, where nuclear energy accounts for three-quarters of
electricity output, has about 25,000 megawatts of hydropower.  The nation “must enable access to hydroelectricity,” Anne
Houtman, head of the European Commission’s representation in the
country, said at a Paris conference in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  