-- German March Car Sales Drop 17% on Europe Economy Concern
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-03T13:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/german-march-car-sales-drop-17-on-europe-economy-concern.html
German new car sales fell the most
in almost 2 1/2 years last month as renewed skepticism over the
handling of the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  discouraged
consumers from making large purchases.  Registrations in March dropped 17 percent from a year
earlier to 281,184 autos, the German Federal Motor Vehicle
Office, or KBA, said today in a statement. The drop was the
biggest since October 2010, a spokeswoman for the Flensburg-
based KBA said in an e-mail. First-quarter sales fell 13 percent
to 673,957 vehicles.  German unemployment rose while business confidence and an
index in consumers’ willingness to buy fell in March as a
botched bank bailout in Cyprus increased concerns the euro
region’s recovery will falter. The economy of the 17 countries
using the euro has contracted for five consecutive quarters, and
 Germany ’s gross domestic product shrank in the final three
months of 2012.  “Worries in the debt-ridden southern European countries
are spreading to the German market,” said Christian Ludwig, a
Dusseldorf, Germany-based analyst with Bankhaus Lampe. “The
cold weather in March with ice and snow and the Easter holidays
were one-time effects that didn’t help.” Easter took place in
March this year, versus April in 2012.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-biggest carmaker,
posted the steepest drop in German sales last month among the
region’s top five auto manufacturers, with a 41 percent plunge
at the Peugeot brand and a 36 percent slide at the Citroen
marque, according to the KBA  figures .  German sales by the namesake division of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
Europe’s biggest carmaker, fell 21 percent, and its Audi luxury
brand posted a 9.7 percent decline, the KBA said. Registrations
gained at VW’s Seat and Skoda divisions.  “I expect the market to stabilize in the second quarter,”
 Matthias Wissmann , president of the German carmakers
association, or VDA, said in a separate statement. “The
economic outlook for Germany is still robust.”  Car production at German plants was reduced by 13 percent
to 474,900 vehicles in March, bringing the three-month volume
decline to 11 percent, the VDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net  