-- Giriraj of India Completes 33MW of Solar Capacity in Rajasthan
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2013-04-03T13:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/giriraj-of-india-completes-33mw-of-solar-capacity-in-rajasthan.html
Giriraj Enterprises Ltd. of  India 
completed 33 megawatts of solar-power capacity, the most to be
built under the nation’s Renewable Energy Credits mechanism.  The company started output from three projects of 19, 11
and 3 megawatts in the western state of Rajasthan last week,
Prafulla Khinvasara, the company’s chief executive officer for
renewable-power projects, said by telephone.  Companies such as Giriraj, a tobacco trader, are building
solar generators to benefit from renewable-energy incentives.
Producers of clean power can earn certificates for the output
they send to the grid. They can then sell the credits to state
power distributors that are obliged to buy a portion of their
electricity from clean sources such as wind, solar and water.  Giriraj has signed a power purchase agreement with the
local state-owned electricity distributor, Khinvasara said from
Sangamner in Maharashtra state, where the company is based.
Giriraj will be able to sell electricity at an average price of
2.7 rupees (5 cents) a unit, and expects to trade 53,000
certificates a year, he said.  Indian demand for renewable-energy credits, or RECs, almost
tripled last month to 435,481 in the run-up to the fiscal year-
end. Solar credits sold for 13,400 rupees apiece on the Indian
Electricity Exchange, according to REConnect Energy Solutions
Pvt.  “The Indian REC market is considered risky and
unpredictable by investors,” said  Bharat Bhushan , a New Delhi-
based analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “Thirty-three
megawatts is the largest solar REC project in India and it is
not a normal practice to see such large investments in solar
RECs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  