-- Goldman’s Asset Unit Overweight on Slovenia Bonds, May Buy More
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-03T15:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/goldman-s-asset-unit-overweight-on-slovenia-bonds-may-buy-more.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s fund
management arm is overweight on Slovenia’s bonds and may buy
more as it believes the challenges facing the Alpine nation
won’t force the sovereign into debt restructuring.  Yields on Slovenian dollar-denominated notes due 2022 fell
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to a one-week low
of 5.9 percent by 4:07 p.m. in Ljubljana, 48 basis points below
last week’s record high, according to data complied by
Bloomberg. The country’s bonds tumbled over the last two weeks
on speculation it may be the next euro member to ask for a
bailout after Cyprus’s emergency tax plans soured sentiment.  Goldman Sachs Asset Management may expand its “modest”
overweight position in Slovene bonds if the selloff caused by
ripples from Cypriot efforts to obtain aid resumes, according to
Sam Finkelstein, a  money manager  who helps manage $40 billion in
emerging-market debt at the company. While Slovenia’s banks are
saddled with bad debts amid a second recession since 2009, the
financial industry is less bloated then in some European Union
peers, he said in an interview.  “It’s a very solid investment story and not the same
issues that faced either Greece or Cyprus,” Finkelstein said by
phone from  London  today. “If there is further contagion, we’d
be looking to buy that dip.”  Slovenia’s crisis isn’t “insurmountable,” Bostjan Jazbec,
approved by lawmakers as Slovenia’s next central bank president
this week, said in an interview yesterday.  While the country faces “a number of challenges” and has
a “weak” coalition government, its “banking sector is not
large compared to other EU members and debt-to-GDP is low,”
Finkelstein said. “The remedy to their challenges is not a
haircut to the government debt. So I’m very comfortable with an
investment in Slovenia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  