-- Gold Bugs Had the Best Monetary Rule
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-04-03T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/gold-bugs-had-the-best-monetary-rule.html
Ever since the U.S. severed the last
remnant of the dollar’s link to gold in 1971, economists have
been searching for a new rule for monetary policy. The Great
Inflation of the 1970s only reinforced the notion that rules
trump discretion. But what sort of rule exactly?  Milton Friedman  wanted to replace the  Federal Reserve  with
a computer that would increase the stock of money by a fixed
amount, month in, month out.  Paul Volcker , who was appointed Fed
chairman in 1979, introduced a money-supply target. The target
he chose -- “non-borrowed reserves” -- has no relationship to
anything the Fed cares about, be it inflation, employment or
output. That said, it provided the cover to push the  fed funds
rate  as high as 20 percent without actually specifying an
interest-rate target.  In 1992, Stanford University economist  John Taylor  devised
a  rule that bears his name : a formula for determining the
appropriate level for the overnight rate based on the gap
between actual and target inflation and between actual and
potential output. Although the Fed didn’t explicitly follow the
Taylor Rule, many observers have said it captures how the Fed
behaved under  Alan Greenspan . Once the funds rate hit zero, the
Taylor Rule provides a theoretical level for where it should be.  Many emerging Asian economies, including China and Hong
Kong, chose an exchange-rate rule. They pegged their currencies
to the  U.S. dollar , effectively hitching their domestic monetary
policy to the Fed. The decline in the  dollar  over the last
decade forced them to sell their own currencies, which created
inflationary pressures and, in China’s case, goosed a property
bubble.  Inflation Targeting  For other central banks, adopting an inflation target -- or
more correctly, a medium-term range for inflation -- was the
answer. The  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand  became the first to
adopt a formal inflation target in 1990 under a law that held
the central bank’s governor accountable for failing to hit it.  For a while, it seemed as if central banks had found the
path to enlightenment. In the U.S., the period from about 1983
to 2007 became known as the Great Moderation. Inflation was low
and stable, and growth was strong.  Ben Bernanke , who came to the
Fed initially as a governor in 2002, was an advocate of
inflation targeting. He even wrote a  book  on it. He often said
that low inflation was both an end in itself and a means to full
employment.  When Bernanke returned as Fed chairman in 2006, he tucked
the book into his night table while he dealt with a financial
crisis, a deep recession, an insolvent banking system and high
unemployment. Low inflation, it seems, was a necessary but not a
sufficient condition for a sound economy. ( House prices  aren’t
even captured in traditional inflation measures, which use the
imputed rental value.)  Yes, the Fed finally made its implicit  2 percent inflation
target  explicit in January 2012. But policy makers have been
more explicit about the need to reduce unemployment, even if it
means a modest overshoot on inflation. Setting a 6.5 percent
unemployment rate threshold for contemplating a funds rate
increase hardly qualifies as a rule. What it is, is a case-by-
case study.  Think how much simpler it would be to adopt a nominal GDP
target, which encompasses real GDP plus inflation. That’s what
the Fed cares about. It even incorporates the Fed’s dual mandate
of stable prices and full employment. (The road to full
employment goes through strong growth.) It’s a lot better than
the  current mishmash  of a threshold for unemployment, an
inflation forecast (the Fed’s), and a market-based indicator of
 inflation expectations .  Targeting NGDP  A nominal GDP target might not have prevented the  housing
bubble , but it would have mitigated the fallout from the
collapse, according to market monetarists, a group of economists
who advocate an NGDP target. If the Fed had made it clear it
would keep nominal income on a steady path -- if it had applied
“whatever it takes” to an explicit goal -- it could have
gotten a bigger bang for its buck, or a higher turnover rate
( velocity ) for each dollar of quantitative easing, according to
Scott Sumner, a professor of economics at  Bentley University  in
Waltham,  Massachusetts .  “With more effective monetary policy, the Fed could do
less,” Sumner said during a  panel discussion  March 22 at the
 American Enterprise Institute  in Washington.  No rule is perfect or can replace the gold standard of
rules, which happens to be the gold standard, with its
convertibility of a dollar into gold at a fixed price. Still,
with the Fed’s  balance sheet  at $3.2 trillion and counting, and
unwinding those purchases as the next hurdle, policy makers
might find themselves wishing they had heeded Sumner’s claim
that less is more.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 