-- Gross High Income Fund May Buy Interest-Only Securities
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-04-03T21:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/gross-high-income-fund-may-buy-interest-only-securities.html
Bill Gross ’s  Pimco High Income Fund (PHK) 
is changing its investment policy so it can invest in less
liquid securities to take advantage of changes in  interest rates 
and the housing market.  The $1.53 billion closed-end fund, which is trading at a 44
percent premium to its net asset value, may now invest in
interest-only securities, principal-only securities and inverse
floating-rate securities, according to a statement today from
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co. The fund, which opened in April 2003, has a 12-month yield
of 11.8 percent.  “The fund’s management team believes the fund would
benefit from the ability to utilize these instruments in
targeted situations in current and future market conditions,”
according to the statement.  Interest-only securities receive all of the interest in a
pool of mortgage-related or asset-backed securities compared
with principal-only securities, which get all of the principal.
Interest-only and principal-only bonds are affected by how
quickly borrowers repay the principal amount of their debt.
Inverse floaters are debt instruments whose interest rate moves
in the opposite direction of a  reference rate .  Closed-end funds sell a fixed amount of shares to raise
money for investments and then trade on an exchange like stocks.
They can trade at a price that’s higher or lower than the value
of its underlying holdings. Gross, who started managing Pimco
High Income in May 2009, is better known as manager of the $289
billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s biggest mutual
fund.  Closed-end funds tumbled during the 2008 financial crisis
as markets declined and borrowing dried up. They were also
squeezed by the collapse in February 2008 of the auction-rate
market, which historically helped managers raise money to boost
returns. Many, including the Pimco High Income Fund, suspended
dividend payments as assets plunged and they couldn’t use
leverage. Pimco restored dividends on its closed-end funds when
the markets rebounded in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  