-- Illinois Losing to California Shows Pension Penalty
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-04-03T00:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/illinois-losing-to-california-shows-pension-penalty.html
Illinois ’s biggest debt sale in 11
months showed lawmakers aren’t working quickly enough to make up
ground the state lost to  California  in the eyes of investors.  Buyers awaiting progress on plans to overhaul the worst-
funded state pension system demanded about 1.33 percentage
points of extra yield above benchmark munis for 10-year tax-
exempt debt that Illinois sold yesterday. That’s almost triple
what California had to pay last month.  In sales about a year ago, the Illinois yield penalty was
only double that of the most-populous state. Since then,
 Standard & Poor’s  has cut Illinois twice, to A-, six steps below
AAA, as legislators failed to advance a pension fix. Meanwhile,
the company raised California’s credit for the first time since
2006, to A, one level higher, after Governor  Jerry Brown , a
Democrat, proposed a budget for the year beginning July 1 that
would leave the state with its first surplus in almost a decade.  “It’s a different credit situation -- California has
definitely made some difficult steps,” said  Robert Miller , who
helps oversee $32 billion of munis in  Menomonee Falls ,
 Wisconsin , at Wells Capital Management. He said the company
didn’t buy the Illinois offer because the spreads were too
narrow. “Illinois at this point is more of the status quo.”  Recess Wait  In the Illinois legislature, politicians in both chambers
advanced measures last month to help fix the state’s pensions
before a recess that is set to end next week. The House plan
would cut Illinois’s unfunded liabilities by $20 billion
immediately and save $100 billion over 30 years, according to
Democratic Representative Elaine Nekritz.  “The state continues to pay more for its bonds than it
would if the General Assembly passed pension reform,” John Sinsheimer, Illinois’s director of  capital markets , said in an
interview after the sale. “Investors would like to see bills
land on the governor’s desk.”  The state has just 39 percent of assets needed to cover
projected retirement obligations for five major groups of public
employees, according to the Chicago-based Civic Federation, a
nonprofit group that tracks  government finance . The pension-
system shortfall is almost $100 billion, and annual costs are
projected to grow by more than $900 million in next year’s
budget.  Python Pitch  To raise public awareness of the pension burden, Democratic
Governor Pat Quinn released a video in November showing a
cartoon of “Squeezy the Pension Python” threatening to
strangle the capitol building in Springfield.  “They have some proposals in the legislature, but nothing
has been put into law yet,” Miller said. “To us, that doesn’t
mean  credit quality  has changed.”  The state postponed a $500 million offering Jan. 30, five
days after S&P cut the rating on its debt. Both S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service give Illinois their lowest grade among U.S.
states, with negative outlooks. Fitch Ratings grades California
one step lower than Illinois, at A-.  Illinois’s $800 million general-obligation sale yesterday
included $450 million of tax-free debt, with a 10-year portion
priced to yield 3.3 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s about 1.33 percentage points above benchmark munis. In
California’s $2.1 billion tax-exempt issue last month, 10-year
bonds yielded 0.48 percentage point more than benchmark
securities.  2012 Comparison  A year ago, California issued bonds at a spread of 0.84
percentage point for 10-year debt, compared with a gap of 1.73
percentage points for Illinois about two weeks later.  The Land of Lincoln is still benefiting from demand for
lower-rated debt in the $3.7 trillion municipal market. It will
pay a so-called true interest cost of 3.92 percent on the
borrowing, matching the 20-year low set in January 2012,
according to a release from Abdon Pallasch, an assistant budget
director.  Illinois plans to sell another $1 billion of general
obligations this year for capital projects and may come back to
the market as soon as May, Sinsheimer said. Passage of pension-
overhaul laws would expedite the borrowing, he said.  Proceeds of Illinois’s sale will pay for road, rail and
school projects. Bank of America Merrill Lynch beat out eight
other banks for the debt, which was offered via auction.  Bigger Deal  The state increased the deal size from January because more
initiatives were ready to get under way as the construction
season begins, according to Pallasch.  Pennsylvania today will offer the week’s biggest muni
borrowing, a $950 million general-obligation deal set to price
through competitive bid. States and cities are poised to issue
$6.1 billion of long-term debt this week, the  slowest  non-
holiday week since February, according to Bloomberg data.  Munis have cheapened relative to Treasuries since mid-March
as investors sell city and state bonds to raise cash before the
April 15 federal tax-filing deadline.  At  1.97 percent , yields on 10-year muni benchmarks compare
with 1.86 percent on federal debt. The local-bond  interest rate 
has  exceeded  that on Treasuries since March 13, the longest
stretch since September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  