-- IMF to Contribute 1 Billion Euros to Cyprus Rescue
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-04-03T12:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/imf-to-contribute-1-billion-euros-to-cyprus-rescue.html
The International Monetary Fund will
contribute about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) as part of a
rescue program for Cyprus that aims to stabilize the nation’s
banks and reduce public spending, IMF Managing Director
Christine Lagarde said.  The IMF today announced the staff-level agreement with
Cyprus on the 10 billion-euro program, hashed out with euro-area
authorities on March 25. The deal calls for Cyprus to
restructure its two largest banks, reduce budget deficits and
adjust its wage and pension systems.  “This is a challenging program that will require great
efforts from the Cypriot population,” Lagarde said in a
statement. “We believe that it provides a durable and fully
financed solution to the underlying problems facing Cyprus and
provides a sustainable path toward a recovery.”  Lagarde and European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner Olli Rehn said they “stand by” Cyprus, according
to a joint statement accompanying the IMF announcement. That
statement said Cyprus has agreed to a “well-paced fiscal
adjustment” that balances short-term and long-term needs.  The euro advanced against the U.S. dollar after the IMF’s
announcement. The 17-nation currency traded at $1.2840 at 2:43
p.m. in Brussels, up 0.2 percent on the day, after being down as
much as 0.2 percent earlier. The euro rose 0.3 percent against
the yen before retreating to 119.91, up 0.1 percent on the day.  Finance Minister  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades swore in a new finance
minister today, the second of his six-week-old administration,
after the government took more steps to ease banking
restrictions in the island nation.  Haris Georgiades, 40, a graduate in economics from the
University of Reading and a lawmaker with Anastasiades’s Disy
party, was appointed the new finance chief at a ceremony in the
capital of Nicosia, according to an e-mailed statement from the
president’s office. He succeeds Michael Sarris, a former banker,
who resigned yesterday to aid a probe into the collapse of the
country’s two biggest lenders.  Cyprus is the fifth euro-zone country to receive
international aid in  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, which has
entangled the finances of banks and nations in a mutually
destructive spiral. The last 10 days of Cypriot rescue talks
roiled markets as the country agreed to, then rejected, a plan
to tax uninsured depositors before settling on the current deal.  Rescue Program  The Cypriot rescue is a joint effort of the IMF, the
European Commission and the European Central Bank, the so-called
troika that has handled euro-area bailouts.  The three organizations agreed unanimously on how much the
Washington-based IMF would contribute to the Cypriot program,
commission spokesman Olivier Bailly told reporters in Brussels
today. He said the Cyprus deal would be submitted to euro-area
finance ministers for review next week.  The euro area has yet to agree on a memorandum of
understanding for the bailout for Cyprus, though a draft is
likely to emerge by April 9, German Finance Ministry spokesman
Martin Kotthaus told reporters today in Berlin.  Germany ’s lower
house of parliament may vote on the package after it next
convenes on April 15, he said.  Lagarde said today that “importantly” the current deal
means that insured depositors “have been fully protected,”
representing 95 percent of account-holders. Uninsured depositors
at  Bank of Cyprus Plc (BOCY)  and Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, which is
being wound down, will absorb losses and Cyprus has imposed
temporary limits on capital transfers.  Capital Controls  Cyprus eased capital controls on some transactions
yesterday, the third tweak since a decree on the controls was
issued by the Finance Ministry. Banks reopened on March 28 under
tight restrictions, including a limit on daily withdrawals of
300 euros per person. The EU said today that it will continue to
monitor the controls.  Lagarde said she would seek approval from the IMF’s
executive board in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  