-- Indonesia Signals Higher Fuel Price Still Needed to Curb Subsidy
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-04-03T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/indonesia-signals-higher-fuel-price-still-needed-to-curb-subsidy.html
Indonesia may still need to raise
fuel prices to reduce the government’s energy budget,
supplementing plans to restrict the use of subsidized oil as
early as June, according to the country’s fiscal chief.  “The optimal policy is a combination between price
increase and tight restriction on subsidized fuel,” Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal policy at Indonesia’s  Finance
Ministry , said in an interview yesterday in Bandar Seri Begawan,
Brunei. “It has to be combined so you don’t have to increase
prices that much.”  The earliest possible time for an increase would be April
because inflation is usually low during the harvest season, he
said, adding that any such move would depend on President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s approval. A 10 percent boost in fuel prices
would be the most feasible option, he said.  The availability of gasoline and diesel below international
market rates has spurred oil imports in Indonesia, contributing
to a record  trade deficit  in October and the worst-performing
Asian currency after the yen and Indian rupee in the past 12
months. Containing the subsidy bill to free up funds for
infrastructure development will be a key challenge for the next
finance minister as Yudhoyono prepares to name a successor to
Agus Martowardojo, set to head the central bank in May.  “The simplest and best way to curb energy subsidies is to
raise the fuel price as it can be implemented soon without the
need to prepare infrastructure and other things,” said  Destry Damayanti , chief economist at PT Bank Mandiri in Jakarta. While
inflation may accelerate to about 8 percent after an increase,
in the long term, it “will give a positive impact to
Indonesia’s economy,” she said.  Seeking Alternatives  The Indonesian government has been exploring a variety of
options to reduce the need to raise fuel prices in a country
where riots spurred by soaring living costs helped oust dictator
Suharto in 1998.  The administration is considering restricting the use of
subsidized fuel in the greater Jakarta metropolitan area
starting June or July before implementing it in other cities,
Brodjonegoro said yesterday. Other measures may include banning
private cars from buying partially government-funded fuel, and
setting a daily limit to the volume of subsidized products being
sold, he said.  The government budgeted for 46 million kiloliters of
subsidized oil products this year, consisting of low-octane
gasoline, diesel oil, kerosene, biodiesel and liquefied
petroleum gas.  New Fuel  Finance Minister Martowardojo said April 2  Indonesia  may
introduce a new type of fuel that can be sold at a higher price
than existing subsidized products as the government seeks to
reduce its energy budget without exacerbating inflation.  The country is considering having state-owned PT Pertamina
sell a new fuel as part of plans to limit energy subsidies to
private-owned vehicles, he said. A revised fuel policy may be
announced in two weeks, Energy Minister Jero Wacik said.  Pertamina plans to install a fuel monitoring system from
July, equipping a controlling system in its pump stations to
record the amount of subsidized fuel being distributed to
consumers, Ali Mundakir, spokesman at the state oil and gas
company, said in Jakarta yesterday. The company may start
installing the device in July in the greater Jakarta area,
expanding nationwide by 2014, he said.  A 2012 plan to ban some private vehicles from using
subsidized fuel wasn’t implemented, Martowardojo said April 2.
An alternative fuel type priced below the current non-subsidized
gasoline products needs to come with other policies in one
package, he said. Pertamina sells subsidized fuel at 4,500
rupiah ($0.46) a liter.  Finance Minister  Yudhoyono has prepared names for the finance minister post
and may name someone within a month, Julian Aldrin Pasha, a
presidential spokesman, said in Jakarta yesterday. Martowardojo
will remain minister until he’s been sworn in as Bank Indonesia
governor, Pasha said.  Yudhoyono’s office signaled last month the government will
avoid an immediate increase in fuel prices, as the scope for
such moves narrows ahead of elections in 2014. The government is
formulating a more targeted fuel-subsidy policy because the
current one benefits middle to upper-income groups more than the
poor, he said on March 13.  Indonesia limited the use of partially government-funded
diesel in January, after protests in the world’s fourth-most
populous nation derailed plans to raise prices in 2012. The
restrictions limit the use of subsidized diesel by forestry
companies, commercial vessels and government vehicles in several
provinces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  