-- Iraq Seeks to Boost Crude Exports to China as Oil Output Rises
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y
-- 2013-04-03T12:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/iraq-seeks-to-boost-crude-exports-to-china-as-oil-output-rises.html
Iraq is seeking a long-term accord
to boost oil exports to  China  as OPEC’s second-biggest producer
increases output from fields operated by companies such as  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said.  The Middle Eastern country’s crude exports to China average
500,000 barrels a day, Luaibi told reporters in Baghdad today.
“We are looking forward for a long-term agreement to increase
exports to China,” he said.  China is on course to overtake the U.S. as the world’s top
crude importer in 2014 as the country’s growing refining
capacity boosts demand, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries said yesterday. Iraq’s oil production, which averaged
3.15 million barrels a day in the first quarter, will probably
rise this year, mainly because of increasing output in the south
of the country, Luaibi said.  The Majnoon field developed by Shell is due to boost
production in May, he said, without giving a figure for the
increase. The Gharraf field developed by Petroliam Nasional Bhd
and  Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. (1662)  is due to start output in
June, earlier than scheduled, he said.  Iraq exported 2.417 million barrels a day in March, Luaibi
said, compared with 2.5 million barrels a day in February,
according to the State Oil Marketing Organization website.
Luaibi didn’t give a reason for the monthly decline.  Iraq has lost $2.4 billion in revenue since the self-
governed Kurdish region in the country’s north halted shipments
from their fields through the government-operated pipeline in
December, Luaibi said. The Kurds aren’t meeting a commitment to
export 250,000 barrels a day, as stipulated in the state budget,
he said. Iraq is seeking to boost oil sales to rebuild the
economy after decades of wars and sanctions.  Disputed Territory  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  DNO International ASA (DNO)  and  Genel Energy
Plc (GENL)  are among companies caught in the conflict between the
central government and the Kurds over oil-revenue sharing,
production contracts and disputed land.  BP Plc (BP/)  has offered to invest $100 million to carry out
studies and technical surveys to develop fields in Kirkuk,
Luaibi said today. The Kurdish authorities said Jan. 17 that the
central government would be acting illegally if it proceeds with
the plan to allow BP to develop disputed land in Kirkuk.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves,
according to BP’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The nation
is the biggest producer, after  Saudi Arabia , in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in  Baghdad  at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  