-- Iron Ore Bear Market Looms as Supply Swamps Demand: Commodities
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-04-04T18:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/iron-ore-bear-market-looms-as-supply-swamps-demand-commodities.html
Iron ore  is heading toward its first
surplus in at least a decade as output expands and Chinese  steel
mills , the biggest buyers, boost production at the slowest pace
in five years.  Seaborne supply will advance 9.1 percent and demand 8.3
percent in 2013, led by exporters from Perth-based  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to  Vale SA (VALE5) , Morgan Stanley forecasts. A
surplus will emerge in 2014 and keep widening until at least
2018, the bank predicts. Prices will slump as much as 34 percent
to $90 a ton by the end of December, according to the median of
seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Exports of the biggest seaborne cargo after oil are surging
the most since 2010 after prices jumped as much as sevenfold in
the past nine years. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expects  China ’s
imports to climb 4 percent in 2013, the least in three years.
Its  steel output  will expand 2.6 percent as the nation’s economy
grows at the second-slowest pace in the past decade, according
to estimates from Morgan Stanley and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “We’ve got a steady lift of supply, mainly out of
 Australia ,” said  Tom Price , the Sydney-based analyst at UBS AG
who has covered the market for about a decade. “We’ve observed
for a couple of years now moderation in demand growth in China.
A combination of those two is why we’re bearish.”  Raw Materials  The commodity has tumbled 14 percent to $135.90 from a 16-
month high in February, according to a gauge for China from The
Steel Index Ltd., a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. Iron ore’s drop of
6.2 percent this year compares with the 2.2 percent fall in the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24  raw materials . The  MSCI All-
Country World Index (MXWD)  of equities rose 5 percent. Treasuries were
little changed, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Exports will advance to 1.178 billion tons this year, as
demand expands to 1.258 billion tons, Morgan Stanley estimates.
The implied shortfall of 80.7 million tons will switch to a
surplus of 3.3 million tons in 2014, rising to 291 million tons
in 2018, the bank forecasts.  Iron ore accounted for 78 percent of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization last year for
London-based  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the biggest supplier after Rio de
Janeiro-based Vale, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For
Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the third-largest exporter,
it contributed 44 percent. Vale, Rio, BHP and Fortescue supply
71 percent of seaborne cargo.  Trading Volumes  The swaps market is already anticipating lower prices
through 2013 and into next year. The December contract is at
$119.75, compared with $137.50 for this month and $115.50 a year
from now, data from GFI Group Inc. show. Trading volume in
derivatives exceeded 20 million tons in March, more than double
the total of a year earlier, according to The Steel Index.  The anticipated decline may be curbed by the need for
steelmakers to replenish  inventories , which tumbled to a four-
year low at Chinese ports last month, according to Beijing
Antaike Information Development Co., a state-backed research
company. Stockpiles are now below average and that will support
prices, Morgan Stanley analysts  Peter Richardson  and Joel Crane
said in a March 7 report. The bank, which says the full-year
market consensus for iron ore is too bearish, is forecasting
$133 for 2013 and lower prices every year until at least 2018.  China’s Recovery  While China’s economic expansion is weaker than the average
of the past decade, it’s accelerating after two years of slowing
growth. The 8.2 percent projected for this quarter in a
Bloomberg survey of 32 economists is more than four times the
pace of the U.S. Manufacturing reached an 11-month high in
March, according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics
and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing.  Additional supply may not come as fast as some analysts are
predicting because it can take as long as three years for new
mines to reach full capacity, Melinda Moore, an analyst at
Standard Bank Plc, wrote in a March 25 report. The 14 percent
drop in Chinese imports in February from the month before was
“hardly surprising” after bad weather hurt supply, she wrote.  Shipments from  India , which peaked at 114 million tons in
2009, will slump to 20 million tons in 2013, Morgan Stanley
estimates. Deutsche Bank AG is predicting 14 million tons after
Goa, once the top exporting state, banned all production in
September to curb illegal mining. That propelled  South Africa 
into third place for exports last year, according to London-
based Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker.  Monetary Fund  Western European demand this year will be unchanged from
2010, according to Morgan Stanley. The 17-nation euro region has
tumbled back into its second recession in four years. The
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  cut its estimate
for global growth three times since July, to 3.5 percent.  Shares of Rio fell 14 percent to 3,014 pence this year and
will reach 4,013 pence in 12 months, the average of 23  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg show. BHP tumbled 14 percent to
A$31.75 in Sydney trading, with the stock projected to rebound
to A$39.45 in a year, based on 17 forecasts. Morgan Stanley’s
forecast for average prices of $133 this year would still be
more than five times the average in 2004.  The seaborne market also faces a threat from Chinese
output, which typically increases as prices rise because the ore
has lower-than-average iron content. Idled Chinese mines with
annual capacity of 100 million tons were set to reopen from
March as winter ends, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a Feb. 22
report.  Chinese Production  Domestic mines will supply an extra 20 million tons in
2013, China’s National Development & Reform Commission said
March 25. While the planning agency didn’t specify whether the
forecast was for ore of 62 percent content, it would be the most
since 2010 at that grade. Goldman Sachs cut its 2013 price
estimate to $139 from $144 on March 19, citing higher Chinese
production. The bank also anticipates a shift to surpluses from
next year.  “I can understand why the market is saying that the iron
ore price will be firm upfront and weaker at the back end of the
year,” BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  told
analysts on a conference call Feb. 20. The opening of new mines
will weigh on prices in the second half of the year, Greg Lilleyman, the head of Rio’s operations in Pilbara, Australia’s
main ore-mining region, told a conference in Perth on March 19.  “It’s a double whammy,” said Daniel Hynes, the Sydney-
based head of commodity strategy at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.,
who has covered the market for about a decade. “We expect
weakening steel production growth out of China in combination
with a pickup in exports, particularly from Australia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  