-- Slowing Service Industries Point to Cooler U.S. Growth
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-04-03T20:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/ism-services-gauge-in-u-s-decreased-to-54-4-in-march-from-56.html
Service industries  expanded in March
at the slowest pace in seven months and companies added fewer
workers than forecast, indicating the  U.S. economy  is starting
to cool.  The  Institute for Supply Management  said its non-
manufacturing  gauge  declined to 54.4 from a one-year high of 56.
The index was in line with its average over the past year.
Private employment rose 158,000 last month, the smallest gain
since October, according to the ADP Research Institute.  Slower growth in services, along with a report earlier this
week that showed a decrease in the pace of manufacturing,
underscores the risk to the economy from across-the-board cuts
in the  federal budget . At the same time, income gains and low
borrowing costs may provide a buffer for retailers such as
 Macy’s Inc. (M) , while a rebounding housing market benefits
Realtors, builders and lenders.  “Growth is set to slow somewhat in the second quarter
after a spurt of activity in the first quarter,” said  Ryan Wang , an economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in  New York , who
projected a March ISM reading of 54.5. “Employers are
cautiously optimistic but also closely monitoring new orders as
they make hiring decisions.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated from a record and
Treasury yields declined after the report. The  S&P 500  dropped
1.1 percent to 1,553.69 at the close in New York. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year Treasury note declined to 1.81 percent
from 1.86 percent late yesterday.  The  median  forecast of 73 economists in a Bloomberg survey
called for a drop in the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s index to
55.5. A reading above 50 in the gauge indicates expansion in the
sector that accounts for almost 90 percent of the economy.  Industries Expanding  Fifteen non-manufacturing industries, including real
estate, construction and finance, reported growth in March,
while three signaled contraction.  “Where we are is still a healthy level” for the index,
 Anthony Nieves , chairman of ISM’s non-manufacturing survey
committee, said today on a call with reporters. “I’d rather see
slow, incremental growth that is sustainable.”  Merchants projecting the pace of sales will be sustained
include Macy’s, the second-largest U.S. department-store chain.
The Cincinnati, Ohio-based retailer said sales at stores open at
least a year will rise 3.5 percent this year, after growing 3.7
percent in 2012.  “We look at the momentum we have coming into the year and
we feel quite confident,”  Karen Hoguet , chief financial
officer, said at a March 14 conference. “That doesn’t mean that
we’re not cognizant of all that’s going on in  Washington  and
what’s gone on with the payroll tax.”  Orders, Employment  The ISM non-manufacturing survey’s measure of new orders
declined to 54.6 from 58.2. The  employment gauge  fell to 53.3 in
March from 57.2, the biggest decrease in four years.  The Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute’s
report showed March employment eased after a revised 237,000
gain the prior month. The median forecast of 39 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 200,000 advance.  “The job market continues to improve, but in fits and
starts,”  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.
in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said in a statement. Moody’s
produces the figures with ADP.  Companies employing more than 499 workers added 47,000
jobs. Medium-sized businesses, with 50 to 499 employees, took on
37,000 and small companies increased payrolls by 74,000, the
report showed.  Payroll Estimates  Some Wall Street firms reduced their estimates of payrolls
at both private employers and government agencies ahead of the
Labor Department’s figures in two days. Economists at Deutsche
Bank Securities LLC and at Credit Suisse cut their estimates for
March to 160,000 from 200,000. The median projection in the
Bloomberg survey calls for a 195,000 gain in March payrolls.  An ISM  factory  survey on April 1 signaled that
manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, took a breather in March as well, as businesses
assessed the impact of the automatic federal government spending
cuts, or sequestration, which were triggered as lawmakers failed
to reach a compromise on ways to reduce the nation’s debt. The
manufacturing index fell to 51.3 from an almost two-year high of
54.2 in February.  For consumers, progress in the labor market is softening
the blow from a two percentage-point rise in the  payroll tax 
that went into effect at the start of 2013. Household spending,
which makes up about 70 percent of the economy, climbed in
February by the most in five months.  A pickup in purchases and business investment probably
allowed the economy to expand at a 3.8 percent annual rate in
the first quarter, according to economists at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. They project growth to cool to a 1.5 percent pace in the
second quarter.  Interest Rates  Historically low  interest rates  are giving housing a leg
up. Reports for February showed sales of  previously owned 
properties climbed to the highest level in more than three
years, and purchases of new houses capped the best  back-to-back 
months in more than four years.  The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage was 3.57
percent last week, according to data from  Freddie Mac . Borrowing
costs reached a record low of 3.31 percent in November.  Auto dealerships may also benefit as demand rises. Motor
vehicle sales averaged a 15.26 million  annual rate  in the first
quarter, the best quarterly average in five years, after 14.99
million in the final three months of 2012.  “The economic picture looks pretty similar to the last
couple of months, which helps to explain why the industry has
stayed in a relatively healthy range,” Kurt McNeil, vice
president of U.S. sales operations for General Motors Co., said
on an April 2 conference call. “ The housing market continues
to recover, business spending has picked up, and pent-up demand
for vehicles is offsetting any drag from tax or federal spending
issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  