-- Israel Warns It Won’t Allow Gaza Rocket Fire to Harm Civilians
-- B y   A m y   T e i b e l
-- 2013-04-03T06:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/israel-warns-it-won-t-allow-gaza-rocket-fire-to-harm-civilians.html
Gaza Strip militants fired rockets
for the second time in less than 24 hours, as Israeli forces
vowed to defend residents and carried out the first air strikes
on the Hamas-ruled territory since a November offensive there.  Police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said the rockets fired
today landed in an open area, causing no injuries or damage. A
rocket fired at southern  Israel  yesterday evening also landed in
an open area.  The violence is the most serious since  Egypt  brokered a
November cease-fire after eight days of violence in which 167
Palestinian s and six Israelis were killed. Israel was hit by
more than 1,400 missiles during the November fighting. Hamas,
which rules Gaza, is considered a terrorist organization by
Israel, the U.S. and European Union.  Israeli aircraft struck unidentified targets in Gaza
overnight in response to yesterday’s rocket fire, the military
said in a release.  “We will in no way permit a routine trickling of rockets
toward our civilians and forces,” Defense Minister Moshe
Ya’alon said in a separate e-mailed statement that held Hamas
responsible for all violence emanating from the territory.  Witnesses and medical personnel in Gaza said the aircraft
hit empty areas and no injuries were reported. There were no
claims of responsibility for the recent rocket fire.  In all, rocket squads have attacked Israel four times since
the November offensive, the Israeli military said.  The attacks from Gaza coincide with recent rounds of fire
from  Syria  at the Israeli-held  Golan Heights . The Israel army
hit two targets in Syria yesterday that it said were sources of
fire at Israeli positions in the southern Golan.  Ya’alon warned in his statement today that Israel would
“respond firmly” to gunfire from Syria, be it stray or
intentional.  “The moment we identify the source of fire we will destroy
it without hesitation, as we did yesterday and have done in
previous cases,” he said. “We regard the regime in Syria as
responsible for everything that emanates from its territory, and
we will not let gunfire spill over into Israeli territory
without responding.”  Israel captured the plateau from Syria in the 1967 Mideast
war and later annexed it in a move that is not internationally
recognized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Teibel in Jerusalem at 
 ateibel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  