-- Japan Stock Futures, Australia Shares Drop on Economy Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-03T23:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/japan-stock-futures-australia-shares-drop-on-economy-concern.html
Japanese  stock futures  and
Australian shares fell as worse-than-estimated U.S. economic
data spurred concern about the pace of growth and as investors
speculated the Bank of  Japan  won’t meet forecasts for monetary
policy expansion.  American Depositary Receipts  of Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker, declined 2.1 percent as the yen
strengthened against the dollar. ADRs of Mizuho Financial Group
Inc., Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value, lost 2.3
percent ahead of the central bank decision. BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s No. 1 miner, retreated 1.5 percent in Sydney.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June closed at 12,185 in Chicago yesterday, down from 12,360 at
the close in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
12,190 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index retreated 0.6 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was
little changed. Markets in China,  Hong Kong  and  Taiwan  are
closed today for a holiday.  “Caution has set in as disappointing economic data finally
caught up with investors,” said Matthew Sherwood, head of
investment markets research in Sydney at Perpetual Investments,
which manages about $25 billion. “Any under-whelming policy
response from the Bank of Japan, which is something the BOJ is
notorious for, will be detrimental. It could be a bumpy end to
the week.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, yesterday traded at 13.4 times average estimated
earnings compared with 14 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 12.6 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  were little changed. Financial
and energy shares tumbled yesterday, leading the  S&P 500  to its
largest drop in five weeks, as ADP Research Institute data
showed U.S. companies boosted employment by 158,000 workers in
March, less than the median forecast of 39 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg who called for a 200,000 gain.  The data came before a non-farm payrolls report from the
Labor Department on April 5, which may show employers hired a
net 195,000 workers for the month, according to the median
forecast of 87 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers almost 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 54.4 in March from 56 in February, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said yesterday. The median forecast of 73
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 55.5. Readings above 50
signal expansion.  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda may be constrained
in the amount of stimulus he can deliver at the conclusion of
his first policy meeting today as he seeks support from a board
mostly appointed by the previous government.  The central bank chief has only three definite allies for
boosting monthly bond purchases on the nine-person committee,
according to BNP Paribas SA. Credit Suisse Group AG says a
struggle to secure consensus could limit Kuroda to doing the
“minimum required” and signaling stronger measures to come.  Disappointing investors would risk a rebound in the yen
that would make it harder for the central bank to achieve
Kuroda’s goal of 2 percent inflation in two years. The currency
reached a 3 1/2-year low against the dollar last month and
stocks surged as Kuroda proposed policies from increased bond
buying to bringing forward open-ended asset purchases from 2014.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 1.7 percent in New York
yesterday. The London Metal Exchange Index of industrial metals
retreated 0.9 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  