-- JPMorgan Wins Round in Dexia SA Mortgage-Bond Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-04-03T17:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/jpmorgan-wins-round-in-dexia-sa-mortgage-bond-lawsuit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank, defeated most of a lawsuit brought by Dexia SA over
about $1.6 billion in mortgage-backed securities it bought
before the financial crisis.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan narrowed the
case to five securitization deals from 65 at issue in a
complaint brought by Dexia, according to an order filed today.
Rakoff said he would issue an opinion later explaining his
reasoning.  Dexia, based in Brussels, sued JPMorgan in 2012 along with
the Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual businesses JPMorgan
acquired, accusing the lender of “egregious fraud” in the sale
of mortgage bonds. Dexia claimed loans backing securities
purchased between 2005 and 2007 were riskier than promised.  Dexia (DEXB)  unit FSA Asset Management LLC said in court papers
that JPMorgan received reports from independent mortgage-loan
underwriters showing that 20 percent to 80 percent of the loans
in samples used for testing didn’t meet the underwriting
guidelines, including fraudulent home appraisals or missing
documentation.  “Rather than disclose these known defects to FSAM,
defendants bought and sold massive quantities of defective
loans,” FSAM said. “Defendants secretly overrode the
independent loan underwriters’ determinations, creating a final,
sanitized version.”  Rakoff granted part of JPMorgan’s motion for a pre-trial
ruling known as summary judgment. The judge dismissed claims
brought by Dexia and said FSAM can pursue claims related to five
securitizations.  Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, didn’t immediately comment about the decision. A
lawyer for Dexia couldn’t be reached for comment.  The case is Dexia SA v. Bear Stearns & Co., 12-cv-04761.
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  