-- Kabbage Gets $75 Million Debt Deal From Victory Park, Thomvest
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-04-03T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/kabbage-gets-75-million-debt-deal-from-victory-park-thomvest.html
Kabbage Inc., a startup that uses
cash advances to help online merchants buy inventory, added $75
million in debt financing to expand its customer base.  The debt facility was led by Victory Park Capital, a
Chicago firm whose other investments include the  Giordano’s 
pizza chain and  Fuller Brush Co. , Kabbage said today in a
statement. Existing equity investor Thomvest Ventures Inc. also
participated.  Kabbage, named after a slang term for money, targets
merchants using websites such as  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
as well as other sellers that are rejected or overlooked by
traditional lenders such as banks because of their lack of
collateral or lower credit scores. The Atlanta-based company
will use the debt financing to make more advances to new and
existing customers, Marc Gorlin, chairman and co-founder of
Kabbage, said in a phone interview.  Victory Park Principal Tom Affolter said his firm has
followed Kabbage since its inception. “There is a clear void in
the market as traditional financing sources remain reluctant to
lend,” he said.  Kabbage previously raised $56 million in venture capital
over three rounds from investors including TPG Capital’s David
Bonderman, Stephens Inc.’s Warren Stephens, Mohr Davidow
Ventures, BlueRun Ventures and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   Kabbage uses buyer feedback ratings, selling history,
turnover, accounting data, bank account information and other
metrics to approve unsecured cash advances online in a few
minutes.  Automatic Deductions  Once it approves a request, Kabbage puts money in an online
merchant’s PayPal account, and repayments are automatically
deducted monthly. Traditional lenders can’t approve loans as
quickly and typically require collateral.  The average line outstanding is about $12,000, and Kabbage
is testing advances of $100,000 or greater, Gorlin said.
Customers come back to Kabbage an average of 10 times a year to
take additional cash to boost inventories or cover expansion
costs, he said.  Kabbage has more than 100,000 customers, and expects to be
cash flow positive sometime in 2014, said Gorlin. He sold his
previous company, VerticalOne, to S1 Corp., which is now part of
 ACI Worldwide Inc. (ACIW)   Although Kabbage’s advance isn’t secured by collateral, the
company’s charge-off rate, which accounts for clients who don’t
pay back the money on time, is “well below” the industry
average of 8 percent, Gorlin said.  Kabbage has experimented with other non-traditional data
such as a merchant’s  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. feeds, and
it found that customers who link to their social media
information are 20 percent less likely to be delinquent than
those who don’t.  “They’re more engaged and on top of their business, and
their accounting, ordering, shipping,” Gorlin said. “If
they’re paying attention to that, odds are they’re paying
attention to everything else too.”  -- Editors: Anita Sharpe, Tom Giles  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe at   asharpe6@bloomberg.net  