-- Kenyan Shilling Set for Six-Month High Amid Election Rally
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-04-03T12:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/kenyan-shilling-set-for-six-month-high-amid-election-rally.html
Kenya ’s shilling headed for its
highest level in six months as the  central bank  offered term-
auction deposits to support the currency after a court upheld
Uhuru Kenyatta’s election win.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy strengthened
a third day, adding 0.2 percent to 84.80 per dollar by 2:57 p.m.
in Nairobi, the strongest on a closing basis since Oct. 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Central Bank of Kenya offered 11 billion shillings
($129 million) of bids for 14-day term-auction deposits today,
according to an official at the institution who asked not to be
identified in line with policy. It accepted all 9.4 billion
shillings of bids for seven-day  repurchase agreements  yesterday.
The bank uses the securities to reduce  money supply  and support
the shilling.  “The shilling is appreciating on subdued dollar demand
from businesses as the new month sets in,” Duncan Kinuthia,
head of trading at Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said by
phone. “The continued removal of money by the central bank is
offering support to the shilling.”  Kenya’s Supreme Court on March 30 unanimously confirmed
that Kenyatta won the March 4 vote. It rejected a petition from
runner-up  Raila Odinga , who argued that the electoral process
had been marred by irregularities and fraud.  “The shilling is still riding on the goodwill of the court
ruling,” John Muli, a dealer at Nairobi-based African Banking
Corp., said by phone. “The gain has attracted interest from
importers accumulating dollars at a favorable level leading to
the swing being witnessed.”  Uganda ’s currency gained 0.1 percent to 2,592 per dollar,
while the Tanzanian shilling traded unchanged at 1,621 per
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  