-- Kerry Returns to Mideast to Bolster Israel-Turkey Ties
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-04-03T19:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/kerry-returns-to-mideast-to-bolster-israel-turkey-ties.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
will return to the  Middle East  this weekend for talks with
Israeli, Palestinian and Turkish leaders.  After talking with Turkish officials in Istanbul about
Syria, Kerry will meet with Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in
Israel and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas on
reviving peace talks,  Victoria Nuland , the State Department
spokeswoman, said today.  Kerry will then travel to London for the Group of Eight
meeting.  “Secretary Kerry has been passionate on the subject of the
U.S. playing an active role in supporting Middle East peace for
his entire career,” Nuland told reporters.  At his first stop in Turkey, the top U.S. diplomat will
follow up on President  Barack Obama ’s effort to help rebuild
relations between  Israel , America’s closest Mideast ally, and
Turkey, an important NATO partner.  During Obama’s three-day visit to Israel last month, the
U.S. leader and Netanyahu spoke by telephone on March 22 with
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Netanyahu apologized to
Turkey for the 2010 deaths of nine Turks taking part in an aid
flotilla to Gaza that was intercepted by Israeli security
forces. The incident damaged relations between the two nations.  Kerry’s trip will give him “an opportunity to spur”
Turkey and Israel “to continue to take steps to deepen their
normalization and to work well together,” Nuland said.  Personal Diplomacy  Kerry will also discuss the war in Syria, which has killed
more than 70,000 people in the past two years, and seek to
broker dialogue between the  Palestinian Authority  and
Netanyahu’s new Israeli coalition government.  “Secretary Kerry very much believes in personal
diplomacy,” Nuland said at a briefing in Washington. “He
believes in sitting with leaders and listening to them. So
that’s what he will be doing again this time.”  “He’ll also be making clear that the parties themselves
have to want to get back to the table, that this is a choice
that they have to make,” Nuland said.  Kerry “is not planning to put a big plan on the table”
during talks with Netanyahu and Abbas, she said.  “We are still at the ‘let’s see what’s possible’ stage,”
Nuland said. “The secretary’s committed to using his strong
relationships with both leaders to encourage them to be open, to
be creative, to be prepared for compromises and to work hard to
build trust between them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  