-- King Seen Facing Third BOE Loss as Inflation Concerns Remain
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-04-04T09:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/king-seen-facing-third-boe-defeat-as-inflation-fears-persist.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
risks facing a third defeat in his bid to expand stimulus as
officials wary of dislocating inflation expectations set aside
new freedoms given by a change to their remit.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by King will
hold its  target for asset purchases  at 375 billion pounds ($568
billion) today, according to 34 of 37 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. King and two colleagues were outvoted in February
and March in a push for a 25 billion-pound increase.  Today’s meeting is the first since Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  expanded the MPC’s flexibility,
broadening its capacity to ease policy even with above-target
inflation. The change, three months before the arrival of new
Governor  Mark Carney , may not be enough to push through more
stimulus after the MPC majority raised concerns that it could be
interpreted as a loss of focus, unhinging confidence in their
inflation commitment and driving the pound lower.  “They have clearly been concerned about the speed of the
pound’s decline and the impact on inflation,” said  Brian Hilliard , chief U.K. economist at Societe Generale SA in London
and a former BOE official. “While it’s important the MPC
doesn’t just sit on its hands until Carney comes, the basic
story is that the output gap is still wide, but inflation
remains a problem.”  BOJ Decision  The MPC will also leave its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent, where it has been since March 2009,
according to a separate survey of economists. The BOE will
announce the decisions at noon in London.  Earlier today, the  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded its stimulus
program in its first policy decision under new governor Haruhiko Kuroda. It announced it would double monthly bond purchases in a
bid to reach 2 percent inflation in two years.  In  Frankfurt , the  European Central Bank  will keep its
 benchmark rate  at a record low 0.75 percent, according to the
median of 56 estimates in a survey. Just two of the economists
polled forecast a cut this time. That decision is due 45 minutes
after the BOE announcement.  GDP Estimate  While two reports this week showed U.K. manufacturing and
construction shrank in March,  services , the largest part of the
economy, continued to grow. Markit Economics and the Chartered
Institute of Purchasing Supply said today that their index of
services rose to 52.4, the highest in seven months.  Based on the three measures, Markit estimates the economy
grew 0.1 percent in the first quarter, which would mean it
avoided a triple-dip recession.  Today’s report “is consistent with a relatively robust
increase in first-quarter services activity and it could help
GDP to remain afloat,” said Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at
Newedge Group in London.  The British Chambers of Commerce said this week that the
economy probably didn’t shrink in the first quarter and the
pound’s decline will help boost exports. Its gauges of domestic
and foreign demand at manufacturers and services companies all
rose last quarter, with the export measures close to a record.  “The economy is not weak enough to make a convincing
argument in favor of QE,” said  George Buckley , an economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London. “Voting for 25 billion extra is
quite an uncertain decision. Were the data to change and it
looked like things wouldn’t recover, you would see more MPC
members join King’s side.”  BOE Remit  Osborne announced on March 20 that he will give the MPC
more leeway to meet its 2 percent inflation target amid strains
in the economy. He also asked the BOE assess the benefits of
forward guidance.  U.K. inflation  accelerated to 2.8 percent in February, and
the BOE forecasts a further increase in the coming months. The
 British Retail Consortium  said its inflation measure rose in
March and that there was upward pressure on import prices from
the pound’s weakness.  Sterling is the second-worst performer this year among 10
developed-market currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. It fell 0.4 percent to $1.5074 as of 10:01
a.m. in  London .  The pound and its impact on inflation appeared prominently
in the minutes of the MPC’s March meeting. The majority against
more stimulus said such a move might lead to an “unwarranted
depreciation of sterling if it were misinterpreted as a lack of
commitment to maintaining low inflation in the medium term.”  King said last month that more stimulus through asset
purchases would help foster a nascent recovery and that turmoil
in the euro area had hurt confidence.  Compass Group Plc (CPG) , the
world’s largest catering group, said economic conditions across
 Europe  “remain difficult.”  “King’s intellectual leadership is waning a little as he
nears the end of his term, as it’s unusual for him not to be
followed fairly quickly by the rest of the MPC,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London who
formerly worked at the BOE. “The data are not quite bad enough
to prompt the hawks to change their mind. At the moment it’s a
bit of a stalemate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  