-- Kuroda’s Sway Over Board Tested as BOJ Mulls Policy Steps
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-04-04T00:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/kuroda-s-sway-over-board-tested-as-boj-considers-policy-steps.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda may be constrained in the amount of stimulus he can
deliver at his first policy meeting today as he seeks support
from a board mostly appointed by the previous government.  The central bank chief has only three definite allies for
boosting monthly bond purchases on the nine-person committee,
according to BNP Paribas SA. Credit Suisse Group AG says a
struggle to secure consensus could limit Kuroda to doing the
“minimum required” and signaling stronger measures to come.  Disappointing investors would risk a rebound in the yen
that would make it harder for the central bank to achieve
Kuroda’s goal of 2 percent inflation in two years. The currency
reached a 3 1/2-year low against the dollar last month and
stocks surged as Kuroda proposed policies from increased bond
buying to bringing forward open-ended asset purchases from 2014.  “The best outcome for Kuroda would be agreement on every
measure, but it’s unlikely,” said  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief
 Japan  economist at Credit Suisse in  Tokyo  and a former BOJ
official. “If he fails, it may be difficult to restore
investors’ confidence.”  The yen traded near its strongest level in a month today,
gaining 0.2 percent to 92.84 per dollar as of 9:05 a.m. in
Tokyo, amid speculation more BOJ easing has already been priced
in by investors. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.8 percent,
after yesterday rising the most in eight weeks.  At stake is the credibility of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
economic program -- dubbed Abenomics -- and his chances of
ending stagnation in a country that emerged from its third
recession in five years at the end of 2012.  More Bonds  All 19 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  see the BOJ
taking some action today. Fifteen see an increase in monthly
bond purchases, with 11 giving a numerical forecast. The median
is for 5.2 trillion yen ($56 billion) per month, a 50 percent
increase on the average during the first quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Two economists expect the BOJ to delay expanding monthly
bond purchases.  Kuroda has pledged to consider combining monthly purchases
and an asset-purchase fund, scrapping a rule limiting the scale
of buying, and increasing the amount and maturities of debt
bought.  While Kuroda may be able to secure at least five votes with
the support of his two deputies and members Sayuri Shirai and
Ryuzo Miyao, he may delay some decisions to avoid divisions on
the board, said  Chotaro Morita , chief strategist for fixed
income at Barclays in Tokyo.  Shirai called for an immediate start to the open-ended
program last month, while Miyao has urged a stronger commitment
to achieving the price target.  Nakaso’s View  Hiroshi Nakaso, one of two deputy governors and a former
BOJ official, told lawmakers on March 12 that he sees no
difference between his views and those of Kuroda and Deputy
Governor Kikuo Iwata. Iwata said last month the BOJ should
commit to achieving the target within two years.  Lawmakers will tomorrow get the opportunity to question
Kuroda on his policies for reviving the economy. Companies
including Toyota Motor Corp. are set to benefit from the yen’s
slide, with the world’s largest carmaker raising its profit
estimates for the current fiscal year. Household sentiment on
the economic outlook is at a record high.  At today’s meeting, the deputies and probably Shirai will
support Kuroda, “but it’s still uncertain how the rest of the
board will vote,” said Atsushi Ito, Tokyo-based chief Japanese
government bond strategist at BNP Paribas.  Kiuchi, Sato  Two economists who joined last year -- Takahide Kiuchi of
Nomura Securities Co. and Takehiro Sato of Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. -- dissented from adopting the 2 percent price
target in January. Koji Ishida said last month the BOJ’s asset-
buying is already “virtually open-ended” while Yoshihisa Morimoto on Feb. 20 said the BOJ’s easing is “unprecedented.”  The BOJ currently buys bonds with maturities of up to three
years, as well as exchange-traded funds and other securities, in
a program targeted to reach 76 trillion yen by the end of the
year.  Minutes from a February meeting showed that some members
favored buying longer term bonds, and a few said the asset fund
could be combined with outright purchase operations, known as
rinban, under which the BOJ buys up to 30-year bonds.  “Kuroda must at least show the BOJ is shifting toward
reaching the price target,” said Koichi Haji,  executive
director  at the NLI Research Institute in Tokyo, an affiliate of
Nippon Life Insurance Co., Japan’s biggest life insurer. “He
can’t afford to fail from the beginning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  