-- Kuwait Parliament Passes Law to Rescue Indebted Citizens
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-04-03T15:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/kuwait-parliament-passes-law-to-rescue-indebted-citizens.html
Kuwait’s parliament passed a law
requiring the government to pay 744 million dinars ($2.6
billion) to purchase citizens’ loans taken before March 30, 2008
and write off all interest before rescheduling payments.  The law, approved by 50 lawmakers out of 57 members of
parliament who were present, also requires banks to repay
borrowers who were charged more than 4 percentage points above
the base rate on their loans.  “It’s a start to a problem rather than solving a
problem,” Jassim Al-Saadoun, head of Al-Shall Economic
Consultants, said by phone from Kuwait City. “It’s unjust even
among borrowers, legally and morally this will be a problem. Who
will believe us now that we will be a financial center?”  According to lawmakers, 47,444 Kuwaitis who borrowed from
conventional banks are eligible to benefit from the law, which
excludes citizens who took loans from Islamic banks. Previous
attempts at passing similar laws had failed amid opposition by
the government, which always said Kuwaitis in trouble with loan
payments already have access to a special fund set up in 2007.
The law underwent numerous amendments before the government
would lend support to its passage today.  “Banks are in full compliance with the regulations that do
not allow banks to charge more than 4 percent over the discount
rate,” Hamad Al-Marzouq, chairman of the Kuwait Banking
Association, said by phone after the vote. “Banks have not
charged anything in excess of what is legally allowed, so in our
assessment there will be zero impact on the banks.”  Bank lending in Kuwait, OPEC’s fourth-biggest producer,
grew 4.8 percent in February, after growing an average 4.1
percent in 2012, the fastest pace since 2009 and boosted by a
jump in consumer loans. The government posted its 13th straight
surplus in the last fiscal year, a record 13.2 billion dinars.
Kuwait will exhaust all oil revenue by 2017 if the government’s
current spending policy continues, the International Monetary
Fund said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  