-- Najib Calls Malaysia Election With Five-Decade Rule on Line
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-04-03T08:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/najib-calls-malaysia-election-with-five-decade-rule-on-line-1-.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
dissolved parliament in preparation for elections that will
determine whether his ruling coalition extends its unbroken hold
on power since independence in 1957.  Under Malaysian law the contest must be held within 60 days
of the dissolution of the legislature. The Election Commission
will meet in a few days to announce a date for the poll,
spokesman Sabri Said said in a text message.  “The ultimate power of choosing the government lies in the
peoples’ hands,” Najib said in a televised address. “Over the
past five decades we’ve achieved stability and prosperity in
this country. I hope we’ll continue this tradition.”  Najib will lead  Barisan Nasional  to the polls for the first
time since he took power four years ago following the 13-party
coalition’s narrowest election win ever in 2008. The prospect of
an even closer contest against Anwar Ibrahim’s resurgent
opposition alliance has helped make the  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI) 
Index one of the worst performing Asian benchmarks this year.  “This election is probably going to be the closest ever in
Malaysian history,” Mohamed Nawab Mohamed Osman, research
fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in
 Singapore , said by phone. “It’s a do-or-die sort of election.
On the day when the results are going to be announced, there
will be a lot of power jockeying. It’s going to be a good two or
three months before things are going to settle down.”  Stocks Fall  The  KLCI index  fell 0.3 percent to 1,679.49 as of 3:59 p.m.
local time, paring losses of as much as 3.1 percent, the most
since October 2011. The ringgit, Asia’s fifth-worst performing
currency this year, was little changed. Since Najib took office,
the KLCI index has gained 82 percent as of yesterday’s close,
about three times less than benchmarks in  Thailand ,  Indonesia 
and the  Philippines .  Najib, 59, said all government-controlled state assemblies
are also dissolved. In the 2008 election, when Abdullah Ahmad
Badawi led Barisan Nasional, the ruling coalition lost control
of five of the country’s 13 states to Anwar’s People’s Alliance.
It later regained control of Perak state following defections.  Barisan Nasional currently controls  137 seats  in  Malaysia ’s
222-member parliament, with Najib’s United Malays Nasional
Organisation its biggest component. Anwar’s alliance holds 75
parliamentary seats.  Corruption Perception  Najib is more popular than his government, according to the
 Merdeka Center for Opinion Research . His approval rating slipped
to 61 percent in February from 63 percent in December, a survey
of 1,021 voters conducted Jan. 23 to Feb. 6 on the country’s
peninsula showed. By contrast, 48 percent of respondents said
they were “happy” with the government.  Barisan Nasional has struggled to reverse perceptions of
entrenched corruption and sufficiently address concerns over
higher living costs, according to  Ibrahim Suffian , a political
analyst at the Merdeka Center. More voters under 40 years of age
are now accessing news reports online, he said, and “the
government narrative isn’t always dominant anymore.”  “Economic growth was pretty strong at the end of last year
and we can see some improvement in the numbers, but not nearly
enough to significantly boost the government’s chances,”
Ibrahim said by phone.  Economic Growth  Malaysia’s  economy  has expanded by more than 5 percent for
each of the past six quarters through the end of 2012, buoyed by
domestic demand and investment. Najib has given cash handouts
and raised civil servant salaries to woo voters while planning
$444 billion worth of projects over the next decade from mass
rail to oil storage that have attracted companies such as
 Carrefour SA (CA)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   He has rolled back some preferences for ethnic Malays and
indigenous peoples known as bumiputeras to encourage investment,
including doing away with a requirement that foreign companies
investing in Malaysia and locally listed businesses set aside 30
percent of their equity for this group. The policy of favoring
ethnic Malays was put in place by his father, Abdul Razak
Hussein, who was the country’s second prime minister.  Anwar, 65, leads an ideologically disparate opposition that
includes one party with mostly ethnic Chinese and another whose
members support the implementation of Islamic law. He spent six
years in prison until 2004 on corruption and sodomy charges that
he says were politically motivated. The charge of having sex
with a man was eventually overturned.  Anwar Confident  Anwar has pledged to revamp racial preferences for
bumiputeras, and trim the budget deficit through cost savings if
he wins power. His coalition also wants to raise the minimum
wage, lower oil and electricity prices, and increase cash
handouts to the elderly and students.  The opposition will win the election with a majority of
more than 10 seats, Anwar said in a March 8 interview.  “I don’t want to sound over confident, but I believe
looking into the trend now it will be a comfortable majority,”
he said.  Anwar backed mass demonstrations last year and in 2011 that
were organized by the Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections, or
Bersih, to demand changes to the country’s voting laws. The
Election Commission agreed to some of the demands, including
using indelible ink to mark voters’ fingers, while ignoring
requests for a minimum 21-day campaign period.  “Malaysia has been in the election mood for the past two
years,” James Chin, professor of political science at the
Malaysian campus of  Australia ’s Monash University, said in a
telephone interview with Bloomberg Television today. “What we
are seeing is the tail end of a very, very long campaign. My
guess is that the majority of Malaysians have already made up
their minds on who to vote for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  