-- Najib Invokes 7th Century Battle in Poll Warning: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-04-04T06:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/najib-invokes-7th-century-battle-in-poll-warning-southeast-asia.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
urged party members four months ago to learn from the seventh
century Battle of Uhud, in which Prophet Mohammed’s army was
defeated by the Meccans because his archers didn’t obey orders.  Now, with elections just weeks away and facing an
invigorated opposition, party leaders are amplifying Najib’s
message: After ill-discipline and sabotage cost the ruling
coalition its two-thirds majority in the 2008 election, this
time round it could end their 55-year hold on power.  The 13-party governing alliance plans to announce
candidates a week before nomination day, a break from past
elections when nominees were declared 48 hours in advance, to
allow enough time to purge troublemakers, said Khairy Jamaluddin,
son-in-law of former Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi.
Infighting five years ago produced a flood of spoiled ballots,
contributing to the coalition’s narrowest election win since
independence in 1957 and Abdullah’s resignation, he said.  “Because of the number of marginal seats, seats with small
majorities, it is a serious matter where a couple hundred
spoiled votes can make a difference,” Khairy, who heads the
youth wing of Najib’s  United Malays National Organisation , said
in an interview. “In a close contest, even 10 to 20 seats are
meaningful in a way that they could decide the election.”  Stocks Lag  The prime minister dissolved parliament yesterday, paving
the way for the Election Commission to schedule a vote within 60
days. Najib told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today that he’s
“cautiously optimistic” about winning “big” with a two-
thirds majority in parliament. Opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim
also said he was “cautiously optimistic” about his coalition’s
prospects in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Susan Li.  Brokerages from RHB Investment Bank Bhd. to Citigroup Inc.
expect a closer election result than in 2008, unsettling
investors. The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  has fallen 0.2
percent this year, lagging behind benchmarks in  Indonesia ,
 Thailand  and the  Philippines . The ringgit has dropped 0.6
percent against the dollar in that time.  Party leaders handpick all 222 candidates standing for
parliament, a process that risks resentment from members who are
passed over. Rejected local leaders may encourage supporters to
spoil ballots, withhold campaign funds, refrain from campaigning
for the party’s chosen candidate or run as independents.  “We have to work hard” and “make sure we minimize all
internal problems within the party,” Najib said, after meeting
leaders of his coalition to discuss candidates today.  ‘Insidious Opposition’  While difficult to quantify, measures put in place since
the last election will lessen the risk that sabotage will hurt
the UMNO-led Barisan Nasional coalition this time, according to
Ooi Kee Beng, deputy director of the Institute of Southeast
Asian Studies in  Singapore .  “Any list of this type is going to leave a lot of people
unhappy, and this is more so in UMNO than other parties,” he
said by phone. “If something happens from the top that is not
popular further down, then you do get silent and rather
insidious opposition.”  Najib plans to pick candidates that appeal to the wider
public instead of those who are only popular within the party,
Tengku Adnan Tengku Mansor, secretary-general of  Barisan
Nasional , said in a March 20 interview in Kuala Lumpur.  “If all of us are united, no one can penetrate us,” said
Tenku Adnan, who is also an UMNO member.  Najib invoked the Battle of Uhud at UMNO’s annual assembly
in November to underscore the need for organizational discipline.
“It is the cornerstone of factors that will determine the
success or failure of an organization to achieve the desired
goals,” Najib said, according to a  transcript . “In the
military field, it can determine victory or defeat.”  Mohammed’s Archers  In the battle, Mohammed’s archers disobeyed his orders and
left their positions to look for spoils in the Meccan camp after
an initial onslaught, which allowed his opponents to regroup and
initiate a surprise attack.  Before the 2008 election, Abdullah faced calls to step down
from his predecessor, Mahathir Mohamad, the prime minister from
1981 to 2003, who criticized him for canceling investment
projects such as a bridge to Singapore. The governing coalition
won 140 of 222 parliamentary seats -- eight short of retaining
the two-thirds majority it had held for almost four decades,
which makes it easier to change the constitution.  In eight of the 82 seats won by the opposition, the number
of spoiled ballots exceeded the margin of victory, according to
official tallies by the Election Commission. Barisan Nasional
lost two constituencies -- Balik Palau in Penang and Padang
Terap in Kedah state -- even while winning state assembly seats
that fell within the same electoral boundaries.  Of Barisan Nasional’s 140 seats, UMNO took 79 -- a 30-seat
decline from the 2004 election. The  Malaysian Chinese
Association  won 15 seats and smaller parties split the rest.  ‘Behaving Badly’  “Support to BN is much better compared to 2008,”
Saifuddin Abdullah, deputy minister of higher education, said in
a Bloomberg TV interview with  Susan Li  today. “We lost quite a
considerable number of young voters and professional voters in
2008. We’ve been engaging them this time round.”  To prevent sabotage, the coalition set up a disciplinary
committee with the authority to immediately expel members
suspected of undermining candidates before the election. The
additional time between announcing competitors and nomination
day will help weed out division chiefs who may shut down
campaign machinery, Khairy said.  “With a week, if people start behaving badly, we have time
to go down and say ‘Look, we’ve got the evidence, you’re out,’”
he said at his office on March 20. “We’re monitoring certain
key constituencies for instances of sabotage. I wouldn’t put a
figure to it but there could be a sizable number which could
jeopardize our victory.”  Opposition Bickering  Anwar, a former deputy prime minister and UMNO member who
was expelled from the party in the late 1990s and charged with
sodomy and corruption, leads the three-party opposition
coalition known as the People’s Alliance. Of the 82 seats it won
in 2008, 31 went to Anwar’s People’s Justice party, 28 to the
Chinese-majority Democratic Action Party, or DAP, and 23 to the
Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party.  Internal divisions have also cost the opposition. In 2008,
the People’s Alliance failed to contest in eight seats, leading
to automatic Barisan Nasional victories because no other parties
participated. In five other constituencies, Anwar’s party and
the DAP competed against each other.  The DAP accused a member of Anwar’s party last month of
trying to undermine it in Johor state, a Barisan Nasional
stronghold bordering Singapore, the news website Free Malaysia
Today reported, citing the DAP’s state chairman Boo Cheng Hau.  Lim Kit Siang, one of the DAP’s top leaders who plans to
contest in Johor, said by phone last week that the opposition is
in the “final stages” of drafting its candidate list.  “Of course it’s not easy, but we’ll work something out,”
his son Lim Guan Eng, DAP secretary-general, said in an
interview last month, referring to nomination lists. “Everybody
wants to fight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  