-- NBC Says Fallon to Replace Leno on ‘Tonight Show’ in 2014
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-04-03T20:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/nbc-says-fallon-to-replace-leno-on-tonight-show-in-2014-1-.html
Jay Leno , longtime host of NBC’s
“The Tonight Show,” will step down early next year and be
replaced by  Jimmy Fallon , as the network seeks younger viewers
for the most-popular late-night program.  As part of the transition in spring 2014, “The Tonight
Show” will be returning to New York from Los Angeles,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC said today in an e-mailed statement. Lorne Michaels
will be executive producer.  The announcement, expected after NBC designated Fallon as
Leno’s heir, marks a changing of the guard at the most-watched
show in late-night television. Leno, 62, who had been critical
of NBC management recently as stories surfaced of an imminent
change, said he supported the transition.  “Congratulations Jimmy,” Leno, the show’s host for 22
years, said in the statement. “I hope you’re as lucky as me and
hold on to the job until you’re the old guy. If you need me,
I’ll be at the garage.”  Fallon will help “The Tonight Show” attract a more Web-
savvy audience, according to  Brad Adgate , head of research for
 Horizon Media , a New York-based media services company. Its
clients include Geico Corp. and  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,
which runs ads featuring actor  Alec Baldwin .  ‘Different Vibe’  “There’s going to be a different vibe on the show,”
Adgate said in an interview. “Fallon’s stuff is made for online
viewing the next day. Younger viewers can watch short snippets
of the show instead of the full hour. It will be a different
look and feel.”  “Late Night with Jimmy Fallon” has drawn the most 18-
to-49-year-old viewers, the audience advertisers target, in its
12:35 a.m. time slot since he began hosting the show in March
2009, according to Nielsen data from NBC. This season, the show
is averaging 1.7 million viewers a night in total.  “I’m really excited to host a show that starts today
instead of tomorrow,” Fallon, 38, said in the statement.  Leno and Fallon appeared together on “The Tonight Show”
April 1 in a musical comedy highlighting their situation. The
New York Times reported yesterday that Fallon had signed a new
contract with the network.  Advertising Sales  Advertising revenue for the most-watched late-night talk
shows, “The Tonight Show” and the “Late Show With David Letterman” has fallen by about a third since 2007, according to
 WPP Plc (WPP) ’s Kantar Media unit. Leno had 2012 ad sales of $146.1
million, while Letterman generated $143.4 million.  The declines have coincided with shrinking audiences for
the veteran entertainers and increases in viewing for
alternatives including “The Daily Show With  Jon Stewart ” and
“The Colbert Report.”  Comcast, based in Philadelphia,  fell  1.1 percent to $41.82
at the close in New York. Shares of the largest U.S. cable
company have gained 12 percent this year.  “The Tonight Show” has outdrawn ABC and CBS in 18-to-49
and total viewers since March 2010, when Leno returned after
being replaced by  Conan O’Brien , and led for the 14 seasons
before his departure in May 2009, NBC said.  The program is averaging 3.5 million viewers this season,
the network said.  “We are purposefully making this change when Jay is No. 1,
just as Jay replaced  Johnny Carson  when he was No. 1,” NBC
Universal’s chief executive officer, Steve Burke, said in the
statement. “Jimmy Fallon is a unique talent and this is his
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  