-- New Bird Flu Strain Spreads in China as Third Person Dies
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-04-04T09:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/new-bird-flu-kills-third-person-in-china-as-cases-rise-to-nine.html
The new strain of bird flu that’s
emerged in eastern China killed a third person, as the World
Health Organization said drugs made by  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  are effective against the deadly virus.  A 64-year-old man from Huzhou City was confirmed to be
infected with the H7N9 strain of avian influenza and was
admitted to a hospital on March 31, China’s official Xinhua News
Agency reported today. The virus has infected at least 10 people
and killed three of them since China’s health ministry reported
the first cases last month, the wire service said.  Two contacts of one infected person in Shanghai developed
symptoms and one died, though no laboratory confirmation is
available of what illness was involved, the Geneva-based WHO
said yesterday in a  statement . There’s no evidence of human-to-
human transmission of the virus, the agency said. The extent of
the outbreak, the source of infection and the mode of
transmission are being investigated, and it’s too early to tell
whether the cases may signal a pandemic, according to the WHO.  “Until we know what the source of infection is, it’d be
premature to say one way or the other,” Gregory Hartl, a WHO
spokesman in Geneva, said by phone yesterday. “We wouldn’t be
dealing with a full deck.”  Poultry Worker  Health authorities in  Shanghai  are investigating the death
of a poultry worker, the city government said in a statement
posted on its official microblog today. The city’s center for
disease control and prevention is carrying out tests to see
whether he was infected with the H7N9 virus, it said. About
eight people had had close contacts with the man, who died
yesterday at a city hospital, the Shanghai government said.  Data from China’s Ministry of Agriculture showed that a
total of 25 H7N9 bird flu strains have been detected in wild
birds around the world and that the virus hasn’t been found in
poultry, according to Xinhua. China is on the flight path of
migratory birds, the agency reported, citing the ministry.  The new virus is sensitive to Roche’s Tamiflu and Glaxo’s
Relenza treatments, Hartl said.  “There was some initial doubt but those doubts seem to
have been put aside after a lot of work done in our
collaborating center in Beijing,” he said.  Drug Demand  Roche will provide an update on demand for Tamiflu when it
reports quarterly sales, Daniel Grotzky, a spokesman for the
Basel, Switzerland-based company, said in an e-mail. David Daley, a spokesman for London-based Glaxo, declined to comment
on demand for Relenza.  Concerns that the spread of infections may prompt consumers
to eat less poultry led soybeans to decline for a second day.
Soybean meal is a primary ingredient in chicken feed. The
contract for May delivery lost as much as 0.3 percent to $13.76
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and was at $13.7675 by
3:22 p.m. Singapore time. Futures fell 1 percent yesterday.  Shanghai issued a level-3 flu alert on April 2, the second-
lowest of four levels, following the deaths of the two men, ages
87 and 27, in  China ’s financial hub last month.  Investigations still haven’t uncovered how the two men
contracted the virus, and tests have yet to prove whether it can
be transmitted among humans, Wu Fan, head of the city’s disease
control center, said at a briefing that day.  Dead Pigs  There’s also no evidence that the virus is related to dead
pigs found in a Shanghai river last month, Wu said. More than
11,000 hog carcasses were pulled from the Huangpu river, which
supplies about 22 percent of the city’s water, and thousands
more were found in neighboring Zhejiang province.  The discovery of the new virus has prompted other cities in
the region to intensify checks. Beijing, the Chinese capital,
started monitoring for H7N9 influenza, Xinhua reported, while
 Taiwan ’s Central News Agency said March 31 the island is on the
alert for the bug. Officials in Hong Kong activated the alert
response level, the lowest of three in the island’s pandemic
preparedness  plan , and advised people to avoid direct contact
with birds.  China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention advised
people against slaughtering poultry for ancestral worship as
part of the Tomb-Sweeping holiday that starts today, Xinhua
reported yesterday.  The new strain of H7N9 hasn’t previously appeared in
humans, the WHO said. The virus’s genetic sequence shows it’s a
combination of an H7N9 virus that circulates in birds and an
H9N2 pathogen, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and
Control said in a report yesterday.  Past Pandemics  The  flu pandemics  of the past century, including the 1918
Spanish flu that killed as many as 50 million people, have all
been triggered by the mixing of human and animal flu viruses to
create new pathogens to which people have no pre-existing
immunity.  More than  600 people  have been infected with the H5N1 bird
flu strain since 2003, and almost 60 percent have died,
according to the WHO. Most had direct contact with infected
poultry, and the virus hasn’t acquired the ability to spread
easily between people.  The H1N1 virus responsible for the 2009 swine flu pandemic
originated in pigs, then mixed with human and avian viruses,
touching off the first global influenza outbreak in more than 40
years and killing about 284,500 people, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  