-- New Jersey Tax Collections Exceeded Christie’s Target in March
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-04-03T21:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/new-jersey-tax-collections-exceeded-christie-s-target-in-march.html
New Jersey’s tax revenue exceeded
Governor  Chris Christie ’s forecast by $25.7 million in March,
according to a statement from Treasurer Andrew Sidamon- Eristoff’s office.  It was the fourth straight month in which tax collections
have beaten the governor’s target. Monthly collections were 1.4
percent ahead of projections and 4.1 percent above the same
period a year earlier. For the nine months ended March 31,
revenue has almost matched Christie’s forecast.  Christie, 50, a Republican seeking a second term in
November, proposed a $32.9 billion spending plan for the year
starting July 1 that calls for growth of about 5 percent.  “The results in March continued the positive revenue
trends we have been seeing since December of last year,”
Sidamon-Eristoff said in the statement. “It gives us growing
confidence that the recovery in the state’s economy is getting
stronger from week to week.”  In a separate memo, the nonpartisan Office of Legislative
Services said revenue may trail Christie’s budget by $637
million over the next 15 months. The agency said there is
uncertainty about the $180 million Christie is projecting from
online gambling in fiscal 2014. The office also said it sees
less income and corporate taxes than the governor does.  Assembly Budget Chairman Vincent Prieto, a Democrat from
Secaucus, said the administration’s targets were lowered in
January. He also said the latest revenue report doesn’t mean  New
Jersey  is safe yet.  “We should be more cautious,” he said today in a
telephone interview. Lately, he said, the Office of Legislative
Services “has been more accurate than the administration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  