-- New York-for-Buenos Aires Swap Theory Spreads: Argentina Credit
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-04-03T16:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/new-york-for-buenos-aires-swap-theory-spreads-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s refusal to improve its
offer to holders of defaulted debt suing for full payment in the
U.S. is deepening speculation that the nation will sever ties
with the overseas bond market.  The proposal submitted on March 29 mimics the terms of
Argentina’s 2005 and 2010 debt exchanges, a move that could lead
to a default on the restructured notes unless the country
removes them from U.S. jurisdiction. While benchmark notes due
2033 sank as much as 2.5 cents to 51.8 cents on the dollar after
Argentina made the offer, they’ve since recouped all their
losses as investors bet that the government will swap them into
debt governed by Argentine law.  Vice President Amado Boudou’s pledge on March 31 to pay
restructured bondholders “no matter what” is adding to
speculation the government is preparing contingency plans to
keep servicing the debt as it heads toward an impasse with U.S.
courts. The 12.71 percentage point gap on yields of Argentine
bonds over U.S. Treasuries, while the widest among major
 emerging markets , is down from a four-year high of 13.4
percentage points on Nov. 28.  “Win, lose or draw, if Argentina is pushed, they’ll redo
the payment system without a doubt” and shift investors from
debt issued under New York law, Ray Zucaro, who helps oversee
$300 million of emerging-market debt at SW Asset Management,
said by phone from Newport Beach, California. “If push comes to
shove and they rule, that’s what they’ll do.”  Argentina’s Prospects  Norma Madeo, a spokeswoman for the Economy Ministry, didn’t
reply to an e-mail message seeking comment on the government’s
plans to pay bondholders.  The latest offer to holdout creditors from the nation’s
record $95 billion default in 2001 means the government will
probably lose its bid to overturn a lower-court ruling that
requires the nation to repay in full, according to Anna Gelpern,
a law professor at American University in Washington. Jonathan Blackman, a lawyer for Argentina, told the appeals court in
February that the nation wouldn’t obey the order to make a full
payment to the holdouts, which include billionaire Paul Singer’s
hedge fund Elliott Management Corp.  That confrontation sets up a potential default on the
restructured notes because the lower court also blocked the
government from servicing those securities without making a $1.3
billion payment.  ‘Whatever Context’  In an interview on local television, Boudou told reporters,
“Argentina will meet its commitments in whatever context. We’re
not going to accept a blockage of Argentina’s willingness and
ability to pay.”  Alfredo Scoccimarro, a presidential spokesman, didn’t
return telephone calls seeking comment on Boudou’s statement.  The appeals court asked the holdouts yesterday to file a
response to Argentina’s proposed payment plan by April 22.  Boudou’s comments mean the government is willing to be in
contempt of court to make about  $1.7 billion  in payments this
year to investors who accepted losses of about 70 percent in the
restructurings, according to Sebastian Vargas, an economist at
Barclays Plc.  If the court rules in favor of the holdouts and prevents
intermediaries such as Bank of New York Mellon Corp. from
transferring money to restructured bondholders, Argentina may
change the notes’ jurisdiction to Argentine or even Italian law,
according to Alberto Bernal, the head of fixed-income research
at Miami-based brokerage Bulltick Capital Markets.  Changing Jurisdiction  Argentina can change the legislation over a single series
of the bonds if holders of 75 percent of the securities consent,
according to the securities’ prospectuses. Changing the
jurisdiction of two or more series would require approval by
owners of at least 85 percent of all affected bonds and by
holders of at least two-thirds of each individual series.  “We are hearing that Buenos Aires has advanced materially
in an eventual ‘Plan B,’” Bernal wrote in a note to clients
April 1. The plan may also include reopening the exchange for
holdouts who aren’t already suing Argentina and a buyback offer
for New York-law bonds, according to Bernal.  Traders shouldn’t underestimate how difficult it would be
for President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner to prevail under
such a plan if the appeals court upholds U.S. District Judge
Thomas Griesa’s ruling, according to Bank of America Corp.  The only way Argentina can continue to pay if the ruling is
upheld is “with a totally new, non-U.S. payment chain, which
would take a long time to construct,” Jane Brauer and Flavio de Andrade, strategists at Bank of America in New York, wrote in a
March 27 report.  Third Parties  An exchange into local-law bonds would require bondholders
to agree to move their notes to an Argentine custodian that is a
member of  Euroclear Bank SA , the world’s biggest settlement
system, to cancel the current bonds, the analysts said in the
report. A cancellation would have to be routed through BNY
Mellon, and intermediaries including Euroclear and the
Depository Trust Co. would probably alert the court for
clarification, according to the report.  “There may be bondholders that are in support of
Argentina’s making a payment, but may not be as comfortable
changing the instruments to Argentine law with all payments made
in Argentina through the Argentine payment system,” Bruce Wolfson, a lawyer at Bingham McCutchen LLP in New York, who has
more than 30 years of experience in emerging-market debt
restructurings, said in a telephone interview. “It’s in my
experience unprecedented.”  Debt Indexes  Bonds issued under Buenos Aires law wouldn’t qualify for
benchmark international debt indexes, which would prevent some
funds from owning them, according to Bank of America.  Most emerging-market debt sold overseas is governed by New
York law, according to the International Monetary Fund. Before
seeking to circumvent the ruling, Argentina can try to appeal to
a larger number of judges or the U.S. Supreme Court.  The cost to protect $10 million of Argentine debt against
non-payment during five years with credit-default swaps fell 108
basis points, or 1.08 percentage points, to 3,271 basis points
yesterday, data compiled by CMA Ltd. show. The swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Investor Optimism  While firms from JPMorgan to Credit Suisse Group AG said
the bonds would sink following Argentina’s payment proposal,
restructured notes  have fallen  just 0.1 percent since March 29,
according to index data compiled by JPMorgan. That’s a sign
investors are optimistic that Argentina will do whatever it
takes to remain current on the notes, according to Mario Rappoport, a managing director at Gleacher & Co. in New York.  “All the investors who had their position in Argentina
already went through enough hell,” Rappoport said in a
telephone interview. “It just doesn’t feel like the market is
ready to collapse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  