-- Newcrest Confidentiality Breach Harmless, Judge Rules
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-04-03T04:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/newcrest-confidentiality-breach-harmless-judge-rules.html
Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,  Australia ’s
largest gold producer, didn’t benefit from a breach of a
confidentiality agreement it had with Gold & Copper Resources
Pty, a judge ruled in dismissing Gold & Copper’s lawsuit.  Gold & Copper, a closely held Australian exploration
company, sued Newcrest last year claiming the Melbourne-based
gold miner disclosed in a 2009 application for exploration
licenses that it had been negotiating to use Gold & Copper’s
form of electro-magnetic survey technology, in violation of the
confidentiality agreement the two companies had.  Newcrest, as a result of divulging the information, won
renewals for two exploration licenses from the Minerals Division
of the New South Wales Department of Primary Industries,
profited from the breach of confidence and caused Gold & Copper
to lose any chance of applying and getting the licenses, the
private explorer claimed in the lawsuit.  “Although the statements were made in breach of Newcrest’s
obligations under the confidentiality agreement, they were not
made in trade or commerce,” New South  Wales  Justice James
Stevenson wrote in his  ruling  yesterday. “It is probable that
Newcrest would have obtained renewal of its exploration licenses
in any event.”  Newcrest didn’t profit from the statements and as a result
it’s not likely Gold & Copper suffered any loss, Stevenson said.  “Gold & Copper Resources has always maintained that
Newcrest has breached the confidentiality agreement,” the
company said in a statement today. “We are pleased to have this
confirmed.”  Newcrest said it regretted the “oversight” that resulted
in a breach of the confidentiality agreement. The miner welcomed
the court’s decision and said Gold & Copper’s claim had been
rejected with the judge ruling the breach to have been
inconsequential.  The case is Gold & Copper Resources Pty v. Newcrest
Operations Ltd. 2013/NSWSC281.  Supreme Court  of New South Wales
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  