-- Nielsen Expands Online Ratings System to Foreign Markets
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-04-03T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/nielsen-expands-online-ratings-system-to-foreign-markets.html
Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) , best known for
tracking television audiences, is expanding a newer service
measuring online advertising to countries outside the U.S.  Nielsen, based in  New York , will start counting audiences
exposed to online ads in Australia, Italy, Germany and Canada,
according to a statement today. The system lets marketers
easily compare online campaigns against TV commercials, Steve Hasker, Nielsen’s president of global product, said in an
interview.  “It’s enabled advertisers to really understand what
digital is delivering, and how that compares against what
they’re spending on television,” Hasker said. “That
comparability is really important.”  Online advertising data has been available to U.S. clients
for the past 18 months, Hasker said. Nielsen is seeking to unify
audience measurement by applying the Gross Ratings Point metric
widely used in television to all online ads, from Sponsored
Stories on  Facebook  to banner ads on the  New York Times  website
to 30-second spots running with an AOL video.  Advertisers have had difficulty discerning the value of
Internet audiences because TV has used a slightly different
measurement. The uncertainty led marketers to focus on the
dominant television market rather than the faster-growing
digital market, according to Hasker.  Faster Growth  Television accounts for 40 percent of global advertising
revenue, or $197.6 billion in 2012, according to
ZenithOptimedia, a media buying and planning agency within
 Publicis Groupe SA. (PUB)  That compares with $88.6 billion spent
online. While television ad spending is expected to rise 3.7
percent to $205.5 billion this year, Internet marketing is
expected to grow 15 percent to about $101.5 billion.  Nielsen’s online measurements include demographic data such
as age and gender, just as TV ratings do. The system alerts
advertisers to any audience duplication across television and
the Internet.  Sometimes, individuals are intentionally targeted with
overlapping ads so they can see a commercial more than once,
which leads to a higher likelihood of a purchase, also known
as ad frequency.   Since it’s been offered in the U.S., Nielsen’s online data
has been used by more than 90 companies representing more than
600 brands, including consumer-goods manufacturer  Kimberly-Clark
Corp. (KMB) , according to Hasker.  TV Dollars  Nielsen, which dominates the television market, counts
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , New York Times Co. and  AOL Inc. (AOL)  as digital
clients. The company will have to attract more website partners
to make its digital system a success, said Lyle Schwartz,
managing partner at GroupM, a media buying agency within  WPP
Plc (WPP) , the largest  advertising agency  in the world.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, for example, doesn’t use Nielsen’s
system, Schwartz said. The online search company has its own
measurement method, called Google Analytics, that Web publishers
often cite to advertisers.  Even so, better data from Nielsen has helped shift some TV
ad dollars online, said Schwartz. “It’s been a huge help for
advertisers,” he said. “We’ve been waiting for this for a long
time.”  At  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook , advertising
accounts for more than  84 percent  of annual sales. The company
has been looking for ways to increase advertising, and online
data that compares with TV ratings could help draw in more
television dollars, according to Sean Bruich, the social
network’s head of measurement.  “Marketers don’t want to silo their budgets between
digital or television,” Bruich said in an interview. “They
want to measure success on one yardstick.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  