-- Nissan Forecasts Chinese Sales Will Recover in Three Months
-- B y   M a   J i e
-- 2013-04-04T06:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/nissan-s-china-sales-to-rebound-in-three-months-executive-says.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the Japanese
automaker that sells the most cars in China, expects sales in
the world’s largest automobile market to rebound within three
months, as demand for Japanese-branded vehicles recovers.  “We’ve seen growth in retail year on year in March and
year to date,”  Andy Palmer , executive vice president of the
Yokohama, Japan-based carmaker told Bloomberg Television’s  John
Dawson  in an interview yesterday. “When we are seeing retail
growing, we can be pretty sure that within three months we will
see wholesale coming back to a position better than the previous
year.”  Nissan sales in China, its largest market, fell 17 percent
to 110,000 units last month and declined 5.3 percent in 2012, as
anti-Japan sentiment related to a territorial dispute deterred
consumers from buying cars made by automakers including  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  Nissan is more affected than other Japanese
automakers by a slump in China because it has the largest
proportion of sales there among its peers, selling about one in
four of its cars in the country.  Nissan reported monthly  China  sales results based on
wholesale, or sales to dealers, which have “no longer than 60
to 100 days” difference to retail sales due to the stock
issues, according to Palmer.  Nissan gained 2.6 percent to 912 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo. The shares have gained about 12 percent this
year compared with the 22 percent advance in the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Territorial Dispute  Chinese consumers have shunned Japanese products since
tensions flared in September over disputed islets, known as
Senkaku in Japanese, and Diaoyu in Chinese. Nissan sales slumped
by more than 30 percent in the October-to-December quarter in
China.  The rise in retail sales allows Palmer to be more bullish
than Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn , who has warned
the islets dispute may lead it to review its future investment
plans in China.  “It doesn’t affect our strategy going forward at all,”
Palmer said. “Obviously we’ve continued to invest.”  The company introduced its Teana sedan on Feb. 26 and is
counting on the car to revive sales in the country. Palmer said
the fall in March wholesale figures was due to the transition to
the new Teana from the old model.  China Youth  The carmaker will showcase a new concept car, Friend Me, at
the Shanghai auto show starting from April 20. Palmer said it
will be a hybrid car “dedicated to the youth of China”.  “You can go on social media in the car,” he said. “The
way that Chinese youth are using that media is some of the
surprise we will show you at  Shanghai .”  Nissan, which plans to introduce 15 hybrids by 2016 as
sales of the Leaf electric car lagged behind forecasts last
year, will sell a hybrid version of the Altima sedan in the
U.S., Palmer said.  The introduction of more hybrid cars doesn’t mean Nissan is
abandoning the ambition for electric vehicles.  “We are absolutely religious about leading in zero
emissions,” he said. “Renault and Nissan invested 5 billion
dollars in electric vehicles, and this is not something that we
are going away from.”  On exchange rates, Palmer reiterated that he sees 100 yen
versus the dollar as “neutral territory.” Nissan gains about
20 billion yen ($215 million) in operating profit with every
one-yen drop against the dollar, according to the company.  “I would still say there’s small headwind which we would
like to see the new government to overcome,” he said. “We’d
like to see the yen at about 100.”  The Japanese currency dropped 2.3 percent versus the dollar
to 95.23 yen as of 3:43 p.m. in  Tokyo  today. The yen has
weakened about 18 percent over the past six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  