-- No 2016 Republican Leader in Poll Showing Wide Disfavor
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-04-03T16:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/no-2016-republican-leader-in-poll-showing-wide-disfavor.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie,
whose handling of  Hurricane Sandy  and television appearances has
drawn positive media coverage, runs fourth among potential party
rivals in the 2016 presidential campaign, a poll of Republican
voters shows.  The  survey  by Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac
University showed a wide-open field as the party works to
rehabilitate its image five months after President  Barack Obama 
became the first holder of the office in 56 years to win more
than 51 percent of the popular vote twice.  No one attracted 20 percent support from Republican voters.
U.S. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida got 19 percent, compared
with 17 percent for Representative Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin , the
party’s vice-presidential nominee last year, and 15 percent for
Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky . Christie had 14 percent backing
and former Florida Governor Jeb Bush received 10 percent.
Christie, 50, is favored to win re-election in New Jersey in
November.  “Three years before the nominating process, the
Republicans have no clear favorite,” said Peter Brown,
assistant director of the Quinnipiac Polling Institute.  More broadly, 28 percent of all registered voters in the
March 26-April 1 telephone survey had a favorable opinion of the
Republican Party and 52 percent viewed it unfavorably. The image
of the Democratic Party wasn’t much better, with 38 percent
holding a favorable view compared with 44 percent unfavorable.  Republican Low  “The Republican brand is essentially in the toilet these
days, but it’s worth remembering the Democrats faced a similar
situation in the late 1980s and got their house in order and
returned to power in short order,” Brown said.  Republicans in Congress have a weaker image than their
party generally, with 19 percent of registered voters approving
of them and 71 percent disapproving, compared with 34 percent
approving and 59 percent disapproving of Democrats in Congress.  A Republican National Committee report released last month
called for dozens of changes in how the party contacts voters
and recruits candidates.  Obama got a 49 percent job-approval rating in the
Quinnipiac poll, with 45 percent disapproving. That’s an
improvement over his approval hovering in the mi-40 percent
range “as the budget battle with Congress took its toll,”
Brown said. “Now he may be inching up again.”  The Quinnipiac survey included 1,711 registered voters,
including 712 Republicans. The margin of error was plus or minus
2.4 percentage points for registered voters and plus or minus
3.7 percentage points for Republican voters.  The lack of an early Republican front-runner contrasts with
a prospective Democratic field led by former Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton, 65, who has kept a low profile since leaving
the State Department earlier this year.  A former first lady and senator from New York who hasn’t
said if she will run for president, Clinton had a 61 percent
favorability rating among registered voters in a Jan. 30-Feb. 4
Quinnipiac poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  