-- North Korea Blocks South’s Workers From Industrial Park
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-04-03T18:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/north-korea-prevents-south-s-workers-from-joint-industrial-park.html
North Korea  prevented South Korean
workers from entering a jointly run industrial park today,
adding to tensions after saying it will restart a mothballed
nuclear plant and threatening to attack its southern neighbor.  Workers aren’t being allowed into the Gaeseong zone, the
first blockage since 2009, though those already staying in the
complex are allowed to leave, South Korean Unification Ministry
spokesman Kim Hyung Suk said. North Korea said March 30 it may
shut the park in response to recent flights over the Korean
peninsula by U.S. stealth bombers.  “The entry ban is a serious obstacle to stable operation
of the complex,” Kim said. “In order for there to be more
investment into North Korea, just as it wishes, there needs to
predictability and mutual trust.”  Kim Jong Un’s regime generates about $100 million in
profits annually from the joint project and South Korea makes
quadruple that amount, according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at
the University of North Korean Studies in  Seoul . About 200,000
North Koreans, including workers and their families, depend on
the Gaeseong industrial zone for income, Yang said.  “We think this a regrettable move,” U.S. State Department
spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said at a briefing today. “The ban
ought to be lifted.”  Further Isolation  North Korea has barred South Koreans from the zone before,
Nuland said. “This is just a choice that further isolates the
country rather than taking them in the direction of a better
future,” she said.  Tensions are the highest since at least 2010, after North
Korea detonated a nuclear weapon in February and said annual
U.S.-South Korea military drills that run until the end of April
had brought the region to the brink of war. The regime yesterday
said it will restart all facilities at the Yongbyon nuclear site
shut by a 2007 disarmament deal, including a reactor that
generates spent plutonium fuel rods.  “They are only delaying South Korean entry to the park,
not entirely shutting down the complex, at least not yet,” said
Koh Yu Hwan, a North Korean studies professor at  Dongguk
University  in Seoul. “By doing this on top of declaring the
Yongbyon restart, North Korea is able to keep raising tensions
and pressure the U.S. and South Korea.”  Company Employees  More than 120 South Korean companies including apparel
company  Shinwon Corp. (009270) , underwear manufacturer  Good People Co. (033340) 
and watchmaker  Romanson Co. (026040)  employ more than 53,000 North Korean
workers at Gaeseong, located about 10 miles (16 kilometers)
north of the demilitarized zone. Their minimum monthly wage last
year rose 5 percent to $67.  Shinwon’s shares fell 0.8 percent today in Seoul, while
Romanson declined 2.7 percent.  The benchmark Kospi index of stocks fell 0.2 percent, while
the won weakened as much as 0.5 percent, touching a six-month
low, before finishing little changed at 1,117.60 per dollar. The
yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due March 2018 was
unchanged at 2.56 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc.  There are around 860 South Korean workers in Gaeseong and
446 had planned to leave today, according to the Unification
Ministry. After North Korea imposed the entry ban, only 33 ended
up leaving Gaeseong to return to Seoul, the ministry said,
adding that many changed their minds.  The ministry plans to seek the North’s approval tomorrow
for 526 citizens to enter and 983 to leave Gaeseong, according
to a text message.  Meeting Threats  South Korea may respond with force if its citizens at
Gaeseong are threatened, Defense Minister Kim Kwan Jin said in a
closed meeting with lawmakers, according to parliamentarian Won
Yoo Chul who was an attendee.  The South is ready to “annihilate” 70 percent of North
Korean forces within five days of an attack, Kim told the
meeting, Won said in an phone interview.  While North Korea’s “bellicose rhetoric” highlights a
longstanding regional risk, “it does not undermine South
Korea’s credit fundamentals,” Moody’s Investors Service
analysts  Thomas Byrne  and Steffen Dyck wrote in a report
yesterday. “South Korea’s stability has been ensured by the
deterrence provided by its robust alliance with the  United
States .”  Factories Operating  “Factories in Gaeseong are operating as usual, independent
of the raw materials and personnel traffic that’s been
restricted” today, said Yoo Dong Ok, chairman of Daewha Fuel
Pump Industries and a spokesman for South Korean companies
operating in the industrial complex. “Governments on both sides
must leave Gaeseong out of politics and let it run as normal.
It’s the last remaining inter-Korean exchange and economic
cooperation and neither side can afford to lose that.”  Two U.S. Navy destroyers have been sent to the western
Pacific to respond to missile threats, Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said yesterday.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said yesterday it would
be a “serious step” if North Korea violates its obligations by
restarting the nuclear facilities.  A uranium enrichment plant and a 5-megawatt graphite-rod
reactor that generates plutonium were closed six years ago as
part of a deal with the U.S., South Korea,  China ,  Russia  and
 Japan  to end North Korea’s nuclear ambitions in exchange for
energy aid. Six-nation talks aimed at dissuading the regime from
developing nuclear weapons haven’t been held since 2008.  Plutonium Reserves  North Korea has 24 to 42 kilograms of plutonium from the
Yongbyon reactor, enough to produce four to eight nuclear bombs,
according to  estimates  from Stanford University physicist
Siegfried Hecker, who visited the facilities in 2010.  Tensions last rose to this level between the two sides in
2010, following the sinking of a South Korean warship that
killed 46 sailors, and North Korea’s shelling eight months later
of a South Korean border island, in which four people died.  Almost 800 South Koreans were stranded in Gaeseong in March
2009 after the North temporarily severed communications and
suspended cross-border movement to protest the same annual U.S.-
 South Korea  military drills currently taking place.  Kim’s regime last month cut off a military hot line with
South Korea, put artillery forces on high alert and threatened
pre-emptive nuclear strikes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  