-- Norway Oil Fund Says Barriers to Free Capital Will Hurt Returns
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-04-03T12:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/norway-oil-fund-says-barriers-to-free-capital-will-hurt-returns.html
Norway’s $717 billion sovereign
wealth fund signaled it risks missing out on returns based on
global economic growth amid concern that barriers to capital
movements and taxes on investments are spreading.  “There are large parts of the global economy where we
don’t have the opportunity to invest,”  Yngve Slyngstad , chief
executive officer of Norges Bank Investment Management, said at
a parliamentary hearing in Oslo today, citing barriers in  China 
in particular. “There’s some risk that the fund won’t take part
in the collected growth of the world economy if we can’t get
these obstacle reduced over time.”  Europe ’s biggest equity investor, which got its first
capital injection in 1996, has been taking on more risk as it
expands globally to invest Norway’s oil wealth. It added stocks
in 1998,  emerging markets  in 2000 and real estate in 2011. It’s
now in the process of a strategy shift to capture more global
growth, moving allocations away from Europe in favor of emerging
markets in  Asia  and  South America .  “We’re not sure there will be the same free movement of
capital that we see now,” Slyngstad said. “It could become
easier to invest in these countries, but there could also be new
barriers and, secondly, there could also be greater taxation on
our returns.”  China Quota  The fund said in its annual report released last month that
it became the first foreign investor to be awarded the maximum
$1 billion quota of investments in Chinese A shares, an increase
of $300 million. Its investment in China accounted for 1.6
percent of its equity holdings at the end of 2012.  The fund reduced its holdings in French and U.K.  government
bonds  by almost half last year as it raised its share of
government bonds in emerging-market currencies to 10 percent of
its fixed-income holdings by adding investments in Turkey,
Russia and  Taiwan .  Slyngstad said today the fund will need to invest in
“things where the expected return is per definition uncertain”
to keep pace with the government’s 4 percent real return target.  The fund gained 447 billion kroner ($79 billion) last year
as central bank stimulus measures boosted global stock markets,
returning 13.4 percent. Its real annual return over the past
five years has been 1.02 percent, according to calculations
provided on its website.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  