-- Obama’s Voluntary 5% Pay Cut Joined by Lew, Kerry, Holder
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-04-04T22:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/obama-said-to-return-part-of-salary-while-budget-cuts-in-effect.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry ,
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and Attorney General Eric Holder
today followed President  Barack Obama ’s decision to refuse a
portion of his salary to show solidarity with furloughed
government workers.  Obama will send a check to the Treasury for 5 percent of
his $400,000 annual salary each month federal employees are
forced to take unpaid leave because of across-the-board budget
cuts under a process known as sequestration, a White House
official said yesterday.  Kerry will donate 5 percent of his pay to “an appropriate
charity that will benefit employees of the State Department,”
 Victoria Nuland , the department spokeswoman, said today.  Lew’s office said he would donate an unspecified amount of
his salary to charity.  “The Secretary will contribute a portion of his salary to
non-profits that support people and programs that have been
adversely affected by the sequester,” Treasury Spokeswoman
Natalie Earnest said. The Treasury Department didn’t identify
which programs would benefit from Lew’s donation.  Holder, appearing on the nationally-syndicated radio
program the “Tom Joyner Morning Show” said he will also return
a percentage of his compensation if  Justice Department  employees
are forced to take unpaid leave.  Holder’s Support  “I’ll say this, what the president did I think is right,
given the fact that some federal employees may have to be
furloughed, which means a pay cut,” Holder said today. “If
that happens in the Justice Department, that is certainly
something that I would consider. We are working to try to ensure
that our workforce does not have to be furloughed.”  Obama’s salary give-back -- which would total $20,000 --
represents the level of cuts being made in non-exempt, non-
defense discretionary spending under the budget reductions known
as sequestration, said the White House official, who wasn’t
authorized to speak on the matter and asked not to be
identified.  Like members of Congress and Cabinet officials, the
president’s salary is set by law and can’t be reduced or raised
while he’s in office.  Two Cabinet-level officials, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
and acting Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Bob Perciasepe, had said they would take pay cuts.  Kerry’s Choices  Kerry is “still looking at the best choice” of
recipients, Nuland said, mentioning charities for children of
State Department employees or families of those injured or
killed in the line of duty. The former Massachusetts senator was
among the richest members of Congress, with a 2011 net worth of
at least $181.5 million, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics in Washington.  Democratic Senator  Mark Begich  of Alaska, up for re-
election in 2014, released a statement yesterday saying he will
return part of his salary and furlough some of his staff.  “There is no reason that members of Congress shouldn’t
feel the pinch like everyone else,” Begich said. “This won’t
solve our spending problem on its own, but I hope it is a
reminder to Alaskans that I am willing to make the tough cuts,
wherever they may be, to get our spending under control.”  U.S. Senators are paid  $174,000 a year , the same as in
2009, according to a Congressional Research Service report. The
majority and minority leaders get $193,400 annually, as does the
president pro tempore, it shows.  No Furloughs  Cabinet secretaries and other senior agency officials
appointed by the president can’t be forced to take unpaid time
off because “they are considered to be entitled to the pay of
their offices solely by virtue of their status as an officer,”
rather than by the hours they work, according to the Office of
Personnel Management documents.  “The president has decided that to share in the sacrifice
being made by public servants across the federal government that
are affected by the sequester, he will contribute a portion of
his salary back to the Treasury,”  Jay Carney , a White House
spokesman, said in a statement released yesterday.  Lawmakers in the  House of Representatives  also are paid
$174,000 a year, while those in leadership roles get more.
Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California collects $193,400,
while Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , receives
$223,500 annually, according to the research service.  The White House hasn’t said whether Vice President  Joe Biden , who makes $230,700, would return part of his pay.  First Check  Obama will write the first check this month and will
continue through the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30 or until
the sequestration is replaced, the administration official said.  The sequestration process will slice $85 billion out of the
federal budget through the end of September, split almost evenly
between  defense spending  and discretionary social programs.  Hagel, who makes about $199,700 a year, according to
another research service report, announced his decision to
forfeit pay on April 2. Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter 
also has offered to return part of his salary.  The Pentagon must cut $41 billion in spending over the
fiscal year because of sequestration. Defense officials have
said the reductions may require the agency’s 750,000 civilian
workers to take as many as 14 unpaid days off over that period.  Donated Money  The EPA’s Perciasepe has donated the equivalent of 32 hours
of his salary to the Federal Employee Education and Assistance
Fund, according to Alisha Johnson, a spokeswoman. That is the
amount of time employees will be furloughed through June 15. The
 fund  offers emergency assistance and tuition aid to the families
of U.S. workers.  Citizens who want to make a donation to the government can
do so through a 170-year-old account called “Gifts to the
United States,” run by the Treasury Department, according to
 Anthony Coley , an agency spokesman. Pay returned by public
officials would be considered donations to the government.  Voluntary payments to reduce the national debt can be
deducted from taxes as charitable contributions, according to
the research service. At the 39.6 percent top federal tax rate,
Obama may get $7,920 in tax relief by deducting the $20,000 in
returned pay.  Carney told reporters today that the president wouldn’t
claim the deduction when he files his 2013  tax return , due next
year.  Economy Cools  As the sequestration cuts have begun, some signs have
indicated the  U.S. economy  may be starting to cool. The
 Institute for Supply Management  said yesterday that its non-
manufacturing gauge  declined  to 54.4 last month from a one-year
high of 56 in February, the slowest pace of growth in seven
months, and companies added fewer workers than forecast.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  of U.S. equities retreated
from a record close on April 2 to end at 1,559.98 in  New York ,
while an index of 10-year Treasury note yields declined to 1.76
percent at 5 p.m. New York time from 1.81 percent late
yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Congress mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
spending cuts -- the sequestration -- spread over nine years, as
part of a 2011 deal to increase the U.S.  debt  limit.  The president has said he’ll continue to seek a long-range
deficit reduction agreement with Republicans. He plans to have a
dinner meeting with about a dozen lawmakers from the party on
April 10 to discuss a potential budget deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  