-- Obama Uses State Action on Gun Control Laws to Pressure Congress
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-04-03T21:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/obama-uses-state-action-on-gun-control-laws-to-pressure-congress.html
President  Barack Obama  called
Colorado a model for the nation on  gun control , saying that
recently-enacted legislation protects the rights of law-abiding
citizens while keeping firearms from “dangerous people.”  With congressional action stymied by opposition from the
 National Rifle Association , the nation’s biggest pro-gun lobby,
Obama is highlighting efforts to restrict firearms in states to
put pressure on lawmakers.  “There doesn’t have to be a conflict between protecting
our citizens and protecting our Second Amendment rights,” Obama
said at an event at the Denver Police Academy. “Colorado has
shown that practical progress is possible.”  The president is trying to overcome the NRA’s lobbying and
waning public enthusiasm for the gun control measures he
outlined in the weeks after the mass shooting at a Newtown,
 Connecticut , elementary school in December that left 20 children
and six adults dead. His administration is pressing for action
at both the state and federal level.  Since Newtown, Obama said, “more than 2,000 of our fellow
citizens, struck down, often just because they were in the wrong
place at the wrong time.”  More than six hundred bills aimed at restricting access to
firearms were introduced in state legislatures this year, a more
than threefold increase from 2012, according to the Law Center
to Prevent Gun Violence, a San Francisco-based group that
advocates in favor of stricter laws.  State Actions  So far, few gun restrictions have become law.  New York  was
the first state to act, with a ban on high-capacity magazines
and assault-weapons restrictions, and  Colorado  last month
enacted magazine limits and required expanded background checks
for gun buyers. Yesterday, Connecticut’s legislature considered
what proponents said were the most sweeping in the nation and
 Maryland  moved toward passage of a slate of new weapons
restrictions.  All four of those states are led by Democrats. The
president is scheduled to make a trip to Hartford, Connecticut,
April 8.  “From the beginning of this effort, we’ve wanted law
enforcement front and center in shaping the discussion and the
reforms that emerge from it,” Obama said, flanked by policemen
and women.’’  Laura Cutilletta, an attorney who follows state gun
measures for the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, said such
efforts face considerable challenge in much of the country, with
Republicans in charge of a majority of legislatures and
governors offices.  Political Landscape  “The political reality hasn’t really changed since
Newtown,” Cutilletta said. “The will is there, and the public
certainly seems to have mobilized around this issue, but the
politics that surround this issue -- the gun lobby and the
forces that are exerting pressure on both sides -- in that
respect, that is still as it was before.”  As the memories of the Newtown massacre fade, polls show
public support for stricter limits on weapons has slipped. A CBS
News poll conducted March 20-24 found support for tougher gun
regulation was at 47 percent, down from 57 percent in the days
after the shootings. The poll, which is in line with other
recent surveys, had a margin of error was plus or minus three
percentage points. Some individual elements of Obama’s
proposals, particularly expanded background checks, still have
the support of a majority of Americans.  “It’s now been just over 100 days since the murder of 20
innocent children and six brave educators in Newtown,
Connecticut shocked this country into doing something to protect
our kids,” Obama said. “But consider this: over those 100 days
or so, more than 100 times as many Americans have fallen victim
to gun violence.”  Senate Proposal  The  U.S. Senate  will consider this month a package of gun
legislation that includes expanded background checks, a measure
to curb gun trafficking and one to increase federal grants for
school safety upgrades.  It’s a scaled-back version of the sweeping package of gun
legislation Obama proposed, which included a renewal of the ban
on assault weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines.
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  converted those items to an
amendment that stands no chance of survival.  Obama’s Denver event was the only official business on a
two-day trip out of  Washington . In  San Francisco , he will
headline four fundraisers to press donors to help him win back
Democratic control of the  House of Representatives  in 2014 and
shore up the national party’s finances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Denver at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  