-- Hochtief Said to Hire BNP, Macquarie for Unit Sales
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-04-03T09:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/hochtief-said-to-hire-bnp-macquarie-for-unit-sales.html
Hochtief AG (HOT) , Germany’s biggest
builder, has hired  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  to
explore options for two of its property-development units,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  All options are open for the assets, including a sale and a
partnership, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the information isn’t public. The two units, HTP and
Formart, may attract financial investors as well as property
development companies, said one of the people. Hochtief, BNP and
Macquarie declined to comment.  The Essen-based builder said in February it was considering
a sale of real-estate development, facility and energy-
management businesses in addition to plans to offload the
airport unit. Chief Executive Officer Marcelino Fernandez Verdes, who took over in November and comes from majority owner
 Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA  of  Spain , is
reversing a decade-long strategy of expanding into services.  Hochtief’s real-estate unit, which also includes property-
management businesses HTPM and Aurelis, employs 1,350 people and
posted a  net income  of 28 million euros ($36 million) in 2012.
Formart’s developments comprise residential real-estate
projects, while HTP develops properties that are sold to
investors “at an early stage,” according to the website of
Hochtief.  Hochtief’s past projects include Frankfurt’s Commerzbank
tower, Germany’s tallest building.  The stock fell as much as 1 percent to 50.76 euros and was
trading 0.6 percent lower as of 11:24 a.m. in Frankfurt. The
stock has climbed 16 percent this year, valuing the company at
3.9 billion euros.  Rival  Bilfinger SE (GBF)  is considering bidding for Hochtief’s
services units in order to get access to their customers, Chief
Executive Officer  Roland Koch  said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  