-- Oil Refineries Adds Most in 2 Months on Gas Cost: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-04-03T11:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/oil-refineries-adds-most-in-2-months-on-gas-cost-tel-aviv-mover.html
Oil Refineries Ltd. (ORL)  gained the most
in almost two months on bets the natural gas supply from the
Tamar field offshore Israel will cut production costs at the
country’s largest refiner.  The  shares  gained 2.8 percent, the most since Feb. 11, to
1.977 shekels at 1:13 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The stock led gains in
the benchmark TA-25 index which slid 0.1 percent today.  The Tamar offshore field started production on March 30,
supplying Israel with natural gas and saving a projected 1
billion shekels in energy costs a month, according to Israel’s
Ministry of Energy and Water Resources. The flow from Tamar will
probably contribute about 1 percentage point to Israel’s gross
domestic product, the  Bank of Israel  said in a March 24 report,
forecasting that the economy will grow 3.8 percent in 2013.  “There is investor optimism around these shares as the gas
supply from the Tamar field is expected to cut production
costs,” Eran Yunger, an analyst at Migdal Capital Markets, said
today by phone from Tel Aviv. The savings may amount to  $130m a
year for Oil Refineries, Yunger said.  The refiner’s shares  have declined  1.3 percent this year
compared with a 4.7 percent  rise  in the TA-25 index, as the
company posted  six consecutive quarters of losses , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Oil Refineries has started a
reorganization process including pay cuts and early retirement
of workers.  Other energy-intensive companies that will benefit from the
natural gas are fertilizer maker  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  and  Paz
Oil (PZOL)  Co., the maker of petroleum-based products, Yunger said.
Israel Chemicals gained 0.4 percent today while Paz dropped 0.3
percent. Israel Electric Corp. said yesterday the gas flow from
Tamar is expected to improve its  cash flow .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  