-- Oil-Tanker Rates Plunge to Six-Week Low as Vessel Glut Expands
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-04-03T16:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/oil-tanker-rates-plunge-to-six-week-low-as-vessel-glut-expands.html
Charter rates for the largest  oil
tankers  hauling Middle East crude to  Asia  reached a six-week low
as a surplus of vessels seeking cargoes expanded.  Hire  costs  for very large crude carriers on the benchmark
Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage slid for a seventh session to 32.13
industry-standard Worldscale points, figures from the London-
based  Baltic Exchange  showed today. That was the lowest level
since Feb. 19. Each ship can hold 2 million barrels of crude.  The supply of VLCCs available to load in the  Persian Gulf 
over the next 30 days expanded by 10 to 91, Marex Spectron Group
said in an e-mailed report. That compared with 88 ships a month
earlier, Marex Spectron data showed. The fleet’s total carrying
capacity will rise 5.1 percent this year, above demand growth of
4.9 percent, according to data from  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s
biggest shipbroker.  “With a glance at the supply side, charterers have no
reason to fear any imminent change in the present trend,”
shipping and investment-banking company Astrup Fearnley said in
an e-mailed report. “Owners, on the other hand, seemed to be
willing to chase market rates further down, and new low levels
have again been established.”  Daily losses for VLCCs on the benchmark route widened to
$4,305 from $3,012 yesterday, according to the exchange. The
tankers lost money on the journey for seven weeks through March
14, according to its assessments, which don’t account for
owners’ efforts to improve returns by securing cargoes for
return voyages or reducing speed to burn less fuel.  Biggest Cost  The  price  of fuel, or bunkers, the industry’s main expense,
was little changed at $633.03 a metric ton, figures compiled by
Bloomberg from 25 ports showed.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 32.13 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, gained
0.2 percent to 659 after five straight declines, according to
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  