-- Hong Kong Port May Lose Customers as Strike Causes Delays
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-04-03T10:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/hong-kong-port-may-lose-customers-as-ships-diverted-on-strike.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hongkong
International Terminals Ltd.  is losing customers as a strike by
dockworkers causes a 20-fold increase in vessel berthing times
at the world’s third-biggest container port.  Evergreen Marine  Corp Taiwan Ltd. and  Japan ’s  Mitsui OSK
Lines Ltd. (9104)  have diverted some of their ships after facing
delays, the companies said in statements today. The time needed
to berth a vessel has lengthened to 60 hours from three, the
 South China Morning Post  reported yesterday.  The strike entered its seventh day, threatening to damage
Hong Kong’s reputation as a trade hub for  China  at a time when
competition with mainland ports is intensifying. Dockers are
demanding a 25 percent pay increase as rising living costs and
 record home prices  spur discontent in the former British colony.  “ Hong Kong ’s port is well known for its efficiency and the
high frequency of scheduled services,” Geoffrey Cheng, an
analyst at Bank of Communications Co. who has covered the
industry since 1994, said today by phone. “The strike is
definitely a blow to the business in the short term. Workers may
run out of patience as their compensation has failed to catch up
with economic growth in recent years.”  Hongkong International Terminals is operated by Li’s
 Hutchison Port Holdings Trust (HPHT) , and with its partner controls
more than half the city’s port capacity. Hutchison Port Holdings
fell 2.3 percent to close at 84 cents in  Singapore .  Losing Money  The company has lost about HK$5 million ($644,000) a day,
and may face claims from shipping companies, Gerry Yim, managing
director of Hongkong International Terminals, said yesterday.  Evergreen Marine said it has diverted at least three ships
after more than 10 vessels faced delays and Mitsui OSK said more
vessels may skip Hong Kong stops.  Orient Overseas International
Ltd. (316) , the city’s biggest container carrier, said its ships are
also delayed.  “We hope that this is a short-term situation,” Orient
Overseas spokesman Stanley Shen said in an e-mail. “However, if
prolonged, we have alternative plans to assist our customers.”  About 450 protesters, including students and labor
activists, remained on the street outside the entrance of the
port in the Kwai Tsing district, Ho Wai-hong, a representative
of the Union of Hong Kong Dockers, said by phone today.  The dock workers, who are employed by contractors, are
demanding that hourly wages rise by HK$12.50 from about HK$50,
the union said. Strikers won’t accept an offer of a 5 percent
pay increase,  Radio Television Hong Kong  reported on its website
today, citing Lee Cheuk-yan, a lawmaker from Hong Kong’s  Labour
Party .  Hongkong International Terminals units and its officials
aren’t connected to contractors, the company said in a statement
today, denying a report by Next Magazine.  Distribution Hub  The Hong Kong Shippers’ Council, which represents the
city’s exporters, importers, traders and manufacturers, said
members should seek alternatives because of the strike.  The strike “is going to ruin Hong Kong’s reputation,”
said Willy Lin, chairman of the Hong Kong Shippers’ Council. “A
lot of brands, clothes, watches, camera, even iPhone, iPad, they
use Hong Kong as their regional distribution center. We do need
very efficient port operations.”  The city is the world’s third-largest container port by
volume last year, behind Shanghai and Singapore. Hongkong
International Terminals and its partner  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) 
control about 55 percent of capacity in the city, according to
 UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK)   Wealth Gap  Labor discontent in Hong Kong has risen as its wealth gap
widens to the biggest since records started in 1971. Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd. in December agreed on a deal with the
flight attendants union, averting labor disruptions threatened
after disagreements on wage increases and working conditions.  The strikers are demanding direct talks with Hongkong
International Terminals, the union, which represents about 500
people working at the berths, said yesterday. Protesters were
forced to leave the facility this week after the city’s  High
Court  granted a temporary injunction barring them.  Dock workers say they are getting paid less than in 1997,
according to union spokesman Ho. The laborers received pay
increases of as much as 20 percent in 2011, Hongkong
International Terminals said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Hongkong International Terminals operates 12 berths at four
terminals in the Chinese city and two through a venture with
Cosco Pacific. Hong Kong has nine terminals.  The company and its partner handled 11.7 million 20-foot
container boxes in 2011, according to the latest annual report
of Hutchison Port.  Maersk Line, the world’s biggest container shipping
company, sees “minimal impact” as its main vessels call at the
port operated by Modern Terminal Ltd., it said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  