-- Monsanto Raises Forecast as Profit Tops Estimates on Corn
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-04-03T21:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/monsanto-raises-forecast-as-profit-tops-estimates-on-corn-seed.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, raised its full-year earnings forecast and posted
fiscal second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
sales of corn seed and Roundup weed killer climbed.  Net income rose 22 percent to $1.48 billion, or $2.74 a
share, in the three months through February, from $1.21 billion,
or $2.24, a year earlier, St. Louis-based Monsanto said today in
a statement. Earnings excluding a discontinued operation were a
record $2.73 a share, topping the $2.57 average of 20  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 15 percent to $5.47 billion.  Monsanto said it will earn $4.40 to $4.50 a share in the 12
months through August excluding discontinued operations, an
increase of 10 cents from the January  forecast . The average of
22 estimates was $4.57 a share.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant is selling
more corn seed engineered to kill bugs and tolerate Roundup
herbicide as U.S. farmers prepare to plant the biggest crop in
77 years. Higher sales of Roundup and a lower-than-anticipated
tax rate were responsible for profit beating estimates, said
Michael E. Cox, an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co.  “Seeds and traits were basically in line, so it takes a
bit of the wind out of the beat,” Cox, who recommends buying
the shares, said today by telephone from Minneapolis. “The
issue some investors will have is the majority of the upside
came from the Roundup franchise and there is healthy skepticism
about the sustainability of margins in that segment.”  Shares Rise  Monsanto rose 0.5 percent to $104.51 at the close in New
York.  The shares  have gained 10 percent this year.  Monsanto still expects as much as $2 billion in free cash
flow this year and will become “more aggressive” in returning
cash to shareholders through dividends and “opportunistic”
share repurchases, Chief Financial Officer Pierre Courduroux,
said on a call with analysts today. The company bought back $300
million of shares in the second quarter, he said.  Gross profit  from seed sales and genetic licenses increased
8.4 percent in the quarter to $2.7 billion. A 16 percent
increase in sales of corn seed and genetics, the company’s
largest unit, more than made up for declines in soybean,
vegetable and cotton seeds. The U.S. and Brazil drove the gains
in corn seed, which is headed for a record year, Monsanto said.  U.S. farmers may plant 97.3 million acres of corn this
year, the most since 1936, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
said last week. Corn prices reached a record last year after the
worst drought since the 1930s cut production by 13 percent.
Monsanto has enough seed for U.S. farmers after increasing
winter production, boosting costs in the quarter, the CFO said.  Soybean Forecast  Farmers in the U.S. probably will plant as much as 41
million acres of Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans, a higher-
yielding version of original Roundup tolerant beans that lose
patent protection next year, Monsanto said. That’s the high end
of what the company has forecast.  Sales of the newest corn seeds engineered to produce their
own insecticides also will be at the high end of the forecast
range, the company said.  Gross profit from crop chemicals such as Roundup jumped 73
percent to $371 million as sales rose 37 percent. The gain was
due to higher global prices for generic versions of the weed
killer, which Monsanto tracks with its own prices, Grant said on
the call.  Roundup Costs  Monsanto cut costs in its Roundup business after prices
collapsed in 2009 and 2010. Prior moves combined with limiting
Roundup sales to 300 million gallons a year should help reduce
earnings volatility, President Brett Begemann said on the call.  Monsanto generates most of its sales and earnings in its
fiscal second and third quarters, when farmers in the northern
hemisphere are preparing for the growing season. Earnings gains
in the second half will continue to be driven by corn seed and
Roundup, Courduroux said.  Excluded from this year’s forecast is an estimated 20 cents
to 25 cents a share of earnings from soybean sales in Brazil,
which are the subject of a legal challenge, Monsanto reiterated
in a slide  presentation . The company suspended royalty
collections for Roundup Ready soybeans late last year because of
a legal dispute over patent expiration.  Monsanto and  DuPont Co. (DD) , its biggest competitor in the $34
billion global seed market, agreed on March 26 to drop their
respective antitrust and soybean patent lawsuits. DuPont also
agreed to license the newest versions of Monsanto soybeans
engineered to tolerate weedkillers Roundup and dicamba for a
minimum $1.75 billion in royalties over the next decade.  The DuPont deal is “a major breakthrough” that
“increases the certainty” in long-term earnings goals and
completes licensing of Monsanto’s engineered traits to “pretty
much” the entire U.S. soybean industry, Grant said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  