-- Morgans Hotel Board’s Yucaipa Vote Called Invalid in Suit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-04-03T20:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/morgans-hotel-board-s-yucaipa-vote-called-invalid-in-suit.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC)  directors’
vote to approve a recapitalization plan with billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos. was invalid, a dissident director contends
in a lawsuit over control of the hotelier’s board.  Inadequate notice was given of a March 30 directors’
committee meeting, in violation of Delaware corporation law,
Jason Taubman Kalisman, a Morgans director and a founding member
of its largest shareholder, OTK Associates, said in a complaint
unsealed today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington seeking
an injunction.  “The Yucaipa transaction will entrench the director
defendants at the company’s expense” because Burkle’s company
“will acquire a large block of the company’s stock” in a $6-a-
share rights offering, and Burkle “is likely to be replaced”
as a director at a May 15 shareholders’ meeting if the deal
isn’t finished beforehand, according to the complaint. That
meeting has been reset for July 10, a new filing says.  Yucaipa, based in  Los Angeles , would acquire the  Delano
South Beach  hotel in  Miami Beach ,  Florida , in exchange for
interests in Morgans convertible notes and preferred stock.
Yucaipa holds 51 percent, or $88 million, in company notes, and
“Mr. Burkle has cemented his day-to-day control over the
company’s operations,” according to the complaint.  Company Survival  In a motion today in opposition to expedited handling of
the case, Morgans said the transaction “is critical to the
company’s survival” and that Kalisman “has not pled adequately
the irreparable harm necessary to warrant proceeding on the
schedule he seeks.”  The company said the effort “to delever” the balance
sheet came about in part due to “significant debt maturities”
due in 2014, and that “Yucaipa proposed to purchase the Delano
Hotel” last July.  OTK Associates has said it wants to overhaul New York-based
Morgans’s board and return the company to profitability.  After learning of OTK’s bid for a new slate of directors,
current directors convened and “rammed the transaction
through” to “put a substantial block of stock in friendly
hands prior to the annual meeting,” plaintiff’s lawyer  A.
Thompson Bayliss , said in a filing.  No Guarantee  “Yucaipa is not guaranteed to obtain a large block of
stock as a result of the rights offering,” Michael Pittenger, a
lawyer for Morgans, countered in its brief.  Kalisman asked Judge J. Travis Laster for an injunction
barring the recapitalization plan, invalidation of the March 30
vote, a declaration that Yucaipa abetted directors’ violations
of their duties, and unspecified damages on behalf of the
company.  Frank Quintero, a Yucaipa spokesman, didn’t immediately
return calls and e-mails seeking comment on the court filing.  Morgans fell 17 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $6.23 today in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 12 percent
this year.  The case is Kalisman v. Friedman, CA 8447, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  