-- Hospital Stocks Drop as Investors Shift Bets to Insurers
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-04-03T20:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/hospital-stocks-drop-as-investors-shift-bets-to-insurers.html
Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  and  HCA
Holdings Inc. (HCA)  led hospital stocks lower as traders shifted bets
to health insurers that stand to benefit from a U.S. government
decision to pare back a cut in their Medicare payments.  Tenet fell 7.8 percent to $44.09 at the close of trading in
New York, its biggest decline since Dec. 2, 2011. Nashville,
Tennessee-based HCA, the biggest for-profit hospital chain, fell
4.9 percent, the most since Dec. 13, 2012.  Community Health
Systems Inc. (CYH) , based in Franklin,  Tennessee , tumbled 4.7 percent.  Most health insurers, including  Humana (HUM)  Inc., gained for a
third day on the U.S. government’s April 1 announcement that the
companies won a reprieve from a planned cut in a key Medicare
payment rate. Investors may be shifting money from hospital
stocks into health insurers after the decision,  Sheryl Skolnick ,
an analyst at CRT Capital Group in  Stamford , Connecticut, wrote
in a note to clients today.  “We see this as a sector rotation out of hospitals and
into health plans that started with the Medicare Advantage rate
release Monday evening and that continues today,” she said.  Humana rose 0.9 percent to $79.81 at the close after
gaining 14 percent in the previous two days. Aetna Inc. climbed
less than 1 percent to $54.43, following a two-day jump of 6.2
percent.  Medicare Advantage  About 13.1 million elderly and disabled people are enrolled
in Medicare Advantage plans, in which private insurers provide
medical benefits in place of the traditional Medicare program.  The plans have attracted about a quarter of Medicare’s
beneficiaries by offering extra benefits such as lower out-of-
pocket costs. The government expected to pay insurers in the
program about $136 billion last year.  The Obama administration said Monday it would change a
proposed 2.2 percent cut in a payment rate for the plans to a
3.3 percent increase after ordering Medicare’s actuaries to
assume Congress will raise payments to physicians next year,
instead of cutting them by 25 percent.  Insurers had pressed for the change, winning letters of
support from more than 160 lawmakers, according to America’s
Health Insurance Plans, the industry’s Washington lobby group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  