-- Total Buys More North Sea Forties; Surgut Sells Urals Crude
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-04-03T16:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/total-buys-more-north-sea-forties-surgut-sells-urals-crude.html
Total SA bought a cargo of North Sea
Forties crude, bringing its total for the week to five, and
raising the price differential to the most in almost two weeks.  OAO Surgutneftegas sold three 100,000 ton cargoes to Total
and China International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known
as Unipec, via tender for loading in the second half of April,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  North Sea  Vitol Group sold Forties to Total for loading from April 17
to April 19 at 30 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent,
according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts pricing window. That compares with a trade
yesterday at a discount of 35 cents and is the highest since
March 21, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Total also bid unsuccessfully for April 21-24 loading
Forties at minus 30 cents, the survey showed.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m.  London  time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days narrowed by 30 cents to a discount of 43 cents a
barrel to Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for May settlement traded at $108.65 a barrel on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $110.56 in the previous session. The June
contract was at $108.53, a discount of 12 cents to May. Futures
prices for both Brent and West Texas Intermediate sank today
after a government report showed that U.S. oil stockpiles
climbed to the highest level in more than 22 years.  In the North Sea, the Buzzard field’s share of Forties rose
to 46 percent for the week ending March 31, BP Plc said on its
website. That’s up from 44 percent a week earlier and is the
highest proportion since Jan. 20. Buzzard’s crude generally has
a higher sulfur content than other fields that contribute to the
grade.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest crude exporter,
narrowed the discounts used in determining its official selling
prices for medium and heavy grades to customers in  Europe  for
next month.  Mediterranean/Urals  Eni SpA bid without finding a seller for 80,000 metric tons
of Russian Urals at 85 cents less than Dated Brent on a
delivered basis to Augusta,  Italy , the Platts survey showed.
That compares with a Feb. 22 deal at minus 90 cents, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
widened by 2 cents to $1.14 a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. In northwest Europe, the  discount  was at $2.25 a barrel,
compared with minus $2.15 in the previous session. That’s the
widest since March 12.  Total was awarded a cargo from Surgut to load from Primorsk
from April 22 to April 23 while Unipec won consignments from the
same port on April 24 to April 25 and from Ust-Luga from April
22 to April 23, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter, asking not to be identified as the information is
confidential.  Saudi Aramco, as the Saudi state exporter is known, also
reduced the differentials for light, medium and heavy crude
grades for customers in the Mediterranean for May loadings.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend rose by 3 cents to $3.28
a barrel more than Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s the most since March 19.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, issued a
tender to buy crude for loading in June, said two traders who
asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  The main rebel group in Nigeria’s oil-rich Niger River
delta said it’s resuming assaults on  Africa ’s biggest petroleum
industry after its suspected leader,  Henry Okah , was imprisoned
in South Africa.  The Movement for the Emancipation of Niger Delta will start
April 5 to carry out “a plague of attacks,” spokesman  Jomo
Gbomo  said today in an e-mailed statement. “The attacks will be
sustained until an unreserved apology is offered to MEND and the
Nigerian government shows their willingness to dialogue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  