-- Low Testosterone Levels in Men May Signal Arthritis Risk
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-04-03T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/low-testosterone-levels-in-men-may-signal-arthritis-risk.html
Low testosterone levels in men may
be an indication of future development of rheumatoid arthritis,
a painful inflammatory disorder that primarily affects joints, a
 study  found.  Men who had lower levels of the sex hormone in their blood
were more likely to develop the disorder, according to the
study, published on the  Annals of the Rheumatic Disease ’s
website. The findings suggest that hormonal changes precede the
onset of rheumatoid arthritis and influence its severity, the
Swedish researchers found.  Sex hormones are believed to play a part in the development
of  rheumatoid arthritis , in which the immune system attacks the
joints, resulting in swelling and damage that can make tasks
such as walking or holding items painful. Men and women with
rheumatoid arthritis have lower levels of testosterone in their
blood than people who don’t have the disease. It’s unclear
whether this is a contributing factor or a consequence of the
condition.  “The main conclusion of the study is that hormone factors
influence the risk of RA,” Mitra Pikwer of the Department of
Rheumatology at the Skane University Hospital in Malmo,  Sweden ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Men are less likely than women to have rheumatoid
arthritis. An estimated 1.5 million adults in the U.S. have the
disease, according to the country’s  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention .  Swedish Study  The researchers based their findings on participants in
Sweden’s  Malmo Preventive Medicine Program , a survey which began
in 1974 and tracked the health of more than 33,000 people,
mostly of Scandinavian origin, born between 1921 and 1949.  The scientists screened the 22,444 men in the program and
identified 151 who later developed rheumatoid arthritis by
cross-checking four registries, Pikwer said. They were able to
analyze the stored blood samples of 104 of the men who developed
the disease, she said.  The study was funded by the Swedish Research Council, the
Swedish Rheumatism Association, Lund University and the county
of Skane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  