-- How to Finish the Last, Hard Path to Polio Eradication
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-03T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/how-to-finish-the-last-hard-path-to-polio-eradication.html
The end of polio is in sight. Last
year, there were fewer cases of the disease --  223  -- in fewer
endemic countries -- three -- than ever. Still, the eradication
campaign can seem like Achilles’ effort to outrun the tortoise
in  Zeno’s paradox : There’s always a little more ground to cover.  The goal can be achieved only if health workers can find
and inoculate the last unvaccinated children on earth. That’s
going to take an estimated  $5.5 billion  (in addition to the $9
billion spent so far), a huge commitment from endemic-country
governments and a push by Muslim leaders to counter anti-
vaccination extremists.  In the past, funding shortfalls have led to outbreaks that
in turn have made eradication more expensive.  In a plan released
this week , the  Global Polio Eradication Initiative  estimates
that, with steady financing, infections can be eliminated by
2018. The initiative links national governments with the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation , Rotary International, Unicef, the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the  World Health
Organization . (Among the many donors is  New York  City Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg , majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of
 Bloomberg News .)  According to a  2010 study , net benefits from reduced costs
for polio treatment and increased productivity would amount to
$40 billion to $50 billion through 2035.  Even if funding comes together, structural and social
challenges remain. In the endemic countries --  Afghanistan ,
Nigeria and Pakistan -- heads of state have established their
own task forces and made district chiefs, rather than health
officials, accountable for polio vaccine coverage. This approach
helped  India , once considered the toughest case for eradication,
wipe out endemic polio two years ago, and it’s working in
Pakistan too. Local government efforts have been less consistent
in Afghanistan, where parts of the country are beyond the
capital’s writ, and in  Nigeria , where a federal system limits
the central government’s reach.  These countries need a different strategy. In Nigeria, this
means making sure traditional leaders attend district-planning
meetings. In Afghanistan, it means negotiating the specifics of
campaigns with Taliban leaders.  The thorniest problem -- disruption by Muslim extremists --
is  linked  to a 2011 CIA attempt to confirm Osama bin Laden’s
presence in Pakistan by using a polio vaccination campaign as a
pretext to collect DNA samples from his family. Since then,
Pakistan has seen a handful of deadly attacks on polio
vaccinators. In Waziristan, a warlord has ordered immunizations
stopped unless the U.S. calls off drone strikes in the area --
depriving 240,000 children of polio drops. In Nigeria, militants
have killed polio vaccine workers in attacks on medical centers.  The new polio plan includes ways of  improving security for
health workers and containing any potential spread of the virus
from Waziristan. Yet only Muslim leaders can address the problem
head-on by denouncing violence and embracing vaccination
campaigns. Some are doing just that. Local imams in  Pakistan 
have been taking up the subject during Friday prayers and
issuing pro-vaccine rulings.  At a recent  meeting  of Muslim scholars, Ahmad Al Tayyeb,
the grand imam of Cairo’s influential Al-Azhar University, said
Muslim communities were obligated to have their children
vaccinated against polio. With the world aligning against polio,
it’s possible that eradication of the disease could come down to
a few words.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 