-- Toys ’R’ Us Executives Depart Retailer After CEO Resigns
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-04-03T18:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/toys-r-us-executives-depart-retailer-after-ceo-resigns.html
Toys “R” Us Inc. (TOYS) , the retailer
that canceled its initial public offering last week, has had
three senior executives leave recently after Chief Executive
Officer Gerald Storch said he’d step down.  Daniel Caspersen, executive vice president of human
resources, retired last month, confirmed Kathleen Waugh, a
spokeswoman at the Wayne, New Jersey-based company. Senior vice
presidents Kelly O’Neill and Philipp Elliott are also no longer
with the company, Waugh said.  Storch said in February he would step down as CEO of the
1,500-store chain after a drop in holiday sales and will stay on
during a search for a replacement. The retailer has struggled to
boost revenue amid competition from Amazon.com Inc. and Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. Toys “R” Us said last month that it pulled its
IPO, citing “unfavorable market conditions” after first filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 2010.  Caspersen, 60, joined the world’s largest chain of toy
stores in 2006, about a year after Bain Capital LLC, KKR & Co.
and  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  acquired the company for $6.6 billion.
O’Neill worked with Caspersen in human resources and Elliott
oversaw merchandising for the chain’s Babies “R” Us brand.  Sales declined 2.6 percent to $13.5 billion in the fiscal
year ended Feb. 2 while net earnings sank 74 percent to $38
million, the company said last month.  Executive Returns  Caspersen’s role has been filled by Deborah Derby, who will
oversee human resources for the company’s 68,000 employees. She
worked at Toys “R” Us from 2000 to February 2012 in several
positions, including chief administration officer. She then did
consulting for Kenneth Cole Productions Inc. before returning to
the company this year as vice chairman and executive vice
president. She is leading the search for a new CEO along with
the owners, Waugh said.  Attempts to reach the former executives were unsuccessful.  The retailer refinanced more than $600 million of loans
last week, pushing out its next long-term maturity to 2016. The
company’s ratio of debt to trailing 12-month earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was 5.5 on Feb.
2, compared with 1.49 times for Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 1.94 times
for Amazon and 4.22 for all U.S. retailers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  