-- Palm Oil Imports by China Seen Declining on Record Inventory
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-03T05:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/palm-oil-imports-by-china-seen-declining-on-record-inventory.html
Palm oil  inventories near record
highs in China are slowing orders from the world’s second-
biggest buyer and will weigh on prices, a Beijing-based
researcher said.  Imports in the six months through September may fall to
2.39 million metric tons, from 3.56 million tons in the first
half to March 31 and 2.68 million tons a year ago, said Liu
Xianwu, general manager of China Cereals & Oils Business Net,
the country’s biggest independent oilseed researcher. Inventory
at ports is near the peak of 1.46 million tons and will remain
above 1 million tons until at least July, he said.  Government measures to increase  food safety  and a switch to
 soybean oil  by more affluent consumers has driven palm
inventories to a level equivalent to more than two months’
consumption. Liu said slowing purchases by  China  and rising
global output will hurt prices, which have fallen 2.5 percent on
the Malaysia Derivative Exchange this year after slumping 23
percent in 2012.  “China’s palm oil demand has markedly slowed since last
year, and that’s helped create this persistently high
inventory,” he said in a telephone interview yesterday. “This
represents a shift in consumption behavior.”  Palm oil for June delivery fell as much as 1.3 percent to
2,350 ringgit ($761) a ton on the Malaysian bourse today. The
price may fall to about 2,100 ringgit in the next two months
before rebounding, Liu said.  His forecast for imports of about 5.95 million tons for the
marketing year through September compares with a projection of
5.9 million tons by Leon Xia, an analyst at Shanghai JC
Intelligence Co., and Oil World, which expects 6.75 million
tons. Shipments last year were 5.94 million tons, according to
data from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  and China’s customs
agency.  Indonesia and Malaysia are the world’s biggest producers of
the tropical oil and India is the largest buyer.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  