-- Gaborik Leaves Rangers, Sullivan Rejoins Devils in NHL Trading
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-04-04T04:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/penguins-add-jussi-jokinen-on-last-day-of-nhl-trading-correct-.html
The  New York Rangers  sent right wing
 Marian Gaborik  to the  Columbus Blue Jackets , parting with the
three-time All-Star as they fight for a playoff spot.  New Jersey, one of the teams battling with the Rangers for
the final Eastern Conference postseason berth, traded with the
 Phoenix Coyotes  for 38-year-old right wing Steve Sullivan -- who
began his National Hockey League career 17 seasons ago with the
Devils -- on the final day of NHL trading this season.  The Blue Jackets said they had acquired Gaborik, 31, and
defensemen Steven Delisle and Blake Partlett from the Rangers in
exchange for center Derick Brassard, right wing Derek Dorsett,
defenseman  John Moore  and a sixth-round pick in the 2014 NHL
draft.  “Our focus was to add a player who could provide a boost
to our offense, improve our goal scoring and power play and we
identified Marian Gaborik as the player we wanted,” Columbus
General Manager Jarmo Kekalainen said yesterday in a release on
the team’s website. “He has been an elite goal scorer in this
league for many years and we are very excited to have him.”  Brassard had a goal and three assists last night as the
Rangers defeated the Pittsburgh Penguins 6-1 at New York’s
Madison Square Garden to jump up from ninth place to seventh in
the conference standings. The Rangers,  New York Islanders  and
Devils all have 39 points.  Gaborik has 333 goals and 666 points in 12 NHL seasons --
eight in  Minnesota  and the last four with the Rangers. A seven-
time 30-goal scorer, Gaborik has nine goals and 10 assists in 35
games this season with a minus-8 rating, the second-worst
defensive statistic on the team. He had 41 goals last season for
the Rangers.  Clowe’s Goals  Delisle, 22, a 2008 draft pick of the Blue Jackets who was
traded to the Rangers last year, has yet to appear in an NHL
game. Partlett, 23, also has not yet appeared in an NHL game.  Brassard, 25, had 58 goals in 309 games for Columbus over
the past six seasons. Dorsett, 26, had 27 goals and 727 penalty
minutes in 280 games for the Blue Jackets during the last five
seasons. Moore, 22, was in his third season with Columbus.  The trade came a day after the Rangers added forward Ryane Clowe from the  San Jose Sharks  for three draft picks. Clowe, 30,
who had played his entire career with the Sharks after being
drafted in 2001, scored two goals in his debut with the Rangers
last night.  Also yesterday, the Penguins acquired center Jussi Jokinen,
30, the team’s second deal in a week with captain  Sidney Crosby 
sidelined by a broken jaw. Crosby, the NHL’s leading scorer with
56 points, is out indefinitely after breaking his jaw March 30.  Penguins’ Trades  Jokinen joined the Penguins, who have the second-best
record in the NHL, six days after the team added right wing
Jarome Iginla in a trade with the Calgary Flames.  Jokinen, 30, went to Pittsburgh from the Carolina
Hurricanes for a conditional sixth- or seventh-round draft pick
in 2013. In 33 games this season, Jokinen has six goals and five
assists.  The Sharks yesterday added veteran defenseman Scott Hannan
from Nashville for a conditional sixth- or seventh-round 2013
draft pick; the Edmonton Oilers got forward Jerred Smithson from
 Florida  for a fourth-round pick, and Chicago added forward
Maxime Sauve from the  Boston Bruins  for forward Rob Flick.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  