-- Pfizer Makes Nanomedicines Deal With Bind Therapeutics
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-04-03T20:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/pfizer-to-pay-bind-up-to-210-million-in-nanotechnology-deal.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, will pay closely held Bind Therapeutics Inc. as much
as $200 million per potential drug to develop medicines using
its nanotechnology platform.  The companies will collaborate on preclinical work and New
York-based Pfizer will have the option to pursue development of
compounds it selects, Bind said in a statement today. The
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company may receive as much as
$50 million in upfront and development payments and is eligible
for $160 million more per compound tied to regulatory and sales
goals.  The deal is the second this year for Bind, which uses
nanotechnology to selectively reach disease sites in the body in
treating cancer, inflammatory ailments and cardiovascular
disorders without affecting healthy tissue. In January, Amgen
Inc. said it would pay as much as $180.5 million for the right
to develop cancer drugs using Bind’s technology.  “The pharmaceutical industry is reaching an inflection
point in terms of adopting this as a major strategic technology
for the industry,” Bind Chief Executive Officer Scott Minick
said in an interview.  Bind’s technology comes from the laboratories of  Robert
Langer  at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and Omid Farokhzad, of  Harvard Medical School . Its nanoparticles, which
it calls Accurins, can travel through the body without being
detected or destroyed by the immune system, Minick said.
Carrying potent drugs, the particles home in on specific disease
cells and avoid poisoning healthy ones.  Results Expected  In addition to partnerships with Pfizer and  Thousand Oaks ,
California-based Amgen, Bind is developing a slate of potential
drugs in-house. The company’s leading therapy is BIND-014, which
targets tumors with the cancer drug docetaxel. Bind said last
week it will present results from a first-stage study of the
treatment at the  American Association  for Cancer Research
meeting on April 9.  Pfizer “partnered with Bind because these delivery systems
are a unique approach that potentially offer highly precise
targeted therapeutics increasing the window for broader patient
treatment options,” said Lauren Starr, a spokeswoman for the
drugmaker.  Pfizer declined less than 1 percent to $29.03 at the close
in New York. The shares have increased 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  