-- Pickens Says Energy Boom Defies ‘Incompetent’ Washington
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-04-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/pickens-says-energy-boom-defies-incompetent-washington.html
America is on a path to energy
independence without any help from Washington, according to
billionaire investor  T. Boone Pickens .  Pickens said lawmakers and U.S. officials, whom he called
“incompetent,” could still help cut transportation costs and
spur use of domestically produced energy with  tax breaks  to
build a fueling network for natural-gas vehicles. He also
recommended selling much of the crude oil in the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve and approving the Keystone XL pipeline.  “We have the cheapest energy in the world,” Pickens said
yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg Government in
Washington. “In a way, it’s all happening anyway.”  “Honestly, we have more than I thought,” he said,
referring to U.S. crude and natural-gas reserves.  Pickens, who in the fourth quarter added oil and gas
producers  Newfield Exploration Co. (NFX) ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and
 Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  to energy holdings of his Dallas-
based BP Capital Management LP, has pressed Congress since 2008
to support tax credits to spur use of natural-gas powered
vehicles. When he unveiled the plan, Pickens said its goal was
to boost domestic energy and supplant oil from the  Middle East .  While Congress failed to pass the proposal, U.S. oil and
natural-gas production soared, buoyed by sharply increased use
of hydraulic-fracturing and horizontal-drilling techniques to
free gas trapped in shale rock. That has put the U.S. on the
path to producing enough energy to cover its needs for the first
time in almost 20 years.  Crude Production  U.S. crude-oil output in the fourth quarter this year will
exceed imports for the first time since 1995, as booming fields
in  North Dakota  and  Texas  put the nation on track to surpass a
record set a quarter-century ago, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said last month. Meanwhile, domestic natural-gas
output is forecast by Bloomberg New Energy Finance to increase
25 percent by 2020.  Pickens said the production of these fuels could be
enhanced by decisions from policy makers in Washington.  First, U.S. trucking companies could be induced to shift to
natural-gas powered vehicles if more fueling stations were set
up. The tax-credit proposal, which he called the ‘ ‘Pickens
Plan ,” may prod that along more quickly, he said. Under the
plan, commensurate fees would be levied to pay for the measure.  Clean Energy Fuels Corp. (CLNE) , the natural-gas filling-station
company started by Pickens, owned, operated or supplied 348
natural-gas fueling stops at the end of last year.  New Fuel  Because  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil producer, can
cut output to keep prices at preferred levels, “you are going
to have to introduce another fuel into the market” to lower
costs, he said.  Second, the government could sell more than half the oil in
the nation’s strategic reserve, which could lower prices at the
pump without harming security, he said.  The U.S. reserve, held in salt caverns near the  Gulf of
Mexico , holds as much as 727 million barrels of crude. It was
established to counter supply disruptions after the Arab oil
embargo of 1973-1974.  “Do we really need the SPR?” Pickens asked.  Third, President  Barack Obama  should approve  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s plan to build a pipeline from Canada’s oil-sands fields
to Gulf coast refineries, he said. The company’s application is
still under review by the State Department.  Whether or not policy makers in Washington would take these
steps is an open question: The capital contains the “largest
accumulation of incompetent people that I know of any place in
the world,” Pickens said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  