-- Qantas Boosts China Eastern Code Share Doubling Mainland Flights
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-04-03T07:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/qantas-boosts-china-eastern-code-share-doubling-mainland-flights.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s
largest carrier, expanded a code-share arrangement with  China
Eastern Airlines Corp. (670)  that will more than double the number of
direct services it offers to the Chinese mainland.  Passengers will be able to fly direct from Melbourne to
Shanghai and between Sydney and Nanjing, Qantas said in an e-
mailed statement today. The new arrangement, beginning May 1,
will boost Sydney-based Qantas’s weekly direct services to
mainland Chinese cities to 17 from seven.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce is targeting growth in
Asia as part of a five-year transformation plan intended to turn
around A$450 million ($471 million) of annual losses on
international flights. Joyce is setting up a joint-venture
budget airline with  China Eastern  in  Hong Kong  and already has a
code-share agreement on domestic routes from Shanghai as the
carrier targets the world’s  second-largest  aviation market.  “We said we would expand Qantas’s Asian network through
our airline partnerships,” Andrew Hogg, Qantas International’s
China manager, said in the statement. “We’re now delivering on
that promise.”  Qantas is overhauling its Asian schedules as an alliance
with Emirates that started March 31 allows it to move  planes  to
more profitable routes in the region.  China Eastern flights stopping in Nanjing will continue on
to Beijing, Qantas said. The Australian carrier currently flies
to Beijing with its Jetstar budget carrier from  Singapore  and
doesn’t have direct connections to the city on its own planes.  Qantas  shares  rose to a 20-month high today before the
announcement. The stock advanced 1.6 percent to A$1.86 at the
close in Sydney trading, the highest price since August 2011,
taking its gains this year to 25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  