-- Real Madrid May Face EU Probe Amid Soccer Aid Complaints
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-04-03T13:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/real-madrid-may-face-eu-probe-amid-soccer-aid-complaints-1-.html
Real  Madrid , the world’s biggest
soccer team by sales, risks a European Union demand to repay
state aid after officials said they are checking complaints over
possible illegal subsidies.  Regulators are looking into allegations that Real Madrid
along with other teams across the 27-nation bloc benefited from
aid banned under EU competition rules, Antoine Colombani, a
spokesman for the European Commission, said today. The same
agency last month opened an  in-depth probe  into public funding
for five Dutch clubs, including PSV Eindhoven.  “Real Madrid is one of the clubs we are looking at,” he
told reporters. “At this stage, we are just analyzing the
information that we have.” The Brussels-based commission hasn’t
yet decided to open a formal investigation, he said.  Real Madrid, the record nine-time European champion, spent
a world record 80 million pounds ($121 million) to acquire
Cristiano Ronaldo from Manchester United in 2009. The EU’s
antitrust authority didn’t take any action after starting an
investigation in 2004 into whether Real Madrid received state
aid over the sale of its training ground to municipal
authorities. Revenue from the sale in 2001 helped Real bankroll
signings including Zinedine Zidane and David Beckham, who in
turn boosted advertising revenue.  Land Deal  The Independent newspaper reported earlier that the EU is
examining how the club acquired land from city authorities for
development next to its stadium.  In September 2011, Real Madrid President Florentino Perez
said the club agreed with the city hall to exchange land in the
suburb of Las Tablas for a public area in the city’s tree-lined
main avenue, with the aim of building a shopping center next to
its stadium.  Real Madrid spokeswoman Marta Santisteban said the club had
no immediate comment. Rafael Gonzalez, a spokesman for Madrid’s
city hall, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Aside from examining the complaints “relating to different
football clubs in different member states, including Spain,”
Colombani said the commission is also “looking at the situation
more generally of fiscal and social debt in certain clubs.”  The commission checks whether government help for companies
may distort competition in the EU.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  