-- Ronaldo Helps Real Madrid Move Closer to Champions League Semis
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-03T23:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/real-madrid-wins-3-0-in-champions-league-malaga-dortmund-draw.html
Cristiano Ronaldo scored his
competition-leading ninth goal as Real Madrid beat Galatasaray
3-0 to move closer to a third straight Champions League soccer
semifinal. Malaga and  Borussia Dortmund  drew 0-0.  Karim Benzema and Gonzalo Higuain also got goals at the
Bernabeu Stadium last night as Real moved to the brink of
record-extending 24th appearance in the final four of  Europe ’s
elite club competition. The return match in the two-game
quarterfinal will be played April 9 in Istanbul.  “If we score a goal, they have to score five, but in
football I have seen so many incredible things, nothing can
surprise me,” Real coach  Jose Mourinho  said on the website of
tournament organizer UEFA. “Istanbul is a very difficult place
to play. They will fight very hard against us.”  Following the four quarterfinal openers, record nine-time
European champion Real and four-time winner Bayern Munich are
the only teams to take a lead into next week’s return games.
Barcelona is still the bookmakers’ favorite even after a 2-2
draw at Paris Saint-Germain two days ago.  Dortmund had the better chances against Malaga in  Spain ,
though couldn’t beat home goalkeeper Willy, who made six saves.
The second match in  Germany  will also take place in five days.  “We got a draw and hopefully that will set us up for the
return game,” Willy said on UEFA’s website. “Hopefully my
performance can help the team to progress.”  The other two quarterfinals conclude April 10 with Bayern
taking a 2-0 lead to Juventus and Barcelona hosting PSG. World
player of the year Lionel Messi may be able to play after
injuring his hamstring in the opener, Barcelona said yesterday.  Scoring Lead  Real took the lead after nine minutes last night as Mesut Ozil slid a pass between two defenders to Ronaldo, who chipped
the ball over goalkeeper Fernando Muslera. The goal moved
Ronaldo one ahead of Messi and Galatasaray’s Burak Yilmaz, who
is suspended for the second leg after picking up a yellow card
last night, atop the scorers’ list.  The home team made it 2-0 in the 29th minute when  Michael Essien ’s cross eluded defenders Emmanuel Eboue and Semih Kaya
and fell for Benzema to slot in at the back post. Higuain then
headed in Alonso’s 73rd-minute free kick for his first Champions
League goal this campaign.  Based on previous results in two-game series in European
competition, a 3-0 home win gives Real a 94 percent chance of
advancing, according to Infostrada Sports.  “The match in Istanbul will be difficult,” Galatasaray
coach Fatih Terim said. “We would have liked to return home
with hopes but that did not happen.”  Seven Shots  In Malaga, both teams had seven shots on target at La
Rosaleda stadium though couldn’t break the deadlock.  Willy twice denied Mario Goetze in the first half, along
with saving Sebastian Kehl’s curling shot, while Roman
Weidenfeller knocked away a header from Weligton just before the
break.  Dortmund’s Robert Lewandowski shot wide three minutes into
the second half and Goetze missed after running in behind the
defense. Weidenfeller then made consecutive saves against Isco
and Jeremy Toulalan before Dortmund striker Julian Schieber sent
the game’s last clear scoring chance wide in the 84th minute.  “We did not take our chances and so we had to stay calm in
order to get the result we wanted,” Dortmund coach Juergen Klopp told reporters. “Nil-nil is a result we can live with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 