-- European Power Grid Group Says More Fossil-Fuel Plants Needed
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-04-03T12:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/renewables-to-exceed-fossil-fuels-in-european-generation-by-2020.html
Europe ’s share of renewable power
capacity will rise to more than 40 percent by 2020, spurring a
need for additional back-up coal and natural gas plants,
according to  Entsoe , the region’s grid-operators group.  Total generating capacity in 2020 is projected at about
1,185 gigawatts, Entsoe said in a report today. Renewable
sources will account for 512 gigawatts, an increase of about 50
percent from now and more than the 471 gigawatts estimated for
coal, natural gas and oil plants. The rest will come mainly from
nuclear reactors. Europe will need 38 gigawatts of “reliably
available capacity” in addition to already confirmed
investments to maintain the balance between supply and demand.  “Depending on the penetration of variable generation to
the overall energy mix, this could imply that the level of
needed investments in installed capacity is significantly
higher,” Entsoe said.  The European Union’s drive to generate 20 percent of its
power from  renewable energy  by 2020 and cut reliance on carbon-
heavy coal and oil output is increasing the need for flexible
back-up plants that can provide electricity during times of
unfavorable weather when wind and solar output is limited.
 Germany  may prevent closures of unprofitable plants to ensure
that the lights stay on in Europe’s biggest economy.  Complementary Measures  Germany, the U.K.,  France ,  Italy , Poland and  Belgium  are
among EU member states considering compensating fossil fuel-
fired plants for low or negative returns caused by increased
renewable energy usage, weak demand and depressed prices.
Capacity markets allow utilities to fix electricity prices for
guaranteeing backup supply in advance.  “Wind, solar and biomass power plants are expected to
increase, while the share of hydropower plants is expected to
decrease,” Entsoe said. The increasing volume of variable
renewable generation urgently requires “complementary
measures” to ensure the balancing of the system, it said.  Norway will remain the country with the most electricity
produced from renewables with 96 percent in 2020, followed by
 Switzerland  with 73 percent, Montenegro with 69 percent and
Latvia with 68 percent, Entsoe said.  Among nations relying most heavily on coal, lignite, oil
and gas for their generation needs,  Estonia  will produce 83
percent of its power from fossil fuels, the Netherlands 80
percent, Cyprus 78 percent and Poland 75 percent in 2020.  “A clear replacement trend of coal, lignite, oil by
natural gas is forecast” for the entire region, Entsoe said.  Nuclear capacity is expected to increase until 2015, and
then decline until 2020, Entsoe said. France will remain
Europe’s biggest nuclear generator by 2020, with around 63
gigawatts of capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  