-- Review of Botched U.S. Foreclosures Beset by Missteps, GAO Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-04-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/review-of-botched-u-s-foreclosures-beset-by-missteps-gao-says.html
A $2 billion search for U.S.
foreclosure errors was hampered by poor planning from the
regulators who demanded it, according to a review by the
 Government Accountability Office .  U.S. banking regulators provided insufficient guidance for
the independent review of more than 4 million foreclosures by 14
mortgage servicers in 2009 and 2010, according to a draft of the
report.  The review process, which was halted in January without
providing compensation to any wronged borrowers, was ordered in
2011 by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the
Federal Reserve to compensate borrowers, some of whom lost their
homes through foreclosures that relied on poor documentation.
For all but three servicers, this process has since been
replaced by a $9.3 billion settlement with banks including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America  Corp. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “The complexity of the foreclosure reviews and limitations
in regulators’ guidance and monitoring of the foreclosure review
challenged their ability to achieve the stated goals,” the
report concluded.  According to the GAO, third-party consultants hired by the
servicers complained that the loan files and scope of the file
review made the process “complicated and time-consuming.” The
consultants -- among them Promontory Financial Group LLC, Ernst
& Young LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP -- said some files
contained as many as 50 documents, comprising more than 2,000
pages. They also reported that consultants spent as many as 50
hours to complete a full single file review.  Guidance Unclear  The GAO said changing guidance from the regulators, which
“expanded the scope of the reviews and contributed to delays.”
The Federal Reserve issued three clarifications of loan
modification guidance while the OCC provided seven instances of
informal guidance during the process. The lack of clarity in
regulators’ guidance limited the “usefulness of the information
obtained from the foreclosure review process,” the GAO said.  The federal agencies “may have been able to better define
the scope of the activities and issue more complete guidance
prior to commencing the foreclosure review process, thereby
potentially reducing the number of revisions to the scope or
guidance,” the GAO said in the report.  Bryan Hubbard, an OCC spokesman, and Eric Kollig, a Federal
Reserve spokesman, declined to comment on the draft report.  The GAO examination was requested in a Jan. 13 letter from
U.S. lawmakers, calling for a study of the “independence,
transparency, accountability and consistency of this foreclosure
review process.”  Legislation Promised  House Financial Services Committee ranking member Maxine Waters, a California Democrat who was among those who requested
the study, said she plans to introduce legislation to address
the “problem of relying on outside contractors for enforcement
actions.”  “The report confirms that the Independent Foreclosure
Review process was poorly designed and executed,” Waters said
in a statement. “The GAO demonstrates that the projected error
rates which were used to negotiate a settlement had little
bearing in fact.”  A Senate Banking subcommittee plans to hold an April 11
hearing on the use of third-party consultants in enforcement
actions. Representatives from the OCC, Fed, and the consultants
from the foreclosure review will testify.  In a response to the findings included in the report,
Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry said the OCC will
continue to monitor the foreclosure review for consistency and
apply the lessons learned to consent orders. Curry also said he
recognizes the need to provide additional information to the
public on the process, status and the result of the foreclosure
review, and will issue two additional reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  