-- Romania PM Nominates New Head of Anti-Corruption Office
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-04-03T09:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/romania-pm-nominates-new-head-of-anti-corruption-office.html
Romanian Prime Minister Victor Ponta
nominated a former general prosecutor to head the country’s
anti-corruption department over the objections of a junior
member of his ruling coalition.  Laura Codruta Kovesi was picked to head the anti-corruption
agency and Tiberiu Nitu to take the position of general
prosecutor, Ponta said in an e-mailed statement today. The head
of the  Liberal Party  called the move Ponta’s “first mistake,”
though he stopped short of saying it would break apart the four-
party coalition.  “I think I did the right thing for the government and for
the political stability of the country,” Ponta said in a
televised speech before a government meeting today. The
proposals must be endorsed by the Superior Council of
Magistrates and by President Traian Basescu.  The European Commission has urged  Romania , the bloc’s
second-poorest member after  Bulgaria , to increase the pace of
reforms to keep the judiciary independence.  Germany  will veto
Romania’s and Bulgaria’s entry to the passport-free Schengen
travel zone because of concerns over corruption, Spiegel
reported March 3.  “As far as this decision is concerned, our roads diverge
because we can’t be part of a political compromise between
Basescu and Ponta,” said  Crin Antonescu , the head of the
Liberals today. “The coalition will not break up because we
have a responsibility toward our voters and our partnership is
based on a joint plan for Romania.”  Antonescu had said on March 3 that the governing alliance
may break apart if Ponta nominates Kovesi as “the appointment
would be a mistake both from a judicial and political point of
view.”  Ponta is counting on a two-thirds majority in Parliament
after his Social Democrats entered a coalition with the Liberals
ahead of parliamentary elections in December last year.  Nitu, 41, was a deputy general prosecutor from 2007 until
2011 and Kovesi, 39, has been a general prosecutor from 2006 to
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  