-- Romania Pushes to Shed Junk Stigma on Budget Rigor Praise
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-04-03T08:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/romania-pushes-to-shed-junk-stigma-on-budget-rigor-praise-1-.html
Romania’s call for a credit-rating
upgrade has the support of investors and analysts from  London  to
Los Angeles as the country strives to shake off its junk status
at Standard & Poor’s after almost five years.  Fiscal progress and International Monetary Fund backstops
warrant a higher rating, according to Templeton  Emerging Markets 
Group’s Mark Mobius, Nomura Holdings Inc. and TCW Group Inc.
Romania, which S&P has kept one level below investment grade
since 2008, deserves a better credit score after narrowing the
budget gap to European Union limits, Economy Minister Varujan
Vosganian said yesterday.  “I definitely think it’s time for them to upgrade,”
Blaise Antin, who helps manage about $10.5 billion of emerging-
market debt at TCW, said from Los Angeles. “I’ve liked this
credit for a while and I think it’s on an improving trend.”  Romania  embarked on one of the EU’s toughest austerity
plans in 2010 with a 25 percent cut in state wages and a 5
percentage-point increase in the value-added tax. The
government, which arranged two loans from the International
Monetary Fund and the EU, trimmed the budget gap to 2.5 percent
of economic output last year from 7.2 percent in 2009.  Market Rewards  As Romania’s fiscal health has improved, its credit risk
has diminished. The cost to insure government debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps dropped to 190
basis points on Jan. 28, the lowest since 2008. The swaps traded
at 237 basis points today.  Borrowing costs have also plunged, falling to record lows
after some leu-denominated debt was included in the JPMorgan
Chase & Co and Barclays Plc local-currency government bond index
in March. The leu has rallied 0.6 percent against the euro this
year, the best performance in eastern  Europe , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It traded at 4.4228 per euro by 10:51 a.m. in
Bucharest today.  The EU’s second-poorest member is rated Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Fitch Ratings, the companies’
lowest investment grades. Moody’s has a negative outlook on the
grade, while Fitch’s is stable. S&P rates Romania BB+ with a
stable outlook. S&P’s press office wasn’t immediately available
to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News yesterday.  Ratings changes aren’t always followed by investors. French
bonds and U.S. Treasuries both made gains after the countries
were stripped of their AAA credit ratings, in a signal that
downgrades may have little bearing on borrowing costs.  ‘Should Upgrade’  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when an
action suggests they should climb, or they increase even as a
change signals a decline, according to 38 years of data compiled
by Bloomberg.  After ending two years of economic contraction in 2010,
Romania averted a recession in the fourth quarter as gross
domestic product rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent from the
previous three months, according to revised data released today.
The nation’s economic stability and stronger public finances
warrant a more positive credit assessment, according to Economy
Minister Vosganian.  “The rating agencies should upgrade Romania’s sovereign
rating,” he told a conference in Bucharest.  To further boost confidence in the country, the government
is negotiating a precautionary loan agreement with the IMF to
replace its existing 5 billion-euro ($6.4 billion) package,
which expires in June and hasn’t been drawn down.  ‘Straight Jacket’  An IMF safety net would be positive for Romania’s credit
rating, according to Matteo Napolitano, an analyst at Fitch,
which is scheduled to review the country’s grade by the end of
June. A backstop “and the straight jacket that the accord will
provide” would make an upgrade possible,’’ Peter Attard
Montalto, an economist at Nomura in London, said by e-mail.  “The main barriers against an upgrade are a weak economy,
a fragile banking system and continued political
uncertainties,” Neil Shearing, an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd., said by e-mail from London.  A political struggle between Prime Minister Victor Ponta
and President Traian Basescu last summer, which prompted
European leaders such as German chancellor Angela Merkel to
voice concerns over democracy, sent the leu to a record low.
Ponta’s coalition won a two-thirds parliamentary majority in
Dec. 9 elections, while Basescu was reinstated after a 52-day
suspension and a failed impeachment referendum.  Romania’s economy is set to grow 1.6 percent this year,
while the budget deficit will probably shrink to 2.4 percent of
GDP, according to the European Commission. The government is
also selling state assets, including a minority stake in natural
gas grid operator  Transgaz SA. (TGN)   “There is a good possibility of a ratings upgrade if the
promised reforms by the government come through,” said Mobius,
who manages $50 billion in emerging-market assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  