-- Troutman Sanders, Duane Morris, Weil: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-03T10:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/troutman-sanders-duane-morris-weil-business-of-law.html
Troutman Sanders LLP expanded its
white collar and government investigations practice with the
addition of partner Sharie A. Brown in the firm’s  Washington 
office. She was previously co-chair of DLA Piper LLP’s FCPA,
anti-corruption and corporate compliance practice group,
Troutman Sanders said in a statement.  Brown represents clients in the areas of corporate
compliance, ethics and governance, as well as the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, USA Patriot Act, and trade sanctions laws
and regulations.  Before DLA Piper, she chaired the white collar defense and
corporate compliance group at Foley & Lardner LLP. Before that,
she worked as an ethics and compliance officer at Mobil Oil
Corp.’s Office of General Counsel,  Troutman Sanders has more than 600 lawyers at 15 offices in
the U.S. and  Asia .  DLA Piper Hires Cross-Border Litigator Cedric Chao  Cedric Chao, former co-chairman of the international
litigation and arbitration practice at  Morrison & Foerster LLP ,
joined DLA Piper LLP’s litigation practice as a partner in the
San Francisco office.  Chao has been lead counsel in matters before U.S. trial
judges and juries, international arbitration tribunals and
appellate courts, the firm said in a statement.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in offices in more than 30
countries throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific,  Europe  and the
 Middle East .  Duane Morris Adds Government Affairs and Gaming Law Lawyer  Duane Morris LLP said Paul P. Josephson joined the firm’s
trial practice group as a partner in  New Jersey . Josephson, who
will work also at the firm’s government affairs affiliate DMGS,
will be based in both the Cherry Hill and Newark offices.  Josephson was previously at Hill Wallack LLP, where he led
the regulatory and government affairs and gaming law practice
groups and founded its government affairs/media affiliate,
Government Process Solutions LLC, Duane Morris said in a
statement.  Josephson represents clients in business matters, usually
involving public interests or regulated by government agencies,
the firm said. He also represents clients in casinos and gaming
matters, including lottery, horseracing, Internet and
sweepstakes issues.  Josephson was director, division of law, for the New Jersey
attorney general’s office and chief counsel to the governor, the
firm said.  Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys at 24 offices as
across the U.S. and internationally.  Cooley Adds Boston Partner in Technology Transactions Group  Cooley LLP hired Matthew A. Karlyn in the business
department as a partner and a member of its technology
transactions practice group in Boston. Karlyn joins the firm
from Foley & Lardner LLP, where he was a partner in the
 information technology  and outsourcing practice, as well as its
privacy, security and information management practice, the firm
said in a statement.  Karlyn has experience handling technology transactions and
outsourcing.  Cooley has 700 attorneys at 12 offices in the U.S. and
Shanghai.  News  Obama Pushes Republicans to Drop Hurdles to Judicial Nominations  President  Barack Obama  is pressing Republicans to stop
obstructing federal judicial nominees, protesting the delays in
private conversations with senators and in public declarations
by administration officials.  The White House is now focusing on the nomination of Sri Srinivasan for the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District of
Columbia , considered the nation’s second-most influential court
because it often handles major environmental, labor and national
security cases through its jurisdiction over federal rulemaking.
Srinivasan’s confirmation hearing is scheduled for April 10.  At luncheon meetings with Senate and House Republicans and
at a dinner with a dozen senators last month, Obama pushed
against a partisan strategy to block potential future candidates
for the  Supreme Court  earlier in their careers when they are
nominated for lower courts, said an administration official, who
requested anonymity.  Obama spokesman  Jay Carney  went to the White House podium
this week to complain about “the uniqueness” and
“arbitrariness” of the delays Obama’s nominees have faced.  The latest example was Caitlin Halligan, a former  New York 
state solicitor general whose nomination for an appellate
judgeship was  withdrawn  last month amid Republican opposition.
She joins Goodwin Liu, an appellate court candidate considered a
potential pick by Obama to be the Supreme Court’s first Asian-
American justice, who was blocked in the Senate in 2011.  During Obama’s first term, the number of appeals court
vacancies rose to 17 from 14 when he took office in January,
2009, according to an analysis by Russell Wheeler, a fellow at
the  Brookings Institution  in Washington. During Bush’s first
term, appeals court vacancies declined to 18 on his second
inauguration from 27 when he was first sworn into office.  For more, click here.  Promontory Adds SEC’s Schapiro to Roster of Ex-Regulators  Mary Schapiro , chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission until December, joined Promontory Financial Group LLC
as a managing director and chairman of the firm’s governance and
markets practice.  Schapiro, 57, will advise clients on risk management and
corporate governance, Washington-based Promontory said yesterday
in a statement.  Appointed by President Barack Obama, Schapiro took over at
the SEC in 2009, after the financial crisis and the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns & Co. on the
agency’s watch. She won praise from a predecessor,  Harvey Pitt ,
for helping to restore the agency’s credibility, while other
regulators said she failed to hold banks accountable and manage
policy divides among commissioners.  “At Promontory I join a team of highly experienced
professionals who work with clients to meet regulatory and
investor expectations while advancing the evolving norms for
corporate governance and regulatory compliance,” Schapiro said
in the statement. “This is important not only to companies, but
also to our markets and to global prosperity.”  Schapiro adds to the ranks of former top regulators at
Promontory, which was founded by Eugene Ludwig, former head of
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The firm, which
hired OCC chief counsel Julie Williams this year, drew criticism
from lawmakers after it helped banks settle allegations of
faulty foreclosures.  Qatari Sheikh Sued for $381,000 in Unpaid Fees by U.K. Law Firm  A member of the Qatari royal family was sued by SJ Berwin
LLP for 250,600 pounds ($381,000) in unpaid fees for advice
given in relation to orders by judges in the U.S. and U.K.
freezing his assets.  Sheikh Saud Bin Mohammed Bin Ali Al-Thani, a cousin of the
Emir of Qatar, was sued for 4.1 million pounds in the U.K. by
London auction house Bonhams 1793 Ltd. and $22 million in the
U.S. by rare coin specialists A.H. Baldwin & Sons Ltd., SJ
Berwin said in court documents filed Feb. 20 and released last
month.  Al-Thani was head of the country’s National Council for
Culture, Arts and Heritage and is a “significant collector of
valuable antiques and fine art,” SJ Berwin said.  Al-Thani successfully bid on coins including a $3.25
million single gold piece from the Ancient Greek city of
Pantikapaion that bears the head of a bearded satyr last year,
according to the Oct. 9 lawsuit filed in Washington, by A.H.
Baldwin, M&M Numismatics LLC of Washington and Dmitry Markov
Coins and Medals of New York.  Nicola Bridge, a lawyer at SJ Berwin who signed the court
filings, declined to comment through a firm spokeswoman. A
London phone number for Al-Thani appeared to have been
disconnected.  The U.K. case, filed Sept. 27 by Bonhams, isn’t publicly
available and Julian Roup, a spokesman for the auction house,
declined to comment on the suit. A London judge froze Al-Thani’s
global assets on Oct. 2, SJ Berwin said in the court documents,
without saying how much the freezing order was for.  Al-Thani pledged the world’s most expensive watch and other
collectibles valued at almost $83 million to  Sotheby’s (BID)  to cover
debts owed to the auction house, according to court documents
filed at the New York Department of State in October.  Deals  Obagi Medical Surges on Takeover Offer: Weil Advises Bidder  Obagi Medical Products Inc. (OMPI) , a maker of prescription skin
care products,  rose  the most in almost two weeks after getting a
competing offer from closely held Merz Pharma Group to buy the
company for $380 million.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP is providing outside legal
counsel to Merz. The team includes Silicon Valley mergers and
acquisitions partners Keith Flaum and James Griffin, as well as
New York partners Michael Epstein, technology and IP
transactions; Paul Wessel, executive compensation and employee
benefits; and Helyn Goldstein, tax.  Shares of Long Beach, California-based Obagi rose 16
percent to $22.88, topping Frankfurt-based Merz Pharma’s offer
of $22 a share. It was the biggest gain since March 20, when
 Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  said it had agreed to
buy Obagi for $19.75 a share in cash, or about $360 million.  “The Obagi Board of Directors will evaluate Merz Pharma’s
offer and the merger terms consistent with its fiduciary and
legal duties,” the company said in a statement announcing the
offer, which it said was unsolicited.  Obagi’s biggest  product  is Nu-Derm, an anti-aging
treatment. The product had about $62 million in sales last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 