-- Ruble Tumbles Most in 14 Weeks as Europe Woes Stoke Outflows
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-04-03T15:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/ruble-tumbles-most-in-12-weeks-as-europe-woes-stoke-outflows.html
The ruble sank the most in 14 weeks
as the fallout from  Europe ’s financial crisis spurred the
biggest capital outflow from  Russia  in a year.  The ruble weakened 1 percent against the central bank’s
dollar-euro basket to 35.6387 by 7:16 p.m. in Moscow, the most
since Dec. 17, and fell 0.9 percent against the dollar to
31.6005, the worst performance among 31 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The yield on benchmark bonds due February 2027
fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.33 percent.  Net capital outflow  totaled $25.8 billion in the first
quarter as the crisis deepened in the euro region, Russia’s
biggest trading partner. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said
the government may start buying foreign currency on the open
market in the second half of the year to fill its Reserve Fund.  “It all came together: payment account data, the MinFin’s
statement on market purchases of foreign currency and a general
increase in panic selling from foreign players as ruble
weakens,” ING Groep NV analyst Dmitry Polevoy said by e-mail.  Brent oil fell 1.5 percent in  London  to $108.99 per barrel.
Revenue from crude and natural gas comprise about 50 percent of
Russia’s state budget income.  The ruble has lost 3.3 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of the year compared with gains for the Chinese,
Brazilian and Indian currencies. Selling intensified on April 2
after Bank Rossii cut rates on medium-term financing tools by 25
basis points, fuelling bets it may start an easing cycle.  ‘Last Drop’  The ruble has lost 3 percent since March 15 as investors
speculated that a bailout for Cyprus would hurt Russian assets
held on deposits in the island nation.  “It has been building up and it burst,” Artem Roschin,
foreign exchange trader at Aljba Alliance, said by phone. “The
Central bank’s decision was the last drop.”  Russia’s central bank cut rates on loans backed with gold
and non-market collateral as well as on some longer-term
repurchase operations yesterday. While Bank Rossii left the main
 interest rates  unchanged for a seventh month, policy makers will
lower them by at least 25 basis points in the second quarter to
boost slowing growth, according to 10 out of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  In the short term, the ruble may continue its fall against
the basket to 35.65, when the central bank is likely to step in
with “symbolic” purchases to curb excessive weakening, Roschin
said.  “Even stable  oil prices  will not lead to a stronger ruble
in the coming months” as support from the seasonally strong
current account fades, VTB Capital analysts Maxim Oreshkin and
Daria Isakova wrote in a note to clients.  Investments Curbed  The current account surplus is traditionally strongest in
the first quarter, when imports are subdued as cold weather
curbs investment activity.  The next tax period starts April 15 with insurance funds
contributions. Payments support the local currency as exporters
use foreign exchange-denominated revenue to buy rubles.  Russia’s Finance Ministry has been discussing a central
bank proposal to buy foreign currency for its  Reserve Fund  on
the market, scrapping transactions with the regulator, Deputy
Finance Minister Alexei Moiseev said in February.  The world’s largest energy exporter funnels extra proceeds
from oil and gas sales to the Reserve Fund, one of the country’s
two sovereign wealth funds, which is also used to help finance
the  budget deficit . The funds are managed by the central bank
under guidelines set down by the Finance Ministry.  The possible start of purchases had been expected in 2014
or 2015. Should they go ahead in the second half of this year it
may mean “extra downside pressure on the ruble,” Polevoy from
ING said.  The oil price is above $97 per barrel, the level at which
the  Finance Ministry  starts Reserve Fund purchases, he said. The
central bank has “no reason to intervene massively” because
current account and capital flows are almost balanced, according
to Polevoy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  