-- Trump Dismisses Scottish Consultation Over Wind Farms
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-04-03T17:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/trump-dismisses-scottish-consultation-over-wind-farms.html
Donald Trump , the  New York  real
estate billionaire building a  Scottish golf resort , said a
planned consultation on how to protect mountain scenery in
 Scotland  from wind farms was a “weak ploy.”  A new draft Scottish planning policy will be issued soon
allowing the government to hear a range of views on how wild
land could be protected, the government said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond and Trump have been at
loggerheads for more than a year over the extent of the proposed
use of wind turbines to help the government meet its target of
generating 100 percent of Scotland’s electricity by 2020 from
renewable sources.  “This is just a weak ploy by Salmond to help defuse his
highly ridiculed policies on these ugly and economically
disastrous  wind turbines ,” Trump said in an e-mailed statement.
“If these hideous structures are built by the thousands,
tourism in Scotland will be forever ruined and energy bills
there will increase five-fold.”  Salmond is ready to back the idea of turbine-free areas to
protect some of Scotland’s most dramatic scenery, the Times of
 London  said, citing author and broadcaster Cameron McNeish.  Scottish Natural Heritage will identify 28 percent of
Scotland’s countryside, mainly in the north and west Highlands,
as wild land. In those areas planning guidance is being drawn up
to suggest that wind farm applications should not be approved
except in special cases, the Times said.  The Scottish government would work closely with SNH and the
Royal Society for the Protection of Birds to minimize the impact
of wind farm developments, it said in its statement.  Trump last month confirmed a decision first made last year
to put on hold the development of his 750 million-pound ($1.14
billion) resort in Aberdeenshire involving a five-star hotel,
500 homes and 950 rental apartments as well as two golf courses
after the government approved an experimental offshore wind farm
in Aberdeen Bay that will overlook the courses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  