-- Russian Corporate Loan Slowdown to Test Banks, Nabiullina Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-04-03T09:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/russian-corporate-loan-slowdown-to-test-banks-nabiullina-says.html
Russia’s economy is hobbled by a
slowdown in corporate lending relative to  consumer credit , which
presents a “huge challenge” to the country’s financial
industry, according to Elvira Nabiullina, President  Vladimir Putin ’s nominee to take over the central bank in June.  “This requires a full range of measures both from the
banking community and from companies in the real sector,”
Nabiullina said at a banking conference in Moscow today, her
first speech since Putin announced the nomination March 12.  The weaker lending to companies is partly a result of the
slowing economy, which has suffered as deteriorating global
conditions weigh on exports, and the cost of credit exceeding
returns on investment projects, Nabiullina said.  Nabiullina, Putin’s former economy minister and current
aide, is poised to take over at the helm of monetary policy as
gross domestic product is expanding at the slowest pace since a
recession in 2009. The economic deceleration, which has
continued into this year, sparked an argument between policy
makers over interest-rate cuts to spur growth with inflation
above Bank Rossii’s target range of 5 percent to 6 percent.  The central bank yesterday left its main rates unchanged
for a seventh month, keeping the refinancing rate at 8.25
percent while cutting some borrowing costs on less frequently
used credit instruments and signaling greater concern about the
slowing economy.  The ruble depreciated 0.4 percent to 31.4400 against the
dollar at 1:14 p.m. in Moscow. The Micex Index of 50 stocks lost
0.2 percent to 1,426.81.  Nabiullina said she saw room to improve the central bank’s
refinancing operations. Even so, Bank Rossii “can’t compensate
for all of the market sources of financing of the banking
system,” she said.  “In  Russia , the role of external funding for the banking
system has fallen,” Nabiullina said. “The banking system needs
to seek domestic resources. The importance has grown of the
central bank’s refinancing operations as a source of
liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  