-- Russian Job Gains Limit Scope for Monetary Easing, Ignatiev Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-04-03T11:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/russian-job-gains-limit-scope-for-monetary-easing-ignatiev-says.html
Russia ’s central bank left its main
policy rates unchanged yesterday because unemployment near the
lowest in 20 years added to accelerating inflation to outweigh
concern over a slowing economy, Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said.  “Despite the noticeable slowdown in economic growth, the
level of unemployment remains extremely low,” Ignatiev, who
steps down in June, said at a banking conference in Moscow
today. “Conditions on the labor market remain fairly tight,
which doesn’t suggest a need for softening monetary policy.”  Policy makers left the benchmark  refinancing rate  at 8.25
percent for a seventh month, while cutting some borrowing costs
on less frequently used credit instruments. Bank Rossii has been
sparring with the government, which says monetary conditions are
stifling growth. The economy expanded 2.1 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since a recession
in 2009.  Ignatiev said he was “seriously concerned” with the
deceleration of  growth , which he said continued into the start
of this year with a 1.5 percent drop in industrial production in
January and February from a year earlier. He attributed the
slowdown to demographics, the poor state of infrastructure and a
weak investment climate.  The ruble weakened 0.7 percent to 31.5395 per dollar by
2:53 p.m. in Moscow, sliding for a third day.  The  unemployment rate , which dropped to 5 percent in
September, the lowest in about 20 years, was 5.3 percent in
January and February when adjusted for seasonality, Ignatiev
said.  Inflation Outlook  The central bank still expects to contain  inflation  below 6
percent, the top of its target range, Ignatiev said, adding that
the rate was 7.2 percent as of March 25. A drop in grain prices
that began in February and will probably continue for the coming
months is an important factor, he said.  The annual rate of consumer-price growth surged to 7.3
percent in February from 6.6 percent in December, which Ignatiev
said was primarily a result of “temporary factors” including
higher excise taxes on goods including alcohol and a surge in
grain prices.  “We still intend to achieve a reduction in inflation by
the end of 2013 to a level of no more than 6 percent,” he said.
Despite the fact that short-term factors including the harvest
are beyond Bank Rossii’s control, the task is “entirely
realistic,” he said.  Policy makers yesterday also left the overnight and one-
week repurchase auction rates and 5.5 percent and the fixed
overnight repo rate at 6.5 percent.  Banks use the two rates to access “the main volume of”
liquidity, Ignatiev said. Adjusted for “expected inflation, the
real value of these rates is close to zero,” he said.  Easing conditions on loans backed with gold and non-market
collateral as well as some longer-term repurchase operations by
a quarter point will make it cheaper for banks to get liquidity,
Ignatiev said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  