-- Russia’s Novatek Said to Set Rate on Five-Year $1 Billion Loan
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-04-03T15:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/russia-s-novatek-said-to-set-rate-on-five-year-1-billion-loan.html
OAO Novatek (NVTK) ,  Russia ’s second-biggest
natural-gas producer, set the rate on a loan of as much as $1
billion, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Novatek is offering to pay interest at 175 basis points
more than the London interbank offered rate for the five-year
facility, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the deal isn’t public. The Tarko-Sale, Siberia-based
company is self-arranging the deal, which lenders must commit to
before the end of the month, the people said.  The interest margin matches those offered on a loan of the
same maturity sought by  OAO Gazprom Neft (GAZ) , the oil unit of
Russian competitor OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas
producer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OAO Uralkali (URKA) ,
the largest potash producer by output, is also raising a five-
year facility with a higher margin of 215 basis points more than
Libor, the data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Novatek is  rated  Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB-
by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, the lowest investment-
grade rankings, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Gazprom Neft
and Uralkali have the same grades from the ratings firms, the
data show.  Novatek is planning to build a $20 billion liquefied
natural gas plant on the Yamal Peninsula in Russia’s arctic
region with French company Total SA, Chief Executive Officer
Leonid Mikhelson said.  Novatek has two dollar-denominated loans totaling $500
million maturing this year, Bloomberg  data  show. Officials at
Novatek weren’t immediately able to comment on the financing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  