-- Trust the Wisdom of Crowds to Raise Capital Online
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-03T22:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/trust-the-wisdom-of-crowds-to-raise-capital-online.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission dipped a toe into the social media waters this week.
The agency  said  it will allow publicly traded companies to
announce market-moving news on Facebook, Twitter and other
online messaging tools.  This is a welcome development. But if the SEC really wants
to make the most of social media, it should find a way to allow
startup companies to use intermediaries, called crowd-funding
portals, to attract small amounts of capital from large numbers
of people.  Congress allowed this capital-raising shift in the JOBS
(Jumpstart Our Business Startups) Act, which President  Barack
Obama  signed a year ago, but the SEC has yet to write the rules
to make the act effective. Until it does, projects financed
through crowd-funding portals can’t offer shares in return
for money.  What’s the hang-up? The regulator has legitimate concerns
about fake entrepreneurs and mythical companies taking advantage
of unsophisticated investors. By no means are we suggesting that
the SEC curtail its investor-protection role. Still, we believe
the agency, after a year of study, should get on with it; the
 rules  were supposed to be ready by Jan. 1.  Crowd-funding portals have shown they can work in other
realms. In 2011, they  raised  about $1.5 billion. New York-based
 Kickstarter  has had phenomenal success: About 3.7 million people
have used it to raise $550 million to back various creative
projects.  Overturning Tradition  Some of the SEC’s hesitancy is  encouraged  by  Wall Street .
The JOBS Act overturns 70 years of securities laws and
traditional practice, including Wall Street’s dominance of
initial public offerings. But Wall Street long ago decided to
stop focusing on the startup entrepreneur, preferring to raise
large amounts of money from a manageable number of pension funds
and mutual funds for companies with proven track records.  Crowd funding does the opposite, raising very small amounts
from large numbers of people. Though it’s true that some of
these investors may not understand the risks, fears of swindles
are overblown. One reason is that the JOBS Act limits companies
to raising $1 million over a 12-month period. As well, an
individual whose annual income is below $100,000 could invest no
more than $2,000 a year. Those with incomes above $100,000 could
invest up to $10,000.  The act has other protections. Crowd-funding portals, for
example, must register with the SEC, which in turn will make
sure the sites vet both the entrepreneurs issuing securities and
the investors buying them. Issuers must make financial
statements, business plans, tax returns and the like available
online.  Most important, portals can’t hire salespeople to round up
investors, beyond directing people to the site. Once online,
potential investors will be required to document income and net
worth, and take a mini-course on investor education. What’s
more, an issuer’s officers, directors and partners can be sued
for misstatements and omissions.  Beyond those safeguards, the SEC could require portals to
use digital footprint technology that can tell if potential
investors have actually read the section on “risk factors” and
bar them from sending money until they do. The SEC could require
links to its online list of approved portals, reducing the
chances that fake portals would exist for long. The regulator
could also create an account that holds, say, 0.025 percent of
all offerings, to compensate fraud victims.  The challenge is to not saddle startups with so many
onerous rules as to neuter the crowd-funding advantage. It was
less than a decade ago that the SEC worried about allowing
companies to distribute shareholder information via the Internet
(techno-phobes would be at a disadvantage). Those concerns did
not come to pass. Today, social networking is similarly on the
rise. The SEC would do well to allow the wisdom of crowds to go
to work on capital-raising.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 