-- Sandy Tax Gut Fuels Christie Rebuild Amid Cuomo Buyouts
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-04-03T23:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/sandy-tax-gutting-fuels-christie-rebuild-as-cuomo-seeks-buyouts.html
Judy Aiello and her husband,
Michael, settled 20 years ago at the New Jersey shore in a
1950s-era development with their backyard on a lagoon leading
to Manahawkin Bay.  Five months after  Hurricane Sandy  sent a surge of water
through the Beach Haven West neighborhood, about 35 miles north
of Atlantic City, the Aiello house is more of a construction
zone than a home. Damaged exterior siding lets in rain, and most
of the floors are newly placed plywood, minus carpet or tile.  Governor Chris Christie, a Republican seeking re-election,
is encouraging shore residents to rebuild after the storm, one
of the costliest in U.S. history, imperiled billions of dollars
in property values and taxes. It’s the opposite in nearby New
York, where Democratic Governor Andrew Cuomo says rising ocean
levels require a $400 million buyout of beachfront homes, an
option the Aiellos are starting to envy.  “Nature really did a number on us,” Judy Aiello, a 60-
year-old school secretary, said in an interview at her kitchen
table. “It’s very tempting to leave. If an offer did come
along, we’d have to consider.”  The contrast between Christie’s and Cuomo’s plans reflect a
national debate over the role that scientists’ warnings on
climate change should play in government decisions. In North
Carolina, where barrier islands known as the Outer Banks draw
tourists, a law passed last year bans the state from basing
coastal policies on global-warming research. Rising sea levels
in Norfolk, Virginia, have city officials debating steps to
resist flooding.  Shore Tourism  Sandy crashed ashore in New Jersey on Oct. 29, leaving 2.7
million in the state without power, devastating some coastal
towns and crippling mass transit. Christie, 50, has said it will
cost $36.9 billion to repair the damage and prevent future
devastation.  “We will rebuild,” he said Oct. 30 in a Fox News
interview. “We are a tough, no-nonsense group of people in this
state.”  Christie, a potential 2016 candidate for president, has
staked a second term on recovery from Sandy. Last month, he
proposed a $25 million advertising campaign urging vacationers
to come back to the 127-mile-long Jersey Shore. Year-round
residents, though, say they have worries beyond the reopening of
dockside restaurants and boardwalk mini-golf.  “I couldn’t go through this a second time,”  Mary Cleary,
59, of Union Beach, said in a telephone interview from Atlantic
Highlands, where she and her husband are living temporarily.
They halted all repairs to their home when they got conflicting
information on raising the foundation.  “I never had high blood pressure in my life,” Cleary
said. “I just had to go to a cardiologist. My blood pressure is
to the sky.”  Property Values  Christie has no plans to return New Jersey’s Atlantic
coastline to nature. Sandy-damaged Ocean and Monmouth counties
have lost $5 billion in property value, for $77 million in tax
revenue, according to the Star-Ledger of Newark. Shore visitors
drive tourism, the state’s third-largest industry after
pharmaceuticals and chemicals. Statewide, tourism spending and
capital investment reached a record of $40 billion last year.  After Sandy, Christie said his job was to clean up, not
speculate on whether climate change drove that storm or Irene,
the 2011 hurricane that struck nine days after the governor
thwarted Democrats’ efforts to stay in a regional cap-and-trade
program that regulates carbon-dioxide emissions. He withdrew New
Jersey from that initiative, even while acknowledging that
“climate change is real” and “impacting our state.”  “It’s all economics,” said Debbie Mans, executive
director of NY/NJ Baykeeper, a Keyport, New Jersey-based non-
profit organization seeking to protect the Hudson-Raritan
Estuary, where those rivers meet the Atlantic Ocean. “It’s not
about nature.”  Roller Coaster  On Dec. 18, Moody’s Investors Service cited Sandy’s effects
when it downgraded the borough of Seaside Heights to A3, the
seventh-highest investment grade, from A2. In a community where
beach sales contribute 41 percent of  current-fund revenues, the
big attraction now is the submerged Jet Star roller coaster,
ripped off the boardwalk pier.  Up the coast in Sea Bright, the borough’s tax base of $518
million in assessed value has slid 20 percent “and counting”
since Sandy, said Mayor Dina Long, 40, a Democrat. Moody’s rates
the town’s debt A1, fifth-highest, with a negative outlook,
meaning its credit could be cut.  Moody’s also assigned negative outlooks to three other
Shore towns -- Belmar, Lavallette and Long Beach. On March 26,
it downgraded Union Beach one step, to A2, the sixth-highest
investment grade. The report cited a narrow financial position,
a moderately sized tax base and the effects of Sandy.  Whole Blocks  Christie has applied for federal permission to spend $250
million in aid to acquire and raze flood-prone neighborhoods in
areas such as Sayreville, South River and towns along the
Raritan Bay. No master plan exists for which homes to buy, he
said. The state would prefer taking entire blocks, rather than
individual houses, and wouldn’t condemn properties, he said.  Seventy-three percent of New Jersey voters support buyouts
of flood-threatened properties, according to a March 27 poll by
 Quinnipiac University  in Hamden, Connecticut. Sixty-nine percent
said it was a good idea for the government to build sand dunes
or sea walls to protect oceanfront towns. The poll of 1,129
registered voters had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.9
percentage points.  Higher Ground  Along some parts of the shore, raising houses, building
dunes and erecting walls “definitely reduce the risk,” said
George Deodatis, who teaches civil engineering at Columbia
University in New York.  “But it’s not a solution that can be applied blindly to
the New Jersey coast,” he said. “Sea levels will rise. It will
not rise dramatically next year or five years from now. A small
number of communities might have to move to higher elevation.”  In North Carolina, the Coastal Resources Commission
predicted a 39-inch (99-centimeter) rise in sea level by 2100.
Lawmakers passed a bill in June to disregard that report. It
became law when then-Governor Beverly Perdue, a Democrat, took
no action.  On March 28, Christie submitted for federal approval a $1.8
billion plan including money to underwrite rebuilding for more
than 30,000 housing units and 10,000 businesses in nine
counties.  Staten Island  Cuomo, 55, has called for permanent retreat from New York’s
waterside neighborhoods in Staten Island and the Rockaways
peninsula in Queens. On March 12, he sent the U.S. Housing and
Urban Development Department a plan to spend $400 million in
federal funds on as many as 10,000 homes in floodplains in New
York City and on Long Island.  “Climate change is real,” Cuomo said Nov. 12 in
Manhattan. Storms similar to Sandy are “going to happen again.
What do we do about it? How do we harden our systems?”  In the Staten Island neighborhood of Fox Beach, 170 of 184
homeowners have signed up to vacate, according to Joe Tyrone,
55, head of the Oakwood Beach Buyout Committee. Tyrone, a real-
estate investor from the Castleton Corners neighborhood, said he
expects $200,000 for the Fox Beach rental house he owns.  “This is the first time that we’ve seriously talked about
’Maybe we should move back, maybe we shouldn’t rebuild,’” said
Orrin H. Pilkey, 78, an emeritus professor of earth sciences at
Duke University in Durham, North Carolina, who studies
shorelines and coastal geology. “It’s such music to my ears.”  Pilkey, speaking by telephone March 27, said rebuilding was
the wrong move for New Jersey, where some beaches are “uniquely
vulnerable” because they were constructed on filled-in marshes.  “Why should we be giving money?” said Pilkey, referring
to U.S. taxpayers. “It isn’t us who are dumb enough to build
right next to an eroding shoreline.”  Christie has 85 percent approval for his handling of Sandy,
according to the March 27 Quinnipiac poll.  “He’s doing the best he can under the circumstances,”
said Aiello, the Beach Haven West homeowner. Months ago, digging
in and rebuilding seemed like a good idea, and now she’s weary
of waiting for insurance money.  “We’re at the point where we’re seriously talking about
leaving the state,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  