-- Sanford Takes On Colbert Sister With South Carolina Win
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-04-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/sanford-wins-south-carolina-race-to-face-colbert-s-sister.html
Former  South Carolina  Governor Mark Sanford won the Republican nomination for a U.S. House seat,
clearing the latest hurdle in his political comeback after
admitting to an extramarital affair four years ago.  Sanford defeated Curtis Bostic, a former county councilman,
and will face Democrat Elizabeth Colbert Busch, an older sister
of political satirist  Stephen Colbert , in a May 7 special
election in South Carolina’s 1st District.  The Republican-leaning district comprises much of South
Carolina’s Atlantic Coast, taking in Hilton Head and part of
Charleston, the state’s second-biggest city.  Mitt Romney , the
2012 Republican presidential nominee, carried the district with
58 percent of the vote in November to 40 percent for President
 Barack Obama , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, polls have shown a competitive contest between
Sanford and Colbert Busch.  Sanford “will campaign tirelessly to grow South Carolina
jobs and work to get our nation’s massive spending problem under
control,” Representative Greg Walden of  Oregon , the chairman of
the House Republican campaign organization, said in a statement
released yesterday.  ‘Voice’ Needed  District voters “need a voice in  Washington  who stands up
for South Carolina solutions -- not either political party,”
Colbert Busch said yesterday in a statement. Sanford “simply
has the wrong values for our community,” she said.  Colbert Busch, 58, is playing down her party affiliation,
pressing themes of  job creation  and deficit reduction while
touting her background as a business-development and shipping
executive and promising to work with Republicans.  “If you look at many of her positions on economic issues,
she sounds almost Republican,” Scott Buchanan, who teaches
politics and government at The Citadel, a military school in
Charleston, said last week.  Sanford defeated Bostic, 57 percent to 43 percent, in
yesterday’s voting with 100 percent of precincts reporting,
according to the  Associated Press .  The Republican runoff was required after none of the 16
original candidates won a majority in a March 19 primary.
Sanford led with about 37 percent, while Bostic had about 13
percent, placing second.  Affair Admission  Sanford, 52, is seeking to overcome the political damage he
suffered when he acknowledged as governor in 2009 an affair with
an Argentine woman he visited outside the country after telling
staff members he was hiking the Appalachian Trail. Sanford is
now engaged to the woman, Maria Belen Chapur, who appeared at
his victory party yesterday.  Sanford’s behavior drew a formal rebuke from the
Republican-led state legislature and demands for his
resignation. He finished his second term as his marriage ended.  In one of his recent  television advertisements , Sanford
said he’s “experienced how none of us go through life without
mistakes -- but in their wake we can learn a lot about grace, a
God of second chances, and be the better for it.” He also has
described himself as a “wounded warrior” who learned and grew
from his personal mistakes.  Sanford represented much of the current district in
Congress from 1995 to 2001. He won the governor’s office in
2002, and after his re-election in 2006 he was seen as a
potential national figure within his party. His affair ended
such speculation.  Fiscal Focus  In his current campaign, Sanford has focused on curbing
 government spending  and other fiscal issues in a district that’s
the state’s wealthiest. It has a median household income of
$56,079 compared to $42,367 statewide, according to 2011
estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau.  Bostic, 49, sought support from evangelical Christian
voters as he portrayed Sanford as a “compromised candidate”
whose tarnished image would cost the party control of the seat.  Colbert Busch won the Democratic nomination on March 19 and
has received fundraising help from her comedian brother, the
anchor of  Comedy Central ’s “The Colbert Report.”  A March 22-24 poll by Public Policy Polling, a Democratic-leaning company, showed Colbert Busch with 47 percent and
Sanford with 45 percent in a special election match-up. Colbert
Busch and Bostic were tied, each with 43 percent. The automated
telephone  survey  of 1,175 likely voters had an error margin of
plus or minus 2.9 percentage points.  The special election winner will succeed Republican  Tim Scott , whose resigned in January to accept an appointment to the
 U.S. Senate . Next month’s election will fill one of three vacant
seats in the  House of Representatives , where Republicans
currently hold 232 seats compared with 200 for Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  