-- HSBC Converts Loan Clients to Enter Junk Top 10
-- B y   S a n d y   H e n d r y ,   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-04-03T16:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/hsbc-converts-loan-clients-to-enter-junk-top-10-credit-markets.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is leading the
drive to convert companies to bonds from loans in  Asia , helping
it enter the global top 10 for junk issuance.  Europe ’s largest bank managed $5.3 billion of high-yield
debt globally in the first quarter, moving up to 10th place
after ranking 13th in the previous three full years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. HSBC led junk bond underwriting in
Asia, excluding  Japan , in 2012 and says 12 of its 19 deals came
from commercial bank clients, or 58 percent of the $2.3 billion
it managed in dollars, euro or yen. Last week, it handled
offerings by  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267)  and  Sunac China Holdings Ltd. (1918)   “The next wave of issuers is not conglomerates, but fast-
growing, medium-size companies,” Gordon French, HSBC’s head of
global markets for Asia Pacific, said in an interview in  Hong
Kong  last month. “Bonds are a complementary and viable source
of funding for them, alongside traditional bank debt.”  HSBC is jostling with UBS AG for the top spot in emerging
Asia’s high-yield market this year, each with a 12 percent
market share, while Citigroup Inc. follows in third with 10
percent and Deutsche Bank AG in fourth with 9 percent. As
companies shifted from loans in the region,  junk bonds  almost
tripled to $14.5 billion, rising to 10 percent of the global
total from 3 percent. That exceeded the $13.4 billion in
regional syndicated loans of all ratings, up 60 percent from a
year earlier.  Middle Ground  Demand is being driven by investors seeking higher yields
than in the U.S., Europe and Japan, as well as a boom in private
banking for Asia’s own millionaires.  While junk bond yields in the region have fallen to 7.08
percent from 9.35 percent a year ago, that’s still higher than
the 6.39 percent average for similarly rated debt globally,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Investors “have been faced with zero-percent cash and at
the same time maybe aren’t comfortable enough with the world
outlook to go to equities,” said Ashley Perrott, the Singapore-
based head of pan-Asia fixed-income at UBS Global Asset
Management, which managed $634 billion at the end of 2012.
“High-yield bonds have been that happy middle-ground where
yields are still reasonably good, credit fundamentals are pretty
OK, and economic fundamentals are still robust within Asia.”  Default Rate  The global speculative-grade default rate is forecast to
end this year at 2.7 percent, compared with an average of 4.7
percent since 1983, Moody’s Investors Service said last month.  Sales worldwide of junk bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , were a record $150
billion last quarter, following an unprecedented $428 billion in
all of 2012, Bloomberg  data  show. In the U.S.,  sales  were $109
billion in the first three months of the year, the second-
busiest quarter ever, following $359 billion in 2012, an all-
time high.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 0.4 basis point to a mid-price of 88.1 basis points as
of 12:04 p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.55 basis point to 16 basis points as
of 12:04 p.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as company debentures and widens when they
seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, accounting for 5.4 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more as of 12:06 p.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Bright Spot  Arranging credit was a bright spot for HSBC as it posted a
drop in  profit  for 2012, after paying a record penalty for
compliance failures. Net income before tax fell 5.6 percent to
$20.7 billion, the lender said in March. Investment bank
earnings rose 20 percent to $8.5 billion as the credit
business’s contribution more than doubled to $779 million.  HSBC ranks No. 12 in underwriting junk bonds in the U.S.,
up from 14 last year, according to Bloomberg data that excludes
self-led deals. It ranks fifth in Europe, underwriting 36 deals
totaling $3.7 billion for a 7 percent market share, Bloomberg
data show. It has climbed two places from its position at the
end of last year, and is up from 16th in 2011.  HSBC improved its rankings in Asia partly by strengthening
the links between its commercial bank clients and capital
markets teams, according to French.  Among the recent sales HSBC helped manage was a $500
million offering of 6.375 percent, seven-year bonds for Citic
Pacific announced on March 27. The Hong Kong-based company,
which is building the world’s largest magnetite iron ore mine
and is rated Ba1 by Moody’s, posted a 25 percent drop in 2012
profit on lower earnings from its steel business.  The same day the bank also helped Tianjin-based developer
Sunac  China  market $500 million of 9.375 percent dollar bonds
due in 2018.  China Cools  The boom in issuance may slow, as investors are seeking the
highest yield premium in six months to own Chinese dollar-
denominated debt. Societe Generale SA predicts a further
widening as the  U.S. economy  strengthens and China’s cools.  The yield  spread  over Treasuries for the Chinese notes
surged 71 basis points in the first quarter to 367 basis points,
the widest since Sept. 27, according to an index compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. That ended a five-quarters of narrowing,
the longest stretch on record.  “Valuations in Asian high yields are stretched, especially
so for Chinese names, considering their outstanding performance
from 2012,” said Kim Jin Ha, the Seoul-based head of global
fixed-income at Mirae Asset Global Investments Co., which
oversees about $55 billion. “The upside potential is limited.
We are going to be more selective on Asian names. We are also
reducing allocations in areas with weak fundamentals in  Latin
America  and Eastern Europe.”  Cash Flood  A flood of cash into  emerging markets  seeking higher
returns is slowing as economists forecast U.S. 10-year Treasury
yields will rise over the next 12 months. The risk of owning
bonds in China is rising after Suntech Power Holdings Co.
 defaulted  on a $541 million convertible note on March 15.  Chinese developers have sold dollar debt as authorities
stepped up a three-year campaign to avert a property bubble. The
State Council called for higher down-payments and interest rates
on second-home mortgages in cities with “excessively fast”
price gains, according to a March 1 statement.  “One of the tests we face will be a major default or
restructuring,”  Stephen Williams , HSBC’s head of debt capital
markets, Asia Pacific, said in an interview. “The challenge
will be to effectively ring-fence any failure and prevent it
from undermining the market more broadly.”  Williams said short-term setbacks would be healthy for the
market by helping it “price risk more effectively.”  ‘Investor Fatigue’  Fixed-income fund flows continued to pivot toward the U.S.
and away from European and emerging markets in the week ended
March 20, according to data published by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global. U.S. funds took 80 percent of
the $3.7 billion in debt inflows, while commitments to
developing-nation debt were the second-lowest in 2013.  French said signs of “investor fatigue” in January proved
short-lived and that a longer-term trend of growing regional
demand wouldn’t be derailed. There were 3.37 million
millionaires in the Asia-Pacific region in 2011, more than in
 North America  for the first time, according to a June report by
Capgemini SA and RBC Wealth Management.  “Asia’s wealthy are looking beyond equity markets,” said
French, who estimates individuals have moved as much as 25
percent of their investments into fixed income from 5 percent
previously. “They find the low volatility attractive after the
upheaval in stock markets over the past five years, while the
aging demographic means people are looking for lower risks,
especially in China and Japan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandy Hendry in Hong Kong at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  