-- Schapiro Hire Shows Promontory as Ex-Regulators’ Go-To Firm
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-03T19:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/schapiro-hire-shows-promontory-as-ex-regulators-go-to-firm-1-.html
Mary Schapiro ’s decision to join
Promontory Financial Group LLC  after running the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission amplifies the firm’s
competitive advantage as an employer of former regulators.  Schapiro, 57, joined Promontory yesterday as a managing
director advising clients on risk management and corporate
governance, Washington-based Promontory said in a statement.
Promontory has carved out a niche in the U.S. capital, hiring
heavy-hitting former regulators to advise banks and other
clients prepare for scrutiny by the agencies they left.  “They’re the go-to firm when there’s a boo-boo moment,”
said  Cornelius Hurley , director of the Boston University Center
for Finance, Law & Policy. “And there’s a reason for that,
because they have tremendous credibility and a lot of
expertise.”  Critics of the so-called revolving door between government
and business say moving between the two can compromise the
objectivity of regulators and give companies leverage to unduly
influence rules.  In an interview, Schapiro said that criticism doesn’t fit
her situation because she won’t go back to government. She said
she has pledged not to lobby or otherwise try to influence a
federal agency while at Promontory.  “I spent four years working shoulder-to-shoulder with the
SEC staff coming out of one of the most difficult periods in the
agency’s history, and I would be profoundly uncomfortable going
back to those people and asking them for anything or trying to
influence them,” Schapiro said.  Private Help  Dennis Kelleher, president of the nonprofit advocacy group
Better Markets, said Schapiro’s vow to avoid lobbying is
meaningless because behind-the-scenes work can be more valuable
to clients.  “Providing information, perspective, context, names, views
previously expressed, background, judgments, contacts and direct
phone numbers, among many other things, to clients, directly or
indirectly through colleagues and third parties, is actually
much more valuable,” Kelleher said in a statement.  A career regulator who also ran the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority and Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
Schapiro joins an expanding team of former government officials
landing at Promontory. The firm, founded in 2001 by Eugene Ludwig, former head of the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, hired OCC chief counsel Julie Williams after she
stepped down last year. And the door spins in both directions;
to replace Williams, the OCC hired a Promontory managing
director, Amy Friend.  Hiring Worldwide  “What really has made them different is they have a focus
on hiring worldwide a lot of former regulators,” said Annette L. Nazareth, a former SEC commissioner who is a partner at law
firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP.  Promontory also hired Schapiro’s former chief of staff,
Didem Nisanci, as a managing director, said Debra Cope, a
Promontory spokeswoman. Other former SEC officials at Promontory
include Laura S. Unger, a commissioner from 1997 to 2002, and
Kathleen Hamm, a former assistant director in the enforcement
division.  Schapiro’s move to Promontory also reunites her with Frank Zarb, who was chairman of Finra’s predecessor, the National
Association of Securities Dealers, when Schapiro was president
of NASD Regulation. Zarb, 78, is Promontory’s non-executive
chairman and a member of its advisory board.  Arthur Levitt , a
former SEC chairman and board member of Bloomberg LP, the parent
of  Bloomberg News , also is a member of Promontory’s advisory
board.  Two-Year Ban  Under an executive order signed by Obama in 2009, former
federal officials such as Schapiro are barred from communicating
with their former agency for two years following their exit from
government.  Schapiro took over at the SEC in 2009, after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. collapsed on the
agency’s watch. She won praise from a predecessor,  Harvey Pitt ,
for helping to restore the agency’s credibility, while investor
advocates and other critics said she failed to hold banks
accountable and manage policy disputes among commissioners.  Promontory’s reputation suffered in recent months as a
result of its participation in a government settlement with
mortgage servicers over improper foreclosures. Promontory and
other consultants, including Ernst & Young LLP and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, were hired by many of the largest
paid about $2 billion to review whether any foreclosures done in
2009 and 2010 wrongfully harmed homeowners.  Lawmaker Complaints  Lawmakers have criticized the process because it yielded no
compensation for wronged borrowers. Regulators later pushed for
a $9.3 billion settlement that mostly ended the consultants’
reviews.  Promontory and other consultants will be the focus of an
April 11 hearing of a Senate Banking subcommittee headed by
Democrat  Sherrod Brown  of  Ohio  that will examine the
relationship among federal regulators, banks and third-party
consultants.  Promontory “has a reputation for integrity and excellence
and clearly I did my due diligence before I made a decision,”
Schapiro said.  Schapiro’s move to Promontory completes her shift from
government to the business world. She was nominated last month
to serve on  General Electric (GE) ’s board of directors, who were paid
at least $250,000 last year, according to GE’s latest proxy
statement. Schapiro previously served on the boards of  Kraft
Foods Group Inc. (KRFT)  and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  before leaving those
roles to become SEC chairman in 2009.  ‘Huge Asset’  In a phone interview, Levitt said Schapiro would be a
“huge asset” for Promontory because she is well regarded and
brings “recent intimate involvement” with regulatory
initiatives. The firm’s stable of former regulators is a
competitive advantage, said Levitt, who added that Schapiro
would be asked to advise clients how to comply with new rules
and avoid dust-ups with regulators.  “That is an important and legitimate use of her time
without crossing the line of conflicting with her previous
government service,” said Levitt, who was SEC chairman from
1993 to 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  