-- Schwab Says China to Tighten After Brazil Raises Rates
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-03T19:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/schwab-says-china-to-tighten-after-brazil-raises-rates.html
Faster inflation will prompt Brazil
to be the first emerging market to raise  interest rates  before
the end of this year and lead China to also tighten monetary
policy, according to  Charles Schwab  Corp.’s Michelle Gibley.  “Inflation is stubbornly high in some of the larger
countries, Brazil in particular,” Gibley, director of
international research at San Francisco-based  Charles Schwab (SCHW) ,
which has $2.04 trillion in assets, said in a phone interview.
“There’s potential they could be the first to start tightening.
In China, we’re also seeing the central bank somewhat concerned
about inflation. The next move is probably more likely to be
tightening than an easing move.”  Brazilian  inflation  accelerated to 6.31 percent in
February, putting the annual rate above the midpoint of the
central bank’s target for a 30th month. Quickening inflation may
spur the central bank to raise the 7.25 percent Selic rate as
early as this year, Gibley said. Policy makers said last week
that price increases could breach the 6.5 percent upper limit of
the bank’s target range for the first time in a decade.  China should be on “high alert” over inflation after
February’s figures exceeded forecasts, central bank Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  said last month. Consumer prices rose 3.2 percent
in February, the most since April last year.  Latin America’s largest economy, Brazil has kept interest
rates at a record low since the last reduction in October in an
attempt to boost economic growth that slowed to 0.9 percent in
2012, the least in three years. The People’s Bank of China has
left interest rates and lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios
unchanged since July, while intensifying measures to curb growth
in the property market.  Gibley said that she’s cautious on emerging markets, as
countries such as Brazil and China enacting further monetary-
policy tightening would further cut their growth rates.  “It doesn’t appear to be the right time to be entering
 emerging markets ,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  