-- Serbia-Kosovo Talks in Brussels End Without Accord, EU Says
-- B y   J a m e s   H a y d e n   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-03T07:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/serbia-kosovo-talks-in-brussels-end-without-accord-eu-says-1-.html
Talks by Serbia and  Kosovo  on
normalizing relations ended without an agreement and a “very
narrow but deep” gap between the two sides, the European Union
said.  Serbian Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and Kosovo Premier
Hashim Thaci met yesterday in Brussels in the latest round of
EU-sponsored talks in a session that lasted more than 12 hours,
EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton said in a statement
late yesterday.  “A number of proposals were put on the table,” Ashton
said. “The gap between the two sides is very narrow but deep.”  Ashton said yesterday’s session was “the last time we will
meet formally” in EU-mediated negotiations.  “They will now both go back and consult with their
colleagues in the capitals and will let me know in the next few
days of their decision,” Ashton said.  The Serbian dinar fell 0.3 percent against the euro at the
opening of trade in Belgrade to 111.9860 at 9:01 a.m., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg  Granting Rights  Serbia wants Thaci to grant Serbs in the north of Kosovo
decision-making rights on police and the judiciary and to pledge
to keep the Kosovo army out of Serbian communities.  “We currently have no agreement but we have some
additional time to maybe find a solution, to maybe gather
impressions after this difficult day,” he told reporters in
Brussels after the meeting.  The EU wants the two sides, at loggerheads since the wars
of the 1990s that led to the breakup of the former  Yugoslavia ,
to reach a political settlement and move ahead with steps toward
EU entry.  “Unfortunately, we still have hesitance on the Serbian
side,” which asked for “additional time for additional
consultations,” while for Kosovo “the best solution would be
to establish good-neighborly relations which would open up a new
chapter of” Euro-Atlantic future, Thaci said.  Serbia, a candidate for EU membership since March 2012, is
struggling to get a date for the start of EU entry talks in
June. Kosovo is in line for a Stabilization and Association
Agreement, the first formal step toward membership in the 27-
nation bloc. Both need deeper EU ties after the 1990s civil wars
stunted the region’s transition from communism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  