-- Singh Seeks to Boost Inflows as Current-Account Gap Seen at 5%
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-04-03T08:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/singh-seeks-to-boost-inflows-as-current-account-gap-seen-at-5-.html
India needs a plan to tackle a
record current-account deficit and the government will take
steps to boost investment flows from abroad, Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  said today.  The shortfall in the broad gauge of trade flows probably
widened to 5 percent of gross domestic product in the year ended
March 31, he told delegates at a conference organized by the
Confederation of Indian Industry in  New Delhi . The latest data
from the central bank last month showed the gap was $32.6
billion in the quarter to Dec. 31, or 6.7 percent of GDP.  “Fiscal expansion has led to an expansion in the current-
account deficit,” Singh said. “This is more than twice the
traditional comfort level of, say, 2.5 percent.”  Singh’s administration liberalized rules for foreigners
buying rupee bonds from April 1 as it pursues policy changes to
revive a faltering  economy , including opening up aviation and
retail industries to attract more investment.  India  may need
more than $75 billion of foreign capital this year and next to
fund the deficit, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said
in an interview last month.  The rupee, which has lost about 6.4 percent in the past
year against the dollar, weakened 0.2 percent to 54.38 as of
12:56 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex fell 0.5 percent. The benchmark 10-
year bond yield slipped 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 7.97 percent.  The shortfall will narrow this year as the government takes
measures to boost economic growth, attract foreign investment
and cut subsidies, Singh said. The government financed a deficit
of $90 billion last year through flows without depleting
foreign-exchange reserves, he said.  The trade  deficit  may have been as much as $196 billion in
the year ended March 31, Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  said at
the same conference, compared with $184.6 billion last year.  India’s exports climbed 4.2 percent in February after
declining over most of 2012 as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed
overseas sales. The government plans to provide incentives to
exporters in its annual trade policy to be announced April 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  