-- Skype’s Friis Adds Video to Rdio With ‘Skyfall,’ ‘Downton Abbey’
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-04-03T16:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/skype-s-friis-adds-video-to-rdio-with-skyfall-downton-abbey-.html
Rdio Inc., the music-streaming
service started by Skype co-founder  Janus Friis , is expanding
into film and TV shows, offering recent hits including “Life of
Pi” and “Downton Abbey” for sale or rental.  Vdio, pronounced vee-dee-oh, is available for preview by
Rdio customers starting today, the San Francisco-based company
said. The service will become widely available by late
September. Movies will cost about $4.99 to rent and $12.99 to
buy. TV shows, for sale only, will range from $2.99 an episode
to $40 for an entire season.  Rdio, trailing competitor Spotify Ltd. in music
subscribers, is trying to create a larger entertainment
business. As with music, Vdio users will be able to use social
features to share what they’re watching with friends and
discover new programs. The closely held company will rent and
sell films and shows over Web browsers on computers and via an
app for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  “The goal here is to build the world’s best streaming
entertainment platform, where people can come and get film, TV
and music,” Drew Larner, Rdio’s chief executive officer, said
in an interview. “Diversifying the offering gives us a better
opportunity to draw even more users.”  Existing Rdio subscribers, and new ones who sign up in the
next 60 days, will receive a $25 credit to use on Vdio, the
closely held company said. Vdio has agreements with major
studios and networks, and is seeking rights from  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and Time Warner Inc.’s  HBO , Larner said.  The Rdio music service offers subscribers unlimited
listening from its library of 18 million tracks for $9.99 a
month, with access on PCs, mobile devices and Web-connected
products like Roku’s set-top box. The company may eventually
expand Vdio to a subscription model.  Social Model  “At some point in the future we would like to offer a
subscription bundle of Rdio and Vdio,” Larner said.  As with Rdio, users will be able to discover new TV shows
and movies by seeing in real time what friends and others are
watching, the company said. Users can create sets, or playlists
of TV shows and films, that can be shared with others, or opt
out of the social features altogether.  Vdio’s film releases include the James Bond movie
“Skyfall,” “The Hobbit” and “Zero Dark Thirty.” TV shows
include  “The Walking Dead,” “Breaking Bad,” and
“Homeland.” As with Apple’s iTunes, viewers will get discounts
for subscribing to an entire season.  Vdio plans to add new titles and bonus content daily, the
company said. The service is starting in the U.S. and U.K., with
 Canada  next, Larner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  