-- SouFun Drives Decline as Flu Sinks Ctrip: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-03T21:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/soufun-drives-decline-as-flu-sinks-ctrip-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks in New York fell the
most in three weeks, led by  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , as China’s
biggest real estate website posted the steepest four-day slump
since 2011 on concern policy makers will step up efforts to curb
rising home prices.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese equities in the U.S. slid 1.7 percent to a four-month
low of 90.34 yesterday. SouFun has lost 18 percent in four
trading days, while Shanghai-based property agency  E-House China
Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  has dropped 9.8 percent.  Home Inns & Hotels
Management Inc. (HMIN)  led declines among travel-related companies on
concern a new strain of bird flu that has caused deaths in China
will deter tourism.  The nation’s largest cities, including Beijing and
Shanghai, tightened rules around home purchases last week after
policy makers asked local governments to bolster measures aimed
at cooling the  property market . New home prices in China rose
the most in more than two years in March after the Cabinet
ordered fresh real-estate restrictions at the beginning of the
month. SouFun fell for the first time in eight months in March.  “China’s new leaders will continue with the policy
direction of curbing fast gains in housing prices,” Ella Ji, an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. who rates E-House the equivalent of
buy, said by phone in New York. “We expect tougher measures
including banks’ tightening mortgage loans and property taxes in
a longer run. The market may cool given the tougher credit
environment, and transaction volume will decline.”  SouFun Sinks  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., tumbled 1.7 percent to $35.87
in New York, the lowest close since November. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 1.1 percent to 1,553.69 as a private
report showed growth in American payrolls trailed economists’
estimates last month.  SouFun, based in Beijing, plunged 6.6 percent to $22.14 in
New York, the lowest level in four months. Its 18 percent slump
since March 27 was the steepest four-day drop since October
2011.  New home prices climbed for the 10th month in March, rising
1.1 percent from February and 3.9 percent from the year earlier,
SouFun said in an April 1 statement, citing a survey of 100
cities.  About 17 cities had reported property curbs by the end of
the first quarter. Beijing banned single-person households from
buying more than one residence, while Shanghai prohibited banks
from giving credit to third-home buyers, the cities’ local
governments said last weekend.  Online Travel  E-House slipped 1.6 percent to a one-month low of $4.35. It
loss over the past four days is the biggest since December.  IFM
Investments Ltd. (CTC) , a property brokerage service provider based in
Beijing, fell 3.4 percent to $2.57 in U.S. trading, sinking the
most since March 8.  Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc., the biggest operator of
budget hotels in China, slid 5.3 percent to $26.52, the lowest
level this year.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , China’s biggest
online travel agency, sank 4 percent to $19.94, the steepest
slump since Jan. 25.  Three people have died of a new strain of bird flu in
eastern China, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday, and cases of the deadly virus were reported in a
fourth location.  “Epidemic disease is one hard-to-predict risk factor for
the travel sector,” Ming Zhao, the founder of 86Research Ltd.
said in a client note yesterday. “At this point, bird flu is
perceived as just a headline risk for shares” including travel
agencies, he said.  Airlines Slide  American depositary receipts of  China Southern Airlines
Co. (ZNH) , Asia’s biggest carrier by passenger numbers, dropped 4.4
percent to $26.60 in New York. A 2.4 percent discount in the
ADRs to its  Hong Kong  shares was the widest since Feb. 25.  China
Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA) , the second biggest domestic carrier,
based in Shanghai, retreated 4.7 percent to $21.10 in the
biggest one-day decline since Dec. 21.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group (EDU)  Inc., China’s
largest private educational company, fell 5.7 percent to $16.51,
losing the most in two months.  Oppenheimer’s Ji said should the bird flu develop to a more
serious situation, it will impact companies such as New Oriental
on concern big gatherings will help propagate the disease.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in Hong Kong dropped
0.5 percent to a two-week low of 10,758.80 yesterday. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares slipped 0.1
percent to 2,225.30, the lowest level since Dec. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  