-- South Korea Plans to Settle on Details of Stimulus by Next Week
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-04-03T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/south-korea-plans-to-settle-on-details-of-stimulus-by-next-week.html
 South Korea will decide on details
of a stimulus package by next week, a Finance Ministry official
said, as the country seeks to revive an economy forecast to grow
less this year than anticipated in December.  “The size and scope of the stimulus will be decided as we
discuss with the ruling party,” Bang Moon Kyu, director general
for budget coordination at the finance ministry, said on April 1
at an embargoed briefing on a ministry report submitted to the
president today. “It will be prepared by next week.”  President Park Geun Hye’s government is seeking to boost
growth after the economy recorded its slowest expansion in three
years last year. South Korea faces a 12 trillion won ($10.7
billion) tax shortfall this year, creating the potential for a
U.S.-style fiscal cliff, according to Cho Won Dong, Park’s chief
economy adviser.  South Korea’s exports rose 0.4 percent in March from a year
earlier, less than forecast, as a weaker yen damped overseas
sales of cars and electronics. Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok
said April 1 the government will monitor the effects of a weaker
yen “at all times.”  The stimulus should be big enough to spur confidence in a
recovery, Hyun said March 28, after the government cut its
growth projection to 2.3 percent from 3 percent.  Failing to jump start the economy soon “could mean another
year of stagnation, a weaker Korean won and lower interest
rates, with elevated risks of losing growth potential and
weakening household balance sheets,” Kwon Goo Hoon, a Seoul-
based economist at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a March 21 report.  Separately, the government will come up with a funding plan
for Park’s welfare pledges by May, the ministry said in its
report to the president today. Of the 135 trillion won required
to fulfill Park’s election pledges, 53 trillion won, or about 40
percent, will be financed by cracking down on the underground
economy and cutting some tax benefits, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  