-- SSE Handed Record Fine by U.K. Energy Regulator for Misselling
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-04-03T08:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/sse-handed-record-fine-by-u-k-energy-regulator-for-misselling.html
SSE Plc (SSE) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
energy supplier, was fined a record 10.5 million pounds ($16
million) by the country’s energy regulator for misselling
electricity and gas.  SSE breached obligations related to telephone, in-store and
doorstep sales, Ofgem said today in a statement. Customers were
exposed to misleading statements by sales agents and inaccurate
information on charges, it said.  The fine comes as Britain’s energy suppliers including
 Centrica Plc (CNA)  and EON SE face increasing pressure to defend price
increases. SSE received a fine of 1.25 million pounds in May
last year relating to doorstep sales in 2009 while  Electricite
de France SA (EDF)  agreed to pay 4.5 million pounds after Ofgem found
it breached market license conditions.  “Ofgem’s findings show SSE failed its customers, missold
to them and undermined trust in the energy supply industry,”
Sarah Harrison, Ofgem’s senior partner in charge of enforcement,
said in the statement. “Today’s fine sends a clear message to
suppliers that Ofgem will hold to account those companies which
fail to treat consumers fairly.”  Ofgem has now concluded two of the four misselling
investigations started in 2010, with two ongoing probes
relating to Scottish Power Ltd. and RWE Npower Plc, it said. The
regulator started an investigation into EON’s energy sales
practices in April last year.  SSE said it will accept the penalty and is “deeply
regretful” of the breaches that occurred mainly between October
2009 and July 2011, when it suspended doorstep selling. The
Perth, Scotland-based utility set aside 5 million pounds to
compensate customers missold tariffs and has paid out more than
400,000 pounds so far, it said.  “Existing and potential customers can rest assured that we
now have the systems, procedures, staff, training and auditing
in place to ensure that they will not be let down again,”
William Morris, managing director for retail at SSE, said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net ; or 