-- Sunderland Is Urged to Review Hiring Di Canio: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-03T07:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/sunderland-is-urged-to-review-hiring-di-canio-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Political Pressure  Sunderland is coming under increasing political pressure to
review its decision to hire Paolo Di Canio as manager following
the Italian’s refusal to clarify his views on fascism, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  The club has been urged by local council leaders and anti-
fascist groups to reconsider his appointment as  Martin O’Neill ’s
successor on a 2 1/2-year contract, the newspaper added. Di
Canio, 44, refused to answer directly whether he was a fascist
yesterday when questioned by reporters at a news conference.  Reina Staying  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  said he’s counting on
goalkeeper Pepe Reina, who’s been linked with Barcelona and
Arsenal, remaining at the club next season, the  Daily Mail
reported .  Reina, 30, has three years left on his contract and Rodgers
doesn’t want to lose the Spaniard, the Mail added.  Drogba Endorsement  Didier Drogba  said Chelsea needs to restore  Jose Mourinho 
as manager and signaled that he would be keen to rejoin the
Portuguese at the Premier League club as a player or coach, the
 Guardian reported .  “For the club it is the best solution to bring Jose
back,” the Guardian cited Drogba as saying of Mourinho, who
left Chelsea in 2007. “The fans want him back. He loves
Chelsea. Because you want to rebuild a team and to give them the
strength we had a few years ago, he could be the right person.”  Zidane Impressed  Real  Madrid ’s Director of Football  Zinedine Zidane  fueled
speculation the Spanish club will try to sign Gareth Bale by
naming the Tottenham forward as the player who’s impressed him
the most this season, the  Sun reported .  “He makes things look easy, his pace is frightening, his
acceleration is unbelievable because of his ability to go
through the gears in very little space,” the Sun cited Zidane
as saying of Bale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  