-- Sunderland Coach Di Canio Denies Being a Supporter of Fascism
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-04-03T16:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/sunderland-coach-di-canio-denies-being-a-supporter-of-fascism.html
Sunderland’s new coach Paolo Di Canio today denied he supports fascism, amid rising pressure on
the Italian to explain his political views.  The 44-year-old replaced  Martin O’Neill , who was fired four
days ago as the northeast England team struggles to avoid
relegation from soccer’s Premier League.  In a 2005 interview with Italian news agency Ansa, Di Canio
described himself as “a fascist, not a racist.” His
appointment at Sunderland led to fan protests and the
resignation of former U.K. Foreign Secretary  David Miliband  as
club vice-chairman. Today Di Canio issued a second statement on
the matter, following a news conference yesterday when he
refused to answer questions about whether he was a fascist.  “I feel that I should not have to continually justify
myself to people who do not understand this, however I will say
one thing only -- I am not the man that some people like to
portray,” Di Canio said in today’s statement on the  Sunderland
website . “I am not political, I do not affiliate myself to any
organization, I am not a racist and I do not support the
ideology of fascism. I respect everyone.”  Di Canio’s political views have overshadowed coverage of
how he plans to steer Sunderland clear of the Premier League
relegation zone. The three teams that fall into the second tier
face missing out on a cash bonanza of at least 60 million pounds
($90.8 million) from the league’s new television contract next
season. Sunderland is one point and two places above the bottom
three with seven games left.  Open Letter  Earlier today the Dean of Durham, Michael Sadgrove, head of
Durham Cathedral’s ruling body, released an open letter calling
on Di Canio to renounce fascism. His request came after Durham
miners called Di Canio’s appointment a “disgrace and a betrayal
of all who fought and died in the fight against fascism.” They
demanded the return of a trade-union banner that’s been
displayed at the team’s stadium.  The club and Di Canio attempted to defuse the situation two
days ago by releasing a statement that addressed previous
comments and actions. They included his being pictured making a
fascist-style salute to fans of his former club Lazio.  “I expressed an opinion in an interview many years ago.
Some pieces were taken for media convenience,” Di Canio said in
the initial statement. “They took my expression in a very, very
negative way, but it was a long conversation and a long
interview. It was not fair. Sometimes it suits their purpose to
put big headlines and a big story.”  Di Canio went on to say claims he was racist were “stupid
and ridiculous,” citing his friendship with Trevor Sinclair and
Chris Powell, two black former English national team players.  Di Canio, whose playing career included spells in  England 
with West Ham, Sheffield Wednesday and Charlton, has never
managed in the country’s top two divisions. He quit as coach of
third-tier Swindon Town in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  