-- Swaps Exemption, Libor ‘Delay,’ Brazil Swaps: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-03T12:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/swaps-exemption-libor-delay-brazil-swaps-compliance.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and other banks will be exempt from Dodd-Frank Act swap market
rules when trading between their own affiliates under a measure
completed by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Commissioners approved a  rule  excluding inter-affiliate
trades from requirements that swaps be guaranteed at
clearinghouses that protect buyers and sellers against defaults,
the CFTC said April 1. The rule is part of the CFTC’s mandate to
cut risk and expand transparency in the $639 trillion global
swaps market.  Lobby groups for banks including New York-based JPMorgan
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and London-based Barclays urged the
agency to exclude such trades from Dodd-Frank rules enacted in
response to the 2008 credit crisis. Prudential Financial Inc.
and a group of so-called end-users -- commercial and
manufacturing firms that use swaps to hedge risk -- also sought
exemption.  The exemption is allowed for swaps between majority-owned
affiliates of companies that file consolidated financial
statements, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a statement.
Swaps between affiliates and other unrelated counterparties must
be cleared.  The CFTC granted a greater exemption than originally
proposed in 2012 by not requiring variation margin for
interaffiliate swaps. Variation margin is typically exchanged
daily to offset the risk from incremental price movements in a
trade.  Compliance Policy  SEC Approves Using Facebook, Twitter for Company Disclosures  U.S. companies will now be able to post their earnings on
Twitter or update their status on Facebook as long as investors
have been told in advance where to look.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued guidance
April 2 permitting companies to use social media sites including
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. to communicate company
announcements. The guidance came as part of a report detailing
its investigation into  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive Officer  Reed
Hastings , who in July posted monthly viewership results on his
Facebook page rather than in an SEC filing or news release.  The SEC refrained from bringing an enforcement action
against Hastings or Netflix, which runs a subscription service
for watching television programs and movies, because rules
around using social media for company disclosures had been
unclear, the agency said.  The SEC  confirmed  that a regulation prohibiting companies
from disclosing material information to select investors applies
to social media and other emerging means of communication the
same way it applies to company websites. Company communications
made through social media channels could constitute a violation
of the fair disclosure rule known as Regulation FD if investors
hadn’t been told in advance where the information would be
posted, the SEC said.  Jim Prosser, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Twitter,
declined to comment.  “We welcome, and certainly agree with, the SEC’s finding
that Facebook is an established means for companies and
individuals to share and disseminate information broadly,”
 Menlo Park , California-based Facebook said in a statement.  For more, click here.  U.K. Lawmakers Challenge Regulator on Banks’ Proprietary Trading  The U.K.’s new banking regulator must explain to a panel of
British lawmakers how it intends to monitor and restrict
lenders’ proprietary trading.  Prudential Regulation Authority Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Bailey  should outline how he intends to monitor banks’
trading on their own account, what regulatory actions could be
taken and whether the supervisor needs changes to the existing
rules to “carry out these actions,” the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards said in a letter dated March 28.  The panel on March 15 stopped short of immediately
recommending a ban similar to that required under the U.S.
Volcker rule, citing the difficulties of separating proprietary
trading and customer market making. Regulators should “bear
down” on banks’ proprietary trading and review the case for an
outright ban within three years, the commission said.  The PRA, a unit of the  Bank of England , took over banking
supervision from the Financial Services Authority this week as
part of an overhaul of the U.K.’s regulatory system. The
Financial Conduct Authority, another new regulator, will be
responsible for market abuse and consumer issues.  The parliamentary commission was set up by Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  last year to review the
government’s plans to overhaul how Britain’s banks are regulated
after taxpayers were forced to bail out  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   BBA to Delay Publishing Libor Submissions of Individual Banks  The  British Bankers’ Association , the lobby group that
oversees Libor, said it will delay publishing banks’ individual
submissions by three months in an effort to restore confidence
in the benchmark rate.  Individual entries of the lenders that contribute to the
London interbank offered rate each day in different currencies
and maturities will no longer be made available on the same day
from July 1, the London-based BBA said in a statement yesterday.
Libor will also no longer be published on U.K. bank holidays.  The measures were ordered by Martin Wheatley, the U.K.
regulator charged with overhauling the global benchmark rate,
after banks around the globe admitted to low-balling their
submissions during the financial crisis to appear healthier than
they were. Barclays Plc was fined 290 million pounds ($439
million) in June for rigging Libor, prompting senior executives
including Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to resign.  Libor, a benchmark for more than $300 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is calculated by a poll carried out daily on
behalf of the BBA that asks firms to estimate how much it would
cost to borrow from each other for different periods and in
different currencies. The top and bottom quartiles of quotes are
excluded, and those left are averaged and published for
individual currencies before noon in London.  The U.K. government is preparing to select a new operator
for Libor.  Brazil Swap Rates Rise on View Tax Cuts Won’t Work  Brazil’s shorter-term swap rates rose on speculation the
government’s latest tax breaks will fail to contain inflation,
prompting policy makers to increase benchmark borrowing costs.  The  Finance Ministry  said March 30 that it would extend to
December a reduction of the so-called IPI tax on vehicles that
was due to expire April 1. The central bank said last week that
inflation has spread, boosting the probability that price
increases will breach the upper limit of the target range for
the first time in a decade.  Brazil’s government has extended payroll tax cuts to new
industries, reduced electricity costs and eliminated federal
taxes on food staples to cushion Brazil’s economic recovery
while taming consumer price increases.  Swap rates on longer-term contracts fell April 1 after a
report showed U.S. manufacturing grew less than forecast in
March, dimming external factors that support Brazil’s growth.  The central bank has swung between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by preventing
excessive gains.  Won Bets Ease as South Korean Calls for Transaction Tax Escalate  Threats by South Korea to institute a tax on foreign-
exchange transactions may finally be starting to curb the won’s
appreciation after it rose to the highest level versus the yen
since 2008 and cooled economic growth.  The won fell in March against the yen after climbing 23
percent for seven straight months through February, the longest
rally since 2005, as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called
for more monetary easing to end deflation. Strategists are
starting to temper their calls for the won to appreciate, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  South Korea’s economic prospects took a turn for the worse
as the won appreciated, causing exports to rise less than
analysts forecast last month. Eun Sung Soo, director general at
Korea’s Finance Ministry, said on March 20 that the nation will
consider measures to stem inflows if needed while “various”
financial taxes will be studied.  The proposed Spahn Tax, named after German professor Paul
Bernd Spahn, would likely weaken the  exchange rate  by at least
50 won per dollar, Oh Suk Tae, head of research at Standard
Chartered First Bank in Seoul, said in a March 26 interview. No
country has adopted the method.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SEC Investigates ‘Rebecca’, Adding to Offstage Legal Drama  “Rebecca,” the Broadway musical still in its production
stages, has attracted the attention of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Based on a murder mystery by Daphne du Maurier, the musical
has been buffeted by two postponements. At the center is Ben
Sprecher, a New York producer hoping to score with this Austrian
production of Sacher-Torte tunes and mammoth sets. The show was
previously produced in Europe.  “The SEC subpoenaed all of our files,” said Ronald Russo,
a lawyer for Sprecher. “I have no concerns about this.”  The commission is trying to determine whether Sprecher
misled a prospective investor, Larry Runsdorf, said Jeffrey
Lichtman, a lawyer who has spoken with the regulator.  Lichtman represents the show’s former press representative,
Marc Thibodeau, who is being sued by Sprecher for defamation and
breach of contract. Runsdorf decided not to invest $2.25 million
in the show after receiving an anonymous e-mail saying “the
walls are about to cave in” on the production. Thibodeau later
admitted to having written the e-mail.  The SEC is investigating whether Sprecher “made
misrepresentations to Larry Runsdorf, either by commission or
omission,” Lichtman said. The producer, said Russo, is an
innocent victim of fraud.  Sprecher said he needs to raise about $7 million more if
the show is to open this year.  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.
Runsdorf didn’t return calls.  For more, click here.  SEC Sticks With Approval of JPMorgan’s Physical Copper Product  The proposed copper exchange-traded product planned by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in the U.S. will be allowed to proceed
after objections were raised, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said.  Redemption of shares won’t necessarily lead to longer lines
for metal out of warehouses monitored by the London Metal
Exchange, the SEC said in a March 28 notice on its website.  Finance Companies Account for Two-Thirds of U.K. Fraud Fines  The U.K. financial services industry was fined more than
550 million pounds ($831 million) by regulators for fraudulent
activity since 2007.  Total fraud fines in all industries during the period
exceeded 1 billion pounds, with banks, lenders and other
financial firms accounting for 68 percent of the penalties,
Ernst & Young LLP said in a report. Consumer companies that
produce food, beverages, tobacco and household goods had the
second-largest total of fines during the period, the accounting
firm said.  Britain’s biggest banks have been caught up in several
regulatory probes. Banks including Lloyds Banking Group Plc,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Barclays Plc have set aside
more than 13 billion pounds to compensate customers who were
improperly sold payment-protection insurance. Barclays,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and RBS have been fined more than $2.5 billion by U.S. and U.K.
regulators for manipulating Libor rates.  The study examined 721 cases of fraud reported since 2007
by the Financial Services Authority, Serious Fraud Office and
the Office of Fair Trading. The average prison sentence for the
director of a company that committed fraud was three years and
three months.  U.K. Prospective Brokers Have to Take Ethics Test, FT Reports  Prospective brokers in the U.K. are now required to take an
ethics test, to be administered by the  Chartered Institute for
Securities & Investment , the Financial Times reported.  The test is required before candidates take exams for
professional qualifications, FT reported, citing institute head
Simon Culhane.  The move is intended to offset damage to London’s
reputation created by the Libor scandal, the paper said.  Courts  Wisconsin Researcher Accused of Economic Spying for China  A  Medical College of Wisconsin  researcher was charged with
economic espionage by stealing a patented cancer-research
compound to give to a university in China.  Hua Jun Zhao, 42, may have stolen the compound from a
Medical College office in Milwaukee and taken steps to deliver
it to Zhejiang University, according to a  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation agent’s affidavit in support of a criminal
complaint dated March 29.  A copy of the complaint against Zhao was obtained yesterday
from the office of Milwaukee U.S. Attorney James L. Santelle.  Zhao joins a Motorola Inc. engineer and a researcher at Dow
AgroSciences who, in separate cases, have been accused by the
U.S. of economic espionage or stealing on behalf of Chinese
entities.  Zhao is in the Milwaukee County Jail and no bail has been
set, said Fran McLaughlin, a spokeswoman for the Milwaukee
County Sheriff’s Department. A preliminary hearing is set for
April 11.  Dean Puschnig, a spokesman for Santelle, declined to
comment on the status of Zhao’s case. Theft of trade secrets to
benefit a foreign government is punishable by as long as 15
years’ imprisonment.  The case is U.S. v. Zhao, 13-mj-00220, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  Paulson Hedge Fund Investor Case Dismissed for Lack of Standing  An investor’s lawsuit against  John Paulson ’s $23 billion
hedge fund over its reported loss of about $460 million in Sino-
Forest Corp. was dismissed by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke in Miami threw out the
case saying the investor, Hugh Culverhouse, who had sought group
status for the suit, didn’t have the legal right to sue,
according to an order filed March 29.  Paulson & Co., based in New York, told clients in a June
2011 letter that it lost the money since the end of May on its
Sino-Forest investment. The hedge fund held 31 million shares of
Sino-Forest in May of that year, or 13 percent of outstanding
stock, and sold its entire stake by June 17, according to the
letter.  Sino-Forest’s shares dropped more than 80 percent when
 Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters LLC said the Hong Kong-based company
overstated its timber holdings. Sino-Forest denied the
allegations.  Culverhouse’s lawyers, Harvey Gurland and Felice Schonfeld
of Duane Morris LLP, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on the ruling.  Dawn Dover, a spokeswoman for Paulson at Kest & Co., said
by e-mail that the company maintained “from the outset” that
the suit was “completely without merit.”  The case is Culverhouse v. Paulson & Co., 12-cv-20695, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  