-- U.K. Construction Shrank for Fifth Month in March, Markit Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-04-03T08:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/u-k-construction-shrank-for-fifth-month-in-march-markit-says.html
 U.K.  construction  contracted for a
fifth consecutive month in March as the industry suffered from
bad weather and poor demand, Markit Economics said.  An index of activity was at 47.2 in March compared with
46.8 in February, when it reached the lowest in more than three
years. Markit and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  said on its website today in London. Economists forecast
48, based on the median of 11 estimates. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  The Bank of England is under pressure to revive a flagging
economy. Its governor,  Mervyn King , is this month expected by
economists to lose his third consecutive bid to increase
emergency stimulus from the 375 billion pounds ($566 billion)
already injected into the economy.  “The latest figures complete the picture of a fairly
dismal first quarter, which has admittedly been affected by
unusually bad weather, with output and employment down on the
last quarter of 2012,” said  David Noble , chief executive
officer of CIPS.  The government has introduced measures to spur house
building. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last month
pledged help for new homebuyers, committing 3.5 billion pounds
to offer and guarantee loans. Osborne said that under the “Help
to Buy” program, the government will provide an equity loan of
up to 20 percent of the value of a newly built home.  Bank of England  policy makers begin their monthly two-day
meeting today and will keep their  bond-purchase goal  unchanged,
according to the median of 37 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Three economists predict a 25 billion-pound increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 