-- U.S. Lifts Ban on Colombia Soccer Team Once Tied to Cartel
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-04-03T17:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/u-s-lifts-sanctions-on-colombia-soccer-team-once-tied-to-cartel.html
The U.S. Treasury Department lifted
sanctions on Colombian professional soccer team America de Cali,
saying it has severed links to leaders of the Cali drug cartel.  The team was placed on the Specially Designated Nationals
and Blocked Persons List, often referred to as the Clinton List,
in 1999, because it was owned or controlled by cocaine
traffickers Gilberto and Miguel Rodriguez Orejuela. The brothers
were extradited to the U.S. in 2004 and 2005 by the government
of President  Alvaro Uribe .  “Today’s lifting of the designation of America de Cali is
a testament to the enormous efforts made in recent years by both
the team and the Colombian government to completely break with
the criminal influences that have overshadowed the team in the
past,” Undersecretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence
David S. Cohen said today in a statement.  Cocaine now accounts for less than 1 percent of  gross
domestic product , from a peak of more than 6 percent in 1987,
after the downfall of Colombia’s biggest cartels allowed Mexican
traffickers to take control of the most profitable smuggling
routes to the U.S., according to Ricardo Rocha, an economist who
wrote the book “The New Dimensions of Drug Trafficking in
 Colombia ”.  “This is the reason that  Mexico  is on fire, particularly
in the border region,” Rocha said in an April 3 phone
interview.  Colombia’s production of coca, the raw material for making
cocaine, increased in 2011 for the first time since 2007,
according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. The
country has a potential cocaine production of about 350 tons per
year, according to the UN.  The team’s owners were banned from entering financial
transactions with the U.S. citizens and had their U.S. assets
blocked since 1999, according to the Treasury statement. Today’s
decision lifts those restrictions, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  