-- U.S. March ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-04-03T14:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/u-s-march-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. non-
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
March for the 39th consecutive month, say the nation’s
purchasing and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M.,
CFPM, chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered
54.4 percent in March, 1.6 percentage points lower than the 56
percent registered in February. This indicates continued growth
at a slightly slower rate in the non-manufacturing sector. The
Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index registered 56.5
percent, which is 0.4 percentage point lower than the 56.9
percent reported in February, reflecting growth for the 44th
consecutive month. The New Orders Index decreased by 3.6
percentage points to 54.6 percent, and the Employment Index
decreased 3.9 percentage points to 53.3 percent, indicating
growth in employment for the eighth consecutive month. The
Prices Index decreased 5.8 percentage points to 55.9 percent,
indicating prices increased at a slower rate in March when
compared to February. According to the NMI, 15 non-manufacturing
industries reported growth in March. The majority of
respondents’ comments continue to be positive about business
conditions; however, there is an underlying concern regarding
the uncertainty of the future economy.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE  The 15 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in
March -- listed in order -- are: Construction; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Transportation & Warehousing;
Accommodation & Food Services; Educational Services; Retail
Trade; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Utilities;
 Wholesale Trade ; Public Administration; Information; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Finance & Insurance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; and Other Services. The three
industries reporting contraction in March are: Mining; Health
Care & Social Assistance; and Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “The economy and our business appear to be improving.”
(Management of Companies & Support Services) “Volumes are down
slightly, but spending per person is up.” (Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation) “Economy and all of our business units appear to be
on track for positive gains this year. It may be a struggle, but
economic indicators and signs of business growth point to
increased spending from our customers.” (Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services) “Local business climate seems
more upbeat as the market moves higher.” (Public Administration)
“Winter weather has affected construction, but the spring
building season looks encouraging.” (Wholesale Trade) “Sales
increased 17 percent last year; sales continue to rise this
quarter.” (Retail Trade) “Anticipate a plentiful season,
requiring strategic planning with packaging inventories.”
(Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting)  ISM NON-MANUFACTURING SURVEY RESULTS AT A GLANCE  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price  Beef (4); Chicken Products (3); Crab Products; #1  Diesel
Fuel * (3); #2 Diesel Fuel (3); Eggs; Food Products; Freight
Costs; Fuel (3); Fuel Surcharges; Gasoline* (3); Gypsum Board;
#2 Heating Fuel (2); Hotel Rates; Lumber -- Pine and Treated
(5); Natural Gas; Office Supplies; Pharmacy Products (4);
Plywood; Produce; Roofing Products; Roofing Shingles;
Transportation Costs; and Waste Disposal.  Commodities Down in Price  Cheese (3); #1 Diesel Fuel*; Gasoline*; and Soy Products.  Commodities in Short Supply  Helium; IV Products; and Pharmacy Products (3).  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  *Reported as both up and down in price.  MARCH 2013 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI  In March, the NMI registered 54.4 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 39th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  Business Activity  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in March
registered 56.5 percent, 0.4 percentage point lower than the
56.9 percent registered in February. Thirteen industries
reported increased business activity, and four industries
reported decreased activity for the month of March. Comments
from respondents include: “Getting ready for higher business
activity in coming months” and “Increased retail sales.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in
March -- listed in order -- are: Management of Companies &
Support Services; Construction; Accommodation & Food Services;
Retail Trade; Educational Services; Transportation &
Warehousing; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Utilities; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Information; Wholesale
Trade; Public Administration; and Finance & Insurance. The
industries reporting decreased business activity in March are:
Mining; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting.  New Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in March for
the 44th consecutive month. The index registered 54.6 percent, a
decrease of 3.6 percentage points from the 58.2 percent reported
in February. Comments from respondents include: “Higher demand”
and “New product launch.”  The 15 industries reporting growth of new orders in March -
- listed in order -- are: Transportation & Warehousing;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Construction;
Accommodation & Food Services; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing;
Utilities; Retail Trade; Educational Services; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Public Administration; Wholesale Trade; Information;
Finance & Insurance; and Other Services. The three industries
reporting contraction of new orders in March are: Mining; Health
Care & Social Assistance; and Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting.  Employment  Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
March for the eighth consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing
Employment Index registered 53.3 percent, which reflects a
decrease of 3.9 percentage points when compared to the 57.2
percent registered in February. Twelve industries reported
increased employment, and six industries reported decreased
employment. Comments from respondents include: “Continue to
increase headcount in support of business changes” and
“Beginning to add people for increased orders.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in March
-- listed in order -- are: Construction; Accommodation & Food
Services; Transportation & Warehousing; Management of Companies
& Support Services; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Other
Services; Finance & Insurance; Public Administration;
Information; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Wholesale Trade; and Educational Services. The industries
reporting a reduction in employment in March -- listed in order
-- are: Mining; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Utilities; Health
Care & Social Assistance; Retail Trade; and Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting.  Supplier Deliveries  The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 53 percent in
March, indicating that supplier deliveries were slower in March
for the third consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent
indicates slower deliveries, while a reading below 50 percent
indicates faster deliveries.  The eight industries reporting slower deliveries in March -
- listed in order -- are: Educational Services; Utilities;
Retail Trade; Wholesale Trade; Construction; Information;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and Health Care &
Social Assistance. The only industry reporting faster supplier
deliveries in March is Accommodation & Food Services. Nine
industries reported no change in supplier deliveries in March
compared to February.  Inventories  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew in March for
the second consecutive month. The index registered 51.5 percent,
which is 2.5 percentage points lower than the 54 percent
reported in February. Of the total respondents in March, 28
percent indicated they do not have inventories or do not measure
them. Comments from respondents include: “[Inventory build-up]
to support higher demand” and “Using more stock for projects.”  The 11 industries reporting an increase in inventories in
March -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing
& Hunting; Mining; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Utilities;
Retail Trade; Accommodation & Food Services; Construction;
Information; Wholesale Trade; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; and Health Care & Social Assistance. The
four industries reporting decreases in inventories in March are:
Other Services; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Public
Administration; and Finance & Insurance.  Prices  Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for
purchased materials and services increased in March for the 42nd
consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for
March registered 55.9 percent, 5.8 percentage points lower than
the 61.7 percent reported in February. In March, the percentage
of respondents reporting higher prices is 26 percent, the
percentage indicating no change in prices paid is 68 percent,
and 6 percent of the respondents reported lower prices.  Fifteen non-manufacturing industries reported an increase
in prices paid during the month of March, in the following
order: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Construction;
Mining; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Educational Services; Utilities; Other Services;
Wholesale Trade; Public Administration; Management of Companies
& Support Services; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Finance & Insurance;
and Accommodation & Food Services. The two industries reporting
a decrease in prices paid during March are: Transportation &
Warehousing; and Retail Trade.  Backlog of Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index grew in
March for the second consecutive month. The index registered
54.5 percent, which is the same reading that was reported in
February. Of the total respondents in March, 40 percent
indicated they do not measure backlog of orders.  The seven industries reporting an increase in order
backlogs in March -- listed in order -- are: Construction; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Utilities; Educational Services;
Information; Health Care & Social Assistance; and Public
Administration. The four industries reporting lower backlog of
orders in March are: Other Services; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Finance & Insurance; and Wholesale Trade.
Seven industries reported no change in backlog of orders for the
month of March compared to February.  New Export Orders  Orders and requests for services and other non-
manufacturing activities to be provided outside of the  United
States  by domestically based personnel grew in March for the
third consecutive month. The New Export Orders Index for March
registered 56.5 percent, which is 4 percentage points lower than
the 60.5 percent reported in February. Of the total respondents
in February, 67 percent indicated they either do not perform, or
do not separately measure, orders for work outside of the United
States.  The nine industries reporting an increase in new export
orders in March -- listed in order -- are: Construction;
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Retail Trade;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Arts, Entertainment
& Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services; Information; Health
Care & Social Assistance; and Public Administration. The two
industries reporting a decrease in export orders in March are:
Finance & Insurance; and Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services.  Imports  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in March for
the third consecutive month. This month’s reading at 57.5
percent is 5 percentage points higher than the 52.5 percent
reported in February. Fifty-seven percent of respondents
reported that they do not use, or do not track the use of,
imported materials.  The eight industries reporting an increase in imports for
the month of March -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Information; Accommodation & Food
Services; Finance & Insurance; Other Services; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Retail Trade; and Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services. The two industries reporting a
decrease in imports for the month of March are: Mining; and
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation. Eight industries reported no
change in imports for the month of March compared to February.  Inventory Sentiment  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in
March registered 59.5 percent, which is 3 percentage points
lower than the 62.5 percent reported in February. This indicates
that respondents believe their inventories are still too high at
this time. In March, 24 percent of respondents said their
inventories were too high, 5 percent said their inventories were
too low, and 71 percent said their inventories were about right.  The 10 industries reporting a feeling that their
inventories are too high in March -- listed in order -- are:
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Utilities; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Wholesale Trade;
Retail Trade; Public Administration; Finance & Insurance; and
Construction. The only industry reporting that its inventories
are too low in March is Transportation & Warehousing.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on
data compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-
Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders,  Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index
based on the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with
equal weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted)
and Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties
of leading indicators and are convenient summary measures
showing the prevailing direction of change and the scope of
change. An index reading above 50 percent indicates that the
non-manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are
sent out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee
respondents the first part of each month. Respondents are asked
to ONLY report on information for the current month. ISM
receives survey responses throughout most of any given month,
with the majority of respondents generally waiting until late in
the month to submit responses in order to give the most accurate
picture of current business activity. ISM then compiles the
reports for release on the third business day of the following
month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management , the first supply
institute in the world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and
serve the supply management profession and is a highly
influential and respected association in the global marketplace.
ISM’s mission is to enhance the value and performance of
procurement and supply chain management practitioners and their
organizations worldwide.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report
On Business is posted on ISM’s website at www.ism.ws on the
third business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring
the April 2013 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Friday, May 3, 2013.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  