-- U.S. Would Save $14 Billion Buying German Combat Vehicle
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-04-03T02:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/u-s-would-save-14-billion-buying-german-combat-vehicle.html
The U.S. Army would save $14 billion
and get a better combat vehicle by choosing a German-made
transport over versions being developed by  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , the Congressional Budget Office said.  Buying the German-made Puma was one of several options
outlined in a  report  yesterday as improvements over the Army’s
current plan for a tank-like Ground Combat Vehicle intended to
replace the Bradley Fighting Vehicle.  “Although none of those alternatives would meet all of the
Army’s goals” for the Ground Combat Vehicle, “all are likely
to be less costly and less risky in terms of unanticipated cost
increases and schedule delays,” the nonpartisan CBO said.  The Puma, made by a joint venture of Krauss-Maffei Wegmann
GmbH based in Munich and  Rheinmetall AG (RHM)  based in Dusseldorf,
“is slightly more capable” than the Ground Combat Vehicle and
might also be purchased “at only half the cost,” according to
the report. It can accommodate six passengers, not the nine-
member squad the Army considers a key capability, according to
the CBO.  BAE, based in London, and General Dynamics, based in Falls
Church, Virginia, are competing to produce the replacement for
the Bradley Fighting Vehicle. Previous plans called for both
companies to continue development work beyond 2014, after which
one probably would have been selected for the production phase.  Strategy Revision  Frank Kendall, the Pentagon’s undersecretary for
acquisition, directed a revision to this strategy in January,
allowing for more companies to compete to enter engineering and
manufacturing development and a chance to produce the vehicle.  The budget office pegged the latest cost estimate for about
1,748 vehicles at $29 billion through 2030 when priced in fiscal
2013 dollars. Previous estimates ran to as much as $40 billion.  In another option, the CBO said upgrading Bradley vehicles,
made by BAE, would result in platforms “more lethal” in combat
and would keep soldiers alive “at about the same rate” as the
proposed new vehicle.  The Bradley carries seven passengers. Canceling the Ground
Combat Vehicle development program and buying upgraded Bradleys
instead would save $9 billion from 2014 to 2030, according to
the CBO. That option would require adding a more powerful
engine, additional armor and an extra gun to the Bradley.  According to the CBO report, the Ground Combat vehicle
would have 1,500 horsepower and weigh 50 to 65 tons. That
compares with the upgraded Bradley at 800 horsepower and 35 to
41 tons, and the Puma at 1,073 horsepower and 35 to 47 tons.  Army spokesman Matthew Bourke said in a response to the CBO
report that, after extensive assessments last year of existing
U.S. and foreign vehicles, the service concluded that options in
meeting its requirements are limited.  “The Army continues to fine-tune the vehicle requirements
to support cost targets while continuing to evaluate” what
combat requirements can be adjusted that “better align with the
goal of an affordable and achievable vehicle,” Bourke said in
an e-mailed statement.  For Related News and Information:
Army Told to Pick Contractor for $32 Billion Vehicle Next Year  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  