-- UBS Likes Check Point on Valuation Drop: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-04-04T06:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/ubs-likes-check-point-on-valuation-drop-israel-overnight.html
Check Point Software Technologies
Ltd. (CHKP) ’s slide to the cheapest level in four months is a buying
opportunity to  UBS AG (UBSN)  on speculation the Israeli company will
benefit as cyber-security spending climbs.  Check Point fell a fourth day in New York, losing 1 percent
to $45.26 yesterday. The Tel Aviv-based network-security
provider traded at 12.9 times estimated earnings, the lowest
level since Nov. 16. Check Point had the biggest decline in the
last month on the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN) , which fell 1
percent yesterday.  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL)  surged after posting
its first annual operating profit since 1996.  Shares have slumped since Check Point forecast Jan. 23 the
slowest quarterly sales growth in four years amid concern
competitor  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  will steal market share. The
Senate Intelligence Committee said last month that cyber threats
are a key issue facing the U.S. Company software spending will
increase in the second half, UBS analysts wrote in a note
yesterday, naming Check Point one of the bank’s top 40 stocks.  “The valuation really relates to the company’s prospects
for growth,” Daniel Cummins, an analyst at B Riley & Co., which
rates Check Point stock the equivalent of hold, said by phone in
New York yesterday. “If Check Point can produce unit growth of
10-to-15 percent, the stock would be very attractive because
that will show that customer attrition is an overblown concern
and customers are continuing to buy what is a good product.”  Unit sales of among Check Point’s core appliances increased
about 15 percent last year, Chief Financial Officer Tal Payne
said on the Feb. 1 earnings call. The company saw a growing
number of larger deals, Payne said, with 62 customers that had
transactions greater than $1 million compared to 49 in the same
period last year.  Valuation Gap  Check Point’s valuation is 91 percent below Santa Clara,
California-based Palo Alto Networks’s, which is trading at 148
times estimated earnings.  UBS included Check Point, along with five other technology
companies, in its April 2 note of Global Top 40 Stocks. In a
separate report, also published on April 2, UBS upgraded the
industry because its valuation was below the broader market for
the first time in 17 years.  “There’s been broad underperformance in the global tech
sector relative to the market,” Nick Nelson, a London-based
strategist at UBS and author of both reports, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “An increase in business investment and
capex will help the sector.’  The enterprise firewall market will expand 11 percent this
year to $7.7 billion, according to a Feb. 7 report from
researcher Gartner Inc.  Juanita Mo, a San Carlos, California-based spokeswoman for
Check Point, said in an e-mail yesterday the company has no
comment on its valuation.  CaesarStone, MagicJack  The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge fell to 89.10 yesterday, the
lowest in four weeks.  Israel ’s benchmark TA-25 Index dropped 0.2
percent to 1,237.85 at 9:46 a.m. in Tel Aviv.  CaesarStone Sdot Yam Ltd. led declines on the Israel-US
gauge, slumping 6.7 percent to $23.71. It was the third straight
day of declines for the maker of quartz kitchen countertops, the
longest losing stretch since December, after its two biggest
investors registered to sell shares April 1.  MagicJack had the biggest gain in the Israel-US gauge,
surging 5.4 percent to $15.75, the highest since Jan. 8. The
company, whose products allow phone calls to be made over the
Internet, reported the first annual operating profit since its
1996 listing.  ‘‘They have a low-cost solution that appeals to the
market,” said Fran Caulfield, research director at Mountain
Lakes, New Jersey-based Insight Research Corp., which focuses on
telecommunications companies, said by phone yesterday. “The
pessimism has diminished and they’re back on a growth
trajectory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  