-- Lululemon Product Chief to Step Down After Pants Recall
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-04-04T13:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/lululemon-product-chief-to-step-down-after-pants-recall.html
Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) , the yoga-
wear maker that last month recalled shipments of women’s pants
for being too sheer, said Chief Product Officer Sheree Waterson
is stepping down.  Waterson, who had been with the company since 2008, will
leave on April 15, the Vancouver-based company said yesterday in
a statement. The company said in a separate release that it was
restructuring its internal product organization.  Lululemon has been probing how the shipments of pants that
didn’t meet its standards -- they became too sheer when wearers
bent over -- passed through its testing procedures. The recall
of the black Luon pants, which accounted for about 17 percent of
all the women’s pants it sells, caused the company to forecast
profit this year that was less than analysts estimated, sending
the shares to the biggest drop in two months.  The company said yesterday that while the fabric, a
combination of nylon and Lycra spandex fibers, met the low end
of its standards, the company’s testing protocols were
incomplete. Lululemon said it also was assessing all of its Luon
garments that are in production and stationing company employees
in factories to monitor manufacturing.  The company reiterated the March 21 profit forecast that it
gave when it announced the pants would be removed from shelves.  Lululemon  rose  1.2 percent to $65 at 9:40 a.m. in New York.
The shares had dropped 16 percent this year through the close of
regular trading yesterday, compared with an 8.9 percent gain for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Full Refunds  Lululemon is offering full refunds or exchanges to
customers who bought the defective pants after March 1. Luon is
manufactured in Vietnam and  Taiwan , according to the company’s
website.  The pants recall has been a challenge for the retailer,
which has been able to sell $98 yoga pants and $64 tank tops
because of its carefully cultivated reputation for quality. The
chain also faced problems with bleeding garments last year,
which it apologized for through a letter on its Facebook page in
July.  Lululemon, with more than 200 locations, has been expanding
into men’s and girls’ active-wear and opening more stores
internationally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  