-- Hungary Expects to Exit EU Budget Procedure on Deficit Cuts
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-04-03T13:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/hungary-expects-to-exit-eu-budget-procedure-on-deficit-cuts-1-.html
Hungary has a “high chance” to
exit the European Union’s excessive-deficit procedure as budget
risks are manageable after last year’s gap was narrower than the
government targeted, a government official said.  The deficit was 2.1 percent of gross domestic product last
year, within the 27-nation bloc’s 3 percent limit and less than
the Cabinet’s 2.7 percent goal, the statistics office in
Budapest said yesterday.  “If Brussels looks at the numbers only, Hungary must exit
the deficit procedure this year,” Zoltan Csefalvay, a state
secretary at the  Economy Ministry , said on public television M1
today. Reserves in the budget are sufficient to cover fiscal
risks, he said.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has made keeping the  budget
deficit  within the EU limit and lower public debt the priorities
of his administration. The Cabinet is seeking to end a  recession 
and exit the EU’s probe for budget offenders, which would remove
the threat of cuts in the bloc’s funding a year before
elections.  The forint erased earlier gains and weakened 0.1 percent to
302.57 per euro by 2:46 p.m. in Budapest. The currency has
depreciated 2.6 percent in the past month, the worst performance
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  ‘Macroeconomic Risk’  The government needs to deploy further measures to keep the
shortfall within 3 percent this year, economists at Erste Group
Bank AG’s local unit and MKB Bank Zrt., a unit of Bayersiche
Landesbank AG said.  “The most important macroeconomic risk coming to the fore
is that both inflation and growth will undershoot the
government’s targets,” threatening tax revenues, Zsolt Kondrat,
a Budapest-based economist at MKB Zrt. said in a phone interview
today.  Hungary  needs corrective measures of about 200 billion
forint ($851 million) to keep the gap within 3 percent, Kondrat
said.  The central bank, under the direction of new President
Gyorgy Matolcsy, reduced its budget-deficit forecast last week.
The gap will be 2.9 percent of GDP this year and next, the bank
said March 28. The government targets a shortfall of 2.7 percent
while the EU projects a deficit of 3.4 percent for 2013.  “Hungary has a less than 50 percent chance to have the
excessive-deficit procedure lifted without further measures,”
Zoltan Arokszallasi, an economist at Erste in Budapest said by
phone. The EU may have concerns that Orban will engage in a
spending spree ahead of next year’s general elections, he said.  Hungary doesn’t need to enact more measures to meet its
deficit target, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said March 25,
adding that the government was ready to act if data suggested
more steps were necessary.  Matolcsy will hold a press briefing tomorrow, the bank said
today. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank earlier last month said he would
only address journalists after “strategic” decisions. Policy
makers will hold an extraordinary meeting to discuss ways of
helping the economy exit its second recession in four years, the
Budapest-based newspaper Vilaggazdasag said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  