-- Wavebob Shuts Down After Failing to Raise Funds, Find Partner
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-04-03T12:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/wavebob-shuts-down-after-failing-to-raise-funds-find-partner.html
Wavebob Ltd., an Irish maker of
marine energy technology, will be liquidated after failing to
raise money and find a strategic partner to fund its continued
development.  Wavebob found it impossible to find an investor or a
strategic partner in the past two years, Padraig Berry, chairman
of the Maynooth-based company, said today by phone. Most
recently it expected to receive a grant from the Sustainable
Energy Authority Ireland that was ultimately declined, he said.
The company had been seeking to raise 10 million euros ($13
million) by the end of March.  “Some of the big players in ocean energy are in fact
withdrawing from the sector entirely,” Berry said. “Finding a
strategic partner and a long-term investor has been impossible
and we were almost there a couple of times but they haven’t
materialized.”  Abengoa SA, which Wavebob was already working with on a
project, was a potential strategic investor, he said. “They
took us almost to the altar and then withdrew.”  The intellectual property of the wave-energy machine will
be sold and Eugene McLoughlin and Associates will likely be
appointed as the liquidators, said the chairman. Wavebob’s
founder was the largest shareholder, owning 40 percent of the
company. The company had 12 employees.  Wavebob owns a stake alongside Vattenfall AB and Irish
utility Bord Gais Eireann in Tonn Energy Ltd., a venture set up
to develop and install Wavebob’s technology across Ireland. Tonn
Energy will likely cease to operate, Berry said.  “We need to take stock now that Wavebob is no longer
available as a partner, considering they are a shareholder in
the company,” Harvey Appelbe, ocean energy program manager at
Tonn, said by e-mail. “We cannot make any decisions until we
clear up that situation,” he said. “I would expect to have a
clearer picture in the summer months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net 
 Z ID <equity>
VATT SS <EQUITY>
1011Z 1D <EQUITY>
ABG SM <EQUITY> 