-- Western American Mountain Ranges Formed as Slabs Collided
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-03T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/western-american-mountain-ranges-formed-as-slabs-collided.html
New data on how the  mountain chain 
that runs from  Alaska  to  Mexico  was formed is causing geologists
to rethink how the American West was made.  Hundreds of millions of years ago, the area was under an
ocean. Scientists had thought one large underwater plate shifted
against another, and that the action swept material together as
if it was on a conveyor belt to create the ranges, including the
 Rocky Mountains . Instead, new data suggests several plates may
have piled up like a multicar accident on a freeway.  The report, published in the  journal Nature , says the
collisions likely took place between 200 million years ago, a
period known as the Jurassic, and 50 million years ago, in the
Eocene era. While some scientists had theorized this previously,
the report by Karin Sigloch, a seismologist at Munich University
in  Germany , adds supporting evidence that the western mountain
ranges assembled as massive slabs collided with  North America .  Western North America “consists of scores of continental
jigsaw pieces of different origins, sizes and ages,” said
Saskia Goes, an earth scientist at the  Imperial College London ,
in a related editorial. She described the process as “a slow
dance of tectonic plates over the past 350 million years.”  To gain the data, Sigloch’s team used a scanning technology
that creates 3-D images by measuring the energy waves produced
by earthquakes. In this case, the target of the scans was the
earth’s mantle, the layer between the crust and the core where
the plates float. The plates pressed down are of a different
material than the mantle, and waves travel through the plates
more quickly, allowing geologists to estimate their position.  “The importance of this paper is that it provides
independent verification of this model,” said  Robert
Hildebrand , a geologist at the University of California Davis,
in a telephone interview. He wasn’t involved in the study, but
had  proposed similar models  separately.  The  chain of peaks  created includes ranges such as the
Cascade Mountains, the Sierra Nevada, the Sierra Madre and the
Rocky Mountains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  