-- Wheat Premium to Corn Revived by U.S. Drought: Chart of the Day
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-04-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/wheat-premium-to-corn-revived-by-u-s-drought-chart-of-the-day.html
Wheat’s premium over corn, which was
erased in March, will surge to the highest this year as a
persistent drought in the Great Plains revives concern that
crops were damaged, said Frank J. Cholly at RJO Futures.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the premium surged to 55 cents a
bushel yesterday, compared with a discount of 7.5 cents on March
28. In the next two weeks, the spread will widen to 80 cents,
the most since Dec. 28, Cholly said. About 34 percent of the
winter-wheat crop was in good or excellent condition on March
31, the worst for that time of year since 2002, according to
U.S. Department of Agriculture data.  “The winter-wheat-crop condition remains very poor, and
we’re not getting rain in the southern Plains where we need it
the most,” Cholly, a senior commodities broker in  Chicago , said
in a telephone interview. “Wheat’s not supposed to be the same
price as corn. It’s a commodity that should be priced higher.
Spreads get out of whack sometimes, and they become
opportunities for traders.”  Wheat futures for May delivery surged 3.8 percent to close
at $6.965 a bushel yesterday on the Chicago Board of Trade. Corn
advanced 0.2 percent to $6.415, halting a 13 percent plunge over
three sessions since a government report on March 28 showed U.S.
stockpiles were bigger than forecast.  Most counties in central and western  Kansas  and most of
Oklahoma and  Nebraska  are in extreme or exceptional droughts,
which mean that crop losses have already happened or are
inevitable, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. Freezing
weather last week may have damaged grain that is emerging from
the ground after being dormant all winter, said  Bryce Anderson ,
a meteorologist at Telvent DTN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  