-- What Parents Don’t Know About Bowdoin
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2013-04-03T16:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/when-is-a-liberal-arts-college-too-liberal-.html
Alumni like to rant, especially
conservative alumni. The disgruntled fellows (it’s usually a
fellow) seize any chance for a complaint session alleging
whatever errors the school is committing are somehow greater
than errors it made in the 1980s, or even the raucous 1960s.  A few years ago, an alumnus of  Williams College  in
 Massachusetts ,  Thomas Klingenstein , took the opportunity of a
golf game with the president of Bowdoin, a Maine college similar
to Williams, to suggest that diversity received too much
emphasis at Williams and that Western civilization received too
little. “Common American identity,” where race and class
matter less, is lost.  Klingenstein  suggested  the same might be true at Bowdoin.
Bowdoin’s president, Barry Mills, slapped back in a 2010
convocation speech with a half-anonymous reference to a Williams
man who wrecked the college president’s golf swing with harsh
charges against Bowdoin. Mills said the Williams alum had
alleged that Bowdoin “brings all the wrong students to campus
for the wrong reasons.” Mills also dropped in a few remarks
about “loyal supporters,” which probably had a chilling effect
because the words suggested that any Bowdoin alum who might side
with the Williams man might be disloyal.  It seemed Mills had won. University presidents usually do.
This is partly because conservatives’  charges  are usually
steamed, unspecific and anecdotal. They lack evidence.  Alumni Loyalty  The campuses themselves hardly look unhappy. There are no
barricades outside the president’s office on the  Brunswick
campus . This month, some alums are thanking the stars that their
children won admission to the highly selective school. Although
many alumni suspect their college’s curriculum is too
progressive for their tastes, they won’t easily risk appearing
disloyal.  Rather than fulminate, however, Klingenstein funded a study
by the  National Association of Scholars  to see whether his
perception of Bowdoin was warranted. He picked Bowdoin, not
Williams, to examine, perhaps out of pique. Yet once the work
got going, he says, “curiosity replaced anger.” The 360-page
study,  released  this week, suggests that the quiescent Maine
college is fundamentally different, more radical, than it was
25, and certainly 40, years ago.  The researchers, Peter Wood and Michael Toscano,  commenced 
by defining their goal: to describe the penetration of what they
call “identity emphasis” -- a philosophy that looks at the
world in terms of race, sex, ethnicity or other groupings. The
National Association of Scholars also looked at green education,
because environmental classes are often explicitly anti-
capitalist.  Although the  report  reviews Bowdoin’s history, its real
starting point is the 1960s, when the college was both turning
away from its religious roots and preparing to admit women.
Bowdoin still required four semester courses in each of three
areas -- humanities, math and science -- and in social studies.
One could say 1960s students had a common education.  Soon, however, this changed. In 1970, in the name of
liberating students from “forced exposure” to certain academic
areas, the college dropped requirements unrelated to a major.
Like many other colleges, Bowdoin introduced official identity
studies through what was then called Afro-American studies. In
the 1980s,  women’s studies  was added as a minor. Gay and lesbian
studies came along at some point, as well.  All these shifts affected campus life. To many, they seemed
a warranted expansion at a stodgy institution. And the undergrad
who sought traditional general classes such as “Survey of
English Literature” could find them. Bowdoin could claim it
offered the best of old and new worlds. This Bowdoin of the
1980s and early 1990s is the Bowdoin that most parents tell
themselves still exists.  Endless Evolution  Yet, as Wood and Toscano show, Bowdoin itself didn’t freeze
in the 1980s. It shifted further, with the identity classes
proliferating to the present day. Where once there was only one
true identity program, Afro-American studies, now there are
five: Africana studies, Asian studies, gender and women’s
studies, gay and lesbian studies, and Latin American studies.  One in five courses offered to undergraduates in fall 2011
was either about a distinct identity or “green,” relating to
the environment. Surveys, including coursework on Western
civilization, faded: Today, 4.4 percent of Bowdoin’s classes are
surveys versus 14.2 percent in 1964.  Courses with traditional names also increasingly emphasize
identity. In 2006, Bowdoin introduced a new requirement, a
first-year  seminar , “designed to help introduce students to
what it means to undertake serious intellectual work at the
college level.” In 2012, about 10 of the 35 first-year seminars
emphasize the difference in identity groups and affiliate with
identity-studies programs: “Africana Studies 12: Affirmative
Action and United States Society,” “Anthropology 13: Beyond
Pocahontas, Native American Stereotypes,” “Gay and Lesbian
Studies 17: The Sexual Life of Colonialism.” Students are
getting a common education of a sort -- in political correctness
-- not one fostering color-blind citizenship.  “Identity studies is the one most inescapable part of
Bowdoin education,”  Wood  says. “The student can avoid anything
else, but not this.” A student can get a humanities education
there that isn’t based on identity, but not easily. This, in
turn, warrants discussion.  Bowdoin will make a ferocious rebuttal to the National
Association of Scholars study and may well find flaws in the
findings. Still, the Bowdoin project, despite the squabble that
seeded it, should serve as a model for alumni action.  Rather than howl or rant, alumni should investigate what
happens at their school. Then they will have results for true
debate. Such an exercise may not be perfect, but it can be
worthy and, yes, loyal.  ( Amity Shlaes , a Bloomberg View columnist, is the author of
“Coolidge.” She is the director of the Four Percent Growth
Project at the Bush Institute. The opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 