-- Why Grocers Like Tesco Find Trouble in the U.S. Market
-- B y   M a r c   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-03T18:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/why-grocers-like-tesco-find-trouble-in-the-u-s-market.html
Any day now,  Tesco (TSCO)  Plc, the U.K.
grocery giant, may announce the closure of the 200 or so Fresh &
Easy food stores it has opened in California,  Arizona  and  Nevada 
since 2007.  When it does, Tesco will join a long list of international
grocers that have met their match in the U.S. In every case,
these companies wrongly assumed that strategies honed abroad
would succeed in America, and they underestimated the resources
and management attention required to make headway in a vast and
fast-changing market.  The American grocery market has tempted foreigners for
almost a century. One reason is the obvious potential: For a
grocer that had exhausted the possibilities in its home market,
expansion in the U.S. offered a means to boost profits. Many
foreign companies have also arrived with a superiority complex,
seeing hundreds of small, unsophisticated enterprises that
seemed to be easy prey for international entrants with deep
pockets and industry know-how.  Ambitious Canadians  Probably the first foreign chain to open in the U.S. was
the  Canada ’s Loblaw Cos. Founded in 1919, Loblaw opened self-
service Groceteria stores around Toronto before moving into
nearby Buffalo,  New York , in 1924. By 1940, the Groceteria
banner flew as far west as  Chicago .  In 1953, Loblaw was taken over by the Canadian baking
company George Weston Ltd., which had grand ambitions in U.S.
retailing. It secretly acquired another Buffalo-area chain,
Bells, to reduce competition, and then in 1956 took control of
Chicago-based National Tea Co., which had more than 700 stores.
Weston kept adding until its footprint stretched from  Alabama  to
 Minnesota . Profits didn’t follow. Weston spent two decades
extricating itself, finally selling its last U.S. stores in
1995.  While Weston was trying to find an exit, British American
Tobacco was trying to enter. Like other cigarette manufacturers
at the time, British American Tobacco had amassed a large amount
of cash and was looking for ways to spend it. It chose to buy up
U.S. retailers, including, in 1972, the Wisconsin department
store and grocery company Kohl’s Corp. Seven years later, when
the German grocer Tengelmann took control of the Great Atlantic
& Pacific Tea Co. (or A&P), alarmists warned of the impending
European takeover of the U.S. grocery industry.  Both ventures ended badly, however. The founding Kohl
family, which at first stayed on to manage its former stores,
soon cashed out, and the cigarette guys realized they knew
nothing about selling groceries. British American Tobacco sold
Kohl’s in 1983, a few years before abandoning retail altogether.
The buyer was A&P, which went on a spending spree that covered
up its deteriorating fundamentals. Tengelmann had badly
misjudged A&P’s weakness and couldn’t escape. It eventually lost
its entire stake after A&P filed for bankruptcy in December
2010.  Things went only slightly better for the French grocery
chain Casino, which took control of the California grocer Smart
& Final in 1984. Smart & Final had pioneered the warehouse-club
concept decades earlier, but by 1984 its relatively small stores
were already behind the times. Casino was an ambivalent owner,
unwilling to invest enough to make the chain a major player but
reluctant to give up. Competitive challenges in  France 
eventually forced its hand, and it sold in 2007.  Two other big French food retailers, Groupe Auchan SA and
 Carrefour SA (CA) , faced the same choice. Both brought the
hypermarket format to the U.S. in 1988 with stores spanning
250,000 square feet. Their brands, of course, were unfamiliar to
American shoppers, and both realized belatedly that making money
in the U.S. would consume enormous resources. Carrefour gave up
in 1992; Auchan held on until 2003.  Major Missteps  The British arrived around the same time as the French. J
 Sainsbury (SBRY)  Plc bought the Shaw’s chain in southern  New England  in
1987 and later took a stake in the Giant chain in  Washington .
Neither investment panned out well. As its position back home
deteriorated, Sainsbury sold its shares in Giant in 1998 and got
rid of Shaw’s in 2004. At least Sainsbury made a small profit on
its deals. London-based Marks & Spencer Group Plc took a loss on
King’s, the upmarket New Jersey grocer it acquired in 1988. In
2006, it sold the chain for barely half the price it had paid 18
years earlier.  Even the two largest international players in U.S. food
retailing have made major missteps. The Belgian grocer  Delhaize
Group (DELB) , which bought the Food Lion chain in  North Carolina  in
1974, has repeatedly gone through ill-considered expansions and
restructurings. The Dutch grocer Royal Ahold NV, which entered
the U.S. market by purchasing two Pennsylvania chains in 1981,
has built a strong franchise centered on the Stop and Shop chain
in the Northeast, but it stumbled badly expanding in the
Southeast, where two of its acquisitions went bankrupt.  Of all the international ventures in U.S. food retailing,
only two have unblemished records: Aldi Group, whose small
stores offer a limited selection of products at very low prices,
and the iconoclastic Trader Joe’s, with about 400 stores. Both
are in German hands, controlled by separate companies owned by
different members of the Albrecht family. Their success may be
due, at least partly, to both companies’ private ownership.
Without nagging shareholders to answer to, their owners were
willing to experiment quietly until they found winning formats
and then to provide patient capital for the chains to expand.
Aldi entered the U.S. market in 1976, but 15 years later it had
only about 200 stores, all in the Midwest. Its growth since --
it now has about 1,300 stores -- has been tightly managed to
ensure the chain is profitable, not just big.  Tesco didn’t enjoy the luxury of private, patient
ownership. Every move, from its intensive market research to its
construction of a huge distribution center, has occurred in full
public view, and its investors are painfully aware that the
company has lost perhaps $2 billion on its American adventure.
No one is likely to buy Fresh & Easy as an operating business.
But Tesco’s store sites may end up in the hands of Aldi.  ( Marc Levinson  is the author of “The Great A&P and the
Struggle for  Small Business  in America.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Marc Levinson at
 marclevinson1@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 