-- Wizz Air, Nasair Will Be First to Fly Passengers to Dubai World
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-04-03T08:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/wizz-air-nasair-will-be-first-to-fly-passengers-to-dubai-world.html
Low-fare carriers Wizz Air Ltd. and
Nasair will be the first airlines to fly passengers into Dubai
World Central, the emirates second airport, Dubai Airports said.  Dubai World Central, due to start passenger services from
Oct. 27, will gradually take all passenger traffic from Dubai
International which is running out of space. The new airport,
which is closer to the city center than Dubai International,
will have room for 80 million passengers by 2027 with eventual
capacity for 160 million, more than double the size of  London
Heathrow ,  Europe ’s busiest hub. Nasair is the first low-cost
carrier in  Saudi Arabia . Budapest-based Wizz Air started flights
in May 2004.  “The introduction of passenger services from Dubai World
Central is the first step in the long term development of the
airport,” Dubai Airports Chief Executive Officer Paul Griffiths
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Dubai’s rulers have sought to exploit the sheikdom’s
geographic position at the heart of intercontinental flight
paths to develop an airport that can help local carrier Emirates
win a higher share of long-haul traffic. Since Griffiths joined
from  London ’s Gatwick Airport in 2007, Dubai International has
almost doubled traffic to 57.7 million passengers.  Emirates and all other passenger airlines operating in
Dubai have until now all flown in and out of Dubai
International. The airport has three terminals and is undergoing
a $7.8 billion expansion plan that will boost capacity to 90
million passengers by 2018. Part of that project involved the
construction of an area specially dedicated to the Airbus SAS
A380, the world’s largest passenger aircraft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  