-- Won Touches Six-Month Low on North Korea Threat; Bonds Steady
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-04-03T06:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/won-drops-to-six-month-low-on-north-korea-threat-bonds-advance.html
The won touched a six-month low as
escalating tensions with  North Korea  curbed global funds’ demand
for South Korean assets.  Government bonds  were steady.  The South said its workers were banned today for the first
time since 2009 from entering the jointly run Gaeseong
industrial zone in the North, a move Unification Ministry
spokesman Kim Hyung Suk described as “extremely serious.”
North Korea said March 30 that a “state of war” exists with
the South and warned it may shut Gaeseong following recent
flights over the Korean peninsula by U.S. stealth bombers.  The won weakened as much as 0.5 percent to 1,123.34 per
dollar, the lowest level since Sept. 20, before closing little
changed at 1,117.60, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency slid 0.3 percent yesterday after North Korea said
it will restart the Yongbyon nuclear site, which was shut down
in 2007 as part of an agreement reached in six-nation talks
aimed at persuading the country to scrap its atomic weapons
program.  “Tensions have escalated on the Korean peninsula after
North Korea’s threats to resume its nuclear site, damping demand
for the won,” said Son Eun Jeong, analyst at Woori Futures Co.
in  Seoul . “Some exporters may look to sell dollars from their
income earned overseas.”  The Kospi Index dropped as much as 0.7 percent today as
global funds sold more constituent stocks than they bought, as
they have on all but two days in the past three weeks, exchange
 data  show.  One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
gained 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 7.99
percent. The Finance Ministry said today it may strengthen
existing measures, including limit on banks’ use of currency
forwards, to curb volatility.  ‘Serious Step’  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said yesterday it would
be a “serious step” if North Korea violates its obligations by
following through on a threat to restart nuclear facilities. Kim
Jong Un, the communist state’s leader, said March 31 nuclear
weapons development is a priority as the country ratcheted up
tensions by repeating threats to attack the U.S.  The yield on  South Korea ’s 2.75 percent bonds due March
2018 was unchanged at 2.56 percent, according to prices from
Korea Exchange Inc. The  five-year yield  reached 2.51 percent
last week, the lowest it has been in Bloomberg data going back
to 2000.  North Korea’s rhetoric doesn’t undermine South Korea’s
credit fundamentals, according to Moody’s Investors Service.
Geopolitical risk hasn’t had “material, adverse effects” on
the South’s markets or economy, analysts Thomas J. Byrne and
Steffen Dyck wrote in a report dated yesterday.  A central bank report today showed South Korea’s foreign-
exchange reserves totaled $327.41 billion at the end of March,
little changed from $327.40 billion a month earlier. The  Finance
Ministry  said it will maintain the holdings at an
“appropriate” level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  