-- TXU Spared Tax Liability on $23 Billion by IRS Ruling
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-04-04T00:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/txu-spared-23-billion-of-tax-liability-by-irs-ruling.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp., the
 Texas  power company taken private six years ago in the largest
leveraged buyout, won’t have to pay a potential tax liability on
$23 billion when transferring ownership of some of its units,
according to a decision by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  With the decision from the IRS received April 1, Energy
Future can dispose of its shares in its unit, Energy Future
Competitive Holdings Co., without triggering the tax liability,
the company said in a filing yesterday.  The tax disclosure is unrelated to Energy Future’s program
to manage its debt,  Allan Koenig , a spokesman for Energy Future,
said in a telephone interview. Energy Future’s proposed transfer
of shares in its competitive unit to a newly created unit will
have no effect on its operations or financial statements, it
said in the filing.  The IRS ruling helps clear the way for Energy Future to
proceed with internal financial moves that could pave the way
for an expected bankruptcy filing at Texas Competitive Electric
Holdings within a year, said Andy DeVries, a credit analyst for
CreditSights Inc.  “It helps, but the IRS fears were overblown,” DeVries
said yesterday.  Analysts at high-yield researcher KDP Investment Advisors
Inc. wrote in a Nov. 1 note that the power firm may face a tax
liability if it places its Texas Competitive unit into
bankruptcy.  $48 Billion Bet  Texas’ largest electricity provider, formerly known as TXU
Corp., was taken over in a $48 billion deal in 2007 led by  KKR &
Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital LP and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The buyout,
which left Dallas-based Energy Future with more than $40 billion
in debt, was a gamble that natural  gas prices  would rise and
give its coal-fired plants a competitive advantage. Instead,
U.S. prices fell to a 10-year low last year.  Energy Future faces a “material restructuring” within six
to 12 months, Moody’s Investors Service said in a March 26 note.
The rating company said a bankruptcy filing is likely at Energy
Future’s Texas Competitive Electric Holdings unit, which sells
power on wholesale markets. Texas Competitive has $29.5 billion
in debt, including $3.8 billion of loans maturing in October
2014. Bond investors have previously refused to extend the
payment date.  Billionaire  Warren Buffett  called his $2 billion investment
in Texas Competitive bonds “a big mistake” in a letter last
year to  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  holders. With a boom in U.S. gas
production, continuing low prices “will virtually wipe out”
the debt’s remaining market value, he said. Berkshire has
written down its investment by about $1.7 billion in the past
two years, regulatory filings show.  Bond Price  Texas Competitive’s $1.83 billion of 10.25 percent notes
due November 2015 traded at 11 cents on the dollar at 4:10 p.m.
in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Those securities
are down from 31 cents on Jan. 4.  Energy Future disclosed it had a $19 billion excess loss
account and $4 billion deferred intercompany gain that are
reflected in the tax basis of the stock it holds of Energy
Future Competitive Holdings, and might have been triggered as
taxable income if those shares are transferred, according to an
Oct. 30 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The company sought the IRS ruling to be sure it would not
have to pay the taxes if it went through with the transactions
it was considering. Those transactions will be completed during
the second quarter of 2013, the company said in the filing.  NRC Approval  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission approved in February
Energy Future’s plans for an internal restructuring that would
convert a division that owns its Luminant power generation fleet
from a Texas corporation into a Delaware limited liability
corporation.  The atomic agency agreed to transfer the license for
Comanche Peak Nuclear Power Plant, a twin-reactor station
outside  Fort Worth , Texas, to the new Delaware entity on the
condition that Luminant boost a “support agreement” for the
plant by $50 million to $300 million. The amount is “adequate”
to fund about one year’s worth of operations and maintenance
expense at Comanche, the NRC said in its approval order.  KKR, TPG and  Goldman Sachs (GS)  contributed an $8.3 billion
equity stake in Energy Future, they disclosed in 2008. By March
2012, KKR had written down its equity in the company to 5 cents
on the dollar, according to a regulatory filing.  Widening Losses  Losses may widen as hedging contracts used to shield
against fluctuations in gas prices disappear by the end of 2014.
Energy Future lost $3.36 billion last year, 76 percent more than
its $1.91 billion net loss in 2011, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Energy Future’s state-regulated power business, Oncor
Electric Delivery, is profitable and ring-fenced from any
restructuring, according to Moody’s. The company’s private
equity owners have extended debt maturities and repaid
intracompany loans to protect parts of the business.  Hedge fund Aurelius Capital Management filed suit on March
19 alleging Texas Competitive was owed more than $725 million
for loans to the parent company.  Creditors agreed to extend the maturity date on more than
$17 billion in loans in 2011, and this year lenders agreed to
exchange $1.37 billion of bonds and to amend rules governing its
securities as Energy Future shifted liabilities.  Energy Future and its investors have recruited advisers for
restructuring negotiations, people familiar with the discussions
said earlier. Senior lenders at Texas Competitive -- a group
that includes  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) ,  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO) ,  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  and GSO Capital Partners -- hired
Millstein & Co. to advise them.  KKR and TPG hired  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , GSO Capital’s
parent, Energy Future has retained  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and
Kirkland & Ellis LLP. Oncor enlisted Miller Buckfire & Co., a
unit of Stifel Financial Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  