-- Yen to Rise as Monetary Stimulus May Trail Estimates, RBC Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-04-03T17:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/yen-to-rise-as-monetary-stimulus-may-trail-estimates-rbc-says.html
The yen is poised to rally against
the dollar as investors overestimate the amount of stimulus from
the Bank of Japan, according to Royal Bank of Canada.  Global investors have been using weakened yen to employ the
so-called carry trade -- buying high-yielding assets, with money
borrowed in countries with low interest rates, said George Davis, chief technical analyst for fixed income and currencies
in Toronto at the bank’s RBC Capital Markets unit.  Investors have purchased Japanese and U.S. stocks as the
yen tumbled 15 percent against the dollar and the euro during
the past six months, Davis said. This has helped the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and the Nikkei 225 Stock Average return 9
percent and 42 percent, respectively.  “The market is pricing in extraordinary amount of easing
from the Bank of Japan, and there is a real risk that they will
under-deliver,” Davis said. “Investors have benefitted from
the carry trade, but a stronger yen will diminish that
opportunity, ultimately weighing on stocks.”  Japan’s central bank may say tomorrow it will boost monthly
bond purchases by about 50 percent to 5.2 trillion yen,
according to the average forecast in a survey of economists by
Bloomberg.  Yen Strength  The yen climbed 0.5 percent to 92.94 per dollar today in
New York, after losing 0.2 percent yesterday.  The main risk to the carry trade is that adverse currency
moves or heightened volatility wipe out profits generated by the
difference in returns.  Japanese stocks have risen since Japanese elections were
announced in November, amid optimism new Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s government and the Bank of Japan will take more steps to
beat deflation.  “While the Japanese are serious about combating deflation,
they would need to perform extraordinary measures, like buying
foreign bonds, to justify the market’s perception of what they
may do,” Davis said. “They are more likely to be more
cautious, preferring to save their bullets instead of using them
all at once, and that will take some steam out of the dollar
rally against the Yen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 Ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  