-- Zloty Set for Two-Week Low as Europe Woes Eclipse Moody’s Praise
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-04-03T11:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/zloty-set-for-two-week-low-as-europe-woes-eclipse-moody-s-praise.html
The zloty headed for its weakest
close in almost two weeks as concern for  Europe ’s recovery
overshadowed praise from Moody’s Investors Service for meeting
Polish borrowing needs in advance.  The zloty slipped 0.1 percent at 1 p.m. in Warsaw to 4.1906
per euro, the weakest level on a closing basis since March 21.
The 2.5 percent decline this year is the fourth worst among
emerging-market currencies after South Africa’s rand,  Hungary ’s
forint and the Czech koruna, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors are awaiting guidance from the European Central
Bank meeting tomorrow on the condition of the euro-area economy,
Andrzej Krzeminski, head of foreign exchange at  Bank BPH SA (BPH)  in
Warsaw, said by phone today. The single-currency region accounts
for more than half of Poland’s exports.  “There are fears the economic situation will not improve
as quickly as expected,” Krzeminski said.  Poland’s “brisk progress” toward meeting its 2013 funding
needs is “credit positive,” Moody’s analyst Jaime Reusche
wrote in a report yesterday. The government covered 60 percent
of its total 145 billion zloty ($44 billion) borrowing plan for
2013 in the first quarter and will be 80 percent complete by the
end of June,  Piotr Marczak , head of the Finance Ministry’s
public debt department, said in an e-mailed statement on March
28.  The yield on Poland’s 10-year bonds fell for a second day,
sliding three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to a two-
week low of 3.84 percent.  The ECB will keep its benchmark rate unchanged at a record
low 0.75 percent, according to 54 of 56 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Two predict a reduction to 0.5 percent. The
central bank last month pared its outlook for a recovery,
predicting a contraction of 0.5 percent for the euro area this
year and growth of 1 percent in 2014.  The European Union’s largest eastern economy is facing its
worst slowdown in 12 years.  Poland ’s budget deficit reached 61
percent of the annual target by the end of February as tax
revenue declined.  The government hasn’t yet decided whether it will cut
contributions to privately managed pension funds to narrow the
deficit, Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said in an interview
with TVN24 today. Gazeta Wyborcza reported earlier today that
the government may limit transfers to pension funds by taking
over part of the contributions they invest in bonds, without
saying where it got the information.  Proposed changes to the pension system will be announced in
May or June, Rostowski told TVN24.  It is too early to determine whether Poland will be able to
reduce its public debt this year, Deputy Finance Minister
Wojciech Kowalczyk told PAP newswire today. Public debt dropped
to 52.7 percent of gross domestic product last year from 53.5
percent in 2011, according to the Finance Ministry’s figures
published on its website yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  