-- Zynga Rises on Real-Money Gambling in U.K.: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-04-03T23:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-03/zynga-rises-on-real-money-gambling-in-u-k-san-francisco-mover.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  rose the most in more
than a year after unveiling two real-money games for adults in
the U.K., pushing into online gambling to make up for slowing
growth in other forms of social gaming on the Internet.  The shares climbed 15 percent to $3.53 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since February 2, 2012.  “ZyngaPlusPoker” and “ZyngaPlusCasino” are available
today to players in the U.K. who are at least 18 years old, San
Francisco-based Zynga said yesterday in a  statement .  The shares have surged by half this year on optimism that
Zynga can use online betting to revive growth amid a slump in
gaming on  Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  network, which accounts for most of
the company’s sales. Zynga is one of several companies taking
advantage of loosening regulations around  Internet gambling ,
said Colin Sebastian, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.  “Investors are clearly very interested in real-money
gaming opportunities and these headlines shine the spotlight on
Zynga as one way to play that trend,” said Sebastian, who has a
neutral rating on the shares and is based in  San Francisco .  The U.K. games are a first step in a broader expansion plan
that includes gambling in various countries, betting via
Facebook and real-money games for mobile phones, according to
Chief Revenue Officer Barry Cottle.  Multiple Platforms  “Our long-term vision is to offer our players the next
generation of real-money games on multiple platforms in
regulated markets worldwide,” Cottle said in a  blog  posting
yesterday. “This is just the beginning for us.”  The games will be powered by  Bwin.Party Digital
Entertainment Plc (BPTY) , the Gibraltar-based real-money game operator
that reached a partnership with Zynga last year. Bwin will
provide the gaming license as well as security measures, such as
fraud detection.  Players of “ZyngaPlusPoker” will be put into online poker
rooms managed by Bwin, and sometimes compete against players of
Bwin-owned games, Zynga said.  The U.S. market for online gambling may reach $7.4 billion
a year by 2017,  according to  Manchester, U.K.-based researcher
H2 Gambling Capital.  New Jersey , Nevada and  Delaware  had passed
laws as of early March letting residents play in their states.  Zynga took a step toward online betting in the U.S. by
filing for a preliminary finding of suitability for gaming in
 Nevada . It could take the game maker 12 to 18 months to become
eligible for real-money wagering in the state, Zynga said in
December.  Zynga generates revenue currently by selling virtual goods
within its games -- for example, a gun in “Mafia Wars” or a
brick oven in “ChefVille.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  