-- ‘Death Puts’ Spur Sales Surge for Wells Fargo Structured Notes
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-11-02T21:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/-death-puts-spur-sales-surge-for-wells-fargo-structured-notes.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  says “together
we’ll go far” -- even if it means to the grave.  The San Francisco-based bank’s sales of structured notes
that pay when the holder dies have surged. Investors have bought
at least 11 times as many of the securities as last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ninety-seven percent of
the bank’s $341.9 million of structured notes tied to interest
rates issued this year contain a so-called survivor’s option.  The option, also known as a “death put,” is a feature
more common in market-linked certificates of deposit, said Tim Bonacci of CD Funding Securities LLC, who’s helped about 30
banks start their own businesses to sell the CDs. Investors are
buying more securities with the feature as banks extend
maturities on CDs to offer more attractive rates. Deposits as
much as $250,000 are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. only if they are held to maturity.  “CD maturities are getting so pushed out that people are
probably creeping back to the note world and are spoiled because
they are used to the features in a CD,” said Dayna Kleinman,
first vice president and senior product manager for alternative
investments at Robert W. Baird & Co., in a telephone interview
from her office in  Chicago .  Matt Ginsburg, head of structuring and distribution of
market-linked CDs and notes to individual investors at Wells
Fargo, and Shelley Beason, a spokeswoman for the lender,
declined to comment on the increase in sales of notes with
survivor’s options.  Fewer Sales  Bank of America Corp., Royal Bank of  Canada  and Barclays
Plc issued fewer or the same amount of U.S. structured notes
with survivor’s options this year compared with the same period
a year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. issuer of structured
notes, sold $528.5 million of rate-linked notes that had the
feature, 26 percent less. Barclays sold $79.8 million of the
securities, about 40 percent less. RBC sold $40 million of the
notes, or the same amount.  Matt Card, a spokesman for Bank of America, didn’t return a
voicemail and an e-mail seeking comment. Mark Lane, a spokesman
for Barclays, declined to comment. Kait Conetta, a spokeswoman
for RBC, declined to comment.  Banks have sold $33.4 billion of structured notes in the
U.S. this year, 18 percent less than during the same period of
2011.  Wells Fargo’s largest offering this year, $82.1 million of
17-year callable step-up notes sold on Oct. 23, includes a
survivor’s option. The securities yield 3 percent for the first
five years, then increase four more times to return 6 percent
for the last two years, according to a  prospectus  filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The bank has quarterly
options to call the notes after five years.  Terms of Redemption  A designated beneficiary can redeem the note and collect
principal at face value plus any unpaid interest, without any
fees being charged, according to the prospectus.  The survivor’s option is more attractive to conservative
investors, Bonacci said in an e-mail. It’s “not really overtly
marketed to clients,” he said. “However the feature does make
it a more viable potential investment for older clients.”  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  