-- Abengoa Resumes Output at Madison, Illinois, Ethanol Plant
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-11-02T15:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/abengoa-resumes-output-at-madison-illinois-ethanol-plant-1-.html
Abengoa SA (ABG) , a Spanish engineering and
renewable energy company, resumed output at its Madison,
 Illinois , ethanol mill, after temporarily idling the operation
last month for maintenance and because of poor margins.  The company has completed maintenance items that will help
improve performance at the 88 million-gallon-a-year plant,
Christopher Standlee, a spokesman for Seville-based Abengoa,
said in an e-mail today.  Standlee declined to say whether it’s profitable for the
company to make the fuel. Abengoa decided to shutter the plant
last month for the maintenance after the worst U.S. drought in
56 years decimated cornfields and raised the cost of producing
the biofuel.  Denatured ethanol for November delivery dropped 2 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $2.375 a gallon at 11 a.m. local time on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade. Prices have increased 7.8 percent this
year.  Corn for December delivery fell 12.25 cents, or 1.6
percent, to $7.3875 a bushel in Chicago. One bushel makes at
least 2.75 gallons of ethanol.  Based on December contracts for ethanol and corn, plants
are losing about 32 cents on each gallon of the biofuel
produced, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. That doesn’t include
profit from the sale of dried distillers’ grains, a byproduct of
ethanol production that can be fed to livestock.  Ethanol  production  rose 3 percent to 825,000 barrels a day
last week, the biggest weekly gain since April 27 and the
highest level in six weeks, the Energy Department said in a
report yesterday.  Stockpiles at 19.2 million barrels are 12 percent higher
than a year earlier.  Poet LLC, in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, is the largest U.S.
ethanol producer, followed by  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , in
Decatur, Illinois, according to data from the Renewable Fuels
Association in  Washington , an industry trade group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net 
ABG SM <Equity> 