-- Aberdeen Exits German Property Mutual Funds to Serve Big Clients
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-11-02T11:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/aberdeen-exits-german-property-mutual-funds-to-serve-big-clients.html
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) , which
is winding down its German property mutual funds after failing
to meet investor redemption requests, plans to stop offering
funds to individuals and focus on banks and insurers.  Aberdeen’s  German unit  raised 400 million euros ($515
million) for institutional funds this year and expects to raise
as much as 500 million euros in 2013, Hartmut Leser, head of the
Frankfurt-based unit, said by telephone yesterday. That would
increase the firm’s institutional assets to more than 2 billion
euros.  “Interest rates keep falling and institutional investors
can’t get the returns they need,” Leser said in the interview.
“European real estate has the advantage that it’s very low risk
and low volatility.”  German property mutual funds with 20 billion euros in
assets were forced to wind down since 2010 after failing to meet
investor payment requests. The crisis, which began with
liquidity shortages in 2008, has led some fund managers to scale
back their activities in the industry.  Real estate funds aimed at individual investors shrank 2.4
percent to 83 billion euros in the 12 months through August,
according to  data  compiled by BVI,  Germany ’s funds association.
During that period, funds aimed at institutional investors such
as banks, insurers and pension funds grew by 12.5 percent to
about 35 billion euros.  Institutional investors in Germany, seeking a haven amid
the European sovereign-debt crisis, tripled their real estate
allocation in 2011 to about 15 percent from 5 percent in 2010,
according to data compiled by Union Investment Group.  Canadian Sale  Aberdeen is liquidating three property mutual funds with
assets of about 2.9 billion euros. One of its funds,  Degi
International (GH7A) , yesterday agreed to sell two office towers in
Calgary valued at about 276 million euros, Leser said.  When the credit crisis started to escalate, a scramble to
withdraw money exposed a flaw in real estate mutual funds that
own properties directly. While investors are allowed to withdraw
money daily, the funds hold assets that usually take months to
sell.  “Our mutual funds, across the Aberdeen group, are the only
property mutual funds,” Leser said. “Aberdeen’s strength is
the institutional funds.”  Aberdeen’s new funds are aimed at German pension funds,
insurers, and companies with cash reserves to invest. Clients
can choose between German residential, German commercial and
pan-European funds.  The pan-European fund will target a yield for investors of
as much as 5.5 percent, while the German residential and
commercial funds will aim for 4 percent to 6 percent.  Aberdeen Asset Management, named after the Scottish city in
which it’s based, entered the German property mutual fund
business five years ago by acquiring DEGI Deutsche Gesellschaft
fuer Immobilienfonds mbH from Dresdner Bank AG and  Allianz SE. (ALV)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 