-- Macau Golden Week Sends Melco to Six-Month High
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-11-02T20:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/macau-golden-week-sends-melco-to-six-month-high.html
Chinese stocks traded in New York
extended a third month of gains, as  Melco Crown Entertainment
Ltd. (6883)  rallied on October’s record gaming revenue in Macau.  American depositary receipts of Melco increased 3.7 percent
in the week to $14.89, the highest level since May 2. The
 Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
shares in New York advanced 0.5 percent to 94.81 after posting a
2 percent increase in October.  Seaspan Corp. (SSW)  climbed 8.2
percent, the biggest advance since June, as the container ship
operator reported a third-quarter profit after losses in the
same period last year.  Macau casino revenue  increased to 27.7 billion patacas
($3.5 billion) in October, topping a record set in the same
month last year, as promotions during the Golden Week holiday
attracted more Chinese tourists to the world’s biggest gambling
hub. China is building a high-speed rail and bridge linking
 Macau  with Hong Kong and the mainland as the nation aims to spur
economic growth following a seven-quarter slowdown.  “Melco is a very well-run casino that has benefited from
growth in Macau and will continue to benefit as new
infrastructure makes it easier to get to the island,” Lawrence Haverty, a portfolio manager at Gamco Investors Inc., which
oversees $36.7 billion in assets including Melco, said by phone
yesterday from Rye, New York. “The long-term story for the
casino stocks there is very powerful.”  China ETF Rises  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 1.4 percent in the week
shortened by  Hurricane Sandy  to $37.46. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.2 percent to 1,414.20.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland
companies, also known as the H-share index, added 1.2 percent to
10,833.73 yesterday for a weekly gain of 3.7 percent. The
measure rose more than 20 percent from a Sept. 5 low, indicating
the start of a  bull market . The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained
2.5 percent to 2,117.05, its fourth weekly advance in five.  Gambling revenue increased to an all-time high as Melco and
casino operators  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ,  Galaxy Entertainment Group
Ltd. (27)  and  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  ramp up expansion projects. Melco is
building its latest casino, Studio City, a five-star hotel and
film production facilities on Macau’s Cotai Strip. Sands China
opened the second phase of its latest Cotai Central resort on
Sept. 20, 10 days ahead of the Golden Week holiday.  ‘Going Private’  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  jumped 4.4 percent yesterday to
$24.91, the highest since Aug. 23, with trading volume three
times the stock’s three-month daily average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The advertising company’s board received
a “going private” proposal on Aug. 13 at $27 per share from
Chief Executive Officer Jason Nanchun Jiang, Washington-based
Carlyle and Hong Kong-based FountainVest.  Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG joined
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and Singapore’s DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. to help finance the buyout offer, Dow Jones
Newswires said yesterday, citing people familiar with the deal.  Jing Lu, a Shanghai-based spokesman for Focus Media, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment outside normal
business hours yesterday.  Video website operator  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , the Beijing-based
company that completed a merger in August, tumbled 3.3 percent
to $19.61 yesterday for a weekly decline of 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  