-- AIG Declines as Chartis Premium Revenue Slips at Units
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-02T20:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/aig-declines-as-chartis-premium-revenue-slips-at-units.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that counts the U.S. as its largest shareholder, had
the biggest decline in the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Financials Index as premium revenue slipped at its main units.  AIG  slid  7.2 percent to $32.68 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
trading, its biggest plunge since August, 2011. The company has
advanced about 41 percent this year as the U.S. sold most of its
stake accumulated from a 2008 rescue.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is working to
improve results at the Chartis property-casualty and SunAmerica
life insurers to attract private shareholders as the U.S. seeks
to exit. Third-quarter premium revenue at Chartis fell 3.2
percent, and the company spent $1.05 on claims and expenses for
every premium dollar collected. At SunAmerica, premiums,
deposits and other considerations slid about 19 percent.  “Both AIG Property Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement
modestly underperformed,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., wrote in a research note today.  The insurer reported profit of $1.86 billion late
yesterday, driven by investment results. AIG’s stake in Hong
Kong-based insurer  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  added $527 million to profit
and gains from a vehicle that held mortgage bonds from AIG’s
rescue contributed $330 million.  “The firm’s earnings were largely driven by mark-to-market
gains,” Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., wrote in a research note. “The relatively modest current
core earnings power is why AIG trades at half of book value --
and expanding the profitability of Chartis is what will lead
them to trade for more.”  Superstorm Costs  Stirling said investors may also be concerned about AIG’s
exposure to losses from  Hurricane Sandy . The superstorm lashed
 New Jersey  and flooded parts of New York this week. Catastrophe
modeler Eqecat Inc. said industrywide insured losses may reach
$20 billion. AIG said it’s too early to estimate its losses on
the storm.  “Facing the unknowns from the historic flooding in lower
Manhattan, we believe AIG’s exposure to Sandy is likely to give
most investors pause,” Stirling wrote. “We believe investors
will be well served being cautious.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  