-- Alcatel-Lucent to Consider Asset Sales as Losses Mount
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-11-02T11:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/alcatel-lucent-posts-smaller-loss-than-analysts-predicted.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , the French phone-
equipment maker trading near a 23-year low, is considering asset
sales to bolster its finances after posting a loss and consuming
more cash as demand for its gear wanes.  The stock fell the most in three months after the company
reported a second straight quarterly loss and said it burned
through 360 million euros ($464 million) of cash. A few assets
could be targeted for disposal as Alcatel-Lucent explores ways
to strengthen its balance sheet, its executives said today.  Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen, in his fifth year in
the job, is struggling to turn Alcatel-Lucent around as European
phone companies spend less and Asian rivals add pressure. With
more than  2 billion euros of debt  due over the next three years,
the former BT Group Plc CEO is pressed to do more as thousands
of job cuts have failed to stem losses.  “Stay away from this debt-troubled name,”  Alexander Peterc , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in  London , said in a
note. The company’s finances could deteriorate if asset sales
end up diminishing cash flows, and appeasing debtholders may
mean diluting shareholders, Peterc said.  Alcatel-Lucent  fell  as much as 10 percent -- the biggest
drop since the company said July 17 that it won’t meet its
profit-margin goal this year -- and slid 6.9 percent to 77 cents
at 12:38 p.m. Paris time. The shares had lost 57 percent in the
past 12 months through yesterday and reached their lowest price
since at least 1989 on Oct. 11.  Cash Decline  Alcatel-Lucent is  France ’s most shorted stock, based on
data compiled by financial-information provider Markit, showing
a growing number of investors are predicting further declines.  The shares are worth less than a third of their value from
when Verwaayen took over as CEO in September 2008. Former chiefs
Pat Russo and Serge Tchuruk, who oversaw the merger of Alcatel
SA and Lucent Technologies Inc. in 2006, handed Verwaayen an
unprofitable company with a high cost base. Alcatel’s cash has
since diminished by an average of 700 million euros per year.  “We are looking at all the options to strengthen our
balance sheet,” Chief Financial Officer Paul Tufano said on a
conference call. “We have assets we can dispose of that would
bring in a good amount of liquidity.”  The company now targets a positive net cash position at
year-end, after slumping to a net debt of 84 million euros at
the end of September, meaning it had more debt than cash.
Alcatel will have to pay back back 837 million euros in 2013,
462 million euros the following year, and 1 billion euros in
2015, its  debt maturities  show.  ‘Liquidity Problems’  Standard and Poor’s said Aug. 18 it may reduce the
company’s debt ratings further into junk, citing potentially
worsening liquidity amid waning cash. Alcatel-Lucent’s debt is
also  rated junk  by Moody’s Investors Service.  “The company recognizes implicitly looming liquidity
problems,”  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
Ltd. in London who recommends staying away from the stock, said
today in a note. Alcatel could look at selling some its
intellectual property, Ferragu said.  Verwaayen’s efforts to shore up cash flow so far included a
licensing agreement announced in February, which the company
expects will deliver several hundred million euros from its
29,000 patents. The company has yet to disclose any revenue from
the contract.  Verwaayen has made his mark on Alcatel in the past by
selling assets. He sold a stake in the aerospace manufacturer
Thales SA in 2009 and last year agreed to sell the Genesys call-
center software unit to Permira Advisers LLP for $1.5 billion.  As the company looks at further assets to sell, its
enterprise, strategic industries and submarine businesses have
frequently been cited by analysts as targets. These businesses
were placed under Tufano’s management in September, separately
from Alcatel-Lucent’s other network operations.  Job Cuts  The third-quarter net loss was 146 million euros, compared
with a profit of 194 million euros a year earlier. Analysts had
forecast a loss of 149.1 million euros, the average of  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales declined 2.8 percent to 3.6 billion
euros, compared with the 3.55 billion euros analysts projected.  To save money, Verwaayen is cutting 5,500 jobs worldwide,
including about 15 percent of the company’s workforce in France,
as part of a 1.25 billion-euro savings program. Alcatel-Lucent
said it has achieved more than 450 million euros of savings so
far as part of the plan.  “We’ve done a good job on costs -- we’ve promised
ourselves that the cost structure of the company will be
fundamentally changed and we’re in the process of doing that,”
Verwaayen said on today’s call. “The speed of our cost cutting
will also have an impact on our cash position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  