-- Ally Financial Swings to Profit on Gains From Mortgages
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-11-02T19:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/ally-reports-384-million-profit-for-third-quarter.html
(Corrects year-earlier data and exclusions for mortgage
results in the sixth paragraph.)  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto lender
that got a $17.2 billion government bailout, reported a $384
million third-quarter profit, reversing a loss from a year
earlier on a gain from its mortgage operations.  Earnings compared with a loss of $898 million in the second
quarter and a loss of $210 million a year earlier, the Detroit-
based company said today in a statement. Profit declined in auto
lending and insurance.  Chief Executive Officer Michael A. Carpenter is selling
assets as he seeks to repay taxpayers for a U.S. rescue during
the credit crisis, and he said today that multiple bidders have
responded. Carpenter, 65, is narrowing the focus of the firm,
formerly known as GMAC Inc., to auto lending and U.S. banking.  “The steps we are taking, coupled with the strength of the
underlying auto finance and direct banking franchises, will
support Ally’s plan to repay the remaining U.S. Treasury
investment and thrive going forward,” Carpenter said in the
statement.  Pretax income at the North American auto finance business
fell 7.4 percent to $510 million and tumbled 70 percent to $33
million at the insurance unit, according to a  presentation  on
the firm’s website.  Ally’s mortgage operations posted pretax income of $354
million, compared with $13 million a year earlier, according to
a slide show. The results exclude the performance of Residential
Capital LLC, the subprime mortgage company that filed for
bankruptcy in May. ResCap raised $4.5 billion last month through
auctions of a servicing and origination business, and a loan
portfolio.  Managing Foreclosures  Profit at the mortgage unit was driven in part by hedging
activities tied to mortgage servicing, the firm said. Ally said
last month it may sell this business, which involves billing,
collections and managing foreclosures.  Carpenter agreed to sell a Canadian unit to Royal Bank of
 Canada  last month in a cash deal providing $4.1 billion in
proceeds to Ally. The firm also agreed to sell its Mexican
insurance business to  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  for $865 million. Ally expects to
“identify plans” this month for other international
operations, including auto finance businesses in  Europe  and
 Latin America , according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  