-- Thames Water Sees Solar Potential at 10% of Its Sites
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-11-02T12:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/thames-water-sees-solar-potential-at-10-of-its-sites.html
Thames Water Utilities Ltd., the
U.K.’s largest privately owned water supplier, sees potential to
add solar power installations at about 10 percent of its 3,500
operational sites, its head of energy said.  The utility already buys power from solar plants installed
at 41 sites including waste facilities with a combined 5.9
megawatts and aims to add 2.9 megawatts more by March, energy
and carbon manager John Gilbert said in an interview.  Kemble Water Holdings Ltd.’s Thames Water unit, which
provides water and sewage services to 14 million customers in
the London area and the Thames Valley, generates 14 percent of
its electricity from renewable energy sources. It hopes to boost
that to 20 percent by 2015. Most of its alternative energy comes
from anaerobic digestion plants that generate power using
methane from sewage.  “The company uses a lot of electricity to pump water so we
look to exploit any opportunities from renewable energy, aiming
to control the cost of power and to reduce  carbon emissions ”
Gilbert said by phone. “PV is a natural extension to our
renewable energy portfolio.”  Thames Water, acquired in 2001 by the German utility  RWE AG (RWE) 
and then bought by Kemble Water five years later, signs long-
term power purchase agreements with developers to buy power from
solar plants installed in its sites. It agreed to the U.K.’s
first solar PPA last year, a 25-year contract valued at 7
million pounds ($11.2 million) with developer  Ennoviga Solar
Ltd.  for 3.7 megawatts at three sites.  ‘Competitive’ Prices  Solar PPAs offer “competitive” prices for electricity for
Thames Water, according to Gilbert. In these deals, the Reading-
based company aims to pay rates below wholesale market prices
for power and to consume the energy generated on site to avoid
losses, he said.  The utility, which is also building two  wind turbines , has
a framework agreement with four solar developers comprising
Ennoviga, British Gas, Promo and Infinity, the energy manager
said. The developers own the plants and also receive feed-in
tariffs, or guaranteed premium rates for clean energy.  There’s potential to build at least 12 megawatts in total,
or almost 1 percent of the company’s annual electricity needs,
Gilbert said. Thames Water is also looking at installing
projects on some of its water tanks, which could increase this
potential, and at the viability of multi-megawatt plants using
the so-called renewable obligation certificates, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  