-- Amgen Bets on Heart Drug as Rivals Aim at Sales: Health
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-11-02T20:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/amgen-bets-on-heart-drug-as-rivals-aim-at-sales-health.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, is developing a new anti-cholesterol
medicine by 2015 that it sees as its best shot to offset reduced
sales when its popular anemia drugs lose exclusivity.  Amgen has traded at a record high by resorting to share
buybacks and dividend payments, investor benefits that aren’t
normally linked to biotech companies. By 2015, though, the
anemia drugs Aranesp and Epogen, with a combined $4 billion in
estimated sales this year, will face competition from rivals
introducing cheaper follow-on versions, necessitating growth
from new products.  The drug AMG-145 is one of several that companies are
developing to target a cholesterol-regulating gene in the liver,
a new approach to current therapies that generate $39 billion in
annual sales. Some of the world’s biggest drugmakers,  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ,  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and Sanofi are testing versions. Data to
be presented next week at the American Heart Association meeting
in  Los Angeles  will show how AMG-145 stacks up.  “It’s clear that the drug has blockbuster potential,”
 Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in San
Francisco, said in an interview. “AMG-145 could be a $500
million-plus opportunity for Amgen, and could be bigger
depending on what parts of the market they capture.”  The market for drugs targeting the liver cholesterol gene
may be at least $10 billion, said Adnan Butt, an analyst with
RBC Capital Markets in San Francisco, in an e-mail. In the U.S.
alone about 11 million patients aren’t keeping their cholesterol
low enough with standard pills called statins, which include
Pfizer’s Lipitor, and another 1 million can’t take them because
of  side effects  such as muscle soreness, he said.  Product Opening  That leaves an opening for Amgen’s AMG-145, which may head
to pharmacies as soon as 2015 if study results confirm its
efficacy, according to Yee. That may not be soon enough. New
York-based Pfizer, the world’s biggest pharmaceutical company,
Basel, Switzerland-based Roche,  Sanofi (SAN) , based in Paris, and its
development partner on the drug, Tarrytown, New York-based
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. are all racing to be first to
sell their own inhibitors of the gene, called PCSK9, a status
that can lead to market dominance.  Sanofi and Regeneron are testing their drug in the third of
three clinical trials typically required for U.S. regulatory
approval. Amgen said it will start its Phase 3 testing sometime
next year.  Amgen fell less than 1 percent to $86.45 at the close of
trading in  New York . The company’s shares have  gained  35 percent
this year.  “Neck and Neck”  Amgen, Sanofi and Regeneron are running “neck and neck”
to get Food and Drug Administration approval, said  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at  Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio . The
class is eagerly awaited by physicians, he said.  “These drugs produce very substantial reductions in LDL
cholesterol levels,” said Nissen, an unpaid consultant to Amgen
on its PCSK9 inhibitor program, in a telephone interview. “It’s
a big step in the right direction.”  For Amgen, winning the race is crucial. The medicine could
become the first new blockbuster approved for the company since
it unveiled its bone-strengthening drug, Xgeva, in November
2010. Another potentially top-selling product, the bone-growth
therapy romosozumab, remains a few years away from approval as
well, Christopher Raymond, an analyst with Robert Baird wrote in
a September note that downgraded shares to neutral.  ‘Biggest’ Drug  AMG-145 “is the biggest single thing we have in the
pipeline, just in terms of raw horsepower from the perspective
of how it affects patients in a positive way,” said Sean Harper, Amgen’s executive vice president of research and
development, in an interview. “This is a major focus for us
because of the potential for impacting the numbers of patients
we’re talking about, at levels of outcomes that are very
serious.”  So far, no significant side effects have been found among
patients taking these medicines in clinical trials, said Nissen.
One downside is that they will have to be injected, he said.  Sanofi and  Regeneron (REGN) ’s compound reduced LDL levels 73
percent in a study, the companies said Oct. 31 in a statement.
Pfizer also will release results of its drug at the heart
group’s meeting next week. Roche said it will have mid-stage
data from its therapy next year.  In March, Amgen said AMG-145 reduced LDL levels in patients
on low- to moderate-doses of statins by as much as 81 percent,
compared with a placebo in a Phase 1 study. It will report at
the heart meeting on Nov. 5 and Nov. 6 how patients taking the
drug alone, with statins and those intolerant of statins
responded.  To be sure, even if the drug looks to be effective in those
tests, it will need to be replicated in larger, later-stage
trials before it can win approval from the FDA. In the meantime,
Amgen will have fewer options for maintaining the earnings
growth it has engineered through financial maneuvers, Baird’s
Raymond wrote in a note last month.  “We do worry about the sustainability of earnings growth
based mostly on price increases, share buybacks and expense
leverage going forward,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  