-- Anglo Irish Bank Accord May Be Sealed in 2012, Minister Says
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-11-02T09:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/anglo-irish-bank-accord-may-be-sealed-by-year-end-minister-says.html
Ireland may seal an accord by the end
of the year to refinance bailout funds injected into the former
Anglo Irish Bank Corp., said Lucinda Creighton, European Affairs
Minister.  “It is possible that a debt deal specifically relating to
our promissory notes could be arrived at by the start” or
during Ireland’s six-month term at the head of the European
Union, which begins in January, Creighton said in an interview
yesterday in Dublin. “There is every possibility.”  Ireland nationalized Anglo Irish in 2009, and injected 31
billion euros ($40 billion) into the bank and rival Irish
Nationwide in the form of so-called promissory notes. The
lenders, which merged last year, use the notes to access cash
from the country’s central bank, which is due to be paid back
over more than a decade.  The government of Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  argues that a
deal to lessen the burden of the debt will aid a full return to
international credit markets after the nation’s 2010 bailout.
Yields on Ireland’s benchmark 2020 bond rose 2 basis points to
4.76 percent today, down from 7.4 percent at the start of June
and 14 percent in July of last year.  Repay Borrowings  The government is considering injecting as much as 40
billion euros of notes of as long as 40 years in duration into
the bank, according to a person familiar with the talks in
September. The plan would avoid the Irish state having to raise
at least 3 billion euros a year for the next decade to pay down
the central bank borrowing.  A 40-year government bond is “a good option,” Creighton
said. “It is one that would essentially assist us very much in
terms of our debt sustainability and would mean over time the
burden on the state would diminish relative to GDP as our
economy grows.”  Ireland will take over the EU presidency as the euro-area
wrestles with putting the  European Central Bank  in charge of
lenders within the currency union and other participating
nations. Cyprus, the current holder of the rotating six-month
presidency, is drawing up the legislative framework for the
supervisor.  EU leaders have said a common bank supervisor must be in
place before they can consider allowing banks to receive direct
aid from the bloc’s bailout fund. Ireland will inherit that
coordinating role and face the task of getting the supervisory
mechanism “up and running,” according to Creighton. Regardless
of the presidency, the government will pursue a bank deal for
Ireland with “absolute determination,” she said.  Sale Option  Ireland may also seek refunds from the euro region’s new
rescue facility, the European Stability Mechanism, to cover the
30 billion-euro cost of bailing out the rest of the financial
system, including  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and  Bank of Ireland
Plc .  While Irish banks don’t need further capital, the sale of
stakes in lenders to the ESM is “certainly” one option,
Creighton said.  “There is a distinct understanding among EU capitals that
we have fulfilled all our obligations under the troika program,
that we are poised to become the first country to re-enter the
markets, to be the success story,” Creighton said. “They want
us to achieve that.”  Ireland is budgeting to spend about 64 million euros on its
presidency, about a third less than when it last held the role
during its economic boom in 2004. Ministerial meetings will take
place in Dublin at state-owned properties, as will most of the
high-level official meetings, according to Creighton.  “It won’t be presidency of bells and whistles, it will be
a more sedate affair in terms of at least the trappings,”
according to Creighton, who said the emphasis will be on
substance. “I’m very optimistic on what we can deliver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  