-- Apple, Google, Nidera, Disney: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-02T12:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/apple-google-nidera-disney-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was criticized by U.K.
judges for posting a notice on its website about a lawsuit with
Samsung Electronics Co. that was “untrue” and “incorrect.”  The U.K. Court of Appeal in  London  ordered Apple to remove
the statement within 24 hours and replace it with a new notice
acknowledging the inaccurate comments.  “I’m at a loss that a company such as Apple would do
this,” Judge Robin Jacob said yesterday. “That is a plain
breach of the order.”  The decision is the latest in a lawsuit that produced a
July judgment in which another London court said the design for
three Samsung Galaxy tablets didn’t infringe Apple’s registered
design because they were not “cool” enough. Apple, based in
Cupertino,  California , was told by the same court last month to
post a notice about the ruling that Samsung’s Galaxy tablets
didn’t copy the design of Apple’s iPad.  The court’s initial order was for a simple notice on its
website about the Oct. 18 judgment meant to correct the
impression Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung had copied Apple’s
product.  Apple’s post, criticized by judges yesterday, inserted four
paragraphs including excerpts of the original “cool” ruling
regarding the tablets’ coolness that appear to favor Apple and
details of German lawsuits about similar issues that the court
yesterday said weren’t true.  The notice created the “impression that the U.K. court is
out of step with other courts,” Henry Carr, Samsung’s lawyer,
said in a filing.  “It was clear the judges were not happy with what Apple
had done,” Gary Moss, a lawyer at EIP Partnership LLP who isn’t
involved in the case but attended yesterday’s hearing, said in a
phone interview. “They thought Apple was playing fast and
loose.”  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment on
the ruling. Michael Beloff, a lawyer for the company, told the
court the comments were in line with the original order.  The notice “is not designed to punish, it is not designed
to makes us grovel,” Beloff said in court yesterday. “The only
purpose is to dispel commercial uncertainty.”  Apple’s request for 14 days to make the changes was
rejected.  “I would like to see the head of Apple make an affidavit
setting out the technical difficulties which means Apple can’t
put this on” their website, Jacob said. “I just can’t believe
the instructions you’ve been given. This is Apple. They cannot
put something on their website?”  Apple must now add a three sentence note on its homepage in
acknowledgment of “the incorrect statement,” with a link to a
new notice, the judges said yesterday.  Activist’s Estate Says Permission Needed for ‘Gay is Good’ Use  The efforts of a gay-rights activist to set up a page on
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social media site highlighting contributions
gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people have made to
society has run into a potential trademark problem, the
 Washington  Blade newspaper  reported .  Christopher Dyer of Washington received a cease-and-desist
letter telling him his slogan for the page -- “Gay is Good,
Make LGBT Great” -- infringed a registered U.S. trademark,
according to the Blade.  The “Gay is Good” mark was created by the late  Frank
Kameny , a gay rights activist, and registered by his estate with
the intention of make sure the phrase is always used in a
respectful fashion, the newspaper reported.  Dyer, former head of the Office of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual
and Transgender Affairs in Washington, told the Blade that while
he’ll quit using the phrase, he is “frankly disgusted” the
estate registered the trademark and is trying to control its
use.  Aussie Registers ‘Mate,’ Hopes to Rival Billabong’s Reach  An Australian truck driver has registered “mate” as a
trademark in his county, Queensland,  Australia ’s Sunshine Coast
Daily  reported .  Trent Lecky of Bli Bli, Australia, said he wants to turn
his mark “into an Australian brand that people around the world
can relate to,” according to the newspaper.  He said that while his goal isn’t necessarily to make
money, he hopes to sell 1,000 shirts through his
 MateAustralia.com  website by Christmas and eventually rival
 Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  as an Australian clothing brand,
the newspaper reported.  Lecky told the newspaper he is using a page on Facebook
Inc.’s social media site to promote his brand.  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  FTC Staff Said to Formally Recommend Google Patent Suit  Google Inc. (GOOG)  should be sued by the Federal Trade Commission
for trying to block competitors’ access to key smartphone-
technology patents in violation of antitrust law, the agency’s
staff told commissioners in a formal recommendation, according
to four people familiar with the matter.  A majority of the agency’s five commissioners are inclined
to sue, according to the people, who declined to be identified
because the matter isn’t public. A final decision on the staff
recommendation, made last month, isn’t likely until after the
Nov. 6 presidential election, they said.  At issue are Google’s efforts to block U.S. imports of
products made by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Apple Inc. by claiming the
devices, which rely on industry-standard technology, infringe
patents owned by Google’s Motorola Mobility unit, the people
said.  “We take our commitments to license on fair, reasonable,
and non-discriminatory terms very seriously and are happy to
answer any questions,” Niki Fenwick, a Google spokeswoman,
said.  Peter Kaplan , a spokesman for the FTC, declined to
comment.  The FTC opened a formal probe into the matter in June, when
it began seeking information from companies including Microsoft
and Apple about whether Google offered licensing for technology
under patents that help operate 3G wireless, Wi-Fi and video
streaming on fair and reasonable terms, a person familiar with
the matter said at the time.  Industry-standard technology helps ensure that different
manufacturers’ products, such as mobile phone antennas and
global-positioning system software, work together. Companies
that create technology that helps develop the agreed-upon
industry standard pledge to license patents for those inventions
on reasonable terms.  Argentina Seed Law May Be Postponed Until 2013, Cronista Says  Argentina ’s Congress may postpone until 2013 a debate on a
seed law to protect  intellectual property  rights for
agricultural biotechnology, El Cronista said, citing
unidentified executives from seed producers such as Asociados
Don Mario SA and Nidera SA.  Congress will delay the debate after opposition from some
farm organizations, Buenos Aires-based El Cronista said. Seed
producers support the proposed law that will primarily benefit
 Monsanto Co. (MON) , which has a patent for seeds in Argentina, it
said.  Farmers aren’t currently required to pay royalties on seeds
they withhold for the next planting season, the newspaper said.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Disney’s ‘Mr. Young’ Accused of Infringing ‘Student Teacher’  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , which agreed this week to buy  George Lucas ’s Lucasfilm Ltd. for $4.05 billion, was sued for copyright
infringement by a Los Angeles screenwriter.  According to the complaint filed Oct. 30 in federal court
in Los Angeles, the company is accused of infringing copyrights
to a script and “show bible” for “Student Teacher,” a
television series about a student who becomes the teacher in his
class.  Emir Tiar, who writes as E.T. Radcliffe, said he submitted
the script and the show bible -- a written sales pitch for the
script -- through the William Morris Agency, which he said
showed interest in his project.  He said that after initial discussions with Morris, he was
told in 2009 his project was too “high concept” for American
audiences and that the script was unmarketable.  Tiar later discovered a program “Mr. Young” airing on one
of the Disney channels.  The program, he said contains “all the
elements” of “Student Teacher.” He claims Disney is now
earning money from infringing his script, and that he is damaged
by the studio’s actions.  The Morris agency is co-defendant with Disney, as are a
Canadian production company that filmed the show and producer
Dan Signer.  Tiar asked the court to declare his copyright is infringed,
and that he is entitled to “at least $100 million based on the
fact that the television series is now in its third season and
is being broadcast in 31 different countries,” according to
court papers.  Additionally, he asked for awards of litigation costs and
attorney fees.  Disney didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is Emir Tiar v. Walt Disney Co., 2:12-cv-09323-GW-
FFM, U.S. District Court, Central District of California ( Los
Angeles ).  Arbitron, Magic Broadcasting Settle Copyright-Infringement Suit  Arbitron Inc. (ARB) , the media research and marketing firm,
settled a copyright-infringement dispute with Magic Broadcasting
LLC.  According to an Oct. 31 statement from the Columbia,
Maryland-based company, the dispute had involved the use of some
of its rating data after the expiration of a contract with
Magic, the former owner and operator of six FM  radio stations  in
 Alabama .  Magic, based in Panama City Beach,  Florida , had a license
to use Arbitron audience-measurement reports through March 31,
2010. Arbitron filed the infringement suit in November 2011,
after saying it found that Magic was using Arbitron data to
promote the radio stations after the license ended.  The dispute was settled for an undisclosed sum, Arbitron
said in its statement. Magic agreed to refrain from making any
future unauthorized use of Arbitron ratings data and its on-air
personalities are barred from making any reference to the data,
the company said.  The case is Arbitron Inc. v. Magic Broadcasting LLC, 1:11-
cv-08311-DLC, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 