-- Apple New York Stores Sell Out IPad Minis After Sandy Hit
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-11-02T20:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/apple-new-york-stores-sell-out-ipad-minis-after-sandy-hit.html
New Yorkers looking to buy the latest
version of  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s iPad had fewer stores to shop in today,
after  Hurricane Sandy  induced power blackouts, hobbled
transportation and left some retail outlets shuttered.  Supplies of the iPad mini are sold out at Apple’s flagship
Fifth Avenue store, with white and silver models gone within 30
minutes, said Brian White, an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets.
Almost 600 people lined up outside the store, according to  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, and other
retailers are grappling with transportation and supply
complications as the New York metropolitan area begins the
recovery from Sandy, which made landfall on Oct. 29. Two of
Apple’s five stores in the city are closed today due to the
storm, as are some in New Jersey. Lines at the open locations
suggest the weather won’t hamper sales, White said.  “The iPad mini is off to a strong start and we believe
this will be the next star in the Apple portfolio,” White said.  Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment.  Apple may sell 1 million to 1.5 million iPad minis in the
launch weekend, Munster said in a research note. The iPad mini
models with Wi-Fi went on sale today in the U.S., priced from
$329 to $529 based on the amount of memory. Apple typically
announces opening weekend sales figures on the Monday after the
debut.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , fell 3.3 percent to
$576.80 at the close in New York. The shares have risen 42
percent this year.  New York, a city of 8 million, is reeling after the largest
tropical system measured in the Atlantic inundated transit
tunnels and flooded parts of all five boroughs. The storm killed
at least 92 people in the U.S., including 41 New Yorkers, and
knocked out power to as many as 8.5 million homes and businesses
along the East Coast. About 3.6 million customers remained
without power as of 9 a.m. today, from  Virginia  to  Massachusetts 
and as far west as  Michigan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  