-- Marijuana-Backing Libertarians Leave Haze Over Colorado Vote
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-11-02T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/marijuana-backing-libertarians-leave-haze-over-colorado-vote.html
Colorado ’s importance in the
presidential race can be measured in time: President Barack Obama will campaign there twice and  Mitt Romney  at least once in
the final days before the Nov. 6 election.  An aggregation of recent polls shows the race tied, meaning
any small movement in the electorate could shape the outcome.  “It most definitely is as close a race as you can
imagine,” said  Kyle Saunders , a political science professor at
 Colorado State University . “If this is as close as we think it
is, that margin could be affected by a third-party candidate.”  The race is so tight that the presence of Libertarian
candidate Gary Johnson, a former Republican governor from
neighboring  New Mexico , and his support for legalizing marijuana
in the state, could siphon off enough to tip the state’s nine
electoral votes to either candidate.  As a Libertarian dedicated to less federal spending and
government power, Johnson could take votes from Romney. Yet he’s
antiwar and favors easing  marijuana  restrictions, which is also
on the ballot, and that could hurt Obama’s totals.  “We have a natural fit with Colorado,” Johnson, 59, said
in an interview. “I embrace the notion of being a spoiler. The
two-party system is outdated. Politics right now is very status
quo. It’s really like a non-choice.”  Slim Lead  A CNN/ORC International  poll  of likely voters released
yesterday showed Obama with a slim lead over Romney of 50
percent to 48 percent. The survey was taken Oct. 26-31 and has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  When Johnson and other third-party candidates were included
in the questioning, Johnson received support from 4 percent, and
Obama’s advantage over Romney dropped to 48 percent to 47
percent.  Adding more uncertainty is the ballot initiative that would
give Colorado the nation’s most liberal marijuana law. The
proposal to legalize possession of as much as one ounce of the
drug for recreational use by adults 21 and older appeals to
younger voters, a constituency that strongly backed Obama four
years ago that is more disillusioned now.  “If that attracts more people to the polls, that will
probably benefit  Barack Obama ,” said  Peter Hanson , a political
science professor at the University of Denver who once worked
for former Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle. Still, some of
those young Democratic-leaning voters may opt for Johnson
instead of Obama.  Taking Votes  “In some states, I take more votes from Obama and in some
I take more from Romney,” Johnson said.  Johnson, who has supported legalizing marijuana since 1999,
said the effort to allow some legal use of the drug is helping
his candidacy in Colorado.  The marijuana proposal had a narrow lead in a SurveyUSA
 poll  for the  Denver Post  taken Oct. 9-10, with 48 percent of
likely voters supporting it and 43 percent opposed. The survey
had a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points.  The Libertarian Party was founded in a Colorado Springs
living room more than four decades ago and Saunders said the
party’s candidates tend to have a stronger appeal in western
states. Libertarians are sometimes drawn to the  Republican
Party ’s less-government philosophy.  Obama, 51, stands to benefit from the state’s growing
Hispanic population. The population is 21 percent Hispanic,
census data shows.  Hispanic Poll  A Pew Hispanic Center national  poll  released Oct. 11 showed
registered Hispanic voters support Obama over Romney 69 percent
to 21 percent. That margin is wider than in 2008, when Obama
received 67 percent of the Hispanic vote compared with 31
percent for the Republican presidential nominee,  Arizona  Senator
 John McCain .  At the same time, Hispanics this year appear less motivated
than the general population to go to the polls. The Pew survey
showed 77 percent said they were “absolutely certain” to vote,
compared with 89 percent of all registered voters.  Romney’s suggestion during the primary campaign that
undocumented immigrants “self-deport,” and Obama’s
announcement in June that the U.S. would no longer deport
undocumented residents brought to the country as children also
help the incumbent with Hispanics.  Ad War  Obama and Romney are appealing to Hispanics with Spanish-
language advertisements. In the past 30 days in Colorado, there
were 12 such ads, including five sponsored by Romney and the
 Republican National Committee , according to data from  New York- 
based Kantar Media’s CMAG. Crossroads GPS and the American
Future Fund, outside groups assisting Romney, also paid for
Spanish advertising. The rest were by Obama and Democratic
supporters, including the  Service Employees International Union .  The suburbs around the Denver area also are expected to
play a critical role in picking the winner.  The CNN poll shows Obama beating Romney by almost 2 to 1 in
the state’s two largest urban Democratic strongholds, Denver and
Boulder. In the Denver suburbs, Obama’s support drops, although
he still holds a 53 percent to 45 percent advantage over Romney.
The former Massachusetts governor leads 55 percent to 43 percent
outside the Denver area.  Both Saunders and Hanson pointed to the suburban Denver
counties of Arapahoe and Jefferson as being the key swing areas
in the state where Obama and Romney both need to do well if they
are to carry Colorado.  New Battleground  The state’s status as a battleground is relatively new.
With the exception of 1964 and 1992, Republican presidential
candidates had carried the state in every election since 1950,
before Obama won it by 8.6 percentage points in 2008 after
holding his party’s national nominating convention that year in
Denver.  The state’s  unemployment rate  of 8 percent in September was
just above the national rate of 7.8 percent that month.  The importance and closeness of the race in Colorado was on
display earlier this week when  Bill Clinton  arrived in the
Denver area. The former president is a top surrogate for the
current president, so how he is deployed is telling about where
the Obama campaign feels the need to shore up support.  Obama visited the state yesterday as part of a three-state
swing and he’s scheduled to return on Nov. 4.  Romney’s campaign stops in the state this year were mostly
in areas dominated by Republicans. Last week, he turned his
attention to suburban Denver voters with a rally that drew more
than 10,000 supporters to the  Red Rocks Amphitheatre  in
Morrison, Colorado.  Romney Return  Romney, 65, is  scheduled  to return to the state again this
weekend for an event at the Comfort Dental Amphitheatre, an
18,000-seat venue that is the largest outdoor amphitheater in
the Denver metropolitan area. He’ll also stop in  Colorado
Springs .  Colorado is one of the few swing states where Romney has
led in early voting. With the equivalent of 47.5 percent of the
total 2008 vote already recorded this year through Oct. 31,
Republicans have cast 38.2 percent of the ballots, compared with
35.2 percent for Democrats and 25.6 percent for independent
voters, according to the secretary of state’s office there.  Another reason for Romney optimism is the advantage
Republicans have among active registered voters. Republicans
have the most registered at 912,456, followed by 882,063
unaffiliated voters and 871,712 Democrats, according to the
secretary of state’s office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  