-- Pentagon Bringing Fuel to Relieve Gas Station Backups
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-11-03T04:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/marines-in-v-22s-land-off-brooklyn-to-aid-in-recovery.html
President  Barack Obama  directed the
Pentagon’s Defense Logistics Agency to purchase as much as 22
million gallons of unleaded gasoline and diesel fuel to relieve
miles-long lines at service stations after the superstorm Sandy.  “This purchase will be transported by tanker trucks and
distributed throughout New York, New Jersey and other
communities impacted by the storm, ”  the Federal Emergency
Management Agency said yesterday  in a statement .  The defense agency will deliver as much as 12 million
gallons of unleaded gasoline and 10 million gallons of diesel
fuel. It will seek as many as 120 civilian trucks for the
project, Lieutenant Colonel Tom Crosson, a Pentagon spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  With the tempers of motorists flaring and stations shutting
down for lack of supplies, the Obama administration took actions
including waiving a law that ordinarily permits only U.S.-flag
tankers to move refined products between U.S. ports. In New
Jersey, Governor Chris Christie imposed alternate-day fuel
rationing in 12 counties based on license-plate numbers.  The price of a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline in New
Jersey yesterday was $3.56, down a penny from last week before
the storm hit, according to the AAA automobile club’s daily
 pricing report . In New York, the price was $3.94 a gallon, two
cents less than a week ago before Sandy hit.  For the Pentagon, the unaccustomed role of gas-station
supplier was part of a mobilization by air, land and sea to
assist in New York, New Jersey and neighboring states struggling
in the aftermath of the storm that made landfall near Atlantic
City on Oct. 29.  V-22 Osprey  The Defense Department “is focusing on providing unique
capabilities to support civilian efforts to restore power to
vital facilities and to assist with the resumption of mass
transit services in the New York and New Jersey area,” the
department said yesterday in a statement.  Marines in V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft arrived Nov. 1
on the deck of the USS Wasp, the first among about 320 Marines
and sailors based in North Carolina deployed to three Navy
warships floating about five miles off of  Brooklyn , according to
Captain Lucas Burke, a Marine spokesman.  The  V-22 , made by  Textron Inc. (TXT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) , flies like a
plane and lands like a helicopter.  The Pentagon’s commitment of military equipment and
personnel also included 17 cargo planes that brought equipment,
vehicles and crews to help restore power.  Shipboard Housing  More than 120 high-flow water pumps and more than 400
personnel were sent to the region to help drain floodwaters,
according to Crosson. The Pentagon calls that mission “un-
watering.”  The Energy Department said yesterday that it was loaning
the Defense Logistics Agency ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel from
its Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve. The fuel will be
distributed to federal, state and local responders in the New
York and New Jersey area, the Energy Department said. The
logistics agency estimated that it will initially draw down 2
million gallons from the reserve, the Energy Department said.  The logistics agency is also working to provide 1 million
meals to New York City residents by Nov. 5, Crosson said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The Transportation Department’s Maritime Administration is
providing three vessels from the National Defense Reserve Fleet
to provide housing for first responders in New York City.  MH-60 Helicopters  The Marines from the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit, based
at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, deployed onboard the Wasp will
be capable of “providing generators, fuel, clean water, and a
substantial helicopter lift capacity to aid in disaster relief
efforts,” the Marine Corps said in a statement.  The two other ships, the USS San Antonio and USS Carter
Hall, are each carrying one Landing Craft Utility ship-to-shore
 vessel .  The San Antonio is equipped with MH-60 helicopters and
rescue swimmers awaiting deployment orders, Crosson said.  In addition, National Guard spokesman Rick Breitenfeldt
said in an e-mail that more than 220 Air Guard and Army Guard
helicopters and 50 fixed-wing aircraft were available for search
and rescue, reconnaissance and cargo missions.  Among tasks taken on by the National Guard so far, the New
York National Guard helped distribute 144,000 meals from
distribution centers in New York City and Long Island and the
New Jersey National Guard has rescued more than 2,000 people and
200 pets, according to the statement.  A combined Task Force with 41 soldiers from four states
that arrived Oct. 31 and is located at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-
Lakehurst in New Jersey is equipped with two CH-47 Chinook
helicopters and six UH-60 Black Hawks, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  