-- Arizona’s Arpaio Faces Election Fight as Latinos Mobilize
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/arizona-s-arpaio-faces-election-fight-as-latinos-mobilize.html
The protesters in the chicken suits
arrived at the Republican picnic within minutes of Maricopa
County Sheriff Joe Arpaio and one of his most famous supporters,
action star Steven Seagal.  The self-proclaimed “ America’s toughest sheriff ,”
surrounded by enthusiastic Republicans, had just been telling
reporters the secret to his 20-year reign as the top cop in
 Arizona ’s most populous county amid federal civil-rights
lawsuits and millions of dollars in legal settlements.  “You know what my secret is? They are,” he said,
motioning to the cheering crowd that formed around him at the
state Republicans’ picnic and candidate rally Oct. 27 at Mesa
Community College. “They can go after me from the president on
down with all their garbage, but it is them -- them -- that get
me elected.”  As Arpaio, 80, seeks an unprecedented sixth term in office,
he is showcasing his softer side in campaign commercials
featuring his work with  abused animals  and  his wife of 55 years 
while counting on the loyalty of long-time supporters and
donations from fans nationwide to ward off what may prove to be
the toughest challenge of his political career.  Dogged by protesters at almost every public event -- such
as the chicken-suited  Citizens for a Better Arizona , who want
him to participate in debates -- Arpaio is on the defensive as
never before. He faces a 45-year-old retired Phoenix police
sergeant who says he wants to restore professionalism to the
office known under Arpaio for jail-house tents, pink underwear
and forays into reality TV.  Latino Support  Democrat  Paul Penzone ’s candidacy has been buoyed by
support in the Latino community galvanized by opposition to
Arpaio, who has become a symbol of Arizona’s anti-illegal
immigration zeal. The sheriff’s so-called “crime suppression”
sweeps in mostly Hispanic neighborhoods have made him a hero to
those nationwide seeking a crack-down on undocumented residents
while angering the county’s growing Latino population and
drawing a U.S. Justice Department civil rights lawsuit, which is
continuing.  During a campaign year when there has been much speculation
about the impact of the Latino vote, the Maricopa County
sheriff’s race is the battle on the front line: How well
activists mobilize Latino voters to come out against Arpaio may
have ripple effects for Democrats up the ticket in the state,
including U.S. Senate candidate Richard Carmona and President
 Barack Obama .  ‘Civic Engagement’  Arizona is seeing “an awakening of the Latino community in
civic engagement,” said Petra Falcon, executive director of
 Promise Arizona in Action , which has registered with partner
groups more than 34,000 new Latino voters this year. Working
with the “ Adios Arpaio ” campaign, they are now trying to turn
those registrations into votes for Penzone.  Arpaio “sends fear and terror into the community,” Falcon
said in her central Phoenix campaign office last weekend. She
wore an “Adios Arpaio” T-shirt with the silhouette depiction
of a portly sheriff galloping away on his horse. Latino
activists helped defeat the author of Arizona’s 2010 immigration
law, former Senate President Russell Pearce who was ousted in a
recall election last year, and now they are focused on Arpaio,
she said.  “We want a new sheriff and we think that Paul Penzone can
fill the role,” she said.  Polls Limited  The limited polling in the race shows Penzone continuing to
trail Arpaio and struggling with name recognition. Democratic
polls peg the gap between the candidates at about 5 percentage
points while Republican polls show it three times as large. A
poll conducted in mid-October for Project New America, a Denver-
based research group with Democratic ties, found 40 percent of
those surveyed didn’t know who Penzone was.  That’s what Promise Arizona in Action campaign workers were
trying to change Oct. 27 in South Phoenix’s Coffelt Housing
project. Devin Del Palacio, 25, and Joel Juarez, 19, went door-
to-door to collect early ballots, hand out flyers and spread the
word about Penzone -- a message complicated by the presence in
the race of independent candidate  Mike Stauffer , who could
siphon anti-Arpaio votes.  “We’re really making a huge push,” Del Palacio told Rosie
Carrillo, 47, when she came out on the porch of her small white
public housing unit. “We’ve got to tell people about Paul
Penzone -- that’s the guy we want.”  Carrillo said she doesn’t know who Penzone is. Still, she
doesn’t like Arpaio and knows someone who was mistreated in his
jails, she said. She filled out her ballot on the spot and gave
it to them.  ‘Later, Arpaio’  “See you later, Arpaio,” she said.  Penzone said he wants to restore law-enforcement
fundamentals to a sheriff’s office he believes has strayed from
its mission -- evidenced by  Arpaio’s inquiry  into Obama’s birth
certificate earlier this year and the resources diverted to
immigration busts as serious crimes weren’t  investigated , he
said.  “He really enjoys the notoriety of the position instead of
the responsibility,” Penzone said. “He talks about how tough
he is -- it’s a prerequisite in law enforcement to be tough. It
is a tough job. But effective and efficient is the goal.”  While Penzone wouldn’t close  Tent City  -- the outdoor jail
Arpaio opened in 1993 -- he said he would reduce liabilities
from poor inmate care. Penzone said he would do a better job
patrolling the areas the office is responsible for and fixing
what he sees as deficiencies in staffing.  “It’s not sexy, it doesn’t get a whole lot of media
attention, it is just fundamentally sound law enforcement,”
Penzone said.  Latino Voters  He knows a victory for him probably rests with Latinos.  “If there is a strong showing of Latino voters, I think we
win,” he said.  At the Republican picnic, Chuck and Brenda Stockard of
Phoenix said they stand behind Sheriff Joe, as Arpaio is widely
known.  “He’s obviously doing a good job because he has a lot of
people upset with him,” said Chuck Stockard, 59, who wears a
National Rifle Association T-shirt. Brenda Stockard, 54, who is
glad Arpaio investigated Obama’s citizenship, said when she
talks to people in other states, “they wish they had a sheriff
like him.”  Before he addressed the crowd, Arpaio, still bristling at
protesters who interrupted his media interviews earlier, denied
that the race with Penzone is tight and asked why he should
debate him: “Why would I give him publicity? People know who I
am.”  Still, he acknowledges that some voters, especially in the
Latino community, may be enthusiastically working for his defeat
this year.  ‘More irritation’  “I do know that I have a little more irritation than all
my other elections because of the illegal immigration,” he
said. “I do know that a lot of them don’t like what I am
doing.”  This campaign is “more nasty” than others, he said. “I
seem to be the target.”  That’s because the media won’t let him get his story out:
he’s really a nice guy, he said. He called over Ava Arpaio, 81,
to meet a reporter. She wore a gold pendant around her neck, the
shape of a sheriff’s badge, adorned with sapphires, rubies and
diamonds.  “Every time I get elected, I buy her another diamond,”
Arpaio explained.  After two decades in office, though, the pendant appears
complete. Where will they put the next diamond? The sheriff and
his wife looked at each other. He’s confident he can pull it
off, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  