-- Armstrong Loss of Tour de France Wins Won’t Be Appealed by WADA
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-02T18:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/armstrong-loss-of-tour-de-france-wins-won-t-be-appealed-by-wada.html
Lance Armstrong ’s competition ban and
removal as winner of a record seven  Tour de France  titles won’t
be appealed by the  World Anti-Doping Agency .  The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency stripped the 1999-2005
victories from Armstrong last month and banned him for life from
events it sanctions following an investigation into doping
throughout his career. The International Cycling Union, known by
the French acronym UCI, then opted not to appeal USADA’s
findings, leaving WADA as the next governing body with a chance
to appeal the American agency’s ruling.  Montreal-based WADA found that after a “full and careful
review” of all the elements of the case, including the
application of the statute of limitations, USADA’s actions were
“proper and supported by case law,” it said today in a news
release. WADA also said it didn’t agree with UCI criticism of
USADA’s handling of the investigation.  “WADA has no such concerns as to the complete process and
the overwhelming weight of evidence,” John Fahey, its president,
said in a statement. “Rather, it is of the opinion that the
actions of USADA have highlighted the need in all cases for
athletes to be able to come forward with evidence that will help
rid sport of doping cheats.”  Colorado Springs , Colorado-based USADA cited a career
“fueled start to finish by doping” by the 41-year-old
Armstrong, revealing the results of its investigation in a 202-
page summary that included sworn testimony from 26 people,
including 15 riders with direct knowledge of doping activity on
Armstrong’s U.S. Postal Service pro cycling team.  Doping Denied  Armstrong, who throughout his career denied doping and said
he never failed a drug test, was banned after opting not to
contest USADA’s decision before an arbitration board.  An e-mail seeking comment about WADA’s decision sent to Tim
Herman, an attorney for Armstrong, wasn’t immediately returned.  Fahey also called for “genuine independence” in a UCI
plan to set up an external commission that will look into its
governance of the sport and how it handled issues relating to
Armstrong, which include accepting financial donations from the
American. Three-time Tour de France winner  Greg LeMond  on Oct.
25 called on UCI President Pat McQuaid to quit over how he ran
the sport.  “Only with the necessary independence and terms of
reference will the inquiry be able to properly address the
systemic culture of doping that was allowed to develop in
cycling during this time,” Fahey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  