-- Harper Rejecting Petronas Clouds Investment Talks in Asia
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-11-02T14:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/harper-rejecting-petronas-clouds-investment-talks-in-asia.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
reluctance to approve foreign investment by Asian state-owned
enterprises such as  China ’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  may undermine his push to
attract the capital  Canada  needs to develop its natural
resources as he visits  Asia  for the third time this year.  Harper travels to  India , the  Philippines  and  Hong Kong  Nov.
4 to Nov. 11, where he will tout Canada’s goal to “sell our
energy to the world,” according to chief spokesman Andrew
MacDougall. “That’s the goal in India, that’s the goal in the
Asia Pacific region,” MacDougall told reporters yesterday.  That message may be clouded by the government’s resistance
to takeovers by Asian state-owned companies, such as the C$5.2
billion ($5.2 billion) bid by Petroliam Nasional Bhd., known as
Petronas, for  Progress Energy Resources (PRQ)  Corp. of Calgary, which
was blocked last month.  “What’s the point of going to somebody’s house when you’re
going to reject what they offer you?” said  Sachin Shah , a
merger arbitrage specialist at Tullett Prebon Americas Corp. in
 New York . “If you’re on the outside looking in, you’re saying
‘I can’t believe we have the money, the global economy’s not
growing, and you believe that our opportunity to create jobs
isn’t welcome.’”  Harper’s Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver has said the
country’s biggest resource projects will require nearly C$650
billion of investment to develop over the next decade. Harper,
who has touted Canada as an emerging “energy superpower,” has
called it a national priority to build infrastructure that will
let Canada diversify energy exports away from the U.S. and ship
oil to Asia from the world’s third largest pool of reserves.  Policy Framework  Harper has said he will clarify Canada’s foreign investment
rules in a “policy framework” document that will be released
when it makes a final decision on Beijing-based Cnooc’s $15.1
billion offer for Calgary oil producer  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , a deal he has
said raises “difficult policy questions.”  A rejection of the Cnooc bid would “put to death
immediately the concept of the energy superpower,” said Paul
Evans, a professor of Asian affairs at the University of British
Columbia in  Vancouver .  “You cannot be an energy superpower without major foreign
investments, by state-owned enterprises and others, in our oil
and gas sectors,” Evans said by telephone. “This is our moment
of maturity in coming to terms with the challenge of emerging
economies and China in particular.”  Tilted Relationship  While Canadian trade and investment with countries such as
China and India is growing, the relationship remains tilted in
the Asian nations’ favor. Canada posted a trade deficit of
C$41.3 billion with Asia last year, an increase of 55 percent
over the past decade, according to Statistics Canada data.  At C$63.7 billion, the amount Asian companies had invested
in Canada last year was more than one and a half times the
amount Canadian companies invested in Asia.  Those imbalances are something Harper wants to address on
this trip. “In just a few days, I will be visiting India, for
important talks with one of Canada’s good friends and partners,
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ,” Harper said in the prepared
text of a speech he gave yesterday in Ottawa.  “Our countries’ relations have been developing and
deepening rapidly in recent years,” Harper said. “There is,
however, a lot of room for the relationship to grow, especially
in the areas of trade and investment.”  Public Unease  Oliver traveled to India last month on  a trip  aimed at
boosting Canadian energy exports. Asked Oct. 29 how business
people in India viewed the impact of the Petronas decision on
the Canadian investment climate, Oliver said “they’re waiting
to see the policy framework.”  While MacDougall told reporters that Canada needs
investment and wants to sell energy to the world, China’s
interest in Canadian energy assets has provoked unease among the
public, something Harper has said the government takes into
account. Fifty-eight percent of Canadians believe the government
should block the  Nexen (NXY)  takeover, according to an online poll of
1,000 people taken Oct. 10 to Oct. 11 by Angus Reid Public
Opinion. The main opposition in Parliament, the  New Democratic
Party ,  has opposed  the bid.  “The real long-term problem politically is there is this
large passive mistrust of Chinese investment,” said University
of Calgary political science professor Tom Flanagan, a former
adviser to Harper.  Probably Approve  Despite the political pressure, the government will
probably approve both the Cnooc and Petronas bids, Flanagan
said. In blocking Petronas’ acquisition of Progress on Oct. 19,
Industry Minister Christian Paradis gave the Malaysian state-
owned company 30 days to appeal or make concessions.  Harper will probably use the policy framework to set limits
on how much influence state-owned enterprises can have over
Canada’s energy resources, Flanagan said in a phone interview.
“It’s a refining of the message. Canada’s open for business but
there’s a few hands-off areas.”  China seeks a “fair and objective assessment” by the
Canadian government of foreign acquisitions by state-owned
companies, Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said in a Sept.
speech in Toronto.  “In recent years more Chinese companies are going global
for mergers and acquisitions,” Chen said through a translator.
“Some of them are state-owned companies but they are
independent business players and they strictly observe laws and
regulations of host countries.”  Not Convinced  Shares of Nexen rose 0.6 percent to $24.49 in New York, 11
percent below Cnooc’s offer price of $27.50, showing investors
aren’t fully convinced the bid will be approved. Progress stock
was little changed at C$20.33 in Toronto, 7.6 percent below the
C$22 a share offer from Petronas.  Companies will be watching for signals from Harper on his
evolving stance toward foreign capital, said Rana Sarkar, chief
executive officer of the Canada-India Business Council, an
organization based in Toronto that represents companies such as
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)   “More clarity, more direction would be helpful, so bidders
would know what the game is,” Sarkar said in a telephone
interview. “We don’t have an indefinite time frame to decide
what we’re doing with our  energy supply . The window won’t be
open forever.”  Harper will meet Singh Nov. 6 and speak to the World
Economic Forum meeting in Gurgaon, India on Nov. 7. He will also
meet Philippines President Benigno S Aquino on Nov. 10 and Hong
Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun Ying on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  