-- Martha Graham Sets, Older Artists in Westbeth Flooding
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/martha-graham-sets-older-artists-in-westbeth-flooding.html
Gathered around a small red grill in
their courtyard Thursday, residents of an artists’ housing
complex called Westbeth contemplated  Hurricane Sandy ’s
smorgasbord: barbecued salmon, chicken, sausages and dumplings.  “Whatever hasn’t been refrigerated since Monday night,
it’s coming to the end of its useful life,” said Steven Neil,
executive director of Westbeth, to the group. “Share it.”  The lack of electricity, heat and running water wasn’t the
only problem at Westbeth Artists Housing, its formal name.
Flooding had ravaged the building’s basement, which housed
artists’ studios, musicians’ rehearsal spaces and the production
facility of the Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance.  “People kept their life’s work down there,” said Neil.
“It all got wiped out.”  Located in  Manhattan ’s  West Village , Westbeth has been
providing affordable housing to artists and their families since
1970. Also based there are the Merce Cunningham Dance
Foundation, the  New School for Drama  and the Brecht Forum.  “We have had tremendous destruction, going back to the
1940s,” said LaRue Allen, executive director of the  Martha
Graham  Center. “Ninety percent of our property was in that
basement. There are millions of dollars of damage there.”  She said costumes designed by Martha Graham and sets by
Isamu Noguchi had sat in six feet of water for four days. Among
the damaged sets were those for the ballets “Embattled
Garden,” “Clytemnestra” and “Cave of the Heart” as well as
new costumes for “Chronicle.”  NYC Landmark  The Westbeth complex, which was declared a New York City
landmark last year, has seven connected buildings with as many
as 13 floors. The nonfunctioning elevators affected the elderly.  “The bulk of the population here is over the age of 70,”
said Deb Travis, vice president of the Artists Residents
Council. “We have residents who can’t go up and down the
stairs. They have medical conditions. There are people who are
trapped inside and can’t leave.”  Younger neighbors hauled buckets of water up dark
staircases for the older residents.  “People can’t flush their toilets,” said Duray Sterrett,
whose mother lives in the building. “A lot of people here still
have electric stoves and haven’t had a hot meal in days.”  A sculpture studio that includes basement and ground-floor
space sustained water damage that affected the work and
materials of at least a dozen artists, Neil said.  Printed Matter  Ten blocks north, the Chelsea art district continued to
deal with wrecked galleries and countless destroyed artworks.
The flooded basement of  Printed Matter Inc. , a nonprofit
publisher and distributor of artists’ books, contained a 30-year
archive.  Thousands of titles ended up in a huge pile of black
garbage bags. Staffers and volunteers salvaged what they could.  “It’s a blow to us,” said director James Jenkin. “Our
general insurance doesn’t cover the flood.”  At  Derek Eller Gallery , wooden floor planks bubbled. The
air was musty and damp. The basement storage area was flooded.
Drawings and paintings were laid out in rows on the floor like
wounded soldiers.  Eller, artist Keith Mayerson and several helpers were
working fast because mold would soon permanently damage the
works that hadn’t been exposed to water.  “Most of our storage is in the basement,” Eller said. “I
never expected five feet of water.”  Mayerson poured bottled water over his 1996 canvas
depicting a scene from “Jesus Christ Superstar” to get rid of
mold.  “I’ve been showing for 20 years,” Mayerson said. “My
entire career was in that basement.”  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 