-- Artist Dustin Yellin Sloshes Through New Red Hook Studio
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/artist-dustin-yellin-sloshes-through-new-red-hook-studio.html
The only works in Dustin Yellin’s Red
Hook studio that survived  Hurricane Sandy  were massive glass
blocks bound for an exhibition at  Lever  House on Park Avenue
this spring, and they had a scum line four feet up from the
ground.  “To be here when it was flooded, I would have had to
swim,” said Yellin, looking tired and distraught as he surveyed
the damage to his new art space, a three story brick building
dating to the Civil War era. He bought the warehouse earlier
this year for $3.7 million.  Scrappy Red Hook, in the borough of  Brooklyn , has been
infiltrated over the last few years by artists, hipsters and
junior titans of finance.  Yellin, 37, had recently completed a total renovation.
“All of the walls were just built,” he said, stepping over
debris, broken tools, and smashed artworks. “Now all of it has
to be ripped out.”  Much of his artwork is irrevocably damaged. “It’s
irreproducible stuff,” said Yellin. “A ton of my early work.
It’s so much.”  His outdoor space, once a manicured garden, now looked a
lot like the surrounding industrial lots. Planters, chairs, and
debris obscured newly planted saplings. An elaborate wooden
gate, the entrance to the garden, was chained shut.  His insurance adjuster was on a plane, awaited by his
helpers who were cataloging the damaged works. “We’re very
lucky,” he said. “So many people didn’t have insurance.”  All Trash  Store owners across Red Hook were also taking stock.  Barry Omeara, the owner of  Red Hook Bait & Tackle Shop , a
neighborhood bar, stood by a pile of soaked furniture and
garbage bags. “It’s all trash,” he said, gesturing to what
he’d taken out of his basement. Omeara estimates the damage at
around $80,000 to $100,000.  “And the water’s going to keep rising for the next four or
five days,” he said. “We’re on a landfill.”  Asked when he thought he could begin to make money again,
Omeara laughed. “This is Red Hook. I never made money.”  The cacophony of generators pumping water from basements
was deafening. Piles of trash and soaked household objects lined
the curbs. Downed trees and branches littered the sidewalks.  Inside  Fort Defiance , a cafe and bar on Van Brunt Street,
employee Mike Dresser was organizing alcohol he’d salvaged from
the basement.  “The best comment of the day was from our wine buyer,”
said Dresser, pondering mud-caked bottles of red wine. “He told
me that today is the perfect cellar temperature.”  Van Brunt, Red Hook’s main commercial thoroughfare, was
full of volunteers. Representatives from the  Red Hook
Initiative , a community support group, offered free food,
guidance and manpower to those who needed it.  Not everyone in the neighborhood was thrilled with the
influx of visitors. In the parking lot outside of  Steve’s
Authentic Key Lime Pies , a man in a black SUV pulled up beside a
reporter carrying a camera. “Get the...out of here!” he
yelled. “Red Hook is for real people.”  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on  movies  and Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in  New York :  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 