-- Harvard Eyes Benefits as Building Boom Outpaces Income
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-11-02T20:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/harvard-eyes-staff-benefits-as-construction-boom-outpaces-income.html
Harvard University , the oldest and
richest U.S. university, said it will review its employee
benefits and seek new income sources as returns from its
endowment investments droop.  Harvard will look for new ways to make money from its
facilities and “vast intellectual resources,” while continuing
to plan a fundraising campaign, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based school said in its annual financial report released today.  Returns on the school’s endowment investments, valued at
$30.7 billion, were little changed in the year ended June 30,
while total operating expenses rose 3 percent to $4 billion,
according to the report. The college also faces the costs of
constructing or renovating 11 buildings in the nearby  Boston 
neighborhood of Allston over the next decade, which was
announced last month.  “The need for change in higher education is clear given
the emerging disconnect between ever-increasing aspirations and
universities’ ability to generate the new resources to finance
them,” according to the report.  Harvard’s annual benefit expense doubled over the past
decade to $476 million in fiscal 2012 and the university
“cannot simply continue with the status quo,” Harvard said in
the report.  Harvard Benefits  Harvard had 16,505 employees in fiscal 2011, according to
its  website . The university offers employees health and dental
plans, disability plans,  life insurance , tuition assistance and
other benefits such as subsidized passes for public
transportation and access to Harvard athletic facilities, the
report said. Almost all employees are covered by  retirement
plans .  “The university is committed to offering fair and
competitive compensation to all its employees, but ultimately
must balance our responsibilities to the workforce with our need
to pursue the University’s broader objectives,” the report
said.  Government research funds, which many Harvard faculty
members depend on to carry out their work, also have been under
increasing pressure, the report said. Excluding the effect of
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, often called the
“stimulus package,” revenue for federally funded research rose
just 2 percent since 2002, when adjusted for inflation, Harvard
said.  The university had $6 billion of debt on June 30, up from
$1.3 billion in 2000.  Cost Cuts  Harvard President Drew Faust instituted a number of cost-
cutting measures after the economic crisis that began in 2008,
such as the consolidation of the university’s 17 million-volume
library system. Similar efforts in information technology and
purchasing will be expanded, the report said.  Faust has said that Harvard is planning a capital campaign
during which fundraising activities will intensify for several
years. While the school hasn’t given a target figure, the
Harvard Crimson reported in April that the aim would be $6
billion.  “The financial crisis has acted like a tidal wave that, as
it receded, exposed certain vulnerabilities with a new
clarity,” the report said. “We likely will need to undertake
an even more fundamental examination of our activities with the
goal of more crisply prioritizing what we do and what we are
willing to forgo.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  