-- Asian Currencies Have Fourth Weekly Gain on Recovery Outlook
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-11-02T21:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/asian-currencies-set-for-fourth-weekly-gain-on-recovery-outlook.html
Asian currencies had a fourth weekly
gain, led by South Korea’s won, after data suggested the worst
may be over for the global economy.  Chinese manufacturing expanded for the first time in three
months as output and new orders climbed, a report showed Nov. 1.
Taiwan released figures this week that showed its economy
returned to growth in the third quarter, while U.S. factory
production increased at a faster pace than forecast in October
and  consumer confidence  reached a four-year high.  “There’s optimism about the global economic recovery and
that improves risk sentiment,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a
researcher at the Japan Center for  Economic Research  in  Tokyo .
“That is encouraging fund inflows into Asia and supporting the
region’s stocks and currencies.”  The won strengthened 0.6 percent this week to 1,090.80 per
dollar in Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. China’s yuan appreciated 0.12 percent to 6.2415,
while Malaysia’s ringgit gained 0.1 percent to 3.0537 and
Thailand’s baht rose 0.1 percent to 30.73.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia  Dollar Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, reached
117.98 on Oct. 31, the highest level since Feb. 29, 2012. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 1 percent this week.  Emerging-market bond funds had net inflows of $1.1 billion
in the week through Oct. 31, the eighth week in a row that
inflows have exceeded $1 billion, Morgan Stanley said in a
report, citing data from EPFR Global.  ‘Positive Bias’  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index climbed to 50.2 in
October from 49.8 in September. Fifty is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction. Gross domestic product in
Taiwan grew 1.02 percent from a year earlier, after a 0.18
percent decline in the previous quarter.  “Asian currencies have been trading with a positive
bias,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in Singapore. “The evidence this week suggests that we
have advanced further along from a trough point in terms of data
momentum.”  The won completed its fourth weekly gain after reports this
week showed South Korean exports unexpectedly rose last month
and the nation’s current-account surplus approached a record
high in September. Overseas funds bought $280 million more South
Korean equities than they sold this week through yesterday,
exchange data show.  “Positive trade and current-account surplus figures
suggested the supply of dollars is abundant, and exporters
converting overseas earnings also supported the won,” said Hong Seok Chan, a Seoul-based currency analyst at Daeshin Economy
Research Institute. “There is speculation that monetary
authorities are trying to prevent the won from strengthening
beyond the 1,090 per dollar level.”  Yuan Guided Down  The  yuan  had a 13th weekly advance, the longest winning
streak since March 2008. The central bank lowered the  reference
rate  yesterday to a level that meant the currency had to decline
to stay within the trading band.  The People’s Bank of China set the  fixing  0.04 percent
weaker at 6.3045 per dollar yesterday, 1.02 percent below the
Nov. 1 closing level for the currency. The yuan is allowed to
trade as much as 1 percent either side of the reference rate.
One-month forwards traded near the biggest discount to the spot
rate in four years as analysts expect the currency will reverse
a three-month appreciation after next week’s U.S. elections.  “The fixing gives a signal that the PBOC desires a stable
yuan at around the 6.3 level as the export outlook remains
uncertain,” said  Daniel Chan , executive vice president at Glory
Sky Global Markets Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Fund flows should
support the yuan but the fixing is curbing further gains.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso strengthened 0.1 percent
during the week to 41.175 per dollar. Financial markets in the
Southeast Asian country were shut yesterday and Nov. 1. Taiwan’s
dollar was steady this week at NT$29.300, Indonesia’s rupiah
lost 0.1 percent to 9,615 and India’s rupee weakened 0.4 percent
to 53.8125. Vietnam’s dong was little changed at 20,850.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  