-- Aussie Touches Highest Since September Before U.S. Jobs
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-11-02T05:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/aussie-climbs-to-highest-since-september-before-u-s-jobs-report.html
Australia’s dollar touched the
highest level in more than a month on speculation U.S. data
today will show the labor market in the world’s biggest economy
is improving, supporting demand for riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie headed for a fourth weekly advance,
the longest winning streak since August, as Asian shares rose.
Gains in the Australian and New Zealand currencies were limited
as  Greece ’s lawmakers squabbled over austerity measures needed
to secure a bailout and keep the nation in the euro.  “Investors are getting more optimistic about the outlook
for the U.S. economy,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing
director in  Tokyo  at  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a currency-margin company.
“The risk-on tone across the market is supporting the Aussie.”  The Australian dollar touched $1.0420, the highest since
Sept. 28, before trading at $1.0394 as of 4:25 p.m. in Sydney,
down 0.1 percent from the close yesterday. It headed for a 0.2
percent advance this week. The Aussie added 0.1 percent to 83.42
yen, after reaching 83.56, the strongest since Aug. 21. The New
Zealand dollar bought 82.63 U.S. cents, having appreciated 0.4
percent since Oct. 26.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares climbed 0.8 percent,
set for a 1 percent gain since Oct. 26 and following a 1.1
percent advance for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  yesterday.
Australian  bonds  declined for the first time this week, pushing
the yield on the 10-year note up by six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 3.18 percent.  U.S. Jobs  Implied volatility of three-month options for Group of
Seven currencies fell to 7.37 percent, the lowest since October
2007, according to the JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index. A decrease
in price fluctuations makes investments in currencies with
higher lending rates more attractive because risk becomes
smaller that market moves will erase profits on such trades.  In the U.S., data yesterday showed manufacturing expanded
more than forecast,  consumer confidence  rose to a four-year high
and fewer Americans filed claims for unemployment benefits,
pointing to resilience in the economy.  Figures from the U.S. Labor Department today are expected
to show nonfarm payrolls increased by 125,000 workers in October
and the jobless rate rose to 7.9 percent, according to the
median projections of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Demand for the Australian currency was limited as Greek
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s bid to please lenders from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund with a 13.5
billion-euro ($17.5 billion) austerity package and unlock vital
funds ran into obstacles this week from coalition partners.  “Concerns surrounding Greece will remain as downside risk
for the Aussie,” said FX Prime’s Ueda.  The Aussie strengthened 1.7 percent in the past month, the
best performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The New Zealand dollar
added 0.1 percent.  Australia’s PPI  Australia ’s producer price index advanced 0.6 percent in
the third quarter from the prior three months, when it rose 0.5
percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for
a 1 percent increase.  Traders are estimating a 59 percent chance the Reserve Bank
of Australia will lower its overnight cash-rate target by a
quarter percentage point to 3 percent on Nov. 6, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg based on swaps trading. RBA Governor
Glenn Stevens cut the key rate by 1.5 percentage points since
November last year to 3.25 percent as  Europe ’s debt crisis
threatened global growth.  Australia’s economy can operate with lower interest rates
than it has in the past as overseas investors buttress the local
currency, helping contain inflation, Treasurer Wayne Swan said
yesterday.  “Australia is now seen as a necessary part of any
portfolio, whether it be private or public investors -- and
these investment flows have propped up our sustained high
dollar,” Swan said in a speech in  Melbourne  yesterday. “This,
combined with our fiscal consolidation and contained inflation,
has all meant that our economy has more room to run lower rates
than we have in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  