-- Australian Olympic Chief Wants Team to Sign Doping Declaration
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-02T03:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/australian-olympic-chief-wants-team-to-sign-doping-declaration.html
Australian Olympic Committee
president  John Coates  wants team members to sign a legally-
binding document saying they have no doping history, a proposal
that would make those later found to have lied guilty of an
indictable offense punishable by prison time.  Coates will propose at the committee’s executive board
meeting in  Melbourne  on Nov. 16 that athletes, coaches and
officials sign a statutory declaration saying they have never
been involved in doping, the AOC said today. He wants the
measure in place for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi,  Russia ,
and the Summer Games in  Rio de Janeiro  two years later.  “If they don’t sign, they don’t go to the games, they
won’t be selected,” Coates said in an e-mailed statement.
“What I don’t want is for the AOC to have egg on its face like
cycling has.”  Australian cycling is under review after officials Matt
White and Stephen Hodge admitted to doping during their racing
careers. White was fired yesterday as sports director of the
Orica-GreenEDGE team after he admitted to taking performance-
enhancing drugs on  Lance Armstrong ’s U.S. Postal Service team
from 2001 to 2003. He’d earlier had his contract as coordinator
of Australia’s men’s national road teams terminated.  White’s Oct. 13 admission came after he was mentioned in
the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency’s report that resulted in Armstrong
being stripped of all seven of his Tour de  France  victories. The
International Cycling Union opted not to appeal USADA’s ruling.
Armstrong, who has denied doping and said he never failed a drug
test, declined to take the USADA case to arbitration.  Sky Pledge  Team Sky, whose rider Bradley Wiggins won this year’s Tour
de France, said last month it would ask everyone involved in the
team to sign up to a written policy confirming that they have no
past or present involvement in doping. Sports director Steven de Jongh and race coach Bobby Julich have since left the squad
after they admitted to taking a banned substance during their
racing careers.  Under Coates’s plan, Australian athletes, coaches and
officials would all be required to put their name to a document
which would form part of the team agreement they are required to
sign before being selected by the AOC.  Statutory declarations are governed by the Oaths Act(s) of
the relevant states in  Australia . Under the 1900 New South Wales
Act, those found to have willfully and corruptly made a
statement they knew to be untrue could be liable for as many as
five years imprisonment, according to an excerpt from Coates’s
report to be delivered to the AOC executive on Nov. 16.  “We simply cannot allow the name of the AOC to be damaged,
like that of the International Cycling Union, for not having
taken every reasonable step possible to ensure that no person in
authority on our Olympic team has a doping history,” Coates
added in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  