-- Berkshire to Buy Oriental Trading as Buffett Bets on Toys
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-11-02T19:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/berkshire-to-buy-oriental-trading-as-buffett-bets-on-toys.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to buy closely held Oriental Trading Co., the U.S.
direct retailer of party and craft supplies.  Berkshire will pay about $500 million for Oriental Trading,
according to a person familiar with the transaction who declined
to be identified because the details are private. The
acquisition of the firm, based in Buffett’s hometown of Omaha,
 Nebraska , will be completed this month, Berkshire said today in
a statement, without disclosing terms.  Buffett, 82, has been making smaller acquisitions as he
searches for larger takeovers to expand the firm he built over
four decades by buying  stocks  such as Coca-Cola Co. and
companies including railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe. The
billionaire’s  acquisitions  this year include a food distributor,
newspapers and a building insulation maker. The addition of
Oriental Trading will add to Berkshire’s retail operations,
which span jewelers to candy stores.  “We are delighted to have them join the Berkshire Hathaway
family and continue their quest to make the world more fun,”
Buffett said in the statement. “They have had several changes
to ownership in the past, but OTC has a permanent home with
Berkshire Hathaway.”  Buffett didn’t respond to a request sent to an assistant
seeking further comment.  Retailer’s Recovery  Oriental Trading emerged from bankruptcy last year owned by
investors who had previously held the party-supply seller’s
senior debt, according to a statement that didn’t name the new
shareholders. The firm filed for protection in 2010 as retailers
were hurt by the economic slump and weak  consumer confidence .  KKR & Co., the alternative-asset manager run by Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , is the largest shareholder of
Oriental Trading with a one-third stake through its asset-
management business, said  Kristi Huller , a spokeswoman for the
New York-based investment firm. KKR provided the capital from
its special situations fund, which takes stakes in distressed
companies.  “We partnered with a strong management team that
successfully stabilized the business after the financial
crisis,” Jeremiah Lane, a member of KKR’s special situations
team, said in an e-mailed statement.  Buffett said in 2010 that he has avoided buying companies
from private-equity owners because they focus on an “exit
strategy.” The billionaire keeps the firms he acquires as a
part of Berkshire and has a preference for retaining management
because they have a passion for the business and know it well.  ‘Entrance Strategy’  “We have an entrance strategy,” he said in pre-recorded
remarks broadcast at a San Francisco conference in 2010.  Private-equity firm Carlyle Group bought a 68 percent stake
in Oriental Trading Co. in 2006 from Brentwood Associates.  Oriental Trading  sells  crafts and teacher supplies, as well
as wedding favors and decorations for holidays, through direct
mail and its website. The firm employs about 2,000 people and
offers more than 40,000 catalog items, including costumes,
stickers and novelties such as glow-in-the-dark slime.  Lazard Middle Market was Oriental Trading’s financial
adviser and Debevoise & Plimpton LLP gave legal advice on the
sale. Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP was Berkshire’s legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  