-- Berkshire Profit Climbs 72% on Derivatives, Railroad
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-11-02T22:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/berkshire-profit-climbs-72-on-derivatives-railroad.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  said profit climbed 72 percent in the third quarter as a
stock-market rally helped improve results in the derivatives
book and earnings at the railroad climbed.  Net income  rose to $3.9 billion, or $2,373 a share, from
$2.28 billion, or $1,380, a year earlier, the Omaha, Nebraska-
based company said today in a statement. Operating earnings,
which exclude some investment results, were $2,057 a share,
missing the $2,063 average  estimate  of three analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Buffett, 82, made the equity-derivatives bets in the last
decade to wager on long-term gains in stock-market indexes in
the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan . When the benchmarks fall, as they
did in last year’s third quarter, Berkshire’s liabilities on the
contracts can climb, pressuring earnings.  “The stock market has had a pretty good run year to
date,”  Cliff Gallant , an analyst at KBW Inc., said in an
interview before earnings were released. “I don’t know if I’d
count on it to continue.”  Berkshire’s  Class A shares  fell less than 1 percent to
$130,550 at 4:05 p.m. in New York today. The company has
advanced 14 percent this year, compared with the 12 percent gain
in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Book Value  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to
$184.6 billion from $177.4 billion at the end of June.  The loss on equity index put derivatives narrowed to $534
million from $2.09 billion a year earlier. Gains from credit-
default contracts, in which Buffett bets on the ability of
borrowers to repay debt, were $316 million compared with a loss
of $247 million a year earlier.  Buffett’s biggest takeover, railroad Burlington Northern
Santa Fe, was completed in 2010 in a $26.5 billion transaction.
The business contributed $937 million to earnings, compared with
$766 million a year earlier.  Berkshire has been making smaller acquisitions this year as
Buffett searches for larger takeovers. The billionaire said he
failed to reach an agreement on a deal valued at about $22
billion earlier this year, while his firm has agreed to buy a
newspaper in Waco, Texas, a building-insulation maker and food-
distributor Meadowbrook Meat Co.  Buffett’s firm agreed to pay about $500 million to buy
Omaha-based party-supply retailer Oriental Trading Co.,
according to a person familiar with the deal who declined to be
identified because the details are private. Berkshire announced
the deal today without disclosing terms.  Housing Market  Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive officer, chairman and
controlling shareholder, has been positioning his firm for a
rebound in housing. The company added to its  holdings  of Wells
Fargo & Co., the largest U.S. home lender, expanded its real
estate brokerage and won an auction for the loan portfolio of
bankrupt mortgage lender Residential Capital LLC.  The billionaire said in July that the residential real-
estate market was improving, even as other parts of the economy
flattened out. Among Berkshire’s more than 70 operating units
are businesses that make bricks, paint, insulation and
manufactured homes.  Housing prices rose  2 percent  in August from a year
earlier, the biggest gain since July 2010, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S. cities. The
number of homes for sale in the U.S. dropped 18 percent in
September from a year earlier, according the National
Association of Realtors website.  Berkshire’s Cash  Berkshire’s cash pile rose to $47.8 billion from $40.7
billion three months earlier.  Berkshire spent $1.18 billion on equities and $2.08 billion
on fixed-maturity securities in the quarter. It sold $3.18
billion in stocks and $1.2 billion in bonds.  The insurance segment posted an underwriting profit of $392
million, compared with $1.09 billion a year earlier, when the
reinsurance group led by Ajit Jain benefitted from a reduction
in estimated liabilities on some contracts written in prior
periods. Underwriting profit at the Geico car insurer climbed to
$435 million from $114 million.  Buffett has used so-called float, or the insurance premiums
Berkshire holds before paying claims, to amass the largest
equity stakes in companies including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and
International Business Machines Corp. Berkshire’s stock
portfolio was valued at $88 billion on Sept. 30, up from $86.2
billion at the end of June as Wells Fargo gained 3.3 percent in
the third quarter and IBM advanced 6.1 percent.  MidAmerican Energy  Utility unit MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. added $438
million to Berkshire’s profit, compared with $372 million in
last year’s third quarter. Earnings from manufacturing, service
and  retailing  units increased to $991 million in the three
months ended Sept. 30 from $836 million in the same period in
2011 on gains at manufacturers including Marmon Holdings, the
producer of construction materials.  The group of businesses includes engine-additive maker
Lubrizol, which was acquired by Berkshire at the end of last
year’s third quarter; Marmon; and Fruit of the Loom, which
produces underwear and other clothing. Berkshire doesn’t break
down results by each business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  