-- Blind Spot Looming for Weather Satellites That Predicted Sandy
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-11-02T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/blind-spot-looming-for-weather-satellites-that-predicted-sandy.html
Forecasters who warned of devastation
before the biggest Atlantic storm in history hit the East Coast
may be staring into a dimmer crystal ball four years from now.  A weather satellite system under development has struggled
with delays and costs that have soared to $12.9 billion. The
result is that the U.S. will probably have a blind spot in the
system by the end of 2016, with one polar satellite reaching the
end of its life before a replacement can be launched.  The coverage gap may last as long as 4 1/2 years and lead
to “less accurate and timely weather prediction models used to
support weather forecasting,” government auditors said in June.
A replacement satellite won’t launch soon enough to plug the
hole, said David Powner, director of information technology
management issues at the Government Accountability Office.  “You get to a point where you can’t buy back schedule,”
he said in a telephone interview. “I think everyone has agreed
that’s the case.”  The polar satellite with the fading lifespan is part of a
program run by the Commerce Department’s  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration , or NOAA, and the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. It’s among a constellation
of U.S. and European orbiters supplying forecasters with up-to-
date weather and climate information.  Severe Weather  Data from those satellites are used nationally to warn of
severe weather events such as Sandy, the superstorm that cut
electricity to 8 million customers and killed at least 75 people
in the U.S.  The replacement satellite, one of two planned for the new
Joint Polar Satellite System, was scheduled to launch in 2014
and has been delayed until at least 2017, Powner said. Based on
the estimated life of the polar satellite already in orbit,
forecasters should anticipate a data gap of between 17 and 53
months, according to written testimony Powner delivered to
Congress in June.  The coverage hole would mean forecasters would have to rely
on less frequent data used to develop weather models and warn of
extreme events such as hurricanes.  “The polar data is very important to tracking storm
intensity, speed and direction,” he said.  ‘Mitigation Plan’  Powner said officials at the weather tracking agency have
approved a “mitigation plan” to deal with the potential data
gap, though they haven’t yet shared it with the GAO. John
Leslie, a spokesman for NOAA, didn’t confirm whether a plan has
been approved.  Options for dealing with the gap include negotiating for
more access to data from European satellites and increasing use
of alternate data sources such as radar planes, Powner said.  Delays to the new polar satellite have frustrated some U.S.
lawmakers.  “The program has had one problem after another,” said
Representative  Brad Miller , a Democrat from  North Carolina  and a
member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology.
“It’s had extreme cost overruns. It has been pushed back and
pushed back and pushed back, and it’s hard to know exactly why
it has been such a problem.”  The delayed launch is in part due to reduced funding for
the satellite program in fiscal 2011, when the program received
$382 million, instead of the $1.1 billion that was requested,
NOAA officials said last year. The second polar satellite is
scheduled to launch in 2022.  No Choice  The White House restructured the polar-orbiting satellite
program in February 2010 after costs for the old program, known
as the National Polar-Orbiting Operational Environmental
Satellite System, had more than doubled to about $15 billion
from a 2002 estimate of about $7 billion, according to a May
2010 GAO report.  NOAA officials have agreed to cap funding for the program
at $12.9 billion through 2028, a threshold that is forcing the
agency to remove some features from the planned satellite
system, according to the GAO.  Contractors selected to work on the program include Ball
Aerospace & Technologies, a unit of Broomfield, Colorado-based
 Ball Corp. (BLL) ;  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , based in Waltham,  Massachusetts ;
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , based in  Falls Church , Virginia; and
 Exelis Inc. (XLS) , based in McLean, Virginia.  The replacement satellite is so crucial that even with the
escalating costs, Congress had no choice but to continue funding
it, Miller said.  “We couldn’t just pull the plug,” he said in a phone
interview. “We couldn’t afford to give up on it. We had to have
a satellite.”  Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat who chairs a
subcommittee that oversees NOAA’s budget, has proposed
transferring authority for the program to  NASA .  “The government needs a better way of building our weather
satellites, because the status quo is unacceptable,” Mikulski
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  