-- BOE Should Expand Toolkit as QE Is Spent Force: Goodhart
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-11-02T13:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/boe-should-expand-toolkit-as-qe-is-spent-force-goodhart.html
The  Bank of England  should expand its
toolkit to include  interest-rate  cuts on reserves and consider
steps to aid banks such as buying their bonds or injecting
equity into them, said former policy maker  Charles Goodhart .  “Although quantitative easing was originally successful,
it’s now largely a spent force,” Goodhart said in an interview
in  London  today. “The problem is that it’s not answering the
correct problem, and the correct problem is nothing to do with a
shortage of liquidity.” The main obstacle is the “spread
between the funding costs of the private sector, particularly
banks, and the public sector” which “QE does nothing directly
to affect.”  Some Bank of England policy makers have voiced concern that
their bond-purchase plan may be becoming less effective ahead of
next week’s decision about whether to expand stimulus. Deputy
Governor  Charles Bean  said earlier this week that consumers’ and
businesses’ concerns about the outlook may undermine the impact
of QE, while Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said in September that
it doesn’t have the “same bite.”  Goodhart said the central bank should cut the interest rate
it pays on excess commercial-bank reserves it holds to encourage
lenders to buy public debt and lower the government’s borrowing
costs. While this “would complement and extend QE,” it isn’t a
“game changer” because it doesn’t tackle the willingness of
banks to extend credit to businesses and households, he said.  ‘Quite Successful’  In this regard, the Bank of England’s Funding for Lending
Scheme, which aims to provide banks with cheap finance to boost
credit, has been “potentially quite successful,” Goodhart
said. Officials should be prepared to support the plan with
other measures, he said, including buying banks’ bonds and even
injecting equity into lenders that are failing to expand credit.  “If there’s a real euro crisis, and you can’t rule that
out, then you’d go straight back to QE,” Goodhart said.
However, “if the U.K. economy remains weak, perhaps because of
this fiscal tightening, and if the FLS doesn’t work out and if
the euro zone remains stable, then I would like them to do these
additional things.”  Goodhart served as a founding member of the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee from 1997 to 2000 and is now a
professor at the  London School  of Economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  