-- BOE’s Big Mistakes in Forecasting Warrant Inquiry: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-11-02T10:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/boe-big-mistakes-in-forecasting-seen-to-require-lesson-learning.html
The Bank of England’s forecasting
capabilities have deteriorated in the past five years, resulting
in “large” errors, and officials should investigate the
reasons for such shortcomings, an independent review said today.  The report by  David Stockton , a former Federal Reserve
official, sets out options including encouraging “more
assertive” staff to challenge the central bank’s “house view”
and incorporating financial-stability risks into forecasts. It
said the latter should be “high on the agenda.”  The review is one of three commissioned by the central
bank’s governing body following a lawmaker push for an inquiry
as the BOE prepares to take on unprecedented powers to regulate
the financial system. The bank also released reports on its
framework for providing liquidity to the financial system and
its emergency support to banks.  “The Monetary Policy Committee’s recent forecast
performance has been noticeably worse than prior to the crisis,
and marginally worse than that of outside forecasters,”
Stockton said. “The bank and the MPC need to introspect more
deeply and more systematically about the lessons that can be
gleaned from episodes of large forecast errors.”  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  and deputy governors
 Charles Bean  and  Paul Tucker  said in a statement the reports
“have given us a great many ideas to consider that could
improve the bank’s performance.”  Andrew Tyrie , the head of the
Parliamentary committee that scrutinizes the BOE, said the
reports are a “step forward,” though he criticized the central
bank’s management.  “A comprehensive review should already have taken place,”
Tyrie said. “The fact that it took so long to obtain even these
reports illustrates the bank’s defective governance.”  Too Optimistic  The MPC’s projections for growth and  inflation  were too
optimistic, Stockton said. The explanations for the errors, such
as underestimates for the inflationary effect of the
depreciation of sterling, or the scale of the squeeze in credit
provision, are “persuasive,” he said. Still, the “serial
persistence” of errors needs fuller analysis.  “That persistence could simply reflect a string of bad
luck, but it also could reflect some inertia imparted by the
forecast process or point to problems with the paradigm
underlying the bank’s forecasts,” he said. There has been a
“lack of systematic, detailed quantitative analysis undertaken
by the bank to interrogate its forecast errors.”  New Forecasts  The  Bank of England  will have new forecasts at its policy
meeting next week that it will publish on Nov. 14. The National
Institute of Economic and Social Research cut its 2013 U.K.
growth forecast today to 1.1 percent from 1.3 percent. The
London-based group said the economy will shrink 0.1 percent this
year, less than the 0.5 percent expected previously.  U.K. construction  unexpectedly expanded in October,
according to a report today from Markit Economics. It said its
gauge rose to 50.9 from 49.5 in September. In the euro area, a
 factory index  by Markit fell to 45.4 from 46.1, where readings
below 50 indicate contraction.  Later today, a U.S. Labor Department report may show the
nation’s jobless rate rose to 7.9 percent in October, according
to a survey of economists by  Bloomberg News . Payrolls grew by
125,000 workers last month following a 114,000 gain, the
survey showed.  BOE Options  Stockton’s observations on the BOE revealed “no deep
structural problem” and nothing that requires urgent action.
His 21 options to improve the forecasting process include doing
more to retain staff, providing more data to support the
projections and publishing individual MPC members’ projections.  Stockton said the value of individual forecasts “might be
especially large when risks were mounting sharply and different
views were emerging among members of the committee.”  While none of these recommendations would have allowed the
BOE to fully predict the impact of the financial crisis,
improvements “could increase the probability of detecting and
responding in a timely manner to emerging economic and financial
developments,” he said.  In the other reports, ex-MPC member Ian Plenderleith and
 Bill Winters , a former head of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s investment
banking division, examined aspects of the BOE’s provision of
liquidity to the financial system. Winters said that while the
central bank’s Sterling Monetary Framework was lacking before
the crisis, it is now “robust” and “broadly fit for
purpose.”  He also said that crisis measures such as the Special
Liquidity Scheme and the Funding for Lending Scheme, as well as
acting as a market-maker of last resort, shouldn’t necessarily
be considered temporary.  Not Extraordinary  “It appears that markets and the role of banks in markets
may have changed structurally, so these operations should not be
regarded as extraordinary,” Winters said.  One criticism was that the BOE did not fully consider
banks’ exit from the SLS, most likely because it didn’t expect
financial conditions to be unsettled for so long. Banks faced
material difficulty refinancing SLS funding and may be
“reluctant to fully participate” in future programs, he said.  He also said the bank should consider ways of reducing the
stigma associated with accessing facilities such as the Discount
Window Facility. On governance, Winters said while the governor
regularly consults his deputies and other senior staff on the
liquidity framework, it appears to be discretionary and this
process should be formalized.  Filtering  Winters also found that there appears to be a tendency
among less senior staff to “filter recommendations” so that
senior officials will find them more palatable. This risks
reducing the range of views put forward and could lead to less-
effective policy, he said.  Plenderleith’s review, which looked into the central bank’s
specific Emergency Liquidity Assistance program in 2008 and
2009, said it was an “essential plank” that helped the
financial system to return “to a degree of stability.”  He recommended that the BOE maintain its swap lines with
other central banks to ensure it can provide aid in foreign
currencies if needed. Both he and Winters said the central bank
should also consider making some liquidity facilities available
to non-banks, such as central counterparties, as they have
become “increasingly important” in financial markets.  The  Treasury committee  said in a statement it will take
evidence from Plenderleith and Winters on their reports on Nov.
20, and will question Stockton “in due course.”  “The reviewers have provided us with a large number of
constructive recommendations and options for further
consideration,” David Lees, the chairman of the Bank of England
Court, its governing body, said in a statement. “That meets our
original objectives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  