-- Boko Haram Open to Nigeria Talks, Self-Styled Spokesman Says
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2012-11-02T16:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/boko-haram-open-to-nigeria-talks-self-styled-spokesman-says-1-.html
Nigeria ’s Boko Haram is ready to stop
attacks and hold talks with the government provided the latter
proves it’s sincere, according to the self-proclaimed spokesman
for the Islamist militant group.  The group will cease its attacks if the former governor of
the northeastern Borno state, Ali Sheriff, is arrested, Abu
Mohammed Ibn Abdulaziz told reporters yesterday. Abdulaziz
identified himself when he contacted reporters in Maiduguri, the
capital of Borno state, Boko Haram’s birthplace and stronghold.
The group’s usual spokesman was arrested this year.  Abdulaziz accused Sheriff of arresting and killing the
group’s members without reason when he was in office. “We have
been practicing our religion in this town without any problem
until the man came and caused this problem,” he said.  Boko Haram’s insurgency began after its leader,  Mohammed Yusuf , was killed while in police custody in 2009. Since then
the group, which says it’s fighting to impose Islamic law in
Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, has carried out attacks
in the mainly Muslim north and the capital, Abuja, that have
killed more than 1,500 people, according to  Human Rights Watch .  Boko Haram has claimed responsibility for bombings and gun
attacks targeting churches, government buildings, police,
soldiers, officials and Muslims who disagree with the group.
Human Rights Watch and  Amnesty International  said attacks by the
group may constitute crimes against humanity.  ‘We Want Dialogue’  A day after Abdulaziz said the group is ready to start
talks, the military said four Boko Haram suspects shot a retired
major general at his home in Maiduguri, killing him and one of
his guests. The attackers entered the house today as Muhammadu
Shuwa was hosting guests before the Friday prayers and opened
fire, Sagir Musa, spokesman for the Joint Military Task Force in
Borno state, said in a statement handed to reporters. The guest
died immediately and Shuwa died on his way to the hospital.  Abdulaziz said the talks should be held in  Saudi Arabia  and
that the government must compensate the group for members who
were killed and resettle others who were displaced along with
their families. The dialogue should be held between Boko Haram
representatives and prominent Nigerians including former
military ruler Muhammadu Buhari, he said.  “We want dialogue, but the government must show sincerity
in its handling of the situation,” he said.  Abdulaziz said Boko Haram’s head, Abubakar Shekau, assigned
five members to lead the talks. The group has repeatedly ruled
out talks with the government this year. Shekau said in a video
posted on YouTube on Sept. 30 that “we never sought dialogue”
and accused the government of “deceiving the Nigerian people on
this issue.”  Abul Qaqa, who previously spoke on behalf of the group, has
been arrested, according to Shekau. Qaqa used to phone
journalists to make announcements or claim responsibility for
attacks, using a voice-altering device.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  