-- Brevan Howard Said to Hire Goldman Sachs Credit Trader Leslie
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-11-02T16:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/brevan-howard-said-to-hire-goldman-sachs-credit-trader-leslie.html
Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP,
Europe’s second-largest hedge fund, hired Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. credit trader Wayne Leslie, said a person with knowledge of
the matter.  Leslie, who headed European investment-grade trading at
Goldman Sachs, will work for Brevan Howard in  London , said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private.  Brevan Howard, which oversees $39 billion, hired the credit
trader as hedge funds focused on debt outperform the rest of the
industry. Funds investing in  corporate bonds  have gained 8
percent this year on average through September, beating the 4.9
percent return for the broader industry, according to Chicago-
based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Sophie Bullock, a spokeswoman for New York-based  Goldman
Sachs (GS) , confirmed that Leslie left the bank last month. She
declined to comment further. Leslie and officials at London-
based Brevan Howard declined to comment.  Traders have been leaving banks as lenders cut risk-taking
and bonus payments following the 2008 credit crisis. Antoine
Cornut, who led flow-credit trading in Europe and the Americas
for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG, plans to start his own
hedge fund after resigning from the lender in July, two people
familiar with the matter said last month.  Brevan Howard’s main fund posted a 1.5 percent gain this
year through Oct. 19, according to a person with knowledge of
the returns. Competing macro funds, which bet on  interest rates ,
stocks, bonds and currencies based on global economic trends,
rose 0.9 percent on average this year through September.  Alan Howard , 49, started Brevan Howard 10 years ago with
four other fixed-income traders from Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  