-- Brookfield to Build Residential Tower at Manhattan West
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-11-02T19:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/brookfield-to-build-residential-tower-at-manhattan-west.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) 
plans to switch one of the two proposed office towers at its
 Manhattan  West development to apartments as it seeks to tap into
strong demand for  New York  housing.  “With a sub-one percent vacancy level, residential is
pretty compelling,” Chief Executive Officer Dennis Friedrich
said today on the New York-based landlord’s third-quarter
earnings conference call.  Brookfield is putting the finishing touches on a plan for
the project on Manhattan’s far west side that includes an 850-
unit apartment building, Friedrich said. The proposal requires
the construction of a platform over railroad tracks that serve
Pennsylvania Station to the east of the site.  Manhattan West is one of two major developments planned for
the borough’s far west side, where the city wants to extend the
Midtown central business district. The other, which also
requires a deck over rails, is Related Co.’s 12 million-square-
foot (1.1 million-square-meter) Hudson Yards project, a half-
block west of Brookfield’s trench.  Brookfield’s re-imagined plan would still have  offices ,
Friedrich told  analysts . The company would market the office
part while the deck is under construction, though the tower
wouldn’t be built until it has a committed anchor tenant, he
said.  62 Stories  The original plan called for 5.4 million square feet of
primarily  office space , with some retail and open space
included. The tallest building would be 62 stories, according to
the  project website .  “With the changes we are now able to build two buildings
on that project really in the same time frame as opposed to
sequentially building office buildings further out in time,”
Friedrich said. “The market for residential is robust, you
don’t have the same pre-leasing profile. You build more to spec,
based upon how confident you feel.”  The median monthly rent of a Manhattan apartment jumped 10
percent in September from a year earlier to $3,195, just 2.1
percent below its 2006 peak, according to data from appraiser
Miller Samuel Inc. and broker Prudential Douglas Elliman Real
Estate. The market should continue show strength over the next
year to two years, Miller Samuel President Jonathan Miller said
in an interview last month.  Rail Agreements  Friedrich didn’t specify a start date for the Manhattan
West project. Agreements with railroad operators on the plan to
deck over the rails, which move about 100,000 people each
weekday into and out of  Penn Station , are virtually complete, he
said. The tracks serve  Amtrak ,  New Jersey Transit  and the Long
Island Rail Road.  “We’re just getting our last ducks in order,” he said.  Third-quarter funds from operations, a gauge of a property
company’s ability to generate cash, fell 2.4 percent from a year
earlier to $164 million, Brookfield reported today. FFO per
share was 29 cents, exceeding the 28-cent average  estimate  of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brookfield rose 3.9 percent to $16.20 at 3:29 p.m. in New
York trading. The company said on its conference call that it
estimates its portfolio to be worth about $19.50 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  