-- Comcast Joins Cablevision in Offering Credits After Sandy
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-02T23:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/cablevision-offers-credit-to-customers-without-power-from-sandy.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) 
and Cox Communications Inc., the three largest U.S. cable
providers, joined  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  in offering credits
to customers who lost service because of  Hurricane Sandy .  The four companies will give the credits to customers even
if the outage was the result of a power failure, Comcast, Time
Warner Cable, Cox and Cablevision said separately today.  DirecTV (DTV) 
and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the two largest U.S. satellite-TV
providers, and Verizon Communications Inc.’s FiOS TV service
adopted similar policies.  “Many of our customers have been severely impacted by
Hurricane Sandy,” Kristin Dolan, Cablevision’s senior executive
vice president of product management and marketing, said in a
statement. “In addition, customers will not be responsible for
any damage to Cablevision equipment caused by the storm, and
will be able to exchange damaged equipment at no cost.”  Cablevision, the fifth-largest cable company, was first to
announce the offering earlier today. Customers can call within
30 days of their service being restored to request the credit,
the Bethpage, New York-based company said. The majority of its
3.3 million customers reside in the New York market, including
Long Island, which was devastated by the storm.  The company said today that about 1.32 million subscribers
can’t connect to its service due to power outages.  Storm Costs  Cablevision may lose as much as $40 million on storm-
related costs, Tom Eagan, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp.
in New York, said in a note to clients. Altogether, the storm
will cost telephone and cable companies as much as $600 million
in repair and cleanup expenses, according to  James Ratcliffe , a
New York-based analyst with Barclays Plc.  Not everyone is offering credits to Sandy victims. AT&T
Inc.’s U-verse, which provides television service to parts of
the Northeast, hasn’t announced plans to offer service credits.
Verizon Wireless, Verizon’s mobile-phone carrier, plans to
suspend late fees and not disconnect services due to late
payments during the storm recovery period, according to Thomas Pica, a spokesman.  Time Warner Cable, which services much of Manhattan, has
about 12.5 million U.S. video customers in total. The New York-
based company hasn’t decided whether it will provide the credits
automatically or upon request, said  Alex Dudley , a spokesman.  Comcast is the largest cable company in the U.S., though it
doesn’t serve New York City. Its coverage includes  New Jersey ,
one of the hardest-hit areas in the storm. About half of that
state lost power in the wake of Sandy, which struck on Oct. 29.  “Our hearts go out to our customers impacted by the storm,
and we want to do everything we can to make things even a little
easier as they go through this difficult time,” said Jenni Moyer, a spokeswoman for Philadelphia-based Comcast. “Customers
can contact us and identify the time period during which they
did not have access to Comcast services to receive a credit. We
will work with each customer who contacts us so we can be
sensitive to their specific needs and circumstances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  