-- Campaign Talk Won’t Provoke China Trade War, Engler Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2012-11-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/campaign-talk-won-t-provoke-china-trade-war-engler-says.html
Vows to get tough on China by
presidential candidates  Mitt Romney  and Barack Obama are
unlikely to spark a trade war because of the Asian nation’s
slowing economy,  Business Roundtable  President  John Engler  said.  “The economic weakness in China is such that there is
scant likelihood” of aggressive action against the U.S., and
both countries need one another for their own growth, the former
Republican governor of Michigan said after an interview in
Washington for Bloomberg Television’s “Capitol Gains” program
that will air Nov. 4. The world’s second-largest economy has
also gotten used to campaign criticism, he said. “They’ve been
hearing it for some time.”  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC have both
criticized Romney’s campaign for running television ads in Ohio
they say implies that growth in China comes at the expense of
U.S. jobs. President Obama, meanwhile, has touted his
administration’s record of trade cases against China, saying he
has brought twice as many actions alleging unfair trading
practices than under former President  George W. Bush .  China’s gross domestic product, which the government says
will grow by 7.5 percent this year, may decelerate next year to
7 percent, the  slowest pace  since 1990, according to  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , a U.S. manufacturer that sells aerospace
parts in the world’s most populous nation.  Neutral Roundtable  The Business Roundtable, an organization of chief executive
officers of companies including Boeing Corp., JPMorgan Chase &
Co., General Electric Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., does not
take sides in political races. While Engler said he personally
believes Romney will defeat Obama, he said the organization is
“very careful never to get involved.”  There’s a “massive job ahead” for whoever wins the White
House, beginning with the so-called fiscal cliff, the $607
billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases that take
effect next year should Congress not reach a compromise on
reducing the federal deficit. Resolving that crisis is “pretty
straightforward” compared to longer-term issues of changing the
 tax code  to make business more competitive and fixing programs
such as Medicare to rein in spending, he said.  “The United States today is poised to lead a global
recovery,” he said, though “not if we keep putting off big
decisions.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
jmorgan97@bloomber 