-- Canada Oil Spread Widest in 8 Months on Pipeline Space Limits
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-11-02T20:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/canada-oil-spread-widest-in-8-months-on-pipeline-space-limits.html
Canadian heavy crude fell to its
lowest level in eight months against U.S. oil prices as pipeline
space from  Alberta  was overbooked for November, making it
difficult for producers to sell extra barrels.  Western  Canada  Select, a blend of heavy Canadian crude
mostly sourced from oil sands, dropped $2 to a $33.50 a barrel
below West Texas Intermediate, the widest discount to the U.S.
benchmark since March 7, according to  Net Energy Inc ., which
says it’s Canada’s largest independent financial and physical
oil brokerage.  Three major pipelines taking crude from Alberta are
overbooked this month, meaning producers proposed shipping more
oil on the lines than there was space available.  Parts of Enbridge Inc.’s 2.5 million barrel-a-day Mainline
pipeline system taking Canadian oil to the U.S. Midwest was
overbooked by as much as 17 percent this month, the company
said. Kinder Morgan Inc.’s 300,000 barrel-a-day Trans Mountain
pipeline to Vancouver and Washington state was overbooked by 73
percent, Kinder said in an e-mail.  A third, Kinder Morgan’s 169,000 barrel-a-day Platte
pipeline, was overbooked by 100 percent in its southern portion
extending from  Wyoming  to Wood River,  Illinois , where Phillips
66 operates a refinery, the company said.  Syncrude, a Canadian light synthetic oil processed from oil
sands, declined $3 to a discount of $9 a barrel against WTI,
according to Net Energy.  Western Canada Select’s discount to WTI widened over the
course of the week, from a discount of $27 on Oct. 26, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The discount has almost tripled
since Oct. 1, when it was $11.50 a barrel below WTI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  