-- CBOE Wins Illinois Court Ruling Barring ISE Max SPY Index
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-02T23:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/cboe-wins-illinois-court-ruling-barring-ise-max-spy-index.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  won an  Illinois 
judge’s decision preventing International Securities Exchange
LLC from offering new options trading based on the  McGraw-Hill
Cos. (MHP)   S&P 500 Index .  Judge Franklin U. Valderrama in Chicago today ruled that
the ISE proposal violated a 2010 court order barring ISE from
providing an exchange market for options based on McGraw-Hill’s
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC-licensed product.  CBOE and McGraw-Hill asked the court in March to enforce
the two-year-old injunction. ISE countered that its planned Max
SPY Index options product isn’t the same as the one that was
previously blocked.  “The court finds that ISE’s interpretation of the July
2010 order is too narrow. The clear import of the July 2010
order was to cover any options that are based on the S&P 500,”
Valderrama wrote in his nine-page decision. “The court finds
that the Max SPY Options would be based on the S&P 500.”  ISE, based in New York, said in March announcement about
the Max SPY Index that it’s a “new proprietary index”
representing 10 times the value of the published share price for
the  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY)  -- a portfolio representing all 500
stocks in the S&P 500 Index -- which trades under the ticker
symbol SPY.  Appellate Court  McGraw-Hill and CBOE responded by asking the court to
enforce their rights under an earlier ruling by Judge William
Maki. That decision was later affirmed by an Illinois appellate
court.  Molly McGregor, a spokeswoman for ISE, declined to comment
on Valderrama’s decision.  “This decision short-circuits ISE’s ongoing attempts to
gain access to CBOE’s exclusive products by misappropriating
McGraw-Hill’s intellectual property,” CBOE Holdings Chairman
and CEO William J. Brodsky said in a press statement.  The case is  Chicago Board Options Exchange Inc. v.
International Securities Exchange LLC, 06CH24798, Cook County,
Illinois, Circuit Court,  Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  