-- McDonnell Predicts ‘Razor-Thin’ Romney Win (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-11-02T22:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/mcdonnell-predicts-razor-thin-romney-win-transcript-.html
Republican  Virginia  Governor  Bob
McDonnell  said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
Mitt Romney will carry Virginia and win the presidency by a
“razor-thin” margin.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Virginia Republican
Governor Bob McDonnell. Governor McDonnell joins us from
Richmond. Thank you for being with us, governor.  And let’s start with the jobs report out: 171,000 jobs
added, two-and-a-half years of private-sector job growth,
following on  consumer confidence  up, housing getting back.
Like Virginia, the national economy seems to be on the way
back.  GOVERNOR BOB MCDONNELL: Well, any news in the right
direction is good news, Al, but the bottom line is, the
 unemployment rate  is higher today than when President Obama
took office. So this is not a real recovery. We’re - you
know, we’re doing relatively well in Virginia, down at 5.9
percent, because of some things that Republicans and
Democrats have done.  But the point is, there were so many people out of the
 labor force , they’re just starting to come back in, we
still have 23 million people unemployed, so we’re basically
at a standstill over the last four years. I’m glad that
we’re making some slight progress, but this is not what a
real recovery looks like. We need 250,000 to 300,000 jobs a
month in order to have a sustained recovery for our people.
We can do - we can do better. And that’s why I’m supporting
 Mitt Romney .  HUNT: Governor, let me ask you about Sandy. You
avoided the disaster that hit  New York  and  New Jersey .  It
still, though, did hit Virginia. What kind of a job did
FEMA and  Barack Obama  do?  MCDONNELL: Well, we were very blessed in Virginia. We
got a glancing blow, although we had sustained winds of 50
miles an hour gusts, higher than that, a lot of rain and
flooding on the Eastern Shore,  Virginia Beach , Northern
Virginia significantly without power.  So I’d say this. FEMA did - FEMA did a very good job.
They were on the ground from Saturday on. We’ve got very
good working relationships with them, between the state,
local and federal governments. But I think what’s important
for people to know is it’s really the local governments
that do the lion’s share of the work, their first
responders, their evacuation plans, the state with the
police and National Guard are sort of in backup, and then
finally, for financial assistance and other things comes
FEMA.  The president was on the phone with us, pledging
federal assistance. We appreciated that very much.  HUNT: Do you agree with Mitt Romney’s suggestion last
year that maybe it’d be a good idea to turn FEMA’s
functions back over to the states and local government or
even privatize them?  MCDONNELL: I think the federal government’s got a
legitimate role with the - with FEMA and being the backup
for state and local governments for these major disasters
and being on the ground in advance to help. They are the -
sort of the level of government at last - of last resort
for these major disasters like you see in New York and New
Jersey.  And so, no, I think they’ve got - they’ve got a
legitimate role. And I think recently Governor Romney has
said the same thing.  HUNT: Let me ask you about a couple of endorsements.
One of Virginia’s, you know, most famous citizens,  Colin
Powell , endorsed Barack Obama, saying he - he has concerns
about Mitt Romney’s foreign policy views. The top Romney
surrogate, John Sununu, said, no, he did it because of
race. Let me ask you if you agree with Sununu, and does the
Powell endorsement matter?  MCDONNELL: General Powell is - is a great American. He
did a terrific job in the military and as secretary of
state. And he’s free to make his choice. Obviously, I
disagree with that. General Powell is free to make his
endorsement. He’s done that. I’ve made mine. And ultimately
the people will decide on Tuesday.  HUNT: Do you think race was a factor in his
endorsement?  MCDONNELL: I mean, that’s up to General Powell. I
doubt it. I mean, I’d say that General Powell is a man of
great integrity. I know him a little bit. He makes the
decisions that he makes based on what he really - really
believes, and as do I, and as do most of - most Virginians.  HUNT: As does  Michael Bloomberg , the mayor of  New York
City , and the owner of Bloomberg LP. He endorsed Obama,
too, saying that the storm really brought home the need for
an activist federal government in some areas. Will the -
will the Bloomberg endorsement have any effect?  MCDONNELL: Not in Virginia. I mean, Mayor Bloomberg is
a Democrat. It’s only - so the only surprise is that he
waited until a couple days after a hurricane, right before
an election, to make the endorsement.  HUNT: He actually ran as a Republican.  MCDONNELL: It’s not going to have any impact in
Virginia.  HUNT: He actually ran as a Republican and independent.  MCDONNELL: Well, he did before. But, I mean, he’s -
he’s a Democrat. And everybody knows that. And he’s been a
champion for - for, you know, big city bailouts and gun
control for a long time.  So he is.  But, listen,  Mayor Bloomberg  does a good job when it
comes to disaster preparedness in his - in his city. He’s
been a - he’s been a good leader. But those endorsements
aren’t going to carry much weight, I don’t think.  HUNT: Let’s go to Virginia, because it’s really - it
couldn’t be tighter there.  Prince William  County, Barack
Obama and  Bill Clinton  are going to be there Saturday
night, it went for Bush, it went for Obama. Republicans
across the country are getting clobbered in the Latino
vote. That’s a fast growing element in Prince William
County. Could that cost you the county?  MCDONNELL: No. I was fortunate in 2009, the year after
the president won Virginia, I got over 60 percent of the
vote there and in Loudon County. We won Fairfax County. So
I don’t see that - I don’t see that to be a problem. Prince
William has got a lot of conservatives, has got a lot of
people in the defense industry that are very concerned
about the Obama sequestration defense cuts, 200,000 jobs
lost in Virginia. And so many of the Hispanic community are
very concerned about small business.  That’s why they’ve come - many people have come to
America, and the unprecedented amount of uncertainty out of
 Washington  with their regulations and taxes are really
hurting people in the - in the community. I expect Mitt
Romney to win Prince William County.  HUNT: OK, Governor, do you have any concern with
Virgil Goode? It’s very close in Virginia. And he has run
in the south side and won big as a Republican, as an
independent, as a Democrat. Could he be a spoiler in your
state?  MCDONNELL: Listen, Virgil’s a very good guy. Know him
- known him for a long time. He’s a very principled
conservative guy. I’m disappointed, obviously, that he’s
running. You know, I think some polls had him at 2 percent.
I expect him to be far less than that. I don’t expect him
to be a factor. I think the ground game, as the Republicans
have put together this year, while it was somewhat anemic
in ’08, is great this year, probably better than the
Democrats. And I think turnout and enthusiasm means that we
win by a couple of points and, therefore, Congressman
Goode’s not going to be a factor.  HUNT: All right. It is D-Day. You’ve predicted that
Romney carries Virginia. You know the national scope.
What’s the popular vote going to be? What percentage? And
what will the Electoral College look like next Wednesday
morning?  MCDONNELL: Well, I wish I was as good a pundit as you
on that score, but I’m not, so I can only say, I think for
the good of the country, I hope the same person, Mitt
Romney, wins the popular vote and the Electoral College. I
think it’s razor-thin. There are states still like Virginia
and Ohio and Wisconsin and Minnesota and Nevada,  Colorado ,
that are just - that are just too close to call.  But I think that the momentum - and I think this issue
about ground game and the fact that the most enthusiastic
voters are voting for Mitt Romney, which means that, of
those likely voters in the polls, the ones that are
actually going to show up, more of them will be Romney than
Obama supporters, and the independents, the undecideds will
break for Romney. That typically happens against the
incumbent every election.  So I’m expecting Mitt Romney to win in a close vote in
the Electoral College, because the bottom line is, the
president’s tried hard for four years. His policies haven’t
worked. I expect Romney in a close election.  HUNT: Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell, thank you so
much for being with us. And when we come back, we’ll talk
to Democratic Governor  Deval Patrick .  #<738796.1204164.3.2.1.0.25>#
 