-- Cerberus Said to Seek Tie-Up of Albertsons With Supervalu
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/cerberus-said-to-seek-tie-up-of-albertsons-with-supervalu.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP is in
talks to buy all of  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  to merge the grocery chain’s
operations with its Albertsons stores, said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  The food retailer has given Cerberus extra time until mid-
November to conduct due diligence, said the people, who asked
not to be named because the talks are private.  Cerberus, which specializes in distressed investing, bought
a stake in Albertson’s Inc. in 2006 with a group that included
Supervalu. At the time, Cerberus got 655 grocery stores and  Eden
Prairie , Minnesota-based Supervalu took over more than 1,100,
under brands including Albertsons, Bristol Farms and Star
Market. Today, the food retailer operates more than 450 sites
under the Albertsons banner, whose origins date back to 1939.  Supervalu shares fell 2.5 percent to $3.18 yesterday in New
York.  “We’ve had interest and we are in discussions,” Jeff
Swanson, a spokesman for Supervalu, said in an interview. He
declined to elaborate.  Peter Duda , a spokesman at Cerberus,
didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Supervalu’s market value has shrunk as the grocer lost more
than $2.5 billion over the past two fiscal years, hurt by
increasing competition from discounters and costs to run stores.
The retailer reported its 14th straight quarterly sales drop
last month, citing promotional pricing and more budget-conscious
shoppers.  Financial Performance  At the time, the third-largest U.S. grocery chain posted a
net loss of $111 million, or 52 cents a share, for the three
months ended Sept. 8, compared with net income of $60 million,
or 28 cents, a year earlier. Sales fell to $8.04 billion in the
quarter.  In July, Supervalu said it was working with  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Greenhill & Co. to review options. The company
attracted interest in parts of its business from private-equity
firms KKR & Co. and TPG Capital, as well as from billionaire
Ronald Burkle, people with knowledge of the matter said last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  