-- Chanos Unmoved by Chinese Banks’ Biggest Rally Since Jan.
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-11-02T20:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/chanos-undeterred-by-chinese-banks-biggest-rally-since-january.html
The biggest monthly surge in Chinese
banks since January isn’t enough to stop  Jim Chanos  from
shorting the financial shares as the portfolio manager wagers
the country faces a credit crisis as bad loans increase.  “You can’t look at a month and say that’s the trend, or
something’s changed,” Chanos, who oversees $6 billion as the
founder and president at Kynikos Associates Ltd., said in a
Bloomberg television interview. Bad loans peaking at 3 percent,
“seems awfully Pollyannic,” he said.  The  MSCI China Financial Index (MXCN0FN)  gained 8 percent in October,
outperforming the benchmark gauge’s 5.7 percent advance and the
Shanghai Composite Index’s 0.8 percent retreat, on prospects the
new leadership will energize the economy. Chanos has been
shorting the bank shares since at least February 2010.  Chinese commercial banks may see an increase in  non-
performing loans  from this quarter through the first half of
next year, China Orient Asset Management Corp. said on Nov. 1,
citing a survey. Bad loans at the nation’s four biggest banks
increased by 2.1 billion  yuan  ($337 million) in the third
quarter from the previous three months.  The credit cycle is about to get much tougher in  Asia  and
China specifically, while it’s slowly getting better in the
U.S., Chanos, who rose to fame shorting Enron Corp., said.  “Imagine a credit python - the U.S. is the pig at the end
of the snake, and China and Asia are the pig entering the snake
in terms of deleveraging the banks,” Chanos said.  Shorting involves selling borrowed shares with the view
their prices will fall and they can be bought back at a profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Li  in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  