-- Chemring Rises as Carlyle Talks Said to Continue: London Mover
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-02T13:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/chemring-rises-as-carlyle-talks-said-to-continue-london-mover.html
Chemring Group Plc (CHG)  climbed the most
in seven weeks after takeover talks with private-equity firm
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  were said to continue even after the U.K.
munitions supplier cut its earnings target.  The stock rose as much as 5.9 percent, rebounding from a 17
percent drop yesterday. Carlyle is still pursuing Chemring, two
people familiar with the talks said yesterday. Carlyle has yet
to decide if it will bid or work with Chemring to seek another
extension of a bid deadline now set for Nov. 9, said the people.  Chemring, based in Fareham,  England , yesterday reduced its
target for earnings per share for the 12 months through October
by 13 pence, the second reduction since Carlyle said in August
that it was exploring a takeover.  “We believe the Carlyle due diligence process is ongoing
as Chemring would have issued a statement if Carlyle had decided
to stop the process,” Rami Myerson, an analyst at UBS in
 London , wrote in a note today. Myerson maintained a buy
recommendation on the stock with a price target of 390 pence.  Chemring climbed as much as 15.40 pence to 276 pence, the
biggest intraday gain since Sept. 14. The stock was up 5.6
percent at 275.10 pence as of 1:10 p.m., when more than
1 million shares had traded, exceeding the three-month daily
average by 17 percent.  Ousted CEO  The  company  said on Aug. 17 it had been approached by
 Washington , D.C.-based Carlyle about a possible takeover. The
talks at the time were described as “highly preliminary.”
Since then, the U.K. company has issued two profit warnings.
Last month it ousted CEO  David Price . The new CEO, Mark Papworth, takes office on Nov. 5.  Carlyle and Chemring face a Nov. 9 deadline set by the U.K.
Takeover Panel to provide more detail on the takeover plan, end
talks, or seek an extension. Talks have already been extended
twice.  The probability of a takeover has been reduced by the
profit warning, which is likely to reduce the price a buyer
would pay, UBS’s Myerson wrote in today’s note.  Chemring blamed yesterday’s revision in part on development
snags with a countermeasure system, which needs re-testing
before it’s accepted by the customer. The company also said
several Middle East contract bookings were delayed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  