-- China Builder Said to Seek Loan for Possible Contract
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-02T10:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/china-builder-said-to-seek-loan-paving-way-for-u-s-contract.html
China Railway Construction Corp. (1186)  is
seeking a $100 million to $200 million loan from Chinese banks
for a property development in Nevada, a precondition for it to
win a contract to build part of the project, said three people
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The funding is being sought for the $1.6 billion Union
Village project in Henderson City, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the discussions are private. China
Railway Construction may alternatively invest a similar amount
of its own money in the project, the people said.  Wonderful Sky Financial Group Holdings Ltd. (1260) , which handles
media relations for China Railway Construction, said by e-mail
that the construction company is in exploratory talks about a
possible contract for the Union Village project, which have yet
to make any “meaningful progress.”  Chinese builders have sought growth in overseas markets as
the nation’s  economic expansion  cooled and Premier  Wen Jiabao 
continued a campaign to rein in real estate prices. Beijing-
based China Railway Construction said this week its new
contracts from abroad surged more than fivefold in the first
nine months compared with a 40 percent gain in domestic orders.  Union Village is designed to include retail, entertainment
centers, senior residential communities and a hospital complex,
according to its  website . Partner  David Baker  didn’t return a
message seeking comment.  Property Push  China Railway Construction, which is also in talks to build
a new stadium for Italian soccer team  Inter Milan , rose 5.9
percent to close at HK$8.39 in Hong Kong. The city’s benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  rose 1.3 percent.  The builder surged 16.5 percent in the last three trading
days of this week after saying third-quarter profit rose 41
percent to 1.9 billion yuan ($304 million). Earnings rose as
China boosted railway-construction investment to help revive
economic growth.  The company, one of China’s two biggest rail builders,
plans to spend 69.6 billion yuan on property developments in the
three years through 2014 as it seeks to diversify. The company
intends to spend 54 billion  yuan  on rail and other
infrastructure projects in the period, according to a Nov. 1
bill  prospectus .  Real estate accounted for about 3 percent of the company’s
revenue in 2011. It boosted property pre-sales by 36 percent in
the first nine months of this year to 15.6 billion yuan,
exceeding the full-year amount in 2011, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts Phyllis Wang and Joe Liew said in a note today, citing
management.  China Railway Construction has also invested in a  copper
mine  in Ecuador as it expands into new markets. The mine will
require $1.72 billion of investment, according to a March
statement. The mine’s operator is owned by a 50-50 venture
between the builder and Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group
Holdings Co.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  