-- China’s Cotton Reserves Enough to Meet Deficit for Six Years
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-02T08:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/china-cotton-reserves-seen-enough-to-meet-deficit-for-six-years.html
Cotton stockpiles in  China , the
world’s biggest importer, are set to climb to about 9 million
metric tons this season, enough to cover the country’s deficit
for the next six years, according to Allenberg Cotton Co.  Inventories are rising as the government boosts purchases
to support domestic prices and lift farmer incomes, Joe Nicosia,
chief executive officer of world’s largest cotton trader, said
at a conference in Hong Kong today. The country may buy 5
million tons for reserves this year, up from 3.2 million tons a
year earlier, he said.  “As long as China maintains this regime to subsidize
cotton farmers, the world will be prone to overproduction,” he
said. “Can you imagine a world without China importing any
cotton for six years? They hold all the cards.”  Cotton plunged 68 percent from a record last year as
farmers expanded output. Global stockpiles will reach a record
16.4 million tons in the year started Aug. 1, increasing 17
percent from a year earlier, according to the International
Cotton Advisory Committee. The slump in prices has curbed costs
at companies such as Levi Strauss & Co. and  Gap Inc. (GPS)   “Outside of China the world has 13.9 million bales of
surplus,” said Nicosia, who is also executive vice president of
Louis Dreyfus Commodities BV. “How much of this surplus China
decides to absorb will determine the cotton market’s
direction.” Each bale weighs 480 pounds (218 kilograms).  Poor Performer  Global stockpiles may total 79.11 million bales on July 31,
up 14 percent from a year earlier, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said Oct. 11. China will import 11 million bales,
down 55 percent from last year, as its inventories climb 21
percent to 36.61 million bales, the agency said.  Cotton, which reached a record $2.197 a pound in March
2011, is the worst performer this year after arabica coffee
among the 24 commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index. Futures traded at 70.39 cents on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York today, down 23 percent in 2012. Imports by China become
viable if prices drop below 68 cents, even with a 40 percent
duty, said Nicosia.  As long as the nation curbs access to competitively priced
cotton, consumption growth will shift to other Asian countries,
he said. China needs to sell its reserves “at competitive
prices or risk losing its domination of the world’s textile
industry and the jobs associated with it,” he said.  Cotton  consumption  in China will drop for a third year in
2012-2013, declining 5.3 percent to 36 million bales, after a 17
percent plunge a year earlier, the USDA estimates. Domestic use
has slumped 28 percent since 2009-2010, agency data show.  “I’m hopeful that the Chinese mills can gain access to
more competitively priced cotton so they can increase
consumption and get the cotton-polyester blend back,” said
Nicosia in an interview at the conference. “Millions of bales
of demand were lost to the man-made fiber. It will take a period
of years in order to get that back.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  