-- U.S. Official Recounts Rescue Effort in Libya Attack
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-11-03T03:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/cia-describes-effort-to-rescue-americans-in-libya-attack.html
Central Intelligence Agency officers
in Benghazi,  Libya , sent a security team to the U.S. diplomatic
mission there less than 25 minutes after the post was attacked
by Islamic militants, according to a timeline provided by a
senior U.S. intelligence official.  The first call reporting the Sept. 11 attack came into the
CIA base in an annex to the mission in Benghazi at around 9:40
p.m., said the official, who spoke last night on condition of
anonymity because intelligence reports are classified.  Charges that the Obama administration failed to respond to
requests for additional security in Benghazi and at the American
Embassy in Tripoli, the Libyan capital, have grown harsher and
become part of the Republican campaign to unseat President
 Barack Obama , and the CIA has suffered collateral damage from
the allegations.  Responding to accusations aired on  Fox News  and picked up
elsewhere that officials in Washington had refused to approve
military strikes or rescue efforts, the official said no one in
the White House, the State Department, the Pentagon, the CIA or
any other organization second-guessed decisions made in
Benghazi, and there were no orders to anyone providing support
to stand down.  The intelligence officers at the annex in Benghazi
responded to the situation as quickly and as effectively as
possible in the face of heavy enemy fire, the official said. In
particular, the security officers, one of whom was killed, were
genuine heroes, the official said.  Risked Lives  The officers attempted to rally local support to reinforce
militiamen hired to guard the compound and obtain heavier
weapons, and when they were unable to do so within minutes, they
still risked their lives by going to the aid of U.S. Ambassador
Chris Stevens and his colleagues in the main part of the
compound, the official said.  Contradicting other reports and allegations, the official
said everyone from the senior officers in Libya to the top
officials in Washington were fully engaged in trying to provide
whatever help they could.  The Pentagon “took swift action,” spokesman  George Little 
told reporters today. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  ordered the
deployment of forces, including two Marine Corps Fleet
Antiterrorism Security Teams, a special operations unit based in
 Central Europe  and and U.S.-based contingent of troops, Little
said.  ‘Takes Time’  “It takes time for troops to be organized, to be
transported, to understand what they may be called upon to do,”
Little said at the Pentagon, adding, “They simply were not able
to arrive in time.”  In the end, a Marine unit was sent to protect the U.S.
embassy in Tripoli after the attacks while the other forces got
as far as the U.S. base in Sigonella,  Italy , he said. The Naval
Air Station at Sigonella in Sicily is 470 miles (756 kilometers)
by air from Benghazi.  Federal Bureau of Investigation agents are arriving in
 Tunisia  to assist in the interrogation of a Tunisian suspected
of involvement in the Benghazi attack, Tunisia’s Secretary of
State for Foreign Affairs Hedi Ben Abbes said today.  The FBI team was en route to Tunis, the capital, after a
Tunisian magistrate investigating suspected radical Ali Ani al-
Harzi agreed to let the U.S. provide its “techniques and
expertise” for interrogating terror suspects, Ben Abbes, the
no. 2 official at foreign ministry, said in an interview in
Bloomberg’s Washington office.  Aerial Drone  Officials in Washington monitored the events in Benghazi
from message traffic and video shot by an unarmed aerial drone
that was diverted from another mission elsewhere in Libya and
arrived over the compound at 11:11 p.m., the intelligence
official said.  By 11:30 p.m., all U.S. personnel except for Stevens, who
was missing, left the mission under fire for the annex about 1.2
miles (2 kilometers) away, the official said. For the next 90
minutes, the annex was hit by sporadic small-arms fire and
rocket-propelled grenade rounds. The security team returned
fire, and the attackers dispersed at about 1 a.m., according to
the timeline the official provided.  At about the same time, the official said, a team of
additional security personnel from the embassy in Tripoli,
including two members of the U.S. military, landed at the
Benghazi airport, where they began negotiating for
transportation into town. A second official, also speaking on
the condition of anonymity to discuss classified matters, said
the reinforcements also had difficulty getting Libyan officials’
permission to leave the airport grounds.  Stevens Missing  When they learned that Stevens was missing and that the
attack on the annex had subsided, the group from Tripoli focused
on locating the ambassador and trying to secure information on
the security situation at the Benghazi Medical Centre. Local
Libyans had taken Stevens to the hospital, which was where a
doctor later interviewed by  Bloomberg News  pronounced the
ambassador dead.  Still in the pre-dawn darkness, the U.S. security team at
the airport finally secured transportation and an armed escort.
Having learned that Stevens was almost certainly dead and that
the security situation at the hospital was uncertain, they
headed to the annex to help evacuate remaining personnel there,
according to the timeline provided by the senior official.  The two security officers who had been at the mission when
the first attack started almost eight hours earlier took up
positions on the annex’s roof and were killed by mortar fire,
the official said, although that attack lasted only 11 minutes.  Finally, about an hour later, a heavily armed Libyan
security force arrived at the annex and began helping evacuate
about 30 Americans to the airport, along with the bodies of
Stevens and the other three Americans who were killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in  Washington  at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  