-- Colombia Regulators Seize Interbolsa Brokerage on Funding
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-11-02T23:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/colombia-regulators-to-take-over-interbolsa-s-brokerage-unit-1-.html
Colombia ’s financial regulators
seized  Interbolsa SA (INTBOL) ’s brokerage, the country’s largest, after
the company said it faces a “temporary” funding shortage.  The stock exchange suspended trading in Interbolsa for five
working days, according to a statement on its website, after the
shares plunged a record 30 percent yesterday because of concern
about the company’s financial situation.  The takeover will protect Colombians who have savings with
the brokerage, and authorities expect to decide within two
months whether it should be liquidated, Gerardo Hernandez, the
chief financial regulator, told reporters in Bogota. Regulators
may search for a potential buyer of the brokerage, he said.  “There’s the possibility of seeking a merger, of a
transfer of assets and liabilities,” Hernandez said. “In the
last few weeks we followed very closely as the brokerage tried
to solve its liquidity problem definitively through bank
lending, finally turning to an alternative of a potential sale
and other mechanisms.”  Officials stepped in after Interbolsa said last night that
it couldn’t make a payment on a 20 billion peso ($11 million)
loan. Taking into account Interbolsa’s market share, the number
of clients and operations, the seizure is “the most appropriate
measure to protect, in an effective manner, the rights of
investors, confidence and the security of the public in the
market,” the regulator said in the resolution posted on its
website.  The brokerage’s liquidity crisis came about when it was
unable to secure funding to cover obligations including for
 repurchase agreements  it had structured on shares of textile
company  Fabricato SA (FABRI) , Interbolsa’s Chief Executive Officer
Rodrigo Jaramillo told reporters in Bogota today.  “Interbolsa searched for additional funds to guarantee at
every moment the repurchase of the shares,” Jaramillo said.
“For this we turned to the main banks in the country. These
bank loans were added to those that in a normal manner you
request for daily brokerage activities and which are paid at the
end of the day. This was possible until yesterday when, once all
our obligations were paid with our clients and counter parties,
we were unable to pay a  bank loan .”  IGBC Drops  Colombia’s benchmark IGBC equity index fell 1 percent at
the close of trading in Bogota. Thirty stocks were down, while
six were unchanged and one gained.  “This will lead to uncertainty for sure whilst everyone
waits for any announcements,” said  Rupert Stebbings , the
managing director for Colombia at Celfin Capital. “Short-term,
volumes will be affected, not because physically people can’t
trade but because people are going to want to see what’s going
on.”  Interbolsa tumbled to the lowest since 2005 yesterday,
extending its decline this year to 58 percent. The company said
in a statement yesterday it’s working to remedy the cash squeeze
as the brokerage “faces a temporary liquidity shortage.”  Interbolsa “may not have the financial strength to help
out this broker that represents such a big part of the Colombian
market,” said Alejandro Reyes, the head analyst at
Ultrabursatiles brokerage in Bogota. “Nobody but Interbolsa and
the regulator knows the extent of the problem.”  Clients’ assets were never at risk, Jaramillo told
reporters in Bogota. “Neither the solvency nor the strength of
the brokerage are in question, and more importantly, the
resources and assets of all our clients are duly safeguarded.”  Interbolsa also has an  investment fund unit  that had more
than 2 trillion pesos of assets under management as of April,
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  