-- Credit-Linked Notes With Coupon Step-Ups Reach Record in Europe
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-11-02T12:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/credit-linked-notes-with-coupon-step-ups-reach-record-in-europe.html
Sales of credit-linked notes with
coupons that increase during the life of the security have
soared to a record in  Europe .  Germany ’s Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg led $3.59 billion
of issuance of the step-up securities in the year through Oct.
30, almost 10 times more than the $375 million sold in all of
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Central banks have flooded the market with liquidity,
meaning companies are unlikely to run into trouble in the short
term, but long-term solvency issues have not been solved by
measures such as quantitative easing,” said Nordine Farsi, head
of structured credit trading at LBBW in  London .  LBBW sold 100 million euros ($130 million) of six-year
step-up notes tied to Daimler AG’s debt last month. The
difference between the cost of insuring the carmaker’s debt for
one year and five years with credit-default swaps, a key pricing
component for the notes, was 84 basis points, up from 63 basis
points Sept. 17, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The wider spreads for Daimler and other companies including
insurer  Allianz SE (ALV)  allows banks to create step-up products with
more generous coupons for investors.  BNP Paribas SA, UBS AG and Credit Agricole SA are among
other lenders to issuer credit-linked notes with step-up coupons
this year, Bloomberg data show.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money. Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  