-- Dangling Crane to Be Secured in 36-Hour Weekend Operation
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-11-02T20:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/dangling-crane-to-be-secured-in-36-hour-weekend-operation.html
Work to secure a partially collapsed
and dangling crane above  Manhattan ’s 57th Street will begin
tomorrow, in a plan that may clear the way for residents and
businesses on the block to return by nighttime on Nov. 5.  The crane’s boom, now hovering over the sidewalk, will be
secured to the 90-story tower in a maneuver that will take about
36 hours, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  “We think we have a plan that’s been well-studied by
everybody,” Bloomberg said today. “We’ve been on the crane and
with workers, and we’ve photographed everything and we’ve
studied the blueprints.”  The construction crane at the luxury One57 condominium
project partially collapsed on Oct. 29 as gusts from superstorm
Sandy pounded Manhattan. Buildings near the site at 157 W. 57th
St., including Le Parker Meridien hotel and the Salisbury Hotel,
were evacuated, and nearby streets remain closed.  Over the next three or four weeks, workers will build
another crane alongside the damaged one and use it to remove the
parts that are broken, said the mayor, who is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  One57, being built by Extell Development Co., is poised to
be  New York ’s tallest residential building. The tower set a
price record for a single Manhattan residence in May, when an
11,000-square-foot (1,000-square-meter) unit, spanning the top
two floors, sold for about $90 million. The building, located
between Sixth and Seventh avenues, is scheduled to open in
mid-2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  