-- Direct Line, Admiral Hurt by Falling Premiums and Investments
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-11-02T08:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/direct-line-admiral-hurt-by-falling-premiums-and-investments.html
Direct Line Insurance Group Plc (DLG)  and
 Admiral Group Plc (ADM)  posted lower profit and sales respectively in
the third quarter as falling investment returns and decreasing
premiums squeezed U.K. auto insurers.  Direct Line, the country’s biggest home and motor insurer,
said in a statement today that operating profit dropped 4
percent from the year-earlier quarter to 123.7 million pounds
($200 million). Admiral, which insures 3.6 million British
vehicles, said revenue dropped 2 percent to 570 million pounds
in a separate statement.  “Against the backdrop of a competitive market and subdued
investment returns, we continue to focus on disciplined pricing
and underwriting,” Paul Geddes, Direct Line’s chief executive
officer, said in the insurer’s statement.  Soaring claims from personal injuries such as whiplash has
meant the U.K. motor insurance market hasn’t made an
underwriting profit for about 15 years and relies on other
income, such as investment returns, according to the  Association
of British Insurers . Following a 40 percent rise in premiums to
compensate for such costs between 2010 and 2011, rates are
beginning to fall, further squeezing profits, Admiral said.  “The U.K. car insurance market is cyclical and we are in
the softer part of the cycle, with premium rates coming down,”
said Henry Engelhardt, Admiral’s CEO. “We believe that the
sensible strategy in this part of the cycle is to slow our rate
of growth.”  Admiral fell 1.2 percent to 1128 pence as of 8:03 a.m. in
 London . It’s still the best performer in the nine-member  FTSE
ASX Nonlife Insurance Index (FAINSU)  this year, rising 38 percent,
compared with the index’s 20 percent climb, as 2011 claims costs
turned out to be less than some analysts had expected.  Direct Line shares were unchanged. It’s up 13 percent to
199 pence a share following its initial public offering on Oct.
11, when it was spun out of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 