-- DNO Expects First Payment for Iraqi Oil Exports Before Year-End
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-11-02T14:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/dno-expects-first-payment-for-iraqi-oil-exports-before-year-end.html
DNO International ASA (DNO) , the Norwegian
oil producer which gets most of its output from  Iraqi Kurdistan ,
said it expects the regional government to pay the company part
of the money it’s owed for exports by the end of the year.  Iraq ’s central authorities and the Kurdistan Regional
Government came to an agreement over export payments on Sept.
13. Baghdad agreed to pay international companies 1 trillion
Iraqi dinars ($858 million) and the KRG has received a first
tranche of 650 billion dinars, DNO said on Oct. 8, adding that
the company didn’t know when it would be paid or how much it
would get.  “We hope that’ll come by the end of the year,” DNO
Chairman Bijan Mossavar-Rahmani said by phone from  New York 
yesterday. “I don’t expect we’ll have to wait longer than that
for the first payment.”  DNO, which was the first foreign company to drill for oil
in Iraq after the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, has been caught in
a payment dispute between Kurdish authorities, with which the
company signed its oil contracts, and the central government,
which doesn’t recognize those deals.  DNO has been forced to sell much of its oil locally at
lower prices than on global markets, and has only received two
export payments since it first started operations in the region.
The last payment received by DNO was in September last year.  DNO, which also produces oil in Oman and Yemen, got about
75 percent of its output from its Tawke field in northern Iraq
in the second quarter. It’s now boosted production there to
about 65,000 barrels a day, of which 60,000 are being sold into
international markets, after exports resumed in August.  ‘Greater Transparency’  Following the Sept. 13 deal, central and regional
authorities agreed to boost production from Kurdistan to 250,000
barrels of oil a day in 2013.  “We’re optimistic that a process has started which will
over time add greater transparency and predictability to the
payments, on the basis of our existing contracts,” Mossavar-
Rahmani said yesterday.  DNO owns 55 percent of Tawke, while  Genel Energy Plc (GENL)  has a
25 percent stake. The Norwegian company is seeking to raise
capacity at the field to 100,000 barrels of oil a day by the end
of the year and to 200,000 barrels by the end of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  