-- Heating Oil, Gasoline Drop on Ship Waiver, Supply Gain
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-11-02T19:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/heating-oil-gasoline-drop-on-ship-waiver-supply-gain.html
Heating oil and gasoline tumbled
after the U.S. eased shipping requirements to increase supply to
the Northeast and as terminals and pipelines returned to service
after  Hurricane Sandy .  The Department of  Homeland Security  waived the Jones Act,
which requires ships moving between U.S. ports to use a U.S.-
flagged vessel, increasing the tankers able to move fuel from
the Gulf Coast to the East Coast. Colonial Pipeline Co. said its
main line that delivers to Linden,  New Jersey , and on to
terminals around New York Harbor, is resuming deliveries today.  “The supply situation is going to improve quite a bit,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston. “Some of the terminals in Linden have full power.
Buckeye restored to full power last night.”  Heating oil for December delivery declined 8.58 cents, or
2.8 percent, to settle at $2.9474 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the lowest level since Aug. 6. It was the
biggest decline in three months.  Buckeye Partners LP (BPL)  said it has resumed operations on most
of its pipelines in the Northeast. Buckeye ships fuel from
Philadelphia and New York to Pennsylvania and upstate New York,
and  jet fuel  to New York-area airports. Colonial expects to
deliver fuel today to Linden on its 825,000-barrel-a-day Line 3.  Hess, Citgo  Hess Corp. said its terminal in Pennsauken, N.J. is
beginning barge operations and it’s loading barges from the dock
at the Port Reading refinery, which remains shut. Phillip 66’s
Bayway refinery in Linden is also idle. Citgo Petroleum Corp.
said most of its terminals are operating after several shut on
Oct. 29 before the storm.  Gasoline for December delivery fell 6 cents, or 2.3
percent, to settle at $2.5736 a gallon on the exchange.  Futures rose to $2.6545 earlier following a report that
hiring in the U.S. increased more than forecast in October,
indicating the economy is improving.  “The market tried to push higher after the unemployment
report came out,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .  The last jobs report before next week’s Presidential
election showed 171,000 workers were added to payrolls after a
148,000 gain in September that was more than first estimated,
Labor Department figures showed today in Washington. Colonial
Pipeline Co. resumed deliveries yesterday from its Linden, New
Jersey, terminal.  The jobs increase exceeded the most optimistic forecast in
the Bloomberg survey in which the median called for an advance
of 125,000. Unemployment rose to 7.9 percent as more people
entered the  labor force .  Gasoline Inventories  Inventories of gasoline in the East Coast, or Padd 1, fell
202,000 barrels to 47.9 million in the week ended Oct. 26, the
Energy Department reported yesterday. Gasoline blending
components, which include fuel to be blended with ethanol at
terminals before heading to filling stations, fell 216,000
barrels to 40.85 million barrels.  The average nationwide price for  regular gasoline  at the
pump sank 1.1 cents to $3.496 a gallon yesterday, AAA, the
largest U.S. motoring organization, said today on its website.
That’s the lowest level since July 29. Prices have fallen every
day since Oct. 10. The pump price reached a 2012 high of $3.936
on April 4.  Heating oil fell more than gasoline as it followed a
decline in European gasoil after European manufacturing output
contracted in October, adding to signs a recession in the
currency bloc may extend into next year as leaders struggle to
tackle the sovereign-debt crisis.  European Manufacturing  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area fell to
45.4 from 46.1 in September, snapping two months of advances,
London-based Markit Economics said today. A slower economy in
 Europe  would reduce demand for U.S. diesel exports.  “The general sense of economic uncertainty that has hung
over the market is still there,” said McGillian, “The
fundamentals of supply and demand remain weak.”  Gasoil for November delivery weakened $17.25 to settle at
$925 a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Clark in  New York  at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  