-- ECB May Face Involuntary Losses on Greek Debt, Bosomworth Says
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-11-02T14:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/ecb-may-face-involuntary-losses-on-greek-debt-bosomworth-says.html
The  European Central Bank  may have to
take losses on its Greek sovereign bonds because the country is
unlikely to repay its debt in full,  Andrew Bosomworth , managing
director at Pacific Investment Management Co. said.  “At the end of the day it’s the Greek government’s
decision, therefore the ECB might unwillingly accept that it
doesn’t get everything back,” Bosomworth said in an interview
in  Riga ,  Latvia , today.  Greek political indecision and economic weakness in recent
months is jeopardizing the country’s efforts to meet budget
targets. With debt now forecast to peak at 192 percent of gross
domestic product in 2014, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is
pleading for two extra years to narrow the deficit.  “Its extremely difficult to see any way, any possibility
how the country pays back its debt without receiving assistance
in the form of debt relief,” Bosomworth said. “Greece is
insolvent and it’s going to default. It’s just a question of how
and when that is realized.”  International lenders have so far pledged funds totaling
240 billion euros ($308 billion) to Greece, which also had 100
billion euros written off its debt by private-sector investors
this year in the biggest restructuring in history.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is willing to
consider an ECB proposal for a buyback of Greece’s debt. The
Frankfurt-based institution, which holds about 45 billion euros
of the country’s sovereign bonds, views any voluntary haircut as
monetary state financing, which is prohibited by its founding
treaty.  “Our view is that there are many options to help reduce
Greece’s debt burden and they should be considered,”
International Monetary Fund spokesman Gerry Rice told reporters
in  Washington  yesterday. Debt buybacks “could be useful if they
were implemented in such a way as to deliver a meaningful
reduction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  