-- Telefonica Sells Online Travel Agency Rumbo to Bravofly
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-11-02T17:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/telefonica-sells-online-travel-agency-rumbo-to-bravofly.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone
company, will sell a 50 percent stake in online travel agency
Rumbo as the debt-ridden Spanish phone operator trims debt.  Tourism company Bravofly SA, based in Chiasso, Switzerland,
will buy Telefonica’s stake and also the 50 percent held by
Spanish travel operator  Orizonia , the companies said in an e-
mailed statement today. The deal is worth about 74 million euros
($95 million).  Telefonica Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is
reversing a decade-long expansion strategy by selling assets to
avoid a reduction of debt ratings. Europe’s most-indebted phone
operator, which raised 1.45 billion euros this week selling
shares in its German unit, has canceled its dividend and a share
buyback plan for this year.  Telefonica rose 0.9 percent to 10.36 euros in  Madrid  today,
valuing the company at 47.1 billion euros.  Rumbo, founded in 2000, operates in Spain, Portugal,
Brazil,  Argentina ,  Colombia  and  Venezuela . The website has about
2 million registered customers, according to a company
presentation.  As it struggles to cut more than 58 billion euros of net
debt, Telefonica also plans to spin off its Latin American
business. In July, it divested a $1.4 billion stake in China
Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. and this month it agreed to sell its
Atento call-center division to Bain Capital Partners LLC in a
deal worth 1.04 billion euros.  Sales Boost  After the acquisition, Bravofly’s annual revenue will reach
900 million euros, and the Swiss company will operate in more
than 20 countries from  Latin America  to Russia, with more than
850 employees, according to the statement. Rumbo, which also
manages the Viajar.com and Rumbo Negocios brands, will keep its
existing brand structure.  “The acquisition of Rumbo will strengthen our leading
position in the online travel industry, coupling with our
diversified presence across Europe,” Bravofly Chairman and
Founder Fabio Cannavale said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  