-- Emerging Stocks Rise to Best Week Since September After Payrolls
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-11-02T21:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/emerging-stocks-head-for-best-week-in-2-months-on-earnings-u-s-.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, adding
to the benchmark index’s biggest weekly gain in almost two
months, as industrial and technology companies’ profits beat
estimates and hiring in the U.S. increased more than forecast.  Samsung Heavy Industries Co., the world’s second-largest
shipbuilder, rallied the most in eight months and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) ,
 India ’s third-largest software-services exporter, rose for a
fifth day after earnings topped analysts’ forecasts. OAO
Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas producer, snapped a
five-day decline after quarterly earnings exceeded estimates.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index advanced 0.5 percent to
1,004.68 at the close of trading in New York. The gauge climbed
1.4 percent this week, the most since the period ended Sept. 14.
Its 30-day historical  volatility , a measure of price swings,
fell to a six-year low of 8.9 yesterday after data on U.S.
manufacturing and employment topped forecasts. A net 171,000
workers were added to payrolls after a 148,000 gain in
September, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .  “The job creation was stronger than we anticipated, and
that’s certainly a positive sign for the U.S. economy,”  Nick Chamie , global head of foreign-exchange strategy and emerging
markets research at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a phone
interview from Toronto. “The data is consistent with a mild
basing out of the growth slowdown, and with relatively weak
growth moving forward. The market is pricing out a little bit of
the more dire scenarios.”  The median forecast on U.S. payrolls from 91 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for an advance of 125,000. The
jobless rate rose to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent as more people
entered the labor force.  Share Premiums  The 21 countries in the MSCI emerging stocks index send
about 13 percent of exports to the U.S. on average, according to
data from the World Trade Organization.  Quarterly profits at MSCI index companies trailed analysts’
projections by 7.2 percent since the end of September, while
sales beat forecasts by 2.3 percent.  The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory  index 
rose to a five-month high of 51.7 in October, from 51.5 the
previous month, the Tempe,  Arizona , group reported yesterday.
The Conference Board’s consumer sentiment index increased to
72.2, the highest since February 2008. Fewer Americans filed
claims for unemployment benefits, pointing to resilience in the
economy heading into the fourth quarter. A purchasing managers’
index indicated manufacturing in  China  grew in October for the
first time in three months.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index was 50.2 in October,
according to official data released yesterday, signaling the
first manufacturing expansion in three months.  China, South Korea  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
added 1.2 percent, up 20 percent from a Sept. 5 low, marking the
start of a bull market and outpacing the  Shanghai Composite
Index. (SHCOMP)  The Hang Seng China AH Premium index, which tracks the
price of Chinese companies traded on the mainland relative to
their Hong Kong-listed counterparts, fell to the lowest level
since June 2011.  South Korea’s Kospi index rose 1.1 percent, while the BSE
India Sensitive Index added 1 percent.  Russia ’s Micex Index
climbed 0.7 percent for a third day of gains. Czech and South
African shares advanced while  Turkey ’s ISE National 100 Index
fell. Hungary’s stock market was closed for a second day for
public holidays. Markets in Brazil and  Mexico  were also closed
for local holidays. Colombia’s IGBC index slumped 1 percent.  Volume Increase  Vietnam’s VN Index sank 3.3 percent, the most in Asia,
closing at the lowest level since Jan. 20. China’s  yuan  weakened
as the central bank lowered the reference rate for a second day
to a level that meant the currency had to drop to stay within
the trading band. Russia’s ruble weakened for the first time in
four days, falling 0.6 percent versus the dollar.  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.5
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, dropped 0.8 percent.  Equity trading volumes were higher than average in Malaysia
and  Taiwan  today, and fell in South Korea and Russia. About 20
percent more shares of FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index companies
changed hands versus the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Volumes were 12 percent higher in the
Taiex Index, while they fell 20 percent in the Kospi. Micex
volumes were 38 percent lower.  Equity Inflows  Global equity funds lured net inflows for the first time in
five weeks in the seven days through Oct. 31, according to a
weekly Citigroup Inc. report today, as signs the world economy
is improving boosted appetite for riskier assets. Developed-
nation funds drew about $1.9 billion, while emerging-market
funds took about $900 million, with China posting the highest
weekly inflow at $601 million, the brokerage said in a report
today, citing data compiled by EPFR Global.  Gauges of technology and industrial stocks led gains among
10 industry groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, rising by
1 percent each. The broader index has climbed 9.6 percent this
year, trailing a 10 percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed countries. The developing-markets gauge trades at 11.5
times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.3
times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Samsung Heavy rose 6.1 percent in  Seoul , leading industrial
stocks higher, after reporting third-quarter net income of 277.4
billion won ($254 million). That exceeded the 180.6 billion-won
 average  of 23 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Woori
Finance Holdings Co. added 3.9 percent, snapping a three-day
drop, after an unexpected rise in third-quarter profit.  Gazprom, Wipro  Russia’s Gazprom added 1.2 percent. The world’s biggest
natural gas producer said net income declined to 150.8 billion
rubles ($4.8 billion) from 303.7 billion rubles a year earlier,
beating the average 140.3 billion-ruble estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  India’s Wipro climbed 0.9 percent, extending a weekly jump
to 8.5 percent, after saying  net income  rose 24 percent to 16.1
billion rupees ($299 million) in the second quarter ended
September, exceeding the 15.5 billion-rupee median of 42
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389) , the Chinese retail partner of
 Swatch Group AG (UHRN) , surged 9.6 percent in Hong Kong after data
showed the city’s September retail sales increased 9.4 percent
by value from the previous year, beating estimates.  Inotera
Memories Inc. (3474) , which makes dynamic random access memory chips,
tumbled 6.7 percent to a record low in Taipei after the Taiwan
Stock Exchange announced trading restrictions. The stock was the
second  worst-performer  on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Colombia’s stock exchange suspended trading in Interbolsa
SA for five working days, according to a statement on its
website, after financial regulators announced they will take
over the company’s brokerage unit. Interbolsa tumbled 30 percent
yesterday, the most on record.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage points, to 291, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  