-- Meningitis-Related Pharmacy Recall Worsens Drug Shortage
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-02T18:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/meningitis-related-pharmacy-recall-worsens-drug-shortage.html
The recall of hundreds of drugs by
Ameridose LLC, a compounding pharmacy associated with the U.S.
meningitis outbreak, may be exacerbating shortages of medicines
used for surgery and heart failure, regulators said.  The  Food and Drug Administration  is working with other
manufacturers to increase production and may consider foreign
suppliers, Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said in a Web  posting 
today. The drugs Westborough, Massachusetts-based Ameridose made
were already in short supply and include local anesthesias,
muscle relaxers to prevent movement during surgery and high-dose
diuretics to remove fluids during congestive heart failure.  Ameridose said Oct. 31 it recalled all its products because
of sterility  concerns  that arose after tainted drugs from New
England Compounding Pharmacy Inc., a company controlled by the
same people as Ameridose, were linked to meningitis infections
that have killed 29 patients. Six Ameridose drugs were on the
FDA’s drug shortages list, according to an FDA  statement 
yesterday. No infections have been traced to Ameridose, which
suspended operations Oct. 10.  “We have doubled the number of staff members who work in
drug shortage prevention and response,” Hamburg said. “We at
FDA are committed to doing everything we can, using all
available tools, to prevent or mitigate drug shortages and help
keep critically needed products on the market.”  The FDA received additional powers in June from Congress to
help mitigate shortages after a short supply of cancer drugs
created an opening for dangerous unapproved versions to make it
onto the market.  Supply Shortages  In 2011, total drugs in short supply hit 251, Hamburg said.
This year through September, the agency worked with drug
manufacturers to help avert 145 shortages.  President  Barack Obama  directed the FDA a year ago to
gather information from drugmakers about potential shortages so
the government can respond before patients’ lives are
threatened. The agency’s drug shortage office at the time
staffed five employees. Congress passed  legislation  in June
requiring drug manufacturers to notify FDA they may discontinue
a product.  The meningitis outbreak became known in late September, and
regulators have linked the infections to contaminated steroids
that were injected into about 14,000 patients to relieve neck
and back pain. As of today, 404 infections in 19 states had been
reported, including the 29 deaths, according to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  