-- MetLife to Sell Mortgage Portfolio to JPMorgan
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-03T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/metlife-agrees-to-sell-mortgage-servicing-portfolio-to-jpmorgan.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  agreed to sell the
mortgage-servicing business of its bank to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
as the biggest U.S. life insurer works to reduce oversight from
federal regulators.  The deal will help JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by
assets, increase its servicing business by more than 5 percent,
according to a statement issued yesterday. Terms of the
transaction for the portfolio of about $70 billion weren’t
disclosed, New York-based MetLife said.  MetLife Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian , 60, is
seeking to end the insurer’s status as a bank-holding company to
limit Federal Reserve oversight that’s blocked the insurer from
raising its dividend or repurchasing shares. The firm has
reached deals to sell its reverse-mortgage portfolio and most of
its U.S. bank deposits.  “Given MetLife’s strategic focus as a global insurance and
employee-benefits leader, the company decided in 2011 that a
bank holding company structure was no longer appropriate,”
MetLife said in the statement.  JPMorgan, led by CEO  Jamie Dimon , adds a pool of borrowers
whose loans it can service and offer to refinance, boosting
fees. The New York-based lender is the third-largest mortgage
servicer, after  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from Inside Mortgage
Finance.  “We will be able to provide our full range of products and
services to an additional 350,000 individuals and families,”
Eric Schuppenhauer, head of mortgage servicing at JPMorgan, said
in the statement. “We expect that many of these customers will
take advantage of historically low  interest rates  by
refinancing.”  Opportunity Seen  Expanding in mortgage servicing is a “once-in-a-lifetime”
opportunity as some firms scale back, U.S. Bancorp CEO  Richard Davis  said earlier this year.  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  is among firms adding home loans by
acquisitions. It won a $3 billion auction for Residential
Capital LLC.’s mortgage-servicing unit last month, outbidding
 Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  Ocwen also agreed to buy
Homeward Residential Holdings Inc. from Wilbur Ross’s WL Ross &
Co. last month.  Servicers collect payments from borrowers and pass them on
to mortgage lenders or investors, minus fees. They also handle
foreclosures when borrowers don’t pay.  MetLife agreed to sell its reverse-mortgage portfolio to
Nationstar in April. The insurer reached a deal to sell about
$7.5 billion of deposits to a unit of General Electric Co.  Seeking Approval  Kandarian has been unable to win approval for the deposit
sale as quickly as he’d planned, preventing him from ending the
firm’s bank status. MetLife and Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE
amended the deal in September so that Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. approval was no longer required.  MetLife faces a January deadline to submit a new capital
plan to the Fed. The insurer may be regulated as a non-bank
systemically important financial institution after it exits bank
status, Kandarian said on a conference call Nov. 1.  “Until we have clarification on the future as a bank, the
future being a non-bank or de-banking, and the future as a non-
bank SIFI, as well as what the rules would be under that, we
can’t give any guidance on capital,” MetLife Chief Financial
Officer John Hele said on the call.  MetLife was advised on the deal by K&L Gates LLP, Milestone
Advisors LLC and Deutsche Bank AG., according to the statement.
 Amy Bonitatibus , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said the bank didn’t
use outside advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  