-- Euro-Area Manufacturing Contracts, Adding to Recession Signs
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-11-02T09:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/euro-area-manufacturing-contracts-adding-to-recession-signs.html
Euro-area  manufacturing output 
contracted in October, adding to signs a recession in the
currency bloc may extend into next year as leaders struggle to
tackle the sovereign-debt crisis.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area fell to
45.4 from 46.1 in September, snapping two months of advances,
London-based Markit Economics said today. That compares with an
initial estimate of 45.3 published on Oct. 24. A reading below
50 indicates contraction.  Europe ’s  slump  is deepening as governments toughen spending
cuts and economies around the globe show signs of cooling. The
 European Central Bank , which has pledged to purchase  government
bonds  along with the euro-area rescue fund to fight the fiscal
crisis, is forecast to leave its benchmark rate unchanged at its
Nov. 8 meeting, according a Bloomberg survey of economists.
 Thomas Mayer , an economic adviser to Deutsche Bank AG, said he
anticipates a euro-area recession will continue into 2013.  “We are probably going with  negative momentum  into the
first quarter of next year and this means forecasts that next
year we get just sort of a zero are probably too optimistic,”
Mayer said yesterday in an interview with  Guy Johnson  on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.” “I think the recession
now looks likely to continue, and this puts the question of rate
cuts back on the table.”  More Difficult  The euro, which has depreciated more than 6 percent against
the dollar in the past year, traded at $1.2878 at 10:02 a.m. in
Brussels, down 0.5 percent on the day.  Euro-area governments may find it more difficult to plug
their budget gaps with at least five nations already in
recessions and the  fiscal turmoil  spreading from the periphery
to core countries. Manufacturing output contracted in Germany,
France and Italy, today’s data showed.  With consumers holding back spending and global demand
faltering, European companies may struggle to maintain their
sales growth.  MAN SE (MAN)  Chief Executive Officer Georg Pachta- Reyhofen said on Oct. 30 that the debt crisis has led to
uncertainty that “translates into shrinking order books” at
Europe’s third-largest truckmaker.  While manufacturing indicators from the U.K.,  Sweden ,
Norway, Greece,  Switzerland  and the Czech Republic yesterday
also showed contractions, China’s manufacturing expanded for the
first time in three months in October and a gauge in India rose.
The U.S. factory index also gained last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  