-- Teva Probe, Bank Capital Reserves, Swap Rules: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-02T13:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/teva-probe-bank-capital-reserves-swap-rules-compliance.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s biggest maker of generic medicines, said the U.S.
Justice Department informally requested documents in connection
with a bribery investigation in  Latin America .  The requests, received Oct. 10 and Oct. 26, were in
addition to a July 9 subpoena the company received from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Petach Tikva, Israel-
based company said yesterday in a regulatory filing. Teva said
it is cooperating with the government.  “These matters are in their early stages, and no
conclusion can be drawn at this time as to any likely
outcomes,” the company said in the filing.  Teva said it has hired independent counsel to assist in its
own investigation of “certain business practices” which may
have implications under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Denise Bradley, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Teva, said the
company didn’t have any comment beyond the filing.  U.S. law enforcement authorities have been probing other
drugmakers over possible violations of the overseas anti-bribery
law that bars employees or their agents from paying bribes to
foreign government officials to obtain or retain business.  Compliance Action  Wells Fargo, Schilling Sued by Rhode Island Over 38 Studios  The  Rhode Island  Economic Development Corp. sued  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Curt Schilling , the former
chairman of video-game maker 38 Studios LLC, claiming that
undisclosed risks led to the bankruptcy of the company.  The banks and Schilling, the former  Boston  Red Sox pitcher
who founded 38 Studios, didn’t disclose to the state’s economic
development organization the negative information about the
company’s financial projections and business plan, according to
a filing yesterday in Rhode Island Superior Court.  The EDC board in 2010 approved the issuance of $75 million
in bonds to finance a loan to allow 38 Studios to move to Rhode
Island from  Massachusetts  and complete a multiplayer online game
called Copernicus. The board’s advisers mentioned the risks and
the board concluded that the “merits and benefits of the
transaction were sufficient” to justify taking them, the EDC
said.  38 Studios filed for liquidation in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in  Delaware  in June. Wells Fargo and Barclays were the placement
agents for the $75 million loan.  “We are reviewing this matter and have no comment at this
time,” Dana Obrist, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, said in an e-mail.  Mark Lane , a spokesman for London-
based Barclays, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Banks Need More Capital to Protect Against Risks, FSB Says  Banks deemed to be too-big-to-fail should hold more capital
reserves to protect against operational risks, such as rogue
traders, regulatory fines and fraudulent employees, the
Financial Stability Board said.  Supervisors found “real weaknesses in the assessment of
capital for operational risk and in the models used and their
assumptions,” the FSB, a group of global regulators, said in a
report yesterday. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
should update its capital guidelines to reflect the importance
of the issue by the end of 2014, the FSB said.  Global regulators have observed mistakes and scandals at
some of the world’s largest banks in just over the last year.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  lost at least $6.2 billion this year after
failing to manage flawed positions on synthetic credit
securities,  UBS AG (UBSN)  lost $2.3 billion after an unauthorized
trading scandal in  London , and Barclays Plc was fined 290
million pounds ($468 million) in June over manipulations of
interbank lending rates.  The capital surcharges for systemic banks come on top of
agreements by the Basel committee to more than triple the core
reserves that lenders have to hold against possible losses. The
so-called Basel III rules are intended to apply fully starting
in 2019 and are designed to protect taxpayer money from the
types of bank bailouts seen after the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Large international lenders would have faced a 374.1
billion-euro ($484 billion) shortfall in the capital needed to
meet Basel III had it been in force at the end of 2011, the
Basel group said in September. The figure factors in the
surcharges for globally systemic banks.  The FSB also recommended yesterday that regulators
intensify oversight of banks deemed too-big-to-fail, and become
more intrusive in how they assess lenders’ succession planning,
risk culture and the effectiveness of their boards, the FSB said
in a statement.  Global regulators yesterday trimmed their list of 29  banks 
that must hold additional capital down to 28. The list is
published in advance of a Nov. 4 meeting in  Mexico  of finance
officials from the world’s biggest economies.  Hurricane Delays Swap-Collateral Rules Until Nov. 13, CFTC Says  CME Group Inc. (CME) , Intercontinental Exchange Inc. and
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. clearinghouses for swaps will have a
five-day delay to implement Dodd-Frank Act collateral protection
rules because of disruptions from superstorm Sandy.  Brokers are focused on disaster recovery efforts and have
been unable to test their systems to comply with the new rules
intended to provide safeguards for customer funds, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in a letter dated Oct.
31. The rules were scheduled to take effect Nov. 8 and have been
delayed until Nov. 13.  In the Courts  Visa, MasterCard Fee Deal Faces Opposition From 1,200 Businesses  Retailer groups opposed to  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s
$7.25 billion settlement of a lawsuit over merchant credit-card
fees said they have garnered support from about 1,200 businesses
covered by the deal.  Trade associations including the National Association of
Convenience Stores, the National Community Pharmacists
Association and the National Restaurant Association urged U.S.
District Judge John Gleeson in  Brooklyn ,  New York , not to grant
initial approval to the settlement, according to objection
papers the parties are preparing to submit.  The settlement, estimated to cost the card companies and
major banks as much as $7.25 billion, would cover about 7
million retailers nationwide. In an order filed Oct. 24, Gleeson
said he will probably approve the deal. That could end about
seven years of litigation over an alleged conspiracy by the card
companies and banks to fix the so-called interchange fees that
retailers are charged when customers pay with cards.  In a paper the opposition intends to submit, a lawyer for
some of the objecting groups, Jeffrey Shinder, said the
settlement “will neither introduce transparency nor give
merchants the ability to inject competition in a market that has
not functioned competitively for decades.”  The objection papers were provided to  Bloomberg News  by
Shinder and representatives from some of the objecting groups.
Technology difficulties at the federal court from  Hurricane
Sandy  prevented them from filing the papers yesterday. Lawyers
who are seeking to have the settlement approved, K. Craig
Wildfang and Patrick Coughlin, confirmed that they have received
the filing. They declined to make an immediate comment.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Wells Fargo Says False Claims Suit Violates Foreclosure Deal  Wells Fargo & Co., the biggest U.S. home lender, asked a
federal judge to rule that a false claims case filed by the U.S.
violates the conditions of a settlement over foreclosure
practices that was approved in April.  Wells Fargo, in a filing yesterday in federal court in
 Washington , said the U.S. breached the terms of the $5 billion
deal by suing in federal court in New York for “hundreds of
millions of dollars” based on conduct that the bank is no
longer liable for.  “A comparison between the allegations in the N.Y.
complaint and the conduct covered by the U.S. release
demonstrates without any doubt that the  United States  is
attempting to impose additional liability for the same conduct
for which Wells Fargo obtained permanent peace through the very
large settlement,” Douglas Baruch, a lawyer for San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, said in court papers.  Wells Fargo’s filing was submitted to U.S. District Judge
Rosemary Collyer, who on April 4 approved a $25 billion
agreement with five banks to settle U.S. and state probes into
abusive foreclosure practices. On Oct. 9, the U.S. sued Wells
Fargo in New York, claiming the bank made reckless  mortgage
loans  that caused losses for a federal insurance program when
they defaulted.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment on the filing.  The government’s New York lawsuit alleges misconduct
spanning more than a decade related to the bank’s participation
in a Federal Housing Administration program. The lawsuit is part
of a larger effort by the U.S. to recoup losses from defaulted
mortgages that were insured by the FHA.  The Washington case is U.S. v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 12-
cv-00361, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington). The New York case is U.S. v. Wells Fargo Bank
N.A., 12-cv-7527, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Goldman Loses Bid to Avoid Trial Over Dragon Systems Sale  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lost a bid to avoid trial in a
lawsuit over the 2000 sale of Dragon Systems Inc., a pioneer in
voice-recognition software, to a Belgian competitor that
collapsed following an accounting scandal.  U.S. District Judge Patti Saris in Boston on Oct. 31
declined Goldman Sachs’s request to throw out claims by James
and Janet Baker, Dragon System’s founders, that Goldman Sachs
failed to provide adequate advice in the sale of their $600
million company for stock in Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products
NV. Goldman Sachs was paid $5 million for advising Dragon.  The Bakers, who owned 51 percent of Dragon Systems at the
time of the transaction, claim they lost about $300 million and
the rights to patents they developed as voice-recognition
researchers, when Lernout & Hauspie failed months after it was
sold. The Belgian company filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
November 2000 after public disclosure of improper accounting
forced it to restate $373 million in earnings.  The Bakers claim Goldman should have warned Dragon about
deficiencies in Lernout & Hauspie’s accounting. Saris’s ruling
clears the way for a trial in the case, which is set to begin
Dec. 10.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said that
Lernout & Hauspie created bogus customers, booked circular
transactions with shell companies and recorded loans as sales
from 1996 to 2000.  “The court has denied all of Goldman Sachs’s efforts to
prevent a trial,” said Alan Cotler, the Bakers’ lawyer.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman spokesman, declined to comment
on the ruling.  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-cv-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  MF Global Inc. Loses U.K. Trial Over European Debt Trades  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s U.K. administrators won the first
round of a dispute with its New York brokerage arm over the
value of internal trades used by the company to bet on
distressed European sovereign debt.  James Giddens, the U.S. bankruptcy trustee for MF Global
Inc., claimed the London-based subsidiary owes about 287 million
pounds ($463.6 million) to settle internal  repurchase agreements 
on Irish, Portuguese and Spanish bonds. KPMG LLP, which is
winding up the U.K. unit, said it only owes about $60 million.  Judge David Richards ruled in a written decision handed
down yesterday that the U.K. unit wasn’t in default and KPMG,
its administrator, has the right to value the securities.  MF Global Holdings filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy
on Oct. 31 after getting margin calls and bank demands for money
at its brokerage following its investment in the debt of
troubled European economies. Legal disputes between the U.K. and
U.S. units have tied up assets worth more than $1 billion and
hindered repayment of the brokerage’s clients and creditors.  Yesterday’s decision will likely reduce the value of
Giddens’s claims to recover money from the U.K. unit for the
trades, James Acheson-Gray, the trustee’s spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement. The trustee is considering an appeal, he
said.  KPMG still needs to negotiate the close-out value of the
RTM portfolio with MF Global Inc. before the matter can be
resolved, KPMG partner Richard Heis said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  MF Global’s investment in European debt, which the judge
pegged at about $7 billion in October 2011, incurred significant
losses, KPMG administrator Mike Pink said at a creditors meeting
in London last night.  Ex-Credit Suisse Broker’s Wife Can’t Have Assets, Judge Says  The wife of former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker  Eric
Butler , convicted in a $1 billion fraud case, can’t keep funds
in the couple’s jointly used accounts, a Brooklyn, New York,
federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein, in an order filed Oct.
31, agreed with a U.S. magistrate judge’s recommendation that
Elizabeth Butler’s efforts to seek an injunction barring the
government from taking all the assets be denied. The money in
question totals $736,060, according to court records, and Butler
had shown that she is struggling economically to support her
child, Weinstein said.  Eric Butler was convicted by a federal jury in Brooklyn in
August 2009 of intentionally misleading clients about their
investments by telling them that securities they were buying
were backed by federally guaranteed student loans when they were
actually tied to the housing market. Victims’ losses were more
than $1.1 billion, according to the government.  On Oct. 23, an appeals court affirmed Butler’s five-year
prison sentence. The government is seeking the proceeds of the
joint accounts to satisfy a $5 million fine and $250,000
forfeiture order.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  