-- Meyer Burger CEO Weighs Deeper Cuts to Ride Out Slowdown
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-11-02T13:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/meyer-burger-ceo-weighs-deeper-cuts-to-ride-out-solar-slowdown.html
Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN) , the Swiss
supplier of machinery to solar-panel makers, said it is
evaluating deeper cost cuts as it braces for tough trading
conditions next year.  The company has more work to do on “fat-trimming” after
acquiring competitor  Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  in 2011, on top of a 15
percent headcount reduction announced in March, Chief Executive
Officer Peter Pauli said in an interview. Meyer Burger can
withstand a “worst-case scenario” of sales at the current
level or lower sales growth in the next 12 months, he said.  “We can go up to 2014 with the cash available now,” he
said in Thun, Switzerland, yesterday. “We could go further by
making strategic decisions about our research and development
resources. That’s what we have to decide right now.”  Solar-cell and panel manufacturers, Meyer Burger’s clients,
are battling overcapacity after a boom in Chinese government
spending flooded the market with cheap equipment. Pauli is in
the midst of budget planning which will determine how Meyer
Burger will address market conditions next year.  Meyer Burger, which first sold shares to the public in
2006, has lost 40 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent
gain on the Swiss Performance Index. Second-half sales may
“improve slightly compared to the first half, but not
significantly,” the CEO said.  “They have to cut costs,” Christoph Ladner, an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich, said by telephone. “One of
the highest operational costs is personnel exposure. This is
something they need to work on if business remains as it is.”  The precision machinery-maker reduced expenses this year by
relocating manufacturing facilities to its Thun headquarters and
closing duplicate offices in  China  which it inherited from the
purchase of Roth & Rau in 2011.  Pauli is considering using Meyer Burger’s technology
outside of the solar industry in markets which could potentially
account for 5 to 15 percent of the business. For instance, the
company may sell machinery used to make sapphire screens for
smart phones, or coatings for batteries, he said.  “We have technology to do other things,” he said. “It’s
at very early stages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  