-- Fed’s Williams Says Bond Buying Will Spur Growth
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-11-02T18:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/fed-s-williams-says-bond-buying-will-spur-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  said central bank purchases of bonds
will help spur U.S. economic growth to 2.5 percent next year and
3.5 percent in 2014 while not fueling inflation.  “Our policy measures are having the desired effects,”
Williams said today in remarks prepared for a speech in Salt
Lake City. “We have substantial scope to use monetary policy to
stimulate the economy without creating too much upward pressure
on prices.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee , aiming to spur growth
and reduce unemployment, on Oct. 24 affirmed plans to buy $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities each month without
specifying the total size or duration of the purchases.
Williams, who holds a vote on policy this year, was among the
first Fed officials to advocate open-ended bond buying.  Concern that large-scale asset purchases “might ignite a
bout of inflation” are unwarranted because price increases are
being held in check by elevated unemployment and an economy that
“isn’t operating at full speed,” Williams said.  “Unemployment is -- and should be -- a central focus of
monetary policy right now,” Williams said. “This concentration
on getting unemployment down in no way represents a lessening of
the importance of  price stability ,” he said, adding that
inflation may slow well below the Fed’s 2 percent goal if the
U.S. recovery falters.  ‘Slightly Below’  Unemployment will stay above 7 percent at least until the
end of 2014 and inflation will remain “slightly below 2 percent
for the next few years,” Williams said.  Policy makers should focus more on the full employment
aspect of the Fed’s dual mandate than on price stability,
Williams said.  While inflation persistently above 2 percent was the “most
pressing concern” from the late 1960s through the early 1990s,
the “situation is very different” today with inflation
averaging 2 percent and unemployment “far above” the maximum
level for four straight years, he said.  The Fed may need to expand its large-scale asset purchases
after the scheduled expiration in December of its so-called
Operation Twist stimulus, Williams told reporters Sept. 24. He
didn’t mention such an extension in his speech today.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion in securities in its previous
two rounds of bond buying and has swapped its short-term
Treasuries with longer-term securities in Operation Twist.  Vital Signs  The labor market is showing signs of life. U.S. companies
hired 171,000 workers in October after a 148,000 gain in
September that was more than first estimated, the Labor
Department said today. The payrolls report topped the most
optimistic forecast in the Bloomberg survey in which the median
called for an advance of 125,000. The  jobless rate  rose to 7.9
percent as more people entered the  labor force .  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 2 percent annual
rate in the third quarter after climbing 1.3 percent in the
prior quarter, the Commerce Department said last month.
Economists expect gross domestic product to grow 1.8 percent in
the third quarter and 2 percent in the fourth, according to the
median of 75 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Economic reports yesterday also showed resilience as U.S.
manufacturing expanded more than forecast,  consumer confidence 
rose to a four-year high and fewer Americans filed claims for
 unemployment benefits .  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  rose to
51.7 in October, the highest since May, from 51.5 in September.
The Conference Board’s  sentiment index  increased to 72.2, the
highest since February 2008. Applications for jobless benefits
fell 9,000 to 363,000 in the week ended Oct. 27, the Labor
Department said in  Washington .  Recovery Restrained  The economic recovery may be restrained by Europe’s debt
crisis, concern about a U.S. fiscal contraction and doubts about
economic growth among consumers and businesses, Williams said.  In the first round of quantitative easing starting in 2008,
the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed securities,
$175 billion of federal agency debt and $300 billion of
Treasuries. In the second round, announced in November 2010, the
Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  The FOMC at its Oct. 23-24 meeting, while maintaining QE3,
repeated that it will probably hold the  benchmark interest rate 
near zero through mid-2015.  “Growth in employment has been slow,” the FOMC said in a
statement after the meeting in Washington. “Household spending
has advanced a bit more quickly.”  Williams, 50, became president of the San Francisco Fed in
March 2011 after serving as the bank’s director of research. He
earned his doctorate in economics at  Stanford University  and has
served as an economist at the Fed Board in Washington and the
White House Council of Economic Advisers. He joined the San
Francisco Fed in 2002 as a research adviser.  The San Francisco Fed district covers  Alaska , Arizona,
California,  Hawaii ,  Idaho , Nevada, Oregon,  Utah , Washington,
 American Samoa ,  Guam  and the Northern Mariana Islands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Salt Lake City  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  