-- FirstRand Says Ghana Deal on Track After Rawlings Comments
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-11-02T14:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/firstrand-says-ghana-deal-on-track-after-rawlings-comments-2-.html
FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , South Africa’s
second-biggest financial company, said a deal to buy 75 percent
of Merchant Bank Ghana Ltd. is proceeding even after former
Ghanaian president Jerry Rawlings said it had been blocked.  “It is still on track and we are not involved in the
politics,” Sizwe Nxasana, chief executive officer of
Johannesburg-based FirstRand, said in an interview yesterday.
“We believe in the country and the asset meets our criteria. We
also have a counterparty who’s a willing negotiator.”  Rawlings, who came to power after a coup in 1979 and
stepped down as president after a second term in 2001, said in a
lecture recorded by Ghana’s Citi FM on Oct. 25 that the
acquisition had been barred. FirstRand said in August it would
buy control of Merchant Bank  Ghana  from the state pension fund
and other shareholders for 746.2 million rand ($86 million).  The transaction, which is undergoing a series of approvals
in Ghana and South Africa, might be completed next year,
according to Nxasana. With 22 branches and about 500 staff,
Merchant Bank Ghana has an infrastructure that FirstRand can
build on, he said.  “The transaction has been forwarded to the central bank to
peruse and approve,” Eva Amegashie, spokeswoman for the state
pension fund, said in a telephone interview from Accra
yesterday.  Party Founder  Rawlings is the founder of the ruling National Democratic
Congress and chairman of the party’s council of elders, making
him privy to key policy making decisions.  FirstRand said in 2009 it planned to enter Nigeria, Ghana
and  Kenya . Its 2011 bid to buy a majority stake in Nigeria’s
Sterling Bank Plc failed after the two couldn’t agree on terms.  FirstRand shares gained 0.6 percent to 29.16 rand as of
4:27 p.m. in Johannesburg. A close at that level would be the
highest since Aug. 1990, when Bloomberg began compiling the
data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  