-- Fiscal Deal Must Be President’s Priority, Engler Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/fiscal-deal-must-be-president-s-priority-engler-says.html
Structural changes to the U.S.
budget, including an overhaul of entitlement programs and the
 tax code , must be the next president’s priority, said  John Engler , president of the Business Roundtable.  “We have got to have a long-term fiscal trajectory for the
nation which allows us to balance our budgets, bring those
deficits down, have a tax structure that allows us to compete
globally,” Engler said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Peter Cook  for “Capitol Gains” airing Nov. 4.  Engler, a three-term Republican governor of Michigan, said
he expects that  Mitt Romney  will win the presidential election
Nov 6. Engler’s Washington-based organization, which represents
chief executive officers of the largest U.S. companies, is
neutral in the election.  “I think what they want is a government both in the White
House and in Congress who is ready to roll up its sleeves and go
to work,” he said. “We’ve got so much that’s been deferred.”  Congress returns the week after the election for a lame-
duck session in which lawmakers will address the so-called
fiscal cliff of tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to
take effect in January.  Companies want a lower  tax rate  and are willing to consider
ending some tax breaks to get that done, said Engler, 64. The
U.S. statutory tax rate is 35 percent, the highest in the
industrialized world. Most companies pay less than that.  “What you can’t do is use, say, tax expenditures,
deductions, credits and take that over and use it for spending
in other parts of the budget and then still get the kind of tax
reform you need,” Engler said.  Democrats, including President  Barack Obama , say deficit
reduction must rely on a “balanced” approach that includes tax
increases and spending cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  