-- For John Maynard Keynes, Economic Theory Was a Sideline
-- B y   C o l i n   R e a d
-- 2012-11-02T20:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/for-john-maynard-keynes-economic-theory-was-a-sideline.html
Even as global financial turmoil
induces some to advocate for freer markets, the heavier hand of
Keynesian macroeconomic policy is also experiencing a
resurgence.  Yet John  Maynard Keynes  was far more than the Ivory Tower
academic economist we think we know. He was, above all, a
practitioner and student of high finance. Investment and finance
were his vocation, and political economics was his avocation.  Keynes came from a line of academics. His father was a
renowned philosopher and senior administrator at Cambridge
University. Keynes was academically precocious. As an
undergraduate, he was captivated by mathematical theory, and
especially probability theory.  After graduation, he served two years as a lowly clerk to
the Crown, stationed in  India . This otherwise unfulfilling
experience gave Keynes the time to contemplate both the meaning
of probability and the waning political and economic influence
of  Great Britain . He began to write articles on international
economics that demonstrated his clear thinking. He also caught
the eye of the U.K. Treasury, and soon rose to the highest
echelon of international finance.  Self-Investing  Keynes eventually realized that his worldview was
incompatible with political pragmatism, and he forged an
alternative career. He had frequented the highest levels of
Britain’s government, arts and society. He also had been
dabbling in finance as an extension of his experiences at the
Treasury and as a way to invest some of his own savings and
borrowings.  Keynes began to advise an exclusive clientele, and became
known for the quality of his investment advice. He quickly
became the financial adviser to a veritable who’s who of
Britain’s intelligentsia.  Keynes first flourished by investing in bonds and foreign
exchange. His interest was sparked when he amassed a small
fortune for the Treasury during World War I. In his
responsibility for securing foreign exchange to purchase war
supplies, Keynes accumulated, and then rapidly sold, Spanish
pesetas that resulted in a large drop in the sterling/peseta
exchange rate and a large profit for the Treasury.  He held a dim view of the stock market, which he likened to
casino gambling or a beauty contest. Keynes argued that
investors don’t trade on an asset’s fundamental value, but
rather in anticipation of the strategies of other investors. In
turn, investors watch their colleagues, also with little regard
for the fundamental underlying value of the security. Asset
valuation is obscured as traders strategize over their
assessments based more on animal spirits than on reason.  Instead, Keynes devoted his investment energies to bond
markets -- where traders sought competitive and regular fixed-
income flows -- to the construction of hedges to reduce risk,
and to the foreign-exchange markets where relative economic
progress and terms of trade between nations dictate equilibrium.
He believed that the more rational and seasoned investors
operated in these markets.  When  Cambridge University  needed a trust manager, it called
on Keynes. Over two decades of management of the university’s
Chest Fund, he garnered a spectacular 400 percent return, even
though the stock market was little changed in that period.
Keynes succeeded because of his long-held interest in  market
psychology , which dated to his 1921 book, “A Treatise on
Probability.”  Valuation Theory  He observed that probability assessments by humans differ
from the calculable risks in nature and science. He believed our
personal probabilities are what we think they are, not those
predetermined by unseen natural forces. Similarly, to Keynes,
and to proponents of personal probabilities, the value of a
stock is what a group of sometimes irrational speculators is
willing to pay for it.  Kenneth Arrow  went on to enshrine this
valuation theory in his revolutionary model of security prices.  A contemporary of Keynes, the investor Bernard Baruch, is
reputed to have quipped that “if economists are so smart, why
aren’t they rich?” When Keynes died, his net worth, mostly from
his investments, was about $30 million in today’s dollars.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., modeled his “ value investing ” after Keynes’s
investment strategy, and once said the economist’s “brilliance
as a practicing investor matched his brilliance in thought.”
When Keynes died, the Financial Times reported: “Some surprise
has been expressed about the large fortune left by Lord Keynes,
yet he was one of the few economists with the practical ability
to make money.”  Keynes remains an enigma. Viewed as a theorist, and one who
made a career challenging conventional theory, he earned a
living on  London ’s equivalent of  Wall Street  while he eschewed
the emerging academic concepts of the efficient-market
hypothesis and the market-disciplining effect of arbitrage.  He observed, “Markets can remain irrational far longer than
you or I can remain solvent.” He viewed markets as often
irrational, especially during financial crises. While
politicians debate the appropriateness of Keynesian
macroeconomic policy, we may learn more from his insights on the
animal spirits that sometimes rule markets, especially in times
such as ours.  (Colin Read is chairman of the finance department at the
 State University of New York , Plattsburgh. He is the author of
the “Great Minds in Finance” series and other finance titles
published by  Palgrave Macmillan . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Colin Read at  readcl@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  