-- Fortress Third-Quarter Profit Rises 49% on Incentive Income
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S a u m y a   V a i s h a m p a y a n
-- 2012-11-02T20:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/fortress-third-quarter-profit-rises-49-on-incentive-income-1-.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the
first publicly traded private-equity and hedge-fund manager in
the U.S., said third-quarter profit rose 49 percent on higher
fees paid to the firm for managing its funds.  Pretax distributable earnings, which exclude some
compensation costs and other items, increased to $64 million, or
12 cents a share, from $43 million, or 8 cents, a year earlier,
New York-based Fortress said today in a statement. Analysts had
 expected  profit of 11 cents a share, according to the average of
seven estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Rising stock markets are lifting the value of fund holdings
and the fees for overseeing them. Fortress’s macro hedge fund,
which invests across products and geographies, returned 11
percent in this year’s first nine months, the firm said in an
October regulatory filing, recouping a 9.4 percent loss from
last year. Fortress is being led by co-founder Randal Nardone
after former Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  resigned in
January amid a government lawsuit stemming from his tenure as
the chief of mortgage financing company  Fannie Mae .  “With no corporate debt, and substantial balance sheet
value, we have never operated from a position of greater
financial strength,” Nardone said in the statement.  Incentive income, which investors typically pay managers
once their fund reaches a certain threshold, was $65 million,
compared with $14 million a year ago, Fortress said.  Portfolio Gain  Fortress rose 2.3 percent to close at $4.55 in  New York 
trading, bringing its gain this year to 35 percent. The shares
have declined 75 percent since the February 2007 initial public
offering, when Fortress sold shares at $18.50 to become the
first U.S.-listed buyout and hedge-fund manager.  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , which followed four months later, has  lost  about half
of its value.  The value of Fortress’s private-equity portfolio increased
9.4 percent during the quarter, compared with 7.1 percent for
Blackstone and 6.1 percent for  KKR & Co. (KKR)  Fortress has $14.7
billion of private-equity assets under management, up 16 percent
from a year ago.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm by
assets, last month reported net income of $129 million, compared
with a loss of $275 million a year ago. KKR, the buyout firm run
by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , reported a third-quarter
profit of $127 million after a loss of $243 million a year
earlier as strong performance in its buyout holdings boosted
earnings. Both firms are based in New York.  Total assets under management at Fortress rose 8 percent to
$51.5 billion since the end of the second quarter. The company
said it paid off $181 million of outstanding debt after the
third quarter ended, and it will pay a dividend of 5 cents a
share on Nov. 19.  RailAmerica Sale  Fortress’s distributable earnings don’t comply with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Under those rules,
known as GAAP, the company’s net income attributable to Class A
shareholders was $1 million, or 4 cents a share, compared with a
net loss of $142 million, or 83 cents, a year earlier.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, overhaul and then sell them, and
return the funds with a profit after about 10 years.  Hedge funds 
are mostly private pools of capital whose managers participate
substantially in the profits from their speculation on the price
of assets.  Managers of both types of funds charge annual management
fees, typically 1.5 percent to 2 percent, and receive a portion
of investment gains, traditionally equal to 20 percent.  Fortress in July agreed to sell RailAmerica Inc. to  Genesee
& Wyoming Inc. (GWR)  for $1.4 billion, combining  North America ’s two
largest short-line and regional rail operators. Fortress
invested $450 million in cash when it bought the Jacksonville,
Florida-based company in February 2007 for $1.1 billion
including debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Saumya Vaishampayan in New York at 
 svaishampaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  