-- FSB Rates 44 Nations’ International Cooperation ‘Strong’
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-03T02:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/fsb-rates-44-nations-international-cooperation-strong-.html
The Financial Stability Board said 44
of 61 nations it evaluated are sticking strongly to
international standards of cooperation and information-sharing.  Based in Basel, Switzerland, the FSB is a global panel of
financial institutions created in 2009 to coordinate regulatory
efforts of national financial authorities. Among its objectives
is the development of “contingency planning for cross-border
 crisis management ,” according to  its website .  Of the 61 jurisdictions selected on the basis of their
financial importance and evaluated by the FSB, 44 have
demonstrated “sufficiently strong adherence to the relevant
standards,” the organization said  in a statement  yesterday.  Among the nations so rated are FSB member jurisdictions the
U.S., U.K., China, Canada, Australia and Japan, and non-members
Austria, Ireland, Bahrain and the Czech Republic.  Those ranked as taking steps recommended by the board and
not yet strong are 15 nations including members Russia, India,
Turkey and Indonesia. Venezuela was deemed “non-cooperative,”
while Libya was omitted from the evaluation process because of
its change in governance last year with the toppling and death
of dictator Muammar Qaddafi.  Yesterday’s  report  updated information first publicized by
the FSB last November reporting the results of a March 2010
initiative to develop internationally agreed upon standards for
sharing information and cooperation on issues of banking,
insurance and securities supervision.  China, the Czech Republic and  Saudi Arabia  graduated this
year to the list of countries complying with the standards.  FSB member institutions include the U.S. Federal Reserve,
the  Bank of England ,  Central Bank  of the Russian Federation and
Swiss Federal Department of Finance. The organization is
currently led by  Mark Carney , governor of the Bank of Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  