-- German Regulator Outlines Plan to Avoid Bank Bailouts
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-11-02T15:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/german-regulator-outlines-plan-to-avoid-bank-bailouts.html
Germany ’s banking regulator, seeking
to avoid tax-funded bailouts of the financial system, presented
a road map for winding down failed institutions in the event of
an emergency.  The country’s banks must put forward proposals on how they
would cope with adverse scenarios defined by the regulator,
Raimund Roeseler, the head of banking supervision at BaFin, told
reporters at a news conference in Bonn today. BaFin would then
develop plans for possible asset disposals, he said.  Global regulators are calling on banks to hold more capital
and prepare for their potential failure to avoid a repeat of the
taxpayer-funded rescues that followed the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The German regulator oversees
1,879 banks, more than peers in  Spain ,  Italy ,  Greece  and Ireland
combined, according to European Central Bank  data .  Banks of global, systemic importance such as  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  have until the end of the year to present their plans.
Lenders relevant on a national scale must submit theirs by the
end of next year, Roeseler said.  U.S. regulators submitted detailed proposals in July on how
they would dismantle banks should they fail.  “The issue of too big to fail isn’t solved,” Roeseler
said. BaFin wants to “shape the European debate” and is acting
more quickly than regulators elsewhere on the continent, he
said.  While 15 banks in Germany would be systemically relevant on
a national scale when markets are functioning normally, that
figure is higher as “the current situation isn’t easy,”
Roeseler said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  