-- Global Logistic Surges to Record on Asset Sale: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-11-02T09:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/global-logistic-surges-to-record-on-asset-sale-singapore-mover.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP)  rose
to a record after the unit of Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund
said it plans to raise 209 billion yen ($2.6 billion) from the
sale of its Japanese warehouses.  Global Logistic increased 1.5 percent to S$2.70 at the
close of trading in Singapore, its highest level since listing
in 2010. The gain added to the 54 percent advance this year,
compared with the 15 percent increase in the benchmark Straits
Times Index.  The company, known as GLP, will sell 30 of its 68 Japanese
logistic facilities to a real estate investment trust that it
will partly own and manage, it said in a statement yesterday.
The sale will help in GLP’s strategy of “recycling capital to
fund expansion in high-growth markets and growing our strong
fund management platform,”  Jeffrey Schwartz , deputy chairman of
GLP, said in the statement to the Singapore exchange.  “This potential event could provide a few value
propositions,” which include enhanced asset management, a
platform for GLP to realize its mid-term asset-management value
and capital recycling from the deployment of proceeds to  China 
and  Japan , Donald Chua and Lee Syn Yi, Singapore-based analysts
at CIMB Research Pte, said in a note to clients today.  The J-REIT, as the real estate investment trusts are known
in Japan, will be able to buy an additional three properties
over the next three years, according to GLP’s statement. The
REIT will be granted a “right of first look” over the
remaining 38 properties for a period of 10 years, GLP said.  “It monetizes a considerable proportion of our portfolio
and will generate stable recurring income for the group,
diversifying our earnings base,” Schwartz said.  Overseas Operations  The  Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index (TSEREIT)  has climbed 28 percent
this year, compared with the 3.2 percent gain in the broader
Topix index.  GLP has operations in seven locations in Japan with a
combined net asset value of $3.93 billion. It has properties in
29 cities in China with a net asset value of $3.65 billion as of
June 30, it said. In December last year, the company teamed up
with China Investment Corp. to buy 15 Japanese warehouses for
122.6 billion yen from  LaSalle Investment Management .  GLP, a unit of Government of Singapore Investment Corp.,
raised S$3.5 billion ($2.8 billion) in October 2010 in what was
at the time Singapore’s biggest IPO since 1993. The company
reported a 57 percent increase in profit to $153 million in its
fiscal first quarter ended June, it said on Aug. 14. It will
report second quarter earnings on Nov. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  