-- Goldman Sachs Provides $10 Million for Storm Recovery
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-11-02T18:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/goldman-sachs-provides-10-million-for-storm-recovery.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, will provide $5 million in loans to
small businesses affected by  Hurricane Sandy  with the firm and
its staff donating an equal amount for cleanup and recovery.  The loans match the $5 million that  New York  City is
offering to small businesses in Zone A and other areas affected
by flooding and power failures, the company said today in a
 statement  on its website. Amounts ranging from $5,000 to $25,000
will be available within five to seven days after application.  “Many small businesses in our communities have been
devastated by this disaster, and fast access to capital will
help them get back on their feet more quickly,” Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, said in the statement.  The money from the city and Goldman Sachs’s  Urban
Investment Group  will be available through the  New York Business
Development Corp ., the company said. The program is expected to
be running by Nov. 5, according to the statement.  The firm’s employees, who will be making donations through
Goldman Sachs Gives, also will volunteer for cleanup, food
delivery and rebuilding projects, the company said.  Goldman Sachs headquarters in Lower Manhattan and its
building across the Hudson River in Jersey City, New Jersey, had
“a little bit of flooding” as a result of the storm, Gary D. Cohn, the firm’s chief operating officer, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle ” on Oct. 30.  “We clearly feel an obligation and a responsibility to the
neighborhood and the people that live there,” said Cohn, 52.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 