-- Gold Traders Most Bullish in 10 Weeks on Stimulus: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-11-02T16:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/gold-traders-most-bullish-in-10-weeks-on-stimulus-commodities.html
Gold traders are the most bullish in
10 weeks and investors are hoarding a record amount of bullion
as central banks pledge to do more to spur economic growth.  Eighteen of 27 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices
to rise next week and five were bearish. A further four were
neutral, making the proportion of bulls the highest since Aug.
24. Holdings in gold-backed  exchange-traded products  gained the
past three months, the best run since August 2011, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. They reached a record 2,588.4 metric tons
yesterday, valued at $140 billion, the data show.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded its asset-purchase program on
Oct. 30 for the second time in two months, increasing it by 11
trillion yen ($137 billion). The  Federal Reserve  said last week
it plans to continue buying bonds and central banks from  Europe 
to  China  have pledged more action to boost economies. Gold rose
70 percent as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds
of quantitative easing from December 2008 through June 2011.  “Central banks are all very concerned about a depression,
so they’re keeping monetary policies as loose as possible,”
said Mark O’Byrne, the executive director of Dublin-based
GoldCore Ltd., a brokerage that sells and stores everything from
quarter-ounce British Sovereigns to 400-ounce bars. “People are
buying gold as a store of value to protect against  currency
depreciation .”  Gold Prices  Gold rose 7.6 percent to $1,681.97 an ounce in  London  this
year, heading for a 12th straight annual gain, the longest
winning streak in at least nine decades. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24 commodities lost 2.5 percent since the end of
December, and the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
climbed 11 percent. Treasuries returned 1.9 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  Bullion slid as much as 2 percent to a two-month low today
as a Labor Department report that showed American employers
added more workers than economists had forecast in October
bolstered the dollar.  The BOJ said its fund will increase to 66 trillion yen, a
separate credit loan program will stay at 25 trillion yen and it
will also offer unlimited loans to banks to boost credit demand.
The Fed said Oct. 24 it will maintain $40 billion in monthly
purchases of mortgage debt and probably hold  interest rates  near
zero until mid-2015. The  European Central Bank  has said it is
ready to buy bonds of indebted nations and China approved a $158
billion subways-to-roads construction plan.  Inflation Outlook  Some investors buy bullion as a hedge against inflation and
a weaker dollar, and the metal generally earns returns only
through price gains, increasing its allure as interest rates
decline. Inflation  expectations  measured by the break-even rate
for five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities jumped 35
percent this year and reached a 16-month high in September.  ETP holdings jumped about 193 tons since the end of July
and now account for almost a year of mine production, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and Barclays Plc. Options traders
are also bullish, with the 10 most widely held contracts giving
the right to buy the metal at prices from $1,800 to $2,300
between November and March, data from Comex in  New York  show.  Hedge funds’ bets on a rally declined for two weeks after
reaching the highest since August 2011 on Oct. 9, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show. Speculators cut their net-
long  position  by 12 percent in the week ended Oct. 23 from the
prior week, the most since July, to 161,987 futures and options,
the data show.  Coin Sales  The  U.S. Mint  sold 59,000 ounces of American Eagle gold
coins last month, 14 percent fewer than in September, data on
its website show. This year’s sales of 543,500 are down 39
percent from the same period in 2011.  While prices slid for three consecutive weeks through Oct.
26, the longest losing streak in more than a year, this year’s
average of $1,662 is set to be a record. A faster increase in
prices compared with income growth will curb jewelry usage,
Standard Bank Plc said in a report e-mailed on Oct. 30.  Demand in  India , last year’s biggest buyer, slid the past
several months as record local prices cut demand, according to
Bachhraj Bamalwa, chairman of the All India Gems & Jewellery
Trade Federation. Indian consumers usually boost purchases
before the wedding season and religious festivals later in the
year, and that should improve consumption, Bamalwa said.  Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney  face off in a Nov. 6
presidential election and an Obama victory would support gold
because “market uncertainty” will be removed,  Edel Tully , an
analyst at UBS AG in London, wrote in an Oct. 31 report. An
Obama win may be positive for bullion because investors see
greater monetary accommodation and currency debasement from a
Democratic administration, according to Ross Norman, the chief
executive officer of London bullion brokerage Sharps Pixley Ltd.  Copper Survey  In other commodities, 12 of 19 traders and analysts
surveyed expect copper to rise next week and seven were bearish.
The metal for delivery in three months, the London Metal
Exchange’s benchmark contract, added 1.2 percent to $7,688.75 a
ton this year.  Four of 10 people surveyed said raw sugar will gain next
week and the same amount expected a decline. The commodity slid
17 percent to 19.41 cents a pound since the start of January on
the ICE Futures U.S. exchange in New York.  Fifteen of 28 people surveyed anticipate higher corn prices
next week and eight were bearish, while 14 of 29 said soybeans
will climb and nine predicted a drop. Corn rallied 15 percent to
$7.4275 a bushel in Chicago trading this year as soybeans rose
27 percent to $15.38 a bushel. Both crops reached records since
August as the worst U.S. drought in a half century hurt crops.  Commodities Prices  The GSCI gauge of raw materials erased this year’s gain
last week after entering a  bull market  in the third quarter. The
last annual decline was in 2008 and the  index (MXWD)  made annual
advances in 11 of the past 13 years. The  International Monetary
Fund  cut its global growth forecast for next year to 3.6 percent
from 3.9 percent on Oct. 9.  “We see the weakness in the global economy continuing to
be a drag on commodity prices,” said Ross Strachan, a
commodities economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London.
“Global stimulus mainly is not having very much effect at this
point. It’s struggling to feed through into the economy due to
the uncertainty that persists.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  