-- Gross Says Fed Accommodative Even With Job Gains: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-11-02T14:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/gross-says-fed-to-remain-accommodative-even-with-u-s-job-gains.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said the  Federal Reserve  will continue its
accommodative monetary policies even with the  U.S. economy 
adding more jobs than forecast last month.  “Whether or not the Fed itself will view 7.9 percent
unemployment as all clear signal, I’m sure they won’t,” Gross,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “You
adapt by assuming they’ll continue to be dovish.”  In the last jobs report before next week’s election, a net
171,000 workers were added to payrolls after a 148,000 gain in
September that was more than first estimated, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. The median forecast of 91
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an advance of
125,000. The jobless rate rose to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent
as more people entered the  labor force .  “There seems to be nothing the Fed can do but continue
down this road until certain conditions are met,” Gross said.
“What are those numbers? Perhaps we’re going to hear more about
them in the December meeting, in terms of what their objectives
are.”  The $281 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  managed by Gross has
returned 10 percent in the past year, beating 94 percent of its
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 0.28
percent over the past month, beating 65 percent of its peers.
The firm manages $1.92 trillion in assets as of Sept. 30.  Reflation Bet  “We made a bet basically on reflation as opposed to
deflation,” Gross said. “A reflationary bet suggests that if
own Treasuries, and we own a lot of them, that you own TIPS as
opposed to nominal Treasuries. We also owned a lot of mortgages
hoping that the Fed would QE3 and buy them up.”  The Fed in September announced a third round of so-called
quantitative easing, or QE3, which involves $40 billion in
monthly purchases of mortgage-backed bonds. Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, or TIPS, have gained 7.3 percent this
year, compared with 1.9 percent for the overall Treasury market,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Mortgages
have gained 2.6 percent in that span, index data show.  Gross said his firm has bought Spanish and Italian bonds,
on speculation that the European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  will “come to the rescue on his white horse.”  “We think that’s going to happen,” Gross said.  ‘Collateral Damage’  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has said he
disagrees with the Fed’s measures to stimulate the economy and
would replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke. A new chairman would be
unable to immediately reverse the Fed’s unprecedented easing,
Pimco Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu .  “You can’t walk back at this stage,” said El-Erian, who
is also the co-chief investment officer at Pimco. “The best you
can do is slow it and try to deal with the collateral damage. If
you try to walk back too quickly, then the likelihood is that
this country ends up in recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  