-- Mid-Sized Banks Split From Wall Street in D.C. Lobbying
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-11-02T14:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/mid-sized-banks-split-from-wall-street-in-d-c-lobbying.html
Mid-sized banks that mostly let Wall
Street and small firms speak for the industry during the debate
over the Dodd-Frank Act have decided it’s time to carve out
their own agenda in Washington.  Companies including  U.S. Bancorp. (USB) ,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,  PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  and  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  are
opening their own lobbying shops and staffing them with seasoned
Washington hands. Regulators and lawmakers have begun to pay
attention as the banks argue for changes in how they’re affected
by Dodd-Frank rules including the so-called Volcker ban on
proprietary trading and procedures for unwinding failed banks.  Executives and lobbyists for regional banks say they should
be treated differently by agencies implementing the new
regulations, because they focus on traditional deposits and
lending rather than the higher-risk activities of firms such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “We are not Wall Street banks but we face the same
regulatory regime as a Wall Street bank,” said Mark Oesterle, a
lobbyist for SunTrust who formerly served as an aide to Senator
 Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the top Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee.  Regional banks tend to have more than $50 billion in
assets, mostly in commercial and retail loans rather than
complex investment banking products. Their size is well short of
a  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which is 20 times larger with assets of
more than $1 trillion. Most have a distinct geographical
footprint, like Regions in the South. There are about a dozen
such firms in the U.S. who have become active in Washington.  Lobby Expenses  Atlanta-based SunTrust spent less than $5,000 on lobbying
in 2011 and 2010, according to federal records. So far in 2012,
the bank has reported spending $75,000.  Other banks are opening their checkbooks even wider. PNC,
based in Pittsburgh, reported spending $570,000 in 2010, $1.53
million in 2011 and $750,000 so far this year, records show.
Regions, of Birmingham, Alabama, spent $540,000 in 2010, $1
million last year and $890,000 so far in 2012.  Cincinnati, Ohio-based  Fifth Third Bancorp. (FITB) , which spent
$145,000 in 2010 and $680,000 so far this year, hired Eric
Rizzo, a former congressional aide and insurance industry
lobbyist, to open a Washington office in June 2011.  “We needed to beef up, to have that day-to-day presence in
Washington,” Tom Ruebel, the bank’s Columbus, Ohio-based
director of government affairs. “It’s not just Dodd-Frank
implementation but a long-term investment for us.”  ‘Vast Difference’  Ruebel said in an interview that the bank is looking to
2013, when a new Congress might revisit parts of Dodd-Frank.
“If there are any decisions that different pieces of Dodd-Frank
need a look, we want to be there,” he said.  Jaret Seiberg, a senior policy analyst with Washington
Research Group, a unit of Guggenheim Securities, said the banks
are in a separate class because they mobilize savings for
productive use by turning retail deposits into commercial loans.  “There’s a vast difference between a $100 billion regional
bank and JPMorgan,” Seiberg said. “Congress views the
institutions differently. The regulators view them differently.
So it makes all the sense in the world that they would want to
be represented differently. They should have done it five years
ago.”  While regional banks hired outside lobbyists in Washington
before Dodd-Frank, none had their own offices with full-time
representatives, except for  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , which
is based in nearby McLean, Virginia.  Birmingham Commute  Regions, for example, sometimes flew Chris Scribner, an
executive at its Birmingham headquarters, to Washington to tend
to federal policy. Now Scribner works in the nation’s capital
under Brian Smith, a former lobbyist for government-backed
mortgage company Freddie Mac.  Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp lured Kevin MacMillan, a
former Treasury Department legislative affairs official, from
 Bank of America Corp.   BB&T Corp. (BBT)  of Winston-Salem, North
Carolina, tapped John Hardage, previously a congressional
liaison at the Office of Comptroller of the Currency. PNC hired
Vince Randazzo, who worked for the House Financial Services
Committee.  “There was this view on the Hill that you were either a
small community bank or a mega-bank,” Smith, of Regions, said
in an interview. “We felt like the middle child.”  Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who
was then head of the House Financial Services Committee, said
that was basically true during the debate on the law. “I don’t
remember hearing from them at all,” Frank said in an interview.
“And it would have mattered.”  Dodd-Frank Threshold  Despite the new lobbying firepower, the regional banks have
limited room for change when it comes to Dodd-Frank rules. The
law specifies that institutions with more than $50 billion in
assets are subject to the most stringent requirements, a
threshold exceeded by most of the firms.  What the regional firms can do is ask regulators to account
for differences among banks when they write the details. For
example, agencies are now completing the rule that requires
companies designated as systemically important to draw up
“living wills,” blueprints for how they could be dismantled in
an orderly way if they neared insolvency.  Lawmakers included the rule in Dodd-Frank to avoid
repeating the dilemma of the 2008 credit crisis: to pay for a
bailout for a failing firm, like the government did for  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , or let it collapse, as regulators
decided in the case of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  ‘Great Example’  In a letter to the Federal Reserve, 10 regional banks
banded together to ask that the living-will rule be tailored to
account for firms with simple structures. What made the crisis
difficult was not so much the size of a troubled company like
Lehman but that it was a “large, interconnected investment
banking firm with substantial nonbank and foreign operations,”
they wrote on June 10, 2011.  “Living wills is a great example of a rule that never
should have applied to these guys,” said Karen Shaw Petrou,
managing partner of Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics
Inc. “That doesn’t mean it shouldn’t have an appropriate
recovery plan, but it isn’t the same as JPMorgan Chase and
 Blackrock Inc. (BLK) ”  The regional banks’ push to distinguish themselves in
Washington comes as their profits outperform their larger
rivals. They are making gains as reduced trading activity and
troubled investments made before the credit crisis have damped
earnings and curbed compensation at the bigger firms.  Larger investment banks are cutting jobs as revenue growth
ebbs. That has given regional banks a change to pick up market
share.  Financial Health  Very large banks lag their regional counterparts in return
on equity, a measure of profitability, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. For example, Goldman Sachs returned 5.2
percent in the second quarter of 2012, while Bank of America had
4.7 percent. Buffalo, New York-based  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  returned 8.2
percent in that period while Fifth Third hit 11.5 percent.  The financial health of U.S. Bancorp -- it returned 16.5
percent in the second quarter -- has enlarged the clout of its
chief executive officer, Richard K. Davis. He served in 2010 as
chairman of the Financial Services Roundtable, a banking trade
group, and has met more than once with President Barack Obama to
discuss economic policy.  Regional banks are “pretty boring” and “pretty
consistent” in their business, Davis said in December.  That theme is echoed in the joint comment letters that the
regional banks sent to regulators on Volcker and the living-will
proposal, as well as on swap-trading rules and pending
requirements for capital buffers under the international Basel
agreement.  Fed Meeting  CEOs of eight banks including U.S. Bancorp, Fifth Third,
PNC,  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  and M&T Bank met with Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Deputy Secretary Neal Wolin in
May. And 12 regional bank executives met in July with Federal
Reserve officials, including Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo , in
part to discuss the Volcker rule.  The regional banks said the Volcker proposal would require
them to set up expensive compliance programs even though they
don’t engage in the risky trading the rule prohibits.  “The proposal as written will cause each of our
organizations to comply with many, if not all, of the same
requirements applicable to the largest financial firms with
substantial trading volume and covered fund investments,” PNC,
U.S. Bancorp, Capital One, SunTrust, Fifth Third, BB&T, Regions
and Cleveland-based  KeyCorp (KEY)  wrote in a Feb. 3 letter to
regulators.  Not ‘Hostile’  The position drew support from six members of the Senate
Banking Committee, including Senators Mark Warner, a Democrat of
Virginia, and  Mike Crapo , a Republican of Idaho, who wrote to
regulators on Feb. 16 that compliance costs “could cause some
banks to exit certain types of activities that provide liquidity
to their customers and are permitted by the Volcker Rule.”  Frank said the regulators have the flexibility to reduce
compliance costs on regional banks. “They are assuming the
regulators are stupid or hostile, and I don’t think they are
hostile,” Frank said.  The Fed’s Tarullo has recognized the role of regional banks
as he warns of the systemic risks posed by the largest Wall
Street firms. For example, he said on June 6 that there would be
a sliding scale for the capital surcharges to ease the burden on
banks with over $50 billion in assets that aren’t among the
largest players like Bank of America or JPMorgan.  Fed Letter  That idea won support from lawmakers. In an Aug. 7 letter to
the Fed, Senators David Vitter, a Republican from Louisiana, and
 Sherrod Brown , a Democrat from Ohio, said they backed a
graduated capital level for regional banks. They said the Fed
“should keep in mind the distinctions between money-center
banks and regional banks.”  Tarullo also suggested that if it turned out, as Wall
Street banks have claimed, that Basel rules crimp their ability
to lend money, then smaller institutions could fill the void.  “To the degree that systemically important institutions
find the additional capital requirement makes some lending
unprofitable, that lending could be assumed by smaller banks
that do not pose similar systemic risk and thus have lower
capital requirements,” Tarullo said in a June 2011 speech.  While the regional bank lobbyists have been holding monthly
conference calls and meeting in person every three months, they
haven’t yet taken the step of forming their own trade group and
haven’t opposed the agenda of the big banks. They remain members
of the American Bankers Association, which counts all the large
institutions among its ranks.  Member Needs  The regional banks aren’t part of the Independent Community
Bankers of America, which on its website claims nearly 5,000
members with assets between $3 million and $17 billion.  Wayne Abernathy , executive vice president of the ABA, said
his association has tried to show the regional banks that it can
continue to represent their interests in Washington.  “It keeps us on our toes, to make sure as a trade
association that we meet the needs of all our members,”
Abernathy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ; Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at +1-
   chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  