-- Life CEO Lucier Vows to Gain Top Sequencer Sales Spot
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-02T20:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/life-ceo-lucier-vows-to-gain-top-sequencer-sales-spot.html
Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) ’s Chief
Executive Officer Greg Lucier said his company will take the top
spot in genetic sequencing next year ahead of current industry
leader  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)   The Carlsbad, California-based maker of the Ion Torrent
line of DNA sequencers bought Compendia Bioscience Inc. last
month and Navigenics Inc. and Pinpoint Genomics in July. The
company is likely to acquire more companies to help doctors
connect gene mutations with available treatments as it competes
with San Diego-based Illumina and  Roche Holding AG  in the $1.5
billion to $2 billion genetic sequencing market.  “We are very confident we are going to be the No. 1
genetic sequencing company in the world in 2013, not only for
the next generation technology, the Ion Torrent, but when you
look across multiple generations,” Lucier said.  Gene sequencers provide a blueprint of a person’s DNA,
information that may be used to diagnose disease, identify the
risks of certain conditions or better target medicines. New
machines have reduced the time and cost to analyze a patient’s
genes. Life intends to become the sales leader in the future
because its technology will be difficult for competitors to
beat, Lucier said in a telephone interview.  Lucier’s goals may be harder to attain than he thinks, said
 Ross Muken , an analyst at ISI Group LLC in  New York . While
Illumina will remain the dominant company in genetic sequencing,
Life has become a stronger rival, he said.  ‘More Competitive’  “They have done a much better job with the business in the
context of making Ion Torrent more competitive,” Muken said of
Life in a telephone interview. “I still don’t see them
unseating Illumina. Generally, we still think Illumina has a
lead on accuracy and ease of use.”  History may also play a role, Muken said. Because many
researchers have done their sequencing work with Illumina
technology, they may stick with the company, he said. Muken
estimated that Illumina has 60 percent of the next-generation
market, while Life has 20 percent to 25 percent.  Life fell 3.3 percent to $48.63 at the close in New York.
The company’s shares have  increased  25 percent this year.  First, though, the industry needs to prepare for the $1.2
trillion in looming U.S. government spending cuts, known as
sequestration, that’s set to start in January, Lucier said. The
 National Institutes of Health , which provides medical research
grants spent on sequencing products and services, would lose
$2.5 billion if Congress doesn’t block the reduction.  The potential cuts already have researchers reducing their
spending, he said.  “It’s not a catastrophe,” Lucier said. “We have adjusted
our cost structure to deal with that, and if it doesn’t happen,
our profitability will be even better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  