-- In the Money Race, a Tie Goes to the Republicans
-- B y   F r a n c i s   W i l k i n s o n
-- 2012-11-02T19:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/in-the-money-race-a-tie-goes-to-the-republicans.html
Is the  Citizens United  ruling politically irrelevant? After all, the Supreme
Court  decision , along with related lower-court rulings on campaign finance, is
in full effect in this election. Yet President  Barack Obama  and Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney  are essentially neck-and-neck in the money race, each having
raised roughly a cool billion. The financial parity of the parties may be misleading. Casino owner  Sheldon
Adelson  has donated at least $70 million (not all of it reported) to efforts to
defeat Obama,  according to Mike Allen  at Politico. Today, that sum seems hard to
comprehend -- although it's possible that a Romney  Justice Department  is  worth
even more  to Adelson. But if the past decade's inflation rate in political
spending keeps up, it's possible that Adelson or someone like him will spend
double that amount in 2016. Obama has developed an unprecedented popular fundraising base. Yes, he is
dependent on the wealthy. What candidate isn't? But he has attracted more than 3
million individuals to contribute to his campaign. As he did in 2008, he has
raised more than $100 million in donations of $200 or less. His campaign (not
including outside groups) has outraised Romney's campaign, which is much more
reliant on four-figure contributions, by a ratio of about 3:2. The two divergent funding sources will do nothing to lessen political
polarization. If  Al Gore  looked at the two camps, he'd be tempted to call it
"the people versus the powerful." To surpass Obama, Romney has relied on the
kindness of millionaires and billionaires contributing to allied super-PACs and
"social welfare" organizations (if your idea of social welfare is an attack ad
courtesy of  Karl Rove  and friends). Together, the Republican super friends have
contributed more than $200 million. Romney's base of Republican plutocrats seems built to last. First, rich
people rarely walk away from politics -- it's an environment defined by power
and money, their natural habitat. Second, as the rich continue to get richer,
they are blessed with even more disposable income to divert to political
pastimes. Obama's funding base, on the other hand, may be the foundation of a
transformed  Democratic Party , one more rooted in the middle and working classes
than it has been for many decades (read the Brooks Jackson classic " Honest
Graft " to see Democrats slurping at the same corporate trough as Republicans).
Alternatively, Obama's fundraising base may well be a house of cards that will
collapse without his historic candidacy. For Democrats in that case, après
Obama, le deluge. Can any other Democrat -- even a certain secretary of state --
replicate Obama's money magnet? And if not, can a future Democratic nominee
compete for cash with a future Republican nominee? If Obama wins on Tuesday, he'll leave bitter Republicans walking a trail of
tears back to  Washington . It shouldn't take more than five minutes for them to
begin plotting well-funded revenge. If he loses, Romney will use the powers of
incumbency to make this year's Republican money haul look like spare change in
2016. Democrats have done remarkably well raising money in recent years while
calling for higher taxes on the people who have the greatest ability to make
donations. But Democratic super-PACs have been crushed in 2012 by Republican
super-PACs -- outspent by about three-to-one and maybe more in the final
analysis. Due to the shoddiness of campaign finance regulation and the pathetic
state of its enforcement, we will never know exactly how much was spent and by
whom in this election. But if super-PACs and Rovian social welfare spending are
the future, rather than Obama's brand of mass appeal, the Democratic Party could
be in trouble. There is only so much money you can waste on television advertising and phone
banks -- and in this election both campaigns arguably exceeded the limit. With
future Republican operatives awash in unregulated cash, it won't take long
before they devise new and interesting ways of spending it. The temptations will
be enormous. (Francis Wilkinson is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow 
him on Twitter. Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at the  Ticker .