-- Intercontinental Asks SEC to Clear European Sovereign Swaps
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-11-02T15:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/intercontinental-asks-sec-to-clear-european-sovereign-debt-swaps.html
Intercontinental Exchange  Inc., owner
of the world’s largest credit-default swaps clearinghouse,
requested permission from the Securities and Exchange Commission
to back contracts for sovereign debt of five European countries.  The sovereign debt of Ireland,  Italy , Greece,  Portugal  and
Spain would be processed by the company’s ICE Clear Europe unit
for the first time, rather than the contracts being held between
banks and their customers, in a move that’s meant to reduce
systemic risk in the financial industry, according to a
regulatory filing today. Intercontinental, based in Atlanta,
already backs credit swaps on the sovereign debt of  Brazil ,
 Mexico ,  Argentina  and  Venezuela  as well as the Markit CDX
 Emerging Markets  Index of 15 sovereign nations.  Clearing default swaps on Latin American nations was a
first step in overcoming one of regulators’ and banks’ biggest
hurdles to curbing the risks that the $25 trillion in
outstanding contracts pose to the global financial system. While
banks have moved many of the contracts linked to corporations
into clearinghouses, they’ve struggled to do the same for
contracts on themselves and countries in which they’re based
without having to require collateral postings that would make
the trades uneconomical.  “ICE Clear Europe believes clearance of the new sovereign
contracts will facilitate the prompt and accurate settlement of
swaps and contribute to the safeguarding of securities and funds
associated with swap transactions,” the filing said.  Greece Restructuring  In March, sellers of credit-default swaps on  Greece  had to
pay as much as $2.5 billion to settle contracts triggered by the
nation’s debt restructuring while the swaps were still held
between banks and their customers and not processed by a
clearinghouse. The contracts were settled after investors were
forced to exchange their bonds at a loss in the biggest ever
debt restructuring that ended more than two years of speculation
about whether the derivatives are reliable for insuring
sovereign debt after European policy makers sought to prevent
payouts on concern they’d worsen the region’s crisis.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
 Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members, are
meant to reduce systemic risk by sharing responsibility if a
member defaults on its payment obligations. They use daily
margin calls to keep accounts current and provide regulators
with access to prices and positions.  ‘Wrong-Way Risk’  The complexity of housing some of the most volatile and
correlated credit swaps in a clearinghouse capitalized by the
same banks whose debt is protected by the contracts -- such as
those on German sovereign debt and on Frankfurt-based  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  -- has prevented their inclusion in the risk-mitigating
service. The obstacle extends to contracts linked to countries
in which the banks are based. The issue is one of the
derivatives industry’s biggest challenges,  Jeffrey Sprecher ,
chief executive officer of Intercontinental Exchange, said last
year.  There are at least two risks when clearing sovereign credit
swaps. The so-called “wrong-way risk” arises from the default
of a country on its debt where a dealer bank has sold protection
on that nation’s bonds and thus faces the risk of defaulting
because it has large payouts to make. To mitigate this, ICE
Clear Europe will denominate its contracts, margin and guaranty
fund in U.S. dollars rather than euros, according to the filing.  Dollar Contracts  Self-reference risk is also an issue, where a clearing
member bank is an affiliate of the country that the credit swap
protection is written against. For instance, any German
sovereign debt protection sold by Deutsche Bank
wouldn’t be allowed to be cleared by ICE Clear Europe.  “If a clearing member subsequently becomes affiliated with
the underlying reference entity, the rules applicable to new
sovereign contracts provide for the termination of relevant
positions,” the filing said.  The clearinghouse filed the request for approval by the
Commission on October 15, according to a federal information and
news dispatch released today. The SEC is asking for comments on
the proposal and must approve the change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 