-- Iron-Ore Swaps Trading Drops 9.2% From Record on Price
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-11-09T18:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/iron-ore-swaps-trading-drops-33-from-record-as-price-gains-1-.html
(Corrects trading volume in first and second paragraph in
the story published Nov. 2.)  Iron-ore  swap volumes cleared by SGX
Asia Clear dropped 9.2 percent in October from a record 17.7
million metric tons in the previous month because of a holiday
in  China  and as prices stabilized.  While still more than double from the year-earlier period,
the iron-ore swaps  volume  fell to 16.1 million tons from the
previous month, according to data on the exchange’s website. Ore
with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin
 gained  14 percent last month after jumping 17 percent in
September and dropping 24 percent in August.  “It’s seasonal,” said Angus Staines, an analyst at UBS AG
in  London , referring to the holiday in China and lower
speculative trading compared with September. “I expect trading
volumes to go higher. It’s a structural shift, and the volumes
will continue to lift.”  Total volume of iron-ore swaps and options cleared this
year may almost triple from 2011 to as much as 150 million tons,
Oscar Tarneberg, senior analyst at The Steel Index Ltd. in
 Singapore , said by e-mail today. That would make it a $19
billion-dollar market, based on the average price this year.  November iron-ore swaps  jumped 3.1 percent to $117.50 a ton
yesterday, the highest price since July 31, SGX AsiaClear data
show. The swaps are based on the spot price of ore with 62
percent content arriving at China’s Tianjin port, published by
the Steel Index. The benchmark contract declined 0.2 percent to
$120.10 a ton today.  Swaps Trade  Markets in China were closed for the first week of October
for the National Day holidays. Iron-ore swaps rose 91 percent in
October 2011 from the previous month despite a week-long
celebration, the SGX data show.  Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG started swaps
in 2008 and the Singapore Mercantile Exchange began futures in
2011. Swaps trading more than doubled in 2011, according to
London-based broker Freight Investor Services.  “Iron has gone through a very big change in the last few
years,” said  Simon Collins , director and head of dry bulk
commodities at Amsterdam-based commodities trader Trafigura
Beheer BV. “Prices are becoming more and more spot, and as a
result you see more volatility in the  spot market , and more use
of swaps, as people are trying to hedge themselves.”  Iron ore’s  100-day historical volatility  is at 32 percent,
more than in gold, platinum, palladium and the main industrial
metals traded on the London Metal Exchange, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Trading Records  SGX has accounted for 95 percent of the total volume of
iron-ore swaps cleared this year, and for 83 percent if options
are included, according to The Steel Index. Iron-ore swaps
trading posted records for three consecutive months through
September, data from SGX show.  “Iron ore has got a huge amount of attention because it’s
such a big driver in economies, such as  Australia ’s,” said Ray Key, global head of metals at Deutsche Bank, who helped develop
the swaps. “Hundreds of billions of dollars are being invested
in mining projects. And behind that you’ve got huge amounts of
equity money invested in mining companies.”  The options market will continue to grow, while anyone
planning to start iron-ore futures will have to convince the
market about their advantages over swaps because “most people
are relatively comfortable with the way iron ore trades now,”
Key said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  