-- Israel to Weigh Detailed Potash Request on Proposed Takeover
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   L y d i a   M u l v a n y
-- 2012-11-02T16:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/israel-to-weigh-detailed-potash-request-on-proposed-takeover-1-.html
Israeli officials asked fertilizer
producer  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  to clarify its
proposed acquisition of  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , the country’s
second-largest company by market value.  Officials will make recommendations on the bid after
reviewing a detailed application to be submitted by Potash
Corp., Finance Ministry Director General Doron Cohen said today
in an e-mail. Bill Johnson, a Potash Corp. spokesman, declined
to comment.  Potash Corp. has a 14 percent stake in Tel Aviv-based
Israel Chemicals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Israel Chemicals is controlled by the Ofer family’s Israel Corp.
The Israeli government can block takeover bids using its so-
called golden share.  The Canadian company’s proposed offer is “not on the
agenda,” the Finance Ministry said yesterday in a statement.
The ministry also said yesterday it has “professional
reservations” about the transaction and the government “won’t
allow any deal that endangers or impairs the economic and
environmental interests of the State of  Israel  and its
citizens.”  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Oct. 31 that he’d
met with Potash Corp. Chief Executive Officer Bill Doyle, and
that talks about a sale to the Canadian company were continuing.  If Potash Corp. successfully acquires Israel Chemicals,
which harvests potash from the Dead Sea, it would become the
largest producer of its namesake crop nutrient with control of
about 25 percent of global production capacity, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 86 percent of the company that Potash Corp. doesn’t
already own has a market value of about 53.2 billion shekels
($13.7 billion) based on yesterday’s closing share price, which
would make a deal the largest agricultural chemical deal,
according to Bloomberg data.  No one at Israel Corp. answered a phone call or responded
to an e-mail outside of normal business hours.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. is Israel’s largest
company by market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Mulvany in  New York  at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  