-- Listening to Hurricane Sandy: Climate Change is Here
-- B y   A n d r e w   S t e e r
-- 2012-11-02T16:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/listening-to-hurricane-sandy-climate-change-is-here.html
Hurricane Sandy was a massive and
deadly  storm ,
extending more than 1,000 miles, bringing huge waves and more than 13 feet of water
to parts of New York City. In Manhattan, floods swept away cars and overflowed
subway stations. Along the Jersey  shore ,
homes, property, and businesses were washed away in just a few hours. More than
8 million people in the northeastern United States lost power. Tens of millions
more have been affected. And, tragically at least 160 people lost their lives in total. Outside of the United States,
six Caribbean countries were battered by the storm, taking lives and destroying
property as it struck. Some early estimates say the storm will cost  $50
billion ; others say it will be more. Sadly, science tells us that this
type of event will become much more common as our climate continues to change. Climate change is here and its
impacts are being felt today. As Governor Cuomo  said 
earlier this week, “Anyone who says there is not a dramatic change in weather
patterns is denying reality.”  Here’s what we know: an overwhelming
majority of scientists tell us that the Earth’s climate is heating largely due
to rising greenhouse gas emissions, which, in turn, is driving more extreme
weather and climate events. The underlying changes--warmer oceans, more intense
precipitation events, and rising sea levels--are significant contributors to
storms like Sandy. Around the world, we’re seeing heavier rainfall and
record-breaking high temperatures, and many areas are experiencing more severe droughts
and more wildfires. These patterns are precisely what climate scientists have
said we should expect in a warming world ( pdf ).
Further, these extreme weather and climate events are taking a serious toll as
they disrupt people’s lives and our economy.  This should not be a partisan issue. Two Republicans (Teddy Roosevelt and
Richard Nixon) topped a  recent
poll  of the most environmentally supportive U.S. presidents. Moreover, it was
just a few years ago when politicians from both parties were taking climate
change seriously. Republicans Senators John McCain, John Warner, and Lindsay
Graham, as well as a number of House members, have shown leadership Congress on
these issues in recent years. EPA administrators, including William Ruckelshaus
and Christine Todd Whitman, who served under Republican Presidents Nixon and
George W. Bush respectively, share similar views. Nowhere in the world is the issue of
climate change as polarizing as it is here in the United States. In the United
Kingdom, the conservative Prime Minister David Cameron has embraced the challenge
of climate change, and announced ambitious emissions targets. Meanwhile,
governments in Australia, China, South Korea, Mexico, the EU, and elsewhere
have enacted policies to effectively put a price on carbon.  U.S. politicians’  silence
on climate change  is not only out of step with the rest of the world, but
also with the American people, the vast majority of whom  are
concerned  about climate change. Why should we act? The human and economic costs of
Hurricane Sandy and other extreme weather events are abundantly clear. In 2011,
according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , there were 14
extreme weather and climate events of more than $1 billion in the United States,
totaling approximately $55 billion. Looking at the bigger picture, a  recent
report  found that the failure to act on climate change is likely to cost
the world economy 1.7 percent of GDP, approximately $1.2 trillion per year in
the near term, with the figure expected to double by 2030. Shifting to clean energy opens new
economic opportunities, including taking advantage of the $2.3 trillion global
clean energy market expected to emerge in the next decade ( pdf ).
The United States is lagging while other countries, like China and Germany,
surge ahead. There is some good news. Many U.S.
city and state-level officials are recognizing the need to address this crisis.
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, for one, has worked with his counterparts in
the U.S. and around the world to cut city-level emissions, which account for
around  70
percent  of global carbon pollution. As he
wrote yesterday, the risk of climate change should “ compel all elected
leaders to take immediate action .” New York has a robust climate
strategy, including actions to reduce emissions and prepare for climate change
impacts through PlaNYC. Other cities, from Chicago to Tokyo to Sao Paulo, are
likewise investing in strategies to reduce emissions and enhance people’s
resilience for an increasingly volatile world. Now we need this kind of leadership
at the national level. So, let’s make sure to learn the lessons from this storm
by putting in place a national strategy to cut emissions and prepare for the impacts
of our changing climate. If the winners of next Tuesday’s
election in the White House and Congress want to deliver progress for the
citizens of this country, and to the world, they should immediately get to work
on preparing and implementing smart actions to address climate change. Let’s all
face up to the issue, talk about it directly, and act as if our future depends
on it -- because it does.   Steer is president of the  World
Resources Institute .  Visit  www.bloomberg.com/sustainability  for the latest from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global business.