-- Mitsubishi Net Slides 23% as Japan Traders Cut Resource Reliance
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-11-02T07:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/mitsubishi-net-slides-23-as-japan-traders-cut-resource-reliance.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  said first-half
profit fell 23 percent as strikes at Australian coal mines and a
slowdown in  China  push Japan’s biggest trading house and
domestic rivals to ease their reliance on commodities.  Net income fell to 190.4 billion yen ($2.37 billion) in the
six months ended Sept. 30 after profit at the metals and mining
unit, the biggest earner last year, tumbled 88 percent, Tokyo-
based Mitsubishi said today. A drop in profits at  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ,
 Itochu Corp. (8001)  and Sumitomo Corp. left  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  as the only
one of Japan’s major traders to boost earnings in the period.  Japan’s trading houses are seeking to cut their exposure to
commodities as a slowdown in  China’s economy  and  Europe ’s debt
crisis weaken demand for raw materials. Marubeni’s spend on non-
resource assets this year was more than triple its mining
purchases. The trader plans to cut its percentage of profit from
commodities to 39 percent by April, the least in at least six
years, Marubeni said yesterday.  “The economies of industrialized nations have slowed due
to the impact of austerity measures and turbulence in financial
markets as a result of the deepening European debt problems,”
Mitsubishi said in a statement. “In emerging economies the rate
of growth slowed due to sluggish export growth and domestic
structural problems even in major countries such as China.”  Mitsubishi’s non-resource income climbed to 50 percent of
its total in the three months to October, the highest in at
least the last six quarters.  Annual Forecasts Cut  Mitsubishi last month cut its full-year profit target 34
percent to 330 billion yen as strikes at the Australian mines of
BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance, the world’s largest coal
exporter, hurt output. The cut was bigger than expected by  UBS
AG (UBSN) , which anticipated a downward revision to 350 billion yen.  Mitsui and  Sojitz Corp. (2768) , Japan’s biggest trader in rare
earths, today joined Mitsubishi in lowering their profit
outlooks. Mitsui, Japan’s second-largest trading house, cut this
year’s forecast by 23 percent to 310 billion yen, after posting
a greater-than-expected 26 percent drop in six-month net income
to 168 billion yen.  Sojitz said profit for the year ending March 31 will be
half the 20 billion yen it estimated in May after  bigger-than-
expected falls in coal shipments from  Australia  and oil and gas
sales. Net income tumbled 71 percent to 3 billion yen in the six
months to Sept. 30, Sojitz said today.  Itochu today said that net profit fell 11 percent to 142.2
billion yen in the six months ended Sept. 30, while Sumitomo
said Oct. 31 that profit fell 15 percent to 129.4 billion in the
same period.  ‘Recovery Delayed’  “It is likely that the timing of the economic recovery
originally expected” in the six months to April 2013 will be
delayed, Itochu said today in a  statement . “A strong sense of
stagnation” and fears of a worsening of the European crisis and
the U.S. financial position are spreading concern in global
markets, it said.  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , the least reliant of Japan’s traders on
commodities for profit, maintained its profit forecast as its
media businesses helped offset a slump in mining units. The
trader sold 50 percent of its Jupiter Shop Channel Co. to Bain
Capital Partners LLC for about 100 billion yen in June.  Still, Sumitomo Chief Financial Officer Toyosaku Hamada
warned on Oct. 31 that the company may cut the number by 10
percent if global economic conditions worsen “one more notch.”  Coal sales were worst hit among the commodities, with
Sumitomo’s Australian unit recording 1.2 billion yen in profit
for the six months to October compared with 13 billion yen a
year earlier. Lower zinc and lead prices cut profits at the  San
Cristobal (POLO)  mine in  Bolivia  to 3.4 billion yen in the period from
12 billion yen a year ago, Sumitomo said.  Marubeni Profits  Marubeni, the only one of the traders to post a profit
increase, said net income rose 2.2 percent to 105.3 billion yen
in the six months to Sept. 30 as its lower exposure to raw
materials used to make steel buoyed profits.  A 4.2 billion yen jump in profit from its stake in Chile’s
Los Pelambres mine, run by  Antofagasta Plc. (ANTO) , was the single
biggest increase of all Marubeni units and made the asset the
trader’s largest earner. The boost from copper sales offset
weaker steel exports and U.S. wheat trading, Marubeni said.  Copper traded in  London  averaged $8,097 per metric ton in
the six months to October, compared to $8,811 in the previous 12
months, an 8 percent slide, Marubeni said. That compares with a
23 percent slump in coking coal to $225 a ton in the quarter
ending Sept. 30 compared with last year, Sumitomo said.  “At the moment, it looks like the current tough profit
environment is set to continue,” Ryoichi Ueda, Mitsubishi’s
Chief Financial Officer, told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  