-- Liverpool Monitors Walcott With $16 Million to Spend: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-02T06:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/liverpool-monitors-walcott-with-16-million-to-spend-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Liverpool Wants Walcott  Liverpool is monitoring Theo Walcott’s contract dispute at
Arsenal and manager  Brendan Rodgers  may use the 10 million
pounds ($16 million) he has been promised for transfers to make
a bid for the England forward, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Walcott’s desire to play in a central position and his
demand for 100,000 pounds a week, 25,000 pounds more than
Arsenal’s offer, are the hurdles to be cleared before he signs a
new deal with the Gunners, the newspaper said.  Cole’s Wages  Rodgers is willing to pay Walcott the 100,000 pounds a week
he wants and also play the 23-year-old in the central striking
role he prefers, the  Sun reported .  The Liverpool manager also wants to get  Joe Cole ’s wages of
120,000 pounds a week off the team’s payroll and will look to
sell  Jose Enrique  and  Stewart Downing , the Sun added.  Monaco Offer  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  was in secret talks
to join Monaco and held extensive negotiations with the French
second-tier club before signing a new five-year contract at
City, the  Guardian reported .  Mancini was tempted by the offer of a five-year deal by
Monaco, whose majority shareholder is Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev, that was worth 8 million euros ($10.3 million) a
year plus bonuses, the newspaper added.  Van Persie’s Choice  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  confirmed that  Robin van Persie  rejected an offer from Manchester City, said to be about
300,000 pounds a week, to join crosstown rival Manchester United
from the Gunners, the  Independent reported .  “It is true that  Manchester City  was interested in him and
he has chosen to go to United,” the Independent cited Wenger as
saying. “He could come out more on the reasons but I didn’t
want to know more about that.”  Dembele Blow  Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Moussa Dembele may need
surgery on a hip injury that could sideline him for six weeks,
the  Daily Mail reported .  Dembele, who has missed Spurs’ last four games, had scans
yesterday to assess whether he would need an operation after
suffering a recurrence of the injury last month, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  