-- J&J-Bayer Blood Thinner Wins Backing for Lung, Leg Clots
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-02T21:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/j-j-bayer-blood-thinner-wins-backing-for-lung-leg-clots.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,
makers of stroke preventative Xarelto, won U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval for wider use of the medicine to treat
blood clots in the legs and lungs and stave off recurrences.  Bleeding, the major side effect with the blood thinner, is
similar to other anti-clotting drugs, the FDA said today in a
 statement . Xarelto can now be used to treat clots from deep vein
thrombosis in the legs, which can travel to the lungs and block
an artery, a condition called pulmonary embolism that kills 30
percent of sufferers, the  National Institutes of Health  said.  The leg and lung clots can affect as many as 600,000 people
in the U.S. each year and together are known as venous
thromboembolism. Xarelto’s use in lung and leg clots may account
for $600 million of a projected $4.2 billion in peak annual
sales of the medicine, Jeffrey Holford, an analyst at Jefferies
Group Inc. in  New York , said in an e-mail.  “Xarelto is the first oral anti-clotting drug approved to
treat and reduce the recurrence of blood clots since the
approval of warfarin nearly 60 years ago,”  Richard Pazdur ,
director of the Office of Hematology and Oncology Products in
the FDA’s drug evaluation center, said in the statement.  Xarelto was approved a year ago to prevent strokes in
patients with irregular heart rhythms and in July 2011 to reduce
the risk of leg and lung clots after knee and hip surgery. It
competes with Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Pradaxa in stroke
prevention.  Combined Treatment  Patients with lung clots typically are treated with the
fast-acting injected drug enoxaparin. After 5 to 10 days, they
begin taking the anticoagulant warfarin to prevent future blood
clots. Warfarin, available as a generic drug, has been used for
more than five decades and requires regular blood tests to
ensure people are getting an appropriate dose.  Patients who took Xarelto experienced fewer new clots in
the legs or lungs than those who took standard therapy,
according to a trial conducted by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based J&J and Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer.  “Venous blood clots are associated with a high risk of
serious complications, so the approval of Xarelto will
immediately impact how we treat these patients and may set a new
standard of care,” Jack Ansell, professor of medicine at New
York University School of Medicine, said in a statement from
J&J.  The FDA declined in June to approve Xarelto to prevent
heart attacks and strokes in patients with serious chest pain or
a previous heart attack, a condition known as acute coronary
syndrome. Missing clinical trial information made it difficult
to interpret the data for Xarelto’s use for the wider group of
heart patients, advisers to the FDA said.  J&J responded to the FDA in September and may hear the
agency’s decision in March based on the new data.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , both based in New
York, are awaiting an FDA decision also in March on their
experimental Eliquis to reduce the risk of stroke in patients
with irregular heartbeat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  