-- Japan May Have Entered Recessionary Phase, Some BOJ Members Say
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-11-02T01:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/japan-may-have-entered-recessionary-phase-some-boj-members-say.html
Japan ’s  economy , the world’s third
biggest, may have entered a “recessionary phase,” according to
some  Bank of Japan  board members.  The possibility “could not be ruled out,” a few policy
makers said at an Oct. 4-5 policy meeting, according to minutes
released in Tokyo today. A Cabinet Office official at the
meeting said the government and the central bank need to
“deepen their dialogues,” the record showed.  Economists at Nomura Securities Co. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
revised down their forecasts for Japan’s third-quarter gross
domestic product after  industrial production  fell the steepest
in September since last year’s earthquake. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  may
remain under pressure to add monetary stimulus after it this
week expanded an asset-purchase fund by 11 trillion yen ($137
billion).  Finance Minister Koriki Jojima said in parliament today
that the economy shows signs of weakening and pledged to work
with the BOJ to overcome the nation’s deflationary trend.  Nomura Securities said on Oct. 30 it expects the Japanese
economy to contract an annualized 5.1 percent in the three
months to September, followed by a 0.3 percent shrinkage in the
next quarter. Citigroup and Credit Suisse Group AG are also
among those forecasting two quarters of contraction through
year-end.  The Cabinet Office will release third-quarter GDP figures
on Nov. 12.  Economy Minister Seiji Maehara attended the BOJ meeting on
Oct. 5, the first cabinet minister to do so since 2003. The
minutes don’t specify which government official made comments.
At the meeting, the BOJ board decided to hold off from more
easing after adding to stimulus in September.  The joint statement that Maehara and Jojima issued with BOJ
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa after the central bank’s meeting on
Oct. 30 was the first of its type, Maehara said. The government
“strongly expects” powerful easing until deflation is
overcome, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  