-- Jenner, Akin Gump, Fried Frank, Kramer: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/jenner-akin-gump-fried-frank-kramer-business-of-law.html
Former Associate Attorney General
Thomas J. Perrelli rejoined Jenner & Block LLP as a partner in
the firm’s  Washington  office.  Perrelli will lead Jenner’s newly formed government
controversies and public policy litigation practice group, which
will advise clients on problems at the intersection of law,  law
enforcement  and  government regulation .  As the third highest-ranking official at the U.S. Justice
Department from 2009 until his departure in March, Perrelli
oversaw civil-litigation cases such as the negotiation of the
$20 billion  trust fund  that BP Plc set up to compensate victims
of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Perrelli also led
negotiations involving 49 state attorneys general, the five
largest mortgage servicers, and a dozen federal agencies that
resulted in settlements valued at more than $25 billion.  “We are thrilled that Tom is returning to Jenner &
Block,” Anton R. Valukas, Jenner’s chairman, said in a
statement. “He has a remarkable track record for finding
creative solutions to ‘bet-the-company’ legal problems, and he
knows how to implement those solutions in a complex political
and media environment.”  Perrelli began practicing law as an associate at Jenner in
1992. In 1997, he left to serve as counsel to U.S. Attorney
General Janet Reno, rising to the position of Deputy Assistant
Attorney General before returning to Jenner in 2001. Perrelli
was the managing partner of the firm’s Washington office when he
took the associate attorney general post in 2009.  Jenner “is an ideal fit for me to utilize my public and
private experience,” Perrelli said in a statement.  Jenner’s recent high-profile hires include Mary Ellen Callahan, former chief privacy officer for the Department of
 Homeland Security , former U.S. prosecutor Reid J. Schar and
Kenneth L. Doroshow, former general counsel of the video-game
industry’s national trade group.  Jenner has about 450 attorneys with offices in  Chicago ,  Los
Angeles ,  New York  and Washington.  Akin Gump Hires Energy Regulatory Trio From Patton Boggs  Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP hired a trio of energy
lawyers from Patton Boggs LLP, including Suedeen G. Kelly, a
former member of the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission , who
will become co-chairman of the firm’s energy regulatory practice
in Washington.  George D. “Chip” Cannon was also hired as a partner and
Cynthia A. Marlette, a former general counsel to FERC, will be a
senior counsel in the firm’s energy regulatory practice.  Kelly was nominated for three terms as a FERC commissioner
under President Obama and former President  George W. Bush .
During her tenure, she resolved thousands of disputes and
strengthened FERC enforcement, and made changes such as
integrating renewables into the transmission grid, the firm said
in a statement.  Kelly went into private practice in 2010 and has
represented clients in the  energy industry  on business,
regulatory, litigation and policy matters. These include FERC
enforcement, electricity markets and transmission, shale gas
production and pipeline activity, LNG imports and exports,
deepwater drilling and pipeline breaches and accidents.  Cannon’s practice includes handling regulatory matters
before federal agencies, courts and state regulatory commissions
on behalf of energy-industry clients.  “Akin Gump is committed to continuing to add to our strong
energy industry team in order to meet the evolving legal needs
of our clients wherever they may be,” Chairman R. Bruce McLean
said in a statement.  Akin Gump  has more than 850 attorneys in offices throughout
the U.S., Europe, Asia and the  Middle East .  Kramer Levin Hires Financial Services Partner from Schulte  Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP said corporate attorney
George M. Silfen joined the New York office as a partner in the
financial services group. Silfen was previously a partner with
Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP.  Silfen advises clients on regulatory and compliance matters
associated with investment companies, and investment, brokerage,
securities custody and transfer agent services. He previously
worked for Morgan Stanley Investment Management.  Kramer Levin has offices in New York, Paris and
California’s Silicon Valley.  Barnes & Thornburg Hires Two Partners in Chicago  Barnes & Thornburg LLP said Lindsey D.G. Dates and Daniel
J. Lawler joined the firm’s Chicago office as partners in the
litigation and health-care departments.  Dates joins from the Chicago office of Jones Day LLP and
Lawler worked in the Chicago office of K&L Gates LLP, the firm
said in a statement.  Dates, a trial lawyer, focuses on commercial contract and
business tort litigation. His experience includes cases
involving bankruptcy, intellectual property, antitrust, product
liability, white-collar criminal defense and commercial real
estate matters.  Lawler has represented health-care providers in Illinois
regulatory proceedings.  Barnes has more than 550 lawyers in 12 offices.  Fasken Martineau Hires Energy Lawyers in London  Fasken Martineau LLP hired Kirill Zenin as a partner and
also added an associate in the firm’s London office. Zenin was
previously an associate at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP, the firm said.  Kirill is a member of the corporate/commercial, energy and
projects and corporate social responsibility groups. He has
advised clients on mergers and acquisitions,  capital markets  and
other transactions in the energy, natural resources and
oilfield-services industries.  Kirill recently represented the Republic of South  Sudan  on
oil and gas issues relating to its secession from the Republic
of Sudan, the firm said. He was previously an in-house counsel
at Schlumberger Oilfield Services for more than five years.  Fasken Martineau has 700 lawyers, with offices in Canada,
Europe and Johannesburg.  Deals  Fried Frank Advises RedPrairie on $1.9 Billion Deal for JDA  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP acted as
counsel to RedPrairie Corp., which agreed to acquire  JDA
Software Group Inc. (JDAS)  in a $1.9 billion deal that merges two
providers of software for managing corporate supply chains.  DLA Piper LLP provided legal counsel to JDA, and Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP represented JDA’s independent directors.  The Fried Frank team included Aviva Diamant, Abigail Bomba
and Richard Steinwurtzel.  DLA’s lawyers included Steven Pidgeon, Nicole Daley, Andy
Moosmann, William Hoffman and Paolo Morante.  The Cravath team was led by M&A partners Scott A. Barshay
and Damien R. Zoubek, partner George E. Zobitz on financing
matters, and partners Eric W. Hilfers and Lauren Angelilli on
tax matters.  RedPrairie and private-equity firm New Mountain Capital LLC
will pay $45 a share, a 33 percent premium over JDA’s stock
price on Oct. 26, before speculation of the deal surfaced,
according to a statement. The deal will create a supply-chain
 software company  with more than $1 billion in revenue.  Firm News  Covington Opens Office in Seoul to Be Led by Park  Covington & Burling LLP opened an office in Seoul yesterday
after getting approval from the Korean Ministry of Justice and
the Korean Bar Association.  The firm plans to initially focus on advising Korean
companies on U.S. and European intellectual property, antitrust
and competition law, mergers and acquisitions, corporate
finance, international trade compliance and policy issues, and
regulatory matters.  William H.Y. Park, a corporate lawyer based in South Korea,
will oversee the office of five lawyers. Park will work closely
with former United Nations Ambassador Daniel Spiegel, the new
office’s foreign legal consultant.  Covington & Burling has more than 800 lawyers at eight
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  News  Rio Tinto Lawyer Helping Mongolia on Tax Issue, Australia Says  An Australian lawyer working in Mongolia for a company
controlled by Rio Tinto Group is helping anti-corruption
authorities with an investigation involving a tax dispute,
according to the Australian government  “It’s a tax dispute,” Patrick Lowe, a spokesman for
Australian Foreign Affairs Minister Bob Carr, said yesterday in
a phone interview from Canberra. “I understand it’s got to do
with claims that the company she works for has a tax issue.”  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ) ’s Chief Legal Counsel Sarah
Armstrong, who was barred from leaving Mongolia last week, had
met with the country’s anti-corruption agency to assist the
investigation, the company said Oct. 29. Mongolia’s Independent
Authority Against Corruption said she’s a “suspect” in the
probe, the Australian reported yesterday, citing investigation
department chief A. Amarbat.  “She’s not being held,” Lowe said. “She’s returned to
work but she can’t leave the country.”  Rio spokeswoman Karen Halbert declined to comment. Dave
Bartel, SouthGobi’s vice president of  investor relations  and
external affairs, also declined to comment.  Vancouver-based SouthGobi, controlled by Rio unit  Turquoise
Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , said on Oct. 23 that it’s cooperating with
Mongolian authorities and that none of its employees have been
charged with any crimes. It said May 8 that Mongolia’s anti-
corruption agency had asked one of its units for information for
an investigation into a third party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 