-- Jessica Chastain Seethes in Satisfying ‘Heiress’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/jessica-chastain-seethes-in-satisfying-heiress-review.html
As a plain Jane whose inheritance
makes her catnip to a handsome fortune hunter, Jessica Chastain
is close to perfect in her Broadway debut.  This classically trained actress, an Oscar nominee for
“The Help” and ubiquitous onscreen this past year, brings a
trembling, quiet delicacy to Catherine Sloper, the title role in
Moises Kaufman’s revival of “The Heiress.”  Chastain may not be quite so good at suppressing an innate
loveliness radiating through wig and makeup, but that only adds
to the sense of shifting tectonic plates that build to
Catherine’s coming out as a full-fledged inductee into the
chilly, joyless family that spawned her.  Based on the Henry James novel “Washington Square” (and
set in 1850, when  Greenwich Village  was a wealthy enclave),
“ The Heiress ” is an old-fashioned show by the husband-and-wife
team of Ruth and Augustus Goetz that provided choice roles for
Olivia de Havilland and Montgomery Clift in the 1949 film
adaptation.  A mostly inspired cast and design team have been assembled
for a melodrama that doesn’t fall completely within the comfort
zone of this adventurous director (“Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad
Zoo,” “I Am My Own Wife”).  Catherine has grown up motherless in Derek McLane’s
gorgeous townhouse, seemingly gas-lit by David Lander, with its
flocked wallpaper, mahogany appointments and silk-draped floor-
to-ceiling windows. Her father, Austin (David Strathairn), is a
society doctor who dotes on Catherine despite a simmering
resentment that his revered wife died giving birth to her.  Aunt Lavinia  Also in attendance is her spinster Aunt Lavinia (Judith Ivey), whose flightiness hides less obvious steel.  Lonely, shy and painfully awkward, Catherine is ripe for
the picking. When feckless Morris Townshend (“ Downton Abbey ”
heartthrob Dan Stevens) arrives on the scene, she’s a goner
despite daddy’s cruel warning that she has nothing to offer such
a man but her money.  Catherine’s transformation from prey to predator (“I have
been taught by masters,” she famously spits near the play’s
end) shocks and satisfies, which is all you can ask of a matinee
play. That plus scrumptious costumes (Albert Wolsky), and fully
committed performances.  Stevens is unctuous enough and shows a fine mid-Atlantic
American accent and Ivey delights as a flibbertigibbet straight
out of “The Pickwick Papers.” Strathairn, gruff and somewhat
disheveled looking, struck me as slightly ill-directed.  While the other cast members neutralize a too-heavy
directorial hand, this fine actor seems earthbound because of
it. It’s small detriment to an otherwise engaging evening.  Through Feb. 10, 2013 at the Walter Kerr Theatre, 219 W.
48th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  New York   Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 