-- Kenyan Shilling Heads for Five-Month Low on Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-11-02T11:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/kenyan-shilling-heads-for-five-month-low-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
Kenya’s shilling headed for the
weakest level in almost five months on speculation the central
bank will cut  interest rates  at its monetary policy committee
meeting next week.  The currency of  East Africa ’s largest economy depreciated
as much as 0.3 percent to 85.60 per dollar and was trading 0.2
percent weaker at 85.50 a dollar by 1:02 p.m. in Nairobi, poised
for the weakest level since June 6, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The shilling is down 0.4 percent in the past five
days, a second week of declines.  “The markets are adjusting their position in anticipation
of a rate cut at the MPC meeting next week following the drop in
inflation, hence the shilling movement,” Jeremiah Kendagor,
head of trading at Nairobi-based Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd.,
said by  phone. There is also some dollar demand spill from
businesses at the start of the month, he said.  Kenyan inflation  slowed for the 11th consecutive month in
October, declining to 4.1 percent from 5.3 percent in September,
the  Kenya  National Bureau of Statistics said on Oct 31. Kenyan
policy makers have cut the key lending rate twice in the second
half of the year, to 13 percent, and are under pressure to make
more reductions to help stimulate growth.  “With lower inflation figures there is expectation of a
rate cut and we predict they will lower it by 100bp,” Duncan Kinuthia, head of trading at Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd.,
said by phone.  The economy expanded 3.3 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest pace since the final three months of 2009, as tea and
flower  exports  slumped and tourism declined, eroding foreign-
exchange income from the country’s two biggest sources.  The shilling is expected to weaken to a range of 88 to 90
per dollar by year-end as the balance of trade worsens, Nairobi-
based Sterling Capital Ltd. said in a note on Oct 19.  The Tanzanian shilling gained 0.3 percent to 1,590 a
dollar, while  Uganda ’s shilling weakened 1 percent to 2,600.80 a
dollar, poised for the biggest drop since May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  