-- Scangroup’s Thakrar Sees Digital Expanding Most Over 3 Years
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-11-02T12:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/kenyan-advertising-expenditure-seen-growing-55-in-second-half.html
Scangroup Ltd. (SCAN)  Managing Director
Bharat Thakrar said the digital advertising division of the
 marketing company , East Africa’s biggest by sales, will record
the fastest rate of revenue growth over the next three years.  Revenue doubled in the first half, boosted by the use of
mobile phones by people 18 years old to 35 years old, he said
yesterday.  “The reason it is going to be the fastest growing is
because of the mobile penetration,” Thakrar said in an
interview in the capital, Nairobi.  Mobile-phone companies and handset manufacturers, which
account for half of advertising expenditure in Africa, will
remain the biggest spenders for the next three years, Thakrar
said. There were 29.2 million mobile-phone users in  Kenya  by
March 31, according to data from the  Communications Commission
of Kenya.   Beverages, banks and communication companies account for as
much as 70 percent of advertising expenditure and will keep that
pace for the next three years, Thakrar said.  Middle Class  “There is growth in the middle class and where do they
spend their money?” he said. “Look at our fast food outlets
and coffee houses, sodas, phones.”  Kenya has more than 40 banks and four mobile-phone
companies including  Safaricom Ltd., (SAFCOM)  which is 40 percent owned by
 Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD) , Airtel Networks Ltd., the domestic unit of
Delhi-based  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  France Telecom SA (FTE)  subsidiary
Telkom Kenya Ltd. and Essar Telecom, the domestic unit of
India’s Essar Group.  Kenyan companies usually spend 45 percent of their
advertising budget in the first half and 55 percent in the
second, Thakrar said.  “Second half is always bigger than the first half,” he
said. “A lot of people are running promotions during the end of
the year, so they spend more money.”  Advertising spending in Kenya surged 43 percent in the
first half of 2012 to 40.1 billion shillings, compared with the
same period a year earlier, according to Ipsos-Synovate, a
Nairobi-based market research firm.  Scangroup’s clients include Safaricom Ltd.,  Reckitt
Benckiser Group Plc. (RB/)  and Coca-Cola Co., who are among Kenya’s
top five advertisers, Ipsos-Synovate figures show.  Nigerian Expansion  Scangroup’s net income climbed 8.5 percent to 406.6 million
shillings ($4.76 million) in the six months through June from a
year earlier, while billings grew 5.9 percent to 5.94 billion
shillings.  Scangroup, which is 33 percent owned by  WPP Plc., (WPP)  the
world’s biggest communications company, on Oct. 24 appointed
Rufai Ladipo, who was head of STB-McCann, as chief executive
officer of its new operation in Nigeria.  “The downside with green field is that you have to carry
cost for some time,” Thakrar said. “It is the right thing to
do. An acquisition would have probably cost us a lot more.”  Shares in Scangroup closed trading unchanged at 60
shillings. The stock has rallied 45 percent so far this year,
outperforming a 34.2 percent surge in the  Nairobi Securities
Exchange All Share Index (NSEASI)  in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  