-- Nationalbanken Defends Sub-Zero Bemoaned by Banks: Nordic Credit
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-11-02T09:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/nationalbanken-defends-sub-zero-bemoaned-by-banks-nordic-credit.html
Denmark ’s banks have been given the
support measures they need, central bank Deputy Governor Per Callesen said, as policy makers defend  negative interest rates 
that the country’s banks say are undermining profits.  “We’re satisfied with the way in which our current policy
mix is working,” Callesen said in an Oct. 31 telephone
interview out of Copenhagen. “We’ve in many ways extended our
facilities to support a stable financial system. These measures
have worked well and had the intended result. We think we’ve
done what’s needed.”  The central bank has kept its deposit rate at minus 0.2
percent since July, in an effort to fight off a capital influx
and maintain the krone’s peg to the euro. The bank has signaled
it won’t be swayed by financial industry complaints about the
costs incurred by negative rates, arguing instead that the
policy rate tool is there only to protect the krone.  Banks had about 150 billion kroner ($26 billion) in the
central bank’s deposit facility last week, costing them some 300
million kroner annually, the Danish Bankers Association
estimates. At the same time, the industry is still paying its
customers to hold their deposits in an effort to attract stable
funding and reduce reliance on wholesale financing. That’s
turned deposit banking in Denmark into a losing business.  Support Measures  The central bank has taken a number of measures to support
banks, expanding its collateral base to accept a broader palette
of securities, and extending loan maturities available at the
benchmark lending rate --  0.2 percent  since July -- to six
months and three years. Since July, the bank has twice raised
the ceiling on its current account facility, which carries a
rate of zero.  “The bank is making it absolutely clear that their only
consideration is the  exchange rate ,” Jacob Graven, chief
economist at Sydbank A/S, said by phone.  While some banks in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Sweden  have
started charging clients for their krone-denominated deposits,
lenders in Denmark have hesitated for fear of losing business.
The government, which has passed five bank rescue packages since
2008, has also warned any decision by the financial industry to
charge for deposits would repel customers and hurt lenders.  Banks in Denmark are struggling to surface from a burst
housing bubble that’s claimed at least a dozen lenders since
2008. The nation is probably in the grip of its second recession
in less than a year, the Confederation of Danish Industry
estimates.  House prices , which have slumped 25 percent since
their 2007 peak, will continue to fall until 2014 as
unemployment rises, the government-backed Economic Council said
yesterday.  Stimulus Effect  Against that backdrop, historically low interest rates are
supporting  consumer  demand for credit and will help buoy an
economic recovery, according to the council.  “The central bank’s policy regime, keeping the deposit
rate below zero and lending rates almost as low, is motivating
lenders to lend money,” Joergen Whitta-Jacobsen, chairman of
the council, said in an interview. “It is helping the economy,
while it’s difficult to quantify how much, first through short-
term lending and subsequently on longer maturities.”  The central bank will only move out of negative rates
should the exchange rate warrant it, Callesen said. Policy
makers won’t be swayed by financial industry complaints to
depart from their goal of defending the krone peg, he said.  ‘Proven Effective’  The Danish central bank targets a krone rate of 7.46038 per
euro. Denmark’s status as a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis --
thanks to a government debt load that’s less than half the euro-
zone average and a current account surplus -- has attracted
investors fleeing crisis-tainted euro-zone assets.  The yield on Denmark’s benchmark 10-year note was at 1.23
percent yesterday, about 23 basis points less than similar-
maturity German bunds, according to data available on Bloomberg.
Denmark’s 2 percent note due November 2014 yielded minus 0.06
percent yesterday, as investors pay the government for the
privilege of holding its two-year debt.  The krone traded at 7.4599 against the euro yesterday, from
7.4593 a day earlier. Foreign currency reserves, which swelled
to a  record high  of 514.4 billion kroner in August, were at
513.5 billion kroner in September, according to the central
bank.  The bank’s negative policy rate has been effective in
reducing demand for the krone, Graven at Sydbank said. That
means the central bank may have the freedom to raise both its
deposit and lending rates by 0.1 of a percentage point this
month, he said. The “joker” remains the development in
Europe’s debt crisis, where a deterioration would require the
central bank in Denmark to leave rates low, Graven said.  “Traditionally, it’s proven effective to first shift the
currency reserves by interventions and then change the  interest
rate ,” Callesen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.ne  