-- Natural Gas May Drop as Blackouts Cut Demnad, Survey Shows
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-11-02T19:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/natural-gas-may-drop-as-blackouts-cut-demnad-survey-shows-1-.html
Natural gas futures may slide next
week as blackouts caused by Sandy and moderating weather limit
demand for the power-plant and heating fuel, a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  Nine of 17 analysts, or 53 percent, forecast that futures
will decline on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange through Nov. 9.
Four, or 24 percent, said gas will fall and four said prices
will stay the same. Last week, 43 percent of participants said
 gas prices  would rise this week.  Sandy, the Atlantic superstorm that made landfall in
southern  New Jersey  on Oct. 29, caused unprecedented strain on
regional power demand by bombarding the grids with hours of
wind, rain and high water. Cold weather drawn into the eastern
U.S. will moderate over the next six to 14 days, according to
the  National Weather Service . U.S. gas stockpiles also advanced
to a record last week.  “If you continue to see demand destruction from the
effects of Sandy, your injections will be relatively high unless
the weather turns relatively cold,” said  Kyle Cooper , director
of commodities research at IAF Advisors, a Houston consulting
firm. “As those temperatures moderate, you are going to see
dropping demand overall.”  Natural gas for December delivery advanced 15.4 cents, or
4.5 percent, to $3.554 per million British thermal units this
week on the New York exchange. Gas is up 19 percent this year.  Power Out  About 3.63 million people were  without power  in the eastern
U.S. because of Sandy as of 9 a.m. today, down from as many as
8.2 million earlier this week, the Energy Department said.  The low in  New York City  on Nov. 12 may be 52 degrees
Fahrenheit (11 Celsius), 9 above the usual reading, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . The low in
 Minneapolis  may be 30 degrees, 3 below than the usual reading.
Washington may be 3 above normal at 42 degrees.  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating
while power generators account for 36 percent of total gas
consumption in the nation, according to the Energy Department.  U.S.  gas stockpiles  rose by 65 billion cubic feet to 3.908
trillion in the week ended Oct. 26, an all-time high based on
data going back to 1993, the department reported yesterday.  Cooper said he expects to see supplies expand in the
department’s next two weekly storage reports before seasonal
heating demand picks up.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 49 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  4      9      4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  