-- Natural Gas Falls on Milder Weather That May Reduce Fuel Use
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-11-02T20:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/natural-gas-falls-on-milder-weather-that-may-reduce-fuel-use.html
Natural gas futures dropped in  New
York  for the first time in five days as the outlook for milder
weather and East Coast power failures signaled reduced demand
for the fuel.  Gas fell 3.9 percent, the biggest one-day decline in nine
days, as the  National Weather Service  predicted normal or above-
normal temperatures in most of the lower 48 states over the next
six to 14 days. Gas inventories rose to an all-time high last
week, while about 3.63 million customers were without power as
of 9 a.m. today because of damage caused by  Hurricane Sandy ,
which made landfall in  New Jersey  on Oct. 29.  “The weather report was not great and you still have
demand loss because of Sandy,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of
commodities research at IAF Advisors, a Houston consulting firm.
“We will still be at record inventory levels for the next
couple weeks.”  Natural gas for December delivery declined 14.5 cents to
settle at $3.554 per million British thermal units on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Gas gained 4.5 percent this week and
is down 5.2 percent from a year ago.  December $4 calls were the most active options in
electronic trading. They fell 2.1 cents to 1.9 cents on volume
of 2,006 lots at 2:40 p.m.  The futures extended losses after a midday National Weather
Service update showed that “storminess in the middle of next
week along the middle and northern Atlantic coast of the U.S.
will be fairly tame,”  David Salmon , a meteorologist with
Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri , said in an e-mail.  Storm Potential  Northeast precipitation should be light at worst and
largely offshore with no snow, though the western and central
Midwest may still see severe storms, he said.  The potential development of a nor’easter based on a cold
front on the U.S. Pacific Coast may keep East Coast temperatures
about 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 2.8 Celsius) below
normal from Nov. 7-11, according to  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . Temperatures
from  Maine  to  Virginia  are then expected to be about 3 degrees
above normal from Nov. 12 to Nov. 16, which may be enough to
keep overnight heating demand lower, he said.  November signals the traditional start of the U.S. heating
season, when rising fuel consumption to keep homes and
businesses warm sends demand to an annual peak during the winter
months. About 50 percent of households rely on gas for heating,
Energy Department data show.  Power Grid  Sandy caused unprecedented strain on parts of the Eastern
U.S. power grids as hours of rain, wind and record tides
bombarded equipment.  Flooding was the “more damaging aspect” of Sandy because
it caused short circuiting, explosions or corrosion of
equipment, Anthony Yuen, a strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New
York, said in a note to clients yesterday. The amount of gas
used for power generation may have dropped by as much as 11.4
billion cubic feet, he said.  While energy demand is recovering slowly, “supply is
bouncing back faster,” as nuclear production comes back online,
Yuen said.  Nuclear-power generation in the Northeast rose by 986
megawatts from yesterday to 16,981 megawatts, or 68 percent of
capacity, as reactors were returned to service, according to
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission data compiled by Bloomberg.  Supply Report  U.S. gas stockpiles rose 65 billion cubic feet in the week
ended Oct. 26 to 3.908 trillion, an all-time high based on
Energy Department data going back to 1993. Supplies were 7.1
percent  above  the five-year average for the week.  Inventories will probably set records in the next couple of
government reports and remain at seasonal highs into early
December before heating demand picks up, Cooper said.  Gas production  in the U.S. fell 3.4 percent in August to
76.6 billion cubic feet a day from a revised 79.33 billion as
Hurricane Isaac prompted evacuations from platforms and drilling
rigs in the  Gulf of Mexico , the Energy Department said today.
Output in the lower 48 states slid 0.2 percent to 72.55 billion
cubic feet a day.  The number of  rigs drilling  for gas rose by 8 this week to
424,  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  data today showed. The rig count is down
48 percent this year.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
254,845 as of 2:46 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 384,000. Volume was 272,918 yesterday. Open interest was 1.19
million contracts. The three-month average is 1.13 million.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting full
volume and open interest data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  