-- Nazi Loot Dispute Settled, Christie’s to Sell Kandindsky
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-11-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/nazi-loot-dispute-settled-christie-s-to-sell-kandindsky.html
A disputed Kandinsky watercolor will
go on auction next week after the grandchildren of a pre-World
War II collector who said it was stolen from her by the Nazis
agreed to share the sale proceeds with the current owner.  The 1923 abstract painting “Zwei Schwarze Flecke” (“Two
Black Marks”) is scheduled to be auctioned in New York on Nov.
7 at the Christie’s International Impressionist and Modern Art
evening sale. It is estimated to fetch between $1.8 million and
$2.4 million, according to the catalog.  The Kandinsky work once belonged to Sophie Lissitzky-
Kueppers, a German art historian who emigrated to Moscow in 1927
to join the Russian artist El Lissitzky, her future husband. Her
grandchildren say the watercolor was one of 16 works that
Lissitzky-Kueppers loaned to Hanover’s Provinzialmuseum before
she left. Those works were later seized by the Nazis and termed
“degenerate.”  “Legal security and legal peace have been achieved for an
additional artwork from the Lissitzky-Kueppers collection,” her
grandchildren said in an e-mailed statement sent to Bloomberg
News by their legal representatives, Gunnar Schnabel and
Christoph von Berg.  Wassily Kandinsky, like Otto Dix, Max Beckmann, Marc Chagall and Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, was among artists condemned
by the Nazis. Under Joseph Goebbels’s orders, more than 20,000
works by such artists were seized from German museums in 1937.
Some were shown in the infamous 1937 “Degenerate Art” show in
Munich, which drew more than 2 million visitors.  Lempertz Auction  The Cologne auction house  Kunsthaus Lempertz  offered the
Kandinsky for sale on Dec. 2 last year -- before a settlement
with the heirs had been reached -- with a top estimate of 1
million euros ($1.3 million).  Lempertz argued that the claim by Lissitzky-Kueppers’ heirs
was unfounded and said she had given “Zwei Schwarze Flecke”
away. The painting failed to sell.  Von Berg and Schnabel said they can prove that Lempertz’s
version of events is incorrect, although the exact path the
painting took after Lissitzky-Kueppers’ departure is not
completely clear.  The consignor, Erika Bendix, opened negotiations with the
grandchildren after the unsuccessful auction with the aim of
reaching a fair settlement. Bendix is the widow of the collector
who bought the painting at a Lempertz auction in 1989. The
agreement involves sharing the revenue from the sale, von Berg
said by phone from Leipzig. He declined to give further details.  Loaned Klee  Among the paintings Lissitzky-Kueppers is known to have
loaned to the Hanover museum was Paul Klee’s “Sumpflegende”
(Swamp Legend). The artwork, shown in the “Degenerate Art”
exhibition, is now in the collection of Munich’s  Lenbachhaus 
museum. Munich’s regional court is scheduled to rule on whether
the city must restitute it to the grandchildren on Dec. 19.  The grandchildren are also seeking a painting by Piet Mondrian called “Schilderij No. 2,” which they believe may be
in a private U.S. collection, and works by George Grosz and
Fernand Leger, according to the heirs’ representatives.  Kandinsky gave “Zwei Schwarze Flecke” to Lissitzky-
Kueppers to thank her for her engagement in supporting a 1924
Vienna exhibition he took part in, according to the heirs’
representatives. On the back of the painting are the words
“Property of Sophie Kueppers/Not for sale.”  During World War II, Lissitzky-Kueppers was banished to
Siberia by Stalin as a German living in the Soviet Union. She
failed to recover her paintings and died in penury in 1978 in
Novosibirsk. Before her death, she gave her son a list of the
missing paintings and asked him to try to track them down.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music, Zinta Lundborg’s New York weekend and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 