-- Nestle Wins Clearance in China for Pfizer-Unit Purchase
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-11-02T13:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/nestle-wins-clearance-in-china-for-acquisition-of-pfizer-unit.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food
company, won regulatory approval in  China  for its $11.9 billion
acquisition of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s infant-nutrition unit.  Chinese authorities cleared the deal this week, Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said today at the inauguration of
Nestle’s health-science institute in Lausanne,  Switzerland .  Nestle agreed in April to buy Pfizer’s baby-food business,
edging out rival Danone. The acquisition will help the Swiss
company, already the top seller of infant-nutrition products,
regain traction in the Chinese baby-food market, where it has
been losing market share.  Bulcke also said today that Nestle has no plans to
recombine its health-science and nutrition businesses after
placing them under the same leadership this week.  “There is no intention to put it altogether,” the CEO
said at the press briefing.  Nestle said Oct. 30 that Luis Cantarell, the health-science
head, would also run its nutrition business after the current
chief, Kurt Schmidt, resigned. Nestle set up the health-science
unit in January 2011 to combine the company’s existing medical
nutrition business with investments in start-ups. The division
is working on nutrition products aimed at helping conditions
ranging from gastrointestinal disease to diabetes.  Schmidt’s departure caps a decade during which Nestle has
repeatedly organized and reformed a business central to its
strategy of being the world’s “leading nutrition, health and
wellness” company. Cantarell ran the nutrition unit from 2001
to 2005 and has worked more than three decades at Nestle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  