-- Netflix at 100 Times Profit Means Tough Sale: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-11-02T20:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/netfix-at-100-times-profit-means-tough-sale-real-m-a.html
After failing to strike deals for
companies from  Lions Gate (LGF)  Entertainment Corp. to  Mentor Graphics
Corp. (MENT) , Carl Icahn now must convince suitors that Netflix Inc.
deserves one of the highest valuations in America.  The billionaire investor disclosed this week that he took a
10 percent stake in Netflix, and said  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  could seek to buy the world’s
largest streaming service as a way to capture the lead in online
video. Netflix, after  plunging  74 percent from its high last
July, still trades for 102 times this year’s estimated profit,
the second-highest price-earnings multiple in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Icahn, after last year ending his battle for control of
 Lions Gate  and unsuccessfully bidding for Mentor Graphics, said
he invested in Netflix because the company is undervalued based
on its market position and prospects for international
expansion. While Netflix’s more than 30 million streaming
subscribers may be attractive, slowing U.S. growth and high
content costs could be a deterrent to a deal, according to
Macquarie Group Ltd. Given Netflix’s $4.3 billion market value
and a takeover premium, companies may find it cheaper to invest
in content on their own, said Dawson James Securities Inc.  “It’s  Carl Icahn  and he’s shaken things up before,” Tim Nollen, a New York-based analyst at Macquarie, said in a
telephone interview. “He’s gotten some things wrong, but he’s
gotten some things right.”  With Netflix, “the fundamentals are tricky,” Nollen said.
“It may not be the best time for an acquirer to come in.”  Activist Investor  Jonathan Friedland, a spokesman for Los Gatos, California-
based Netflix, declined to comment on whether the company had
been approached by any buyers, would be open to a sale or had
held any further discussions with Icahn.  “We have many shareholders, now including Mr. Icahn, and
we’re always open to their perspective on how to build on our
success,” Friedland said in an e-mail.  The investor, who buys shares in businesses he deems
undervalued and then pushes management for changes to boost the
stock prices, said in an Oct. 31 regulatory filing that he
accumulated 5.54 million shares of  Netflix (NFLX) , including options
for 4.29 million, and that he may seek talks. Icahn also said
Netflix may have “strategic value” for a variety of larger
companies.  “There’s so many possible combinations,” Icahn said on
Bloomberg Television the same day. He said in a phone interview
yesterday that while a takeover is a possibility, it’s not the
only way to boost returns for Netflix  shareholders .  ‘Undervalued Situation’  “I do think it’s a very attractive acquisition candidate
at the right price, but I’m not saying it has to be acquired to
see its fulfillment,” he said. “It’s just a very undervalued
situation and one that I believe would demand a big premium and
might get acquired.”  While Icahn often advocates for companies to put themselves
up for sale or makes offers to acquire them, his recent
investments haven’t led to many deals, said Caris & Co.’s  David Miller .  “His track record as an activist is mixed,” the Los
Angeles-based analyst said in a phone interview.  Icahn dropped a buyout offer for Lions Gate in December
2010, after the company marshaled enough investors to block his
bid for five board seats. In August 2011, he agreed to sell most
of his shares, ending a standoff between him and the company.  Mentor Graphics last year rejected his $1.86 billion offer
that was designed to lure other suitors. The software maker was
never acquired. He also failed to draw a buyer for  Clorox Co. (CLX) ,
even after offering to backstop an auction.  Netflix Purchase  Icahn bought Netflix shares as they plunged from a high of
$298.73 in July 2011 to as low as $53.80 in September. The  stock 
closed yesterday at $77.69.  Today, Netflix fell 1 percent to $76.90.  In his interview with Bloomberg Television on Oct. 31,
Icahn pointed to Verizon, Amazon,  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. and  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  as potential bidders for Netflix.  From Icahn’s list of buyers, the only logical suitor for
Netflix is Amazon, which could be lured by the company’s large
subscriber base and the opportunity to cross-sell its own
products, according to  Michael Pachter , a Los Angeles-based
analyst at Wedbush Inc. A deal would also allow the world’s
largest online retailer to trim expenses tied to content
purchases, he said.  Still, even Amazon may be unlikely to pursue a deal since
the company has already entered the streaming video market with
the introduction of its $79-a-year Prime Instant Video service,
according to Pachter.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone and iPad, could be
drawn to the company to establish an instant pipeline of content
and subscribers for its smart TV products, Macquarie’s Nollen
said.  Video Foothold  “They could use that as a stepping stone to build other
exclusive types of content and that could support eventual sales
of Apple TVs so there is some logic to that,” he said.  Google and Microsoft aren’t currently considering Netflix
as a potential buyout, according to people with knowledge of the
situation who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private.  Representatives for Verizon, Amazon, Apple and Google
declined to comment. A representative for Microsoft didn’t
immediately respond to a request seeking comment.  Netflix’s content obligations and slowing growth could give
Apple and any other suitors a reason to hesitate, Nollen said.  The company has almost $5 billion in obligations to buy
movies and TV shows for online customers, including $2.1 billion
due during the next 12 months, according to a regulatory filing.  Large Liabilities  After signing on fewer U.S. streaming customers in the
third quarter than analysts projected, the company trimmed its
full-year forecast for new subscribers to as many as 5.43
million from the 7 million Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings
predicted earlier this year.  “You might want to have Netflix on board to help establish
your platform and attract subscribers and even push your
devices, but on the other hand, you would be absorbing very
large content liabilities,” Nollen said. “The subscriber
growth is certainly slowing.”  Netflix’s stock traded yesterday for 102 times analysts’
 earnings estimates  for the company this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Only Amazon has a higher price-earnings multiple
at 145 times profit among members in the  S&P 500 , the data show.  Given Netflix’s valuation, it may be more cost-effective
for a company to build its own video streaming service than to
buy Netflix, according to Justin Colatosti, a  Boca Raton ,
Florida-based analyst at Dawson James.  ‘Easily Replicable’  “For the most part, as far as the content catalog that
they’re offering, that part is very easily replicable for
another service,” Colatosti said in a phone interview.  Caris’s Miller also said it wouldn’t be cheaper to acquire
Netflix than to create a similar service from scratch.  “If you pay where the stock price is, mathematically it’s
cheaper to build out the business on your own,” he said.  Earnings multiples aren’t necessarily the best gauges of
value for a company like Netflix that has been growing rapidly,
said  Todd Lowenstein , a Los Angeles-based money manager at
HighMark Capital Management Inc., which oversees about $17
billion.  “When you’re in hyper-growth mode you’re constantly
reinvesting in the business, and that’s depressing Netflix’s
margin structure at the moment,” Lowenstein said in a phone
interview. “It doesn’t look cheap on traditional profitability
metrics, but it does look cheap in terms of scarcity value. What
they’ve created is definitely unique and that would be
attractive to certain players in the industry.”  Success Gauge  Icahn said yesterday that his success shouldn’t be judged
on the number of deals he’s consummated. Lions Gate’s stock has
more than tripled since June 2009, when he had boosted his stake
to almost 17 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Mentor
Graphics has returned 87 percent since he bought shares in May
2010 and said he would hold talks with its  management  to find
ways to maximize  shareholder value .  According to a study by Icahn, he has created more than $59
billion of value for shareholders in the stocks he has pursued
activist strategies with since 2004, from the time he first took
a stake through now, if he still holds it, or until the time he
exited.  “There are many ways activism can enhance value without an
acquisition taking place,” Icahn said in the phone interview.
“An acquisition is the extra icing on the cake.”  Netflix Base  He said the same is true for Netflix. For companies like
Amazon and Verizon, it would take many years to build a
subscriber base as large as Netflix’s and it would be costly to
purchase the content, which makes it appealing for a takeover,
he said.  “There’s a good chance” that Netflix is acquired, Icahn
said. “But even if it’s not acquired that doesn’t mean we
failed.”  Macquarie’s Nollen said Netflix’s  stock  likely has farther
to fall and if there are interested buyers, they may be waiting
for a cheaper deal.  “It would take a distressed situation for a buyer to come
in,” he said. “I wouldn’t say Netflix is distressed. It could
get distressed. We think the way the trends are going, they will
struggle. It could get worse before someone decides to jump
in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  