-- NHL Cancels Jan. 1 Winter Classic Outdoor Game Set for Michigan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-11-03T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/nhl-cancels-jan-1-winter-classic-outdoor-game-set-for-michigan.html
The  National Hockey League  canceled
the outdoor Winter Classic game scheduled for Jan. 1 at Michigan
Stadium as the player lockout reached its seventh week.  The league previously canceled regular-season contests
through Nov. 30, bringing the total of dropped games to 327, or
27 percent of the 82-games-per-team season.  Cancellation of the outdoor game between the  Detroit Red
Wings  and the  Toronto Maple Leafs , the latest edition of what
has become the NHL’s showcase for U.S. television audiences, was
announced in a news release.  “The logistical demands for staging events of this
magnitude made today’s decision unavoidable,” NHL Deputy
Commissioner Bill Daly said yesterday. “We simply are out of
time. We are extremely disappointed.”  Donald Fehr, executive director of the NHL Players’
Association, said the cancellation of the game was “unnecessary
and unfortunate, as was the owners’ implementation of the
lockout itself.”  The NHL had until yesterday to cancel the Winter Classic to
avoid paying additional fees to the  University of Michigan  for
the rental of its 110,000-seat football stadium in Ann Arbor,
the  Canadian Press  reported on Oct. 29. The league will forfeit
a $100,000 deposit already paid to the university, according to
the report.  Dave Brandon, the school’s athletic director, said the
contract will “remain intact” and be shifted to the next
Winter Classic, which will be staged at Michigan Stadium.  “We knew this was a possibility but we stayed prepared in
the event the labor dispute would get resolved,” Brandon said
in a statement.  Large Audience  With the Maple Leafs’ participation, this season’s game was
going to feature a Canadian-based team for the first time in the
event’s six-year history, possibly drawing one of the largest
viewing audiences of any NHL contest.  The first five Winter Classic games rank among the six
most-watched games in league history in the U.S. A record 4.5
million viewers watched the 2011 contest between the  Pittsburgh
Penguins  and  Washington Capitals .  The previously canceled contests include a Nov. 23
afternoon contest between the  New York Rangers  and the  Boston
Bruins  that was set to be the first nationally televised game of
the season on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC network.  Lockout Starts  Team owners shut down the league when they couldn’t reach a
collective bargaining agreement with the players union. The
league and union last met on Oct. 18 and no new negotiations are
scheduled. The league’s most recent offer contained an even
revenue split between owners and players. None of the union’s
three counteroffers was accepted by owners.  “We look forward to the league’s return to the bargaining
table, so that the parties can find a way to end the lockout at
the earliest possible date, and get the game back on the ice,”
Fehr said yesterday.  The players were locked out Sept. 16, the day after the old
collective bargaining agreement expired.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  