-- Nigerian Report Alleges $37 Billion Oil Underpayments
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-11-02T15:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/nigerian-report-alleges-37-billion-oil-underpayments.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
received a report today showing  Africa ’s biggest oil producer
may have lost at least $37 billion in revenue over the last
decade through underpayments and pledged further investigation.  The losses were from crude sales, royalties and signature
bonuses for oil-exploration concessions through collusion
between government officials,  Nigeria  National Petroleum Corp.
and people working for its partners, who include  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , according to the report.  Investigation will show “if it borders on outright
stealing,” Jonathan said in Abuja, the capital, while receiving
the report. “If there are errors of calculations or maybe
misinformation from the relevant agencies of government, that
will be sifted out.”  The report, obtained by Bloomberg, was prepared by a team
set up by the Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke in
February.  Tony Okonedo , a spokesman for Shell, and Nigel Cookey
Gam, a spokesman for Exxon, said their companies will comment
after they’ve seen and studied the report.  Shell is the biggest oil operator in Nigeria, followed by
 Exxon Mobil . Along with Chevron Corp., Total SA and Eni SpA,
they run joint ventures with the state oil company, NNPC, that
pump more than 90 percent of the country’s oil. Crude exports
account for more than 95 percent of Nigeria’s foreign earnings
and 80 percent of government revenue, according to the Petroleum
Ministry.  Outstanding Royalties  The panel is headed by  Nuhu Ribadu , a former chairman of
the country’s financial crimes agency and presidential candidate
of the opposition Action Congress of Nigeria. It was appointed
in line with President Jonathan’s pledge of accountability after
a week of strikes and protests in January when he cut fuel
subsidies. The subsidies were partially restored and the
government said it would probe oil industry spending and revenue
to help improve savings.  “The federal government should take action and enforce
collection of outstanding royalties, petroleum revenue taxes and
the various penalties, for example the gas flaring penalties,”
Ribadu said. The report’s recommendation will strengthen the
government agencies regulating the  petroleum industry  and “over
time, increase revenue,” he said.  Jonathan also received reports from two other panels, one
of which audited the four state-owned oil refineries with
capacity for  445,000 barrels a day. The refineries are hobbled
by inadequate government funding and should be privatized,
according to the report.  Refining Capacity  “Existing refineries should be privatized within a set
period, and we will be recommending about 18 months since the
current ownership and business model have led to the sub-optimal
performance of the refineries,” said Yusuf Alli, who headed the
panel.  Africa’s most populous nation, with more than 160 million
people, relies on imports for 70 percent of its fuel needs
because of inadequate refining capacity, according to the
petroleum minister. Nigeria exchanges 60,000 barrels a day of
crude for products with Trafigura Beheer BV and a similar amount
with Societe Ivoirienne de Raffinage’s refinery in  Ivory Coast ,
according to NNPC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  