-- Nigeria Naira Rallies for Best Week in Five on Oil Company Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-11-02T15:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/nigeria-s-naira-heads-for-best-week-in-11-on-oil-company-sales.html
Nigeria’s naira advanced to the best
weekly gain in five, even as it eased on the day, on speculation
of increased foreign-currency sales by  oil companies  and
investment flows into  Africa ’s biggest crude producer.  The currency weakened 0.1 percent to 156.8 a dollar by 3:03
p.m. on the  interbank market  in Lagos, the commercial capital,
giving a a weekly gain of 0.3 percent. The naira has increased
3.5 percent this year, the best performer of 20 African
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The naira has been supported by foreign-exchange sales
from oil companies, a trend likely to be sustained in coming
days,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging-market strategist
at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to
questions today. “Additionally, offshore capital flows into
 government securities  have also underpinned the currency.”  Oil-producing companies, which sell dollars to meet
domestic expenses, are the second-biggest source of foreign
currency after the central bank, which sells dollars to lenders
at twice-weekly  auctions  to help manage the  exchange rate .  Borrowing costs for Nigeria’s federal government dropped
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. announced in August it will add the
country’s bonds to its GBI-EM index series from Oct. 1. The
yield on the 16.39 percent naira debt due January 2022 has
fallen 315 basis points to 12.98 percent since the start of
August, according to yesterday’s prices compiled by the Lagos-
based Financial Markets Dealers Association.  The yield on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due
January 2021 was down 3 basis points at 4.49 percent today.  The central bank, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, has left
the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a record 12 percent
this year, increased lenders’ reserve requirements and limited
access to money auctions to stop dealers from buying foreign
currency using naira purchased from the central bank at a
discount.  Ghana’s cedi fell less than 0.1 percent to 1.8879 a dollar
in Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  