-- Nomura Embroiled in Insider Trading of Elpida Shares in 2011
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-11-02T09:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/nomura-says-possibly-involved-in-another-insider-trading-case.html
     Nov. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s largest
brokerage, was found by the country’s securities watchdog to
have been involved in an insider-trading incident last year.  A Nomura employee tipped off staff from Japan Advisory
Ltd., a hedge fund advisory firm, about a share sale it managed
for Elpida Memory Inc. in 2011, an official from the Securities
and Exchange Surveillance Commission said at a news briefing
today, speaking anonymously in accordance with the agency’s
policy. Japan Advisory then traded Elpida shares, the SESC said.  Nomura has been embroiled in four of six cases unveiled
this year as authorities crack down on trading based on tips
provided by underwriters about clients’ equity offerings. The
latest revelations underscore the task Chief Executive Officer
Koji Nagai faces in proving to investors that internal controls
have been tightened after the scandal cost it investment banking
mandates and prompted his predecessor to resign.  “Nomura’s track record in leaking information has given
companies, issuers and the market a great distrust of the
bank,” said Shiro Yoshioka, an analyst at Japaninvest Group Plc
in  Tokyo . “Nomura will have to come up with clearer and
stronger measures to ease them.”  The SESC’s findings were helped by an internal probe
conducted by Tokyo-based Nomura, the official said.  Internal Probe  “During one of our voluntary investigations we learned of
circumstances with a strong possibility of being related to this
incident and we reported our findings to the commission,”
Nomura said in a statement today.  Japan Advisory traded shares of Elpida on July 6, 2011,
five days before the chipmaker announced an equity offering. Its
staff received the information from an employee of an
underwriter on July 5, the commission said in a statement.  The commission recommended a 120,000 yen ($1,500) fine
against Japan Advisory. Under current rules, parties who leak
confidential information used for insider trading aren’t
typically subject to fines.  The hedge fund adviser sold 32,600 Elpida shares for 30.4
million yen after realizing the share sale was imminent when
information on the chipmaker was deleted from a research report
provided by a Nomura employee at a meeting, the SESC said.  Nomura used to omit companies from research notes when it
was working on their public offerings to prevent early
solicitation of investors, the  bank said  today. Those omissions
may have provided clues that the firm was working on Elpida’s
share sale, it said.  “Nomura has implemented a series of improvement measures
and has continued to conduct voluntary inspections and
investigations in relation to internal controls for corporate-
related information,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  