-- Norquist Losing Clout With Republicans Not Pledging: Taxes
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-11-02T20:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/norquist-losing-clout-with-republicans-refusing-to-pledge-taxes.html
There are 279 members of Congress
who’ve pledged in writing to march in lockstep with the group
Americans for  Tax Reform  and vote against tax increases.  If the analysts are right, that number probably will fall
next year, making life tougher for the anti-tax gadfly Democrats
love to hate: Grover Norquist, president of the group behind the
pledge. The nonpartisan Cook Political Report and Rothenberg
Political Report project that Republicans could lose as many as
10 seats, and at least eight of the Republicans viewed as shoo-
ins for the freshman class haven’t signed the pledge.  “You’re pledging to an ideology of someone who’s not in
government -- he’s a lobbyist -- and I just don’t think that’s a
smart move,” said Ted Yoho, a Republican running in Florida’s
3rd Congressional District. “It just ties your hand and it
limits you. I just think it impedes the lawmaker.”  The losses may signal higher odds that there is at least
some room for bipartisan compromise on the so-called fiscal
cliff of spending cuts and tax increases facing the  U.S.
Congress . Norquist’s pledge-signers are viewed by Democrats, and
even some Senate Republicans, as the primary obstacle to
reaching any deal on the cliff or crafting a major overhaul of
the  tax code  next year, both of which may result in increased
revenue in the way of higher taxes.  Washington  seems to be headed toward “a time when  Grover
Norquist ’s pledge is not going to mean as much as it has in the
past,” said Diane Lim Rogers, chief economist at the Concord
Coalition, an Arlington, Virginia-based group that advocates for
deficit reduction and was founded by the late former Senator
Paul Tsongas, a Massachusetts Democrat, and former Republican
Senator Warren Rudman of New Hampshire.  Defections Starting  Either Congress will find a technicality to raise revenue
without violating the pledge or lawmakers will “get more
pressure from the public and interest groups that some kind of
revenue-side solution is needed,” she said yesterday.  Norquist already has had a few defections among sitting
House members. Among those who changed their minds were Jeff Fortenberry, a Nebraska Republican, and Robert Andrews, a New
Jersey Democrat. For the current Congress, he lists 238 House
signers.  In the Democratic-controlled Senate, pledge signatories
number 41, enough to derail legislation through procedural votes
if they stick together and vote as a bloc.  Republicans  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina and  Tom Coburn 
of Oklahoma have openly broken with Norquist, while  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia  and  Mike Crapo  of Idaho have participated
in deficit-reduction talks where tax-raising provisions are on
the table.  Tax Debate  Some other Republicans in the Senate who have signed the
pledge, such as  Johnny Isakson  of Georgia, have hinted it won’t
restrain them during upcoming debates to overhaul the tax code.  “You’ve got to have the intestinal fortitude to put
everything on the table,” Isakson, who favors a comprehensive
tax overhaul that lowers income tax rates and ends often-used
deductions, said in an Oct. 24 interview with  Bloomberg News .
“And I do mean everything.”  “We can’t get there any other way,” he said. “If you
just take one tax treatment and say ‘I’m going to repeal it,’
you don’t get a solution to your problem.”  Norquist, who emphasizes that the pledge is to taxpayers
and not to him, dismisses the significance of any incremental
drop in the numbers, saying that what matters most is whether he
keeps a critical mass in the chamber that writes the tax bills.  “It’s the same” either way, he said in an Oct. 30
telephone interview. “As long as you have the majority, and
right now we have more than 90 percent” of House Republicans.  Pledge Details  Here’s the fine print of the pledge.  Those who sign agree to: “ONE, oppose any and all efforts
to increase the marginal income tax rate for individuals and/or
businesses; and TWO, oppose any net reduction or elimination of
deductions and credits, unless matched dollar for dollar by
further reducing tax rates.”  Letting a tax break expire wouldn’t violate the pledge,
though Norquist wants Congress to keep all tax cuts in place.  Lawmakers sign the pledge for the seat they occupy. House
members who move to the Senate have the option to renew the
pledge. It’s not necessary for incumbents to re-sign the
document at the beginning of a new Congress.  The Cook Political Report and Rothenberg Political Report
both project that Republicans will retain control of the House,
where 218 seats are needed for the majority.  Norquist would start the 113th Congress with more than 218
pledge-signers even if Republicans lose 10 seats, the most
estimated by both Washington race-handicapping operations.  Anticipating Defections  Norquist has considered the possibility that pledge-
ignoring Senate Republicans could cut a deal with Democrats
during the fiscal-cliff debate.  “Make a list of the people you think will flake on you,”
he said. “They’re all running for re-election in 2014.
Chambliss,  Lamar Alexander , Lindsey Graham.”  If a large number of Senate Republicans defect together, it
would be harder for Norquist’s group or any other foe to fund
enough primary challengers to punish them all.  “You’d think at some point a large number of Republicans
might have to say, ‘Well, if we really are going to shrink
government, if we’re really going to address entitlements,
everything’s on the table,’”  Stuart Rothenberg  of the
Rothenberg Political Report said yesterday in a phone interview.
“If they don’t, we just may never get anything done.”  Angering Democrats  Spend enough time around the U.S. Capitol and some senator
-- probably a Democrat -- will bring up Norquist.  “Grover Norquist is the problem around here, and
bipartisanship in the Senate is the solution,”  Charles Schumer 
of New York, the No. 3 Democrat in the Senate, told reporters in
June.  Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  complained on the
Senate floor in September about Republicans refusing to raise
the tax rates on the highest income bracket. “Due to the orders
of their leader Grover Norquist, they have refused to raise even
a penny of new revenue,” he said.  Norquist, 56, has served as president of the tax group
since 1985. He’s never held public office.  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  signed
Norquist’s pledge in 2006 as a candidate for the White House,
four years after refusing to sign a similar pledge offered by
another anti-tax group when he was running for governor of
Massachusetts.  Looking ahead to the tax debates coming later this year and
early next year, Norquist predicts more party discipline from
Republicans on  Capitol Hill , even if they’re dealing with four
more years of President  Barack Obama  instead of a president from
their own party.  “I think they’ll operate much more as a team this time and
give Obama a very short leash,” he said. “If Obama wins you
kick the can down the road two years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  