-- Norway Oil Fund Made $29 Bln Last Quarter as Stocks Rose
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-11-02T13:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/norway-oil-fund-made-29-billion-last-quarter-as-stocks-rose-1-.html
Norway ’s $660 billion sovereign
wealth fund, the world’s largest, returned 4.7 percent last
quarter as global stock markets recovered after central banks
from the U.S. to  Japan  stepped up efforts to stimulate growth.  The  Government Pension Fund Global  gained 167 billion
kroner ($29.3 billion) in the period, Oslo-based Norges Bank
Investment Management said in a statement today. That compares
with a decline of 2.2 percent in the second quarter. Equity
holdings returned 6.5 percent last quarter, while bonds gained
2.2 percent. Real estate investments returned 2.7 percent.  “The result was largely driven by a rally in global stock
markets,”  Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive officer of NBIM,
which manages the fund, said in a statement. “Stocks gained the
most in  Europe , where the fund has about half of its
shareholdings.”  Stocks rose after European Central Bank Governor  Mario Draghi  in July pledged to do “whatever it takes” to save the
euro and later unveiled a bond buying program to bring down
interest rates. The U.S. Federal Reserve announced a third round
of quantitative easing to stimulate the world’s largest economy,
adding to investor optimism.  The MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of stocks rose 6 percent in the third
quarter, while the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index has rallied
17 percent from a June 4 low. Asian stocks also gained in the
third quarter amid stimulus measures from Japan to  China .  Asset Allocation  Europe’s largest stock investor, which gets its capital
from Norway’s oil revenue, is struggling to meet a 4 percent
return target after  interest rates  plunged to record lows and
global stock markets failed to retrace a 2007 peak.  “We’ve had a good return on our bond portfolio the last
few years, but we currently have a yield of just above 2
percent,” Slyngstad said in an interview today. “With that
premise, the return you can expect in the next few years will of
course be at best moderate.”  Norway’s government deposited 80 billion kroner of oil
revenue into the fund in the quarter. The fund’s result missed
by 0.03 percentage point the benchmark set by the  Finance
Ministry .  “Two thirds of our bond portfolio now has a running yield
of less than 2 percent, and only a quarter has a running yield
of more than 3 percent,” Slyngstad said in the interview. “In
that context, for the owners of the fund to expect us to deliver
a higher return to the extent it has been in the  bond market  the
last decade is not realistic.”  Equity Gains  At the end of September, the fund held 60.3 percent of its
assets in stocks, 39.4 percent in bonds and 0.3 percent in real
estate. The fund, which gets its investment guidelines from the
Finance Ministry, is mandated to hold 60 percent in stocks, 35
percent in bonds and 5 percent in real estate. While the
investor mostly follows global indexes, it has some leeway to
stray from those benchmarks.  The fund’s largest stock holding at the end of the quarter
was Nestle SA, while its biggest bond holding was U.S.
Treasuries, followed by Japan and U.K. government debt.  “We do see good yields in the equity markets and lower
yields in the fixed-income market,” Slyngstad said.  Holdings of French  government bonds  fell 17 percent to 58.9
billion kroner in the quarter, while investments in U.S. and
Japanese government debt increased 9 percent and 10 percent,
respectively, the fund said.  Covered Bonds  At the same time, the fund increased it holdings of debt
denominated in emerging market currencies to 8 percent of its
fixed-income portfolio, from 1.5 percent at the end of last
year. Mexican government debt became the investor’s 10th-largest
fixed income holding, at 19.8 billion kroner.  “The changes reflect a strategy to gradually reduce the
fund’s share of European bonds while increasing bond investments
in other regions,” the investor said in a press release.  The fund is also increasing its holdings in covered bonds,
which are considered safer and get high credit rations, while
cutting down on senior debt issued by European banks as tougher
regulations pressure lenders.  “As an investor, we have increased our portion of covered
bonds in our portfolio and reduced our portion of senior debt,”
Slyngstad said in the interview. “We think this is something
that will continue for quite a few years.”  Real Estate  The fund, which has an average holding of 1 percent of the
world’s listed companies, has been taking on more risk as it
adds asset classes such as real estate. It’s also expanding in
 emerging markets  while retooling its bond portfolio to a gross
domestic product weighting from a market weighting to avoid
nations with growing debt burdens. The fund is moving  asset
allocation  away from Europe as emerging markets in  Asia  and
 South America  gain a bigger share of global output.  Slyngstad told reporters that the fund was half-way through
the process of reallocating its assets.  The fund got its first capital infusion in 1996 and has
been taking on more risk as it expands globally, raising its
stock portfolio to 60 percent from 40 percent in 2007. It first
added equities in 1998 and emerging markets in 2000. In 2010, it
got approval to invest as much as 5 percent in real estate. It
has since bought commercial property in London, Paris,
Frankfurt, Berlin and Sheffield in the U.K.  Norway, Europe’s second-largest oil and gas exporter,
generates money for the fund from taxes on oil and gas,
ownership of petroleum fields and dividends from its 67 percent
stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) , the country’s largest energy company. The
oil fund invests outside Norway to avoid stoking domestic
inflation.  -- With assistance by Stephen Treloar and Alastair Reed in Oslo.
Editors: Jonas Bergman, Tasneem Brogger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  