-- Norway Fund Adds Emerging Markets as Mexico Bond Allure Grows
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-11-02T12:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/norway-fund-adds-emerging-markets-as-mexico-bond-allure-grows.html
Norway’s $660 billion sovereign
wealth fund, the world’s largest, increased its purchases of
emerging market debt to make Mexico its No. 10 bond investment,
after reducing holdings of French and Spanish government notes.  The  Government Pension Fund Global  is moving  asset
allocation  away from  Europe  as markets in  Asia  and  South America 
gain a bigger share of global output. The Oslo-based investor
raised its bond holding denominated in emerging market
currencies to 8 percent of its fixed-income portfolio last
quarter, from 1.5 percent at the end of last year.  The fund is reducing its European bond holdings as the
region’s debt crisis enters its fourth year. It cut its
investment in Europe’s fourth- and second-largest economies even
after European Central Bank Governor  Mario Draghi  in July
pledged to do “whatever it takes” to save the euro and later
unveiled a bond buying program to bring down interest rates.
In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of
quantitative easing to counter job losses.  “The degree of unconventional monetary policy has been
larger than the market participants expected,”  Yngve Slyngstad ,
chief executive officer of Norges Bank Investment Management,
which runs the fund, said in an interview today. “In the third
quarter, monetary policy has again played a role. And of course,
there are limits to what monetary policy can achieve in the long
run.”  Europe’s Recessions  Europe’s economy contracted 0.2 percent in the second
quarter, and the debt crisis has pushed at least five nations
into recessions, eroding investor and business confidence in the
region.  The fund’s holdings of French  government bonds  fell 17
percent to 58.9 billion kroner in the quarter, while investments
in U.S. and Japanese government debt increased 9 percent and 10
percent, respectively. The fund, which held 19.8 billion kroner
in Mexican government debt on Sept. 30, is retooling its bond
portfolio to a gross domestic product weighting from a market
weighting to avoid nations with growing debt burdens.  “Most still see higher growth rates in  emerging markets ,”
Olav Chen, a senior portfolio manager at Storebrand Asset
Management in Oslo, who oversees about $7 billion, said in an e-
mailed reply to questions. “Many developed economies will
struggle with delevereging for a long while.”  Developing-nation companies and sovereigns sold $287.1
billion of dollar bonds this year, a 59 percent jump from the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Returns Gain  Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global, which has an
average holding of 1 percent of the world’s listed companies,
returned 4.7 percent, or $29.3 billion in the third quarter as
global stock markets recovered after central banks from the U.S.
to  Japan  stepped up efforts to stimulate growth. That compared
with a 2.2 percent decline in the previous quarter.  Europe’s largest stock investor, which gets its capital
from Norway’s oil revenue, is struggling to meet a 4 percent
return target after  interest rates  plunged to record lows and
global stock markets failed to retrace a 2007 peak.  The fund got its first capital infusion in 1996 and has
been taking on more risk as it expands globally, raising its
stock portfolio to 60 percent from 40 percent in 2007. It first
added equities in 1998 and emerging markets in 2000. In 2010, it
got approval to invest as much as 5 percent in real estate. It
has since bought commercial property in  London , Paris,
Frankfurt, Berlin and Sheffield in the U.K.  Norway, Europe’s second-largest oil and gas exporter,
generates money for the fund from taxes on oil and gas,
ownership of petroleum fields and dividends from its 67 percent
stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) , the country’s largest energy company. The
oil fund invests outside Norway to avoid stoking domestic
inflation.  -- With assistance by Emma Charlton in London. Stephen Treloar
and Alastair Reed in Oslo.
Editors: Tasneem Brogger, Jonas Bergman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  