-- Novartis Jury Awards $10.45 Million for Drug, Lawyer Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-02T23:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/novartis-jury-awards-10-45-million-in-zometa-case-lawyer-says.html
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp. (NVS)  was
found liable by a federal jury for jawbone damage in a woman who
took the drug Zometa, and she was awarded $10.45 million, a
lawyer for the plaintiff said.  A jury in Central Islip, New York, returned the verdict
this afternoon, several hours after they began deliberations in
the case, said  John Vecchione , a lawyer for plaintiff Barbara
Davids.  The verdict, which couldn’t be immediately confirmed in
court records, is the second-largest among similar cases over
Zometa, Vecchione said. It is the fourth win for plaintiffs out
of eight Zometa-related jawbone cases that have gone to trial,
he said. The jury in the Davids case awarded $450,000 in
compensatory damages and $10 million in punitive damages, he
said.  “What’s happening is these juries are seeing very bad
behavior,” Vecchione said in a phone interview. “These juries
are finding this evidence particularly egregious.”  A New York-based spokeswoman for Basel, Switzerland-based
Novartis, Julie Masow, said in an e-mail statement that the
company is reviewing its options for appeal.  “We are disappointed and disagree with the jury’s
verdict,” she said.  2006 Complaint  In a complaint filed in February 2006, Davids alleged that
she developed osteonecrosis, or bone death, in her jaw after
taking Zometa, a drug she had been prescribed as part of her
treatment for breast cancer. Zometa, a bisphosphonate, is a
treatment for bone complications that can result from cancer,
according to a  Novartis website.   During the trial, which began Oct. 2, the attorneys for
Davids showed the jurors a May 2003 e-mail in which a Novartis
marketing employee described a proposed report linking Zometa to
jawbone complications as “quite damaging.” In another e-mail
from May 2003 used as evidence in the trial, the employee
outlined a strategy to colleagues for “next steps,” including
a public relations effort.  “In summary: we’ll try to avoid that the paper is ever
published; we will be ready to react in case it gets
published,” the employee said in the e-mail. The e-mails were
provided to Bloomberg News by Vecchione.  The largest verdict in Zometa-related jawbone osteonecrosis
cases was $12.8 million, awarded to a North Carolina woman’s
family in November 2010. The award was later reduced to about
$1.1 million under state law.  The case is Davids v. Novartis, 2:06-cv-431, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  