-- Thomson Reuters Beats Profit Estimates on Subscription Sales
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-11-02T20:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/thomson-reuters-beats-profit-estimates-on-subscription-sales-3-.html
Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) , the provider
of financial news and information, reported profit that beat
analysts’ estimates after subscription revenue helped make up
for a decrease in sales from trading transactions.  Excluding some items, third-quarter profit was 54 cents a
share, the company said today in a statement. Analysts had
estimated  48 cents  on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Total revenue slid 6.9 percent to $3.22 billion.  “Third-quarter results met our expectations even as the
market environment remained challenging,” James C. Smith,
Thomson Reuters’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “Our resilient subscription-based businesses
performed well.”  The New York-based company, controlled by Chairman  David Thomson  through a family investment trust, continued to see
improvements in its tax and legal business during a slump in
sales of financial-data products. The slowdown in the U.S. and
 Europe  has prompted many Wall Street firms to cut costs,
resulting in sluggish sales.  The shares  fell 1.1 percent to $28.20 at the close in New
York. The stock has gained 5.7 percent this year.  Reiterates Forecast  Third-quarter net income attributable to common
shareholders climbed 25 percent to $462 million, or 56 cents a
share, from $369 million, or 44 cents, a year earlier. The
company also reaffirmed its 2012 forecast for revenue growth in
the low single digits.  Thomson Reuters  has focused on expanding newer businesses,
including legal, tax and foreign-exchange services. Legal
revenue rose 1 percent to $830 million in the period, while the
tax and accounting business posted an 8 percent gain to $262
million.  Thomson Reuters also has shed some operations. It agreed to
sell a health-care division to Veritas Capital for $1.25 billion
in April and offloaded a smaller property-tax unit for an
undisclosed sum in September. Revenue from ongoing businesses,
when adjusting for currency fluctuations, rose 1 percent last
quarter.  The company acquired FX Alliance Inc. in July for about
$620 million, gaining access to more than 1,300 clients that use
the platform to access foreign-exchange markets.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  