-- Honda to Nissan Extend China Sales Plunge on Islands Dispute
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-02T08:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/honda-china-sales-plunge-54-in-october-on-territorial-dispute.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
joined  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  in reporting a plunge in  China 
deliveries for a second month as Chinese consumers shun their
cars even after anti- Japan  protests have subsided.  Honda’s October sales in the country fell 53.5 percent from
a year earlier to 24,115 units, the Tokyo-based company said in
an e-mail today. That’s worse than the 41 percent drop in
September, when rioters smashed cars and torched dealerships in
China during demonstrations against Japan. Nissan said
deliveries fell 41 percent last month after reporting a 35
percent decline for September.  Honda, which cut its annual profit forecast by 20 percent
this week, said China demand may not return to normal until the
Lunar New Year in February. Japanese automakers will probably
miss out on sales of about 200,000 units in the fourth quarter
as the political stalemate persists, according to an estimate by
IHS Automotive, an industry researcher.  “It’s difficult to say if the sales drop has hit rock-
bottom yet,” said  Kohei Takahashi  a Tokyo-based analyst with
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  “If January-to-March sales are still down
50 percent from a year earlier, it would mean the company isn’t
doing anything to recover sales,” Takahashi said of Honda’s
decline.  Sales Slump  Honda and Nissan’s October sales declines were their worst
monthly drops on record, based on available company figures
stretching back to 2007 and 2008, respectively.  Deliveries of Honda’s two most popular models in China, the
CR-V sport-utility vehicle and the mid-sized Accord sedan, both
fell by more than 50 percent last month, the Japanese company
said in the statement today.  Sales of vehicles to Chinese consumers in the first 10
months of the year increased 2.7 percent to 494,108 units, Honda
said in today’s statement. The numbers exclude sales of Acura
vehicles, said Tomoko Takemori, a company spokeswoman.  Toyota,  Asia ’s largest car manufacturer, reported yesterday
that October deliveries declined 44 percent from a year earlier
to 45,600 vehicles, following a 49 percent drop in September
that was the most in a decade.  Nissan, the largest Japanese carmaker in the country by
sales volume, delivered 64,300 units in October, or 41 percent
fewer than a year earlier, according to Chris Keeffe, a company
spokesman.  Damaged Vehicles  The automaker, led by Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn ,
said last month it would reimburse customers for damage to
vehicles incurred during past and future anti-Japan protests in
China as it worked to lure back customers.  The decades-old territorial dispute, involving a group of
islands called Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, was
reignited in April, when then-Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara,
a longtime critic of China, proposed buying the territories.
That led Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s administration to
purchase the islets in September, escalating tensions between
the two nations and sparking violent protests across China.  For Japanese automakers, the boycotts against their
products follow last year’s tsunami and Thai floods that
destroyed factories and disrupted supply lines.  If the political stalemate continues, Japanese automakers
may have to focus on other markets apart from China for growth,
said  Tim Armstrong , an analyst at IHS Automotive based in Paris.  “If it were to become more protracted, it might mean they
shift their export pattern a little bit,” he said in an
interview in  Shanghai  last week. “But China is so important,
that one of the reasons you would think it might not get out of
control.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  