-- Orders for U.S. Equipment Stall as Companies Curb Spending
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-11-02T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/orders-for-u-s-equipment-stall-as-companies-curb-spending.html
Orders for U.S. equipment such as
computers and electrical gear barely rose in September, pointing
to a slowdown in business investment that will weigh on growth.  Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
a proxy for future spending, rose 0.2 percent after advancing
0.3 percent in August and dropping 5.6 percent in July, Commerce
Department data showed today in Washington. Total factory orders
jumped 4.8 percent, the most since March 2011 and led by a
rebound in aircraft demand.  Companies from  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  to General Electric Co.
have cut forecasts, a reminder that business investment will no
longer bolster the world’s largest economy as it did earlier in
the recovery. The outlook for manufacturers may remain dim as
overseas demand cools and concern mounts that the so-called
fiscal cliff may not get averted by the end of 2012.  “We’re likely to be in a holding pattern in the next few
months,”  Millan Mulraine , senior U.S. strategist for TD
Securities in  New York , said before the report. “Manufacturing
will stall out as it is going to follow spending, both globally
and domestically.”  The  median  forecast of 59 economists in a Bloomberg survey
called for a rise of 4.6 percent in total factory orders.
Estimates ranged from gains of 2.4 percent to 8 percent. The
Commerce Department revised the August figure to a 5.1 percent
decrease from a previously reported drop of 5.2 percent.  Another report today showed hiring increased more than
forecast in October, indicating employers would rather add staff
than increase spending on equipment amid the global
uncertainties.  Payrolls Climb  In the last jobs report before next week’s election, a net
171,000 workers were added to payrolls after a 148,000 gain in
September that was more than first estimated, according to Labor
Department figures. The increase exceeded the most optimistic
forecast in the Bloomberg survey in which the median called for
an advance of 125,000. Unemployment rose to 7.9 percent as more
people entered the  labor force .  Excluding transportation equipment, factory orders rose 1.4
percent after a 0.7 percent gain the prior month.  Bookings for durable goods, those meant to least at least
three years climbed 9.8 percent. They make up just over half of
total factory demand. Today’s reading was in line with the 9.9
percent gain estimated by the government on Oct. 25. Demand for
non-durable goods, including petroleum, increased 1 percent.  Boeing Co., the Chicago-based aerospace company, has said
it received 143 orders in September, up from 1 the prior month
and 260 in July.  Capital Goods  Today’s estimate of orders for capital goods excluding
aircraft and military equipment was up from an unchanged reading
reported last week.  Shipments of those goods, used in calculating gross
domestic product, decreased 0.2 percent, less than the
previously projected decline of 0.3 percent.  Factory inventories climbed 0.6 percent in September for a
second month, today’s report showed. Manufacturers had enough
goods on hand to last 1.28 months at the current sales pace, the
same as in August.  A report yesterday showed manufacturing is stabilizing
after a mid-year slowdown. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index climbed to a five-month high of 51.7 in October,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said.  Sales Forecasts  Some companies are still trying to adjust to a slackening
in demand. Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of
construction and mining equipment, projected sales growth for
2013 that would be slower than in the previous three years as
the global economy decelerates. Production across much of the
company has been reduced, with temporary shutdowns and
dismissals to help work through excess stockpiles, it said.  “We’re already taking actions to lower production to deal
with the inventory and we’re ready to do more if we need to,”
Michael DeWalt, director of  investor relations  at Peoria,
Illinois-based Caterpillar, said on an Oct. 22 conference call.  General Electric, Parker Hannifin Corp., and Honeywell
International Inc. are among other industrial companies that
have said they’ve been hurt by weak demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  