-- Orthofix Will Pay U.S. $30 Million to Settle Kickbacks
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-11-02T20:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/orthofix-will-pay-u-s-30-million-to-settle-kickbacks.html
Orthofix International NV, (OFIX)  a maker of
spinal implants, agreed to pay the U.S. $30 million to settle
claims that a subsidiary paid illegal kickbacks and provided
prostitutes to doctors in return for orders.  The subsidiary, Blackstone Medical Inc., paid kickbacks to
spinal surgeons in the form of phony consulting and royalty
agreements, and travel and entertainment to entice them to use
its products, the U.S. Justice Department said in a statement
today.  “Kickbacks to physicians are incompatible with a properly
functioning health-care system,” Stuart Delery, the acting
assistant attorney general for the civil division, said in the
statement. “They can corrupt physicians’ medical judgment and
cause misallocation of vital health-care resources.”  The allegations in this case arose from a whistle-blower
lawsuit filed under the  False Claims Act . Susan Hutcheson, the
whistle-blower, will get $8 million out of the settlement,
according to the statement.  The company said in February it would pay $32 million to
settle claims by Hutcheson, an ex-sales manager, who filed a
fraud suit over the device maker’s sales tactics.  “I am very pleased with the final resolution of this
matter,” Robert Vaters, the chief executive officer of
Orthofix, said in a statement. “Orthofix has made a significant
improvement to its compliance practices.”  Separate Suit  The settlement’s approval comes after Orthofix officials
agreed to pay $42 million to resolve a separate whistle-blower
suit and a criminal probe of allegations it paid kickbacks to
doctors who used its bone-growth stimulators.  One of its units will plead guilty in federal court in
Boston federal court to a single felony count of obstructing a
U.S. government audit and pay a $7.8 million fine, according to
a June 7 regulatory filing. Orthofix also will pay $34.2 million
to resolve whistle-blower claims that the company defrauded the
federal Medicare program over bone-growth stimulators, which
patients wear after surgery to speed healing.  Five Orthofix employees have pleaded guilty to criminal
charges in connection with probes of the kickback allegations.
Thomas Guerrieri, an Orthofix vice president, pleaded guilty in
April to violating the federal anti-kickback statute by setting
up fake consulting agreements for doctors who used the company’s
products.  Sham Agreements  Hutcheson alleged that officials of Blackstone, purchased
by Orthofix in 2006, violated kickback and false-claim laws by
setting up a system to compensate doctors under sham consulting
agreements and phony research grants, according to court
filings. The sales executive said the company also offered
lavish travel opportunities to doctors who implanted its
products, the filing said.  Some doctors were paid as much as $8,000 a month under the
fictitious consulting agreements, Hutcheson said in her suit,
filed in federal court in  Massachusetts . Orthofix’s U.S. unit is
based in Lewisville,  Texas . Some also received phony research
grants for as much as $18,000, the suit added.  Blackstone salespeople also were urged to take surgeons out
for expensive dinners, escort them to strip clubs and pay for
liaisons with prostitutes to get their business, Hutcheson said
in the suit.  One female sales manager in  Dallas  agreed to disrobe and
join strippers on stage at the request of two surgeons to whom
she was pitching the company’s products, Hutcheson said in her
suit. The sales manager was demoted, not fired, over the
incident, Hutcheson said in the suit.  Orthofix, based in Curacao, fell 23 cents to $39.66 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The case is U.S. ex rel Hutcheson and Brown v. Blackstone
Medical Inc. and Orthofix International NV, 06-11771, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  