-- China’s Stocks Advance, Capping Biggest Weekly Gain in Month
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-11-02T07:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/most-chinese-stocks-fall-as-drugmakers-drop-energy-shares-gain.html
China ’s  stocks  rose, capping the
benchmark index’s biggest weekly rally in more than a month, as
speculation grew that economic growth is rebounding.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. jumped for a fourth day, leading
a gauge of  property developers  to the biggest advance since
February, after China Business News reported sales volume in 54
Chinese cities rose in September and October. SAIC Motor Corp.
rose to the highest in two weeks, pushing consumer discretionary
stocks to the biggest gain among industry groups in the  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  this week, after its third-quarter profit increased.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed for a fourth day,
adding 0.6 percent to 2,117.05 at the close. The index jumped
2.5 percent this week, the steepest five-day gain since the week
ended Sept. 28. The  Shanghai  gauge rose 1.7 percent yesterday
after a purchasing managers index indicated the manufacturing
industry grew for the first time in three months in October.  “Investors think the economy may have reached a bottom,
especially since the PMI showed positive signs,” said  Li Jun , a
strategist at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “If
there’s more data proving this, it would be good for stocks.
Still, we need more liquidity for any gains to last.”  The CSI 300 Index added 0.4 percent to 2,306.77 today,
while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in  Hong Kong 
increased 1.4 percent, extending its climb from its Sept. 5 low
to 20 percent. The Hang Seng China Premium index, which tracks
the price discount of A-shares to H-shares, fell to the lowest
since June last year.  Leadership Congress  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. jumped 2.1 percent yesterday as U.S.
data showed companies expanded payrolls in October by the most
in eight months and the  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S.
factory index rose to a five-month high.  “We have seen an increasing amount of evidence for green
shoots” in China, said Lu Ting, head of Greater China economics
at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong who this week raised his
fourth-quarter forecast for economic growth to 7.8 percent from
7.5 percent.  A manufacturing gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics posted the biggest gain since October 2010. Industrial
companies’ profits recorded the first year-on-year gain in
September since March, data showed Oct. 27.  Investors are focusing on the ruling communist party’s
once-a-decade leadership transition that begins with a congress
starting Nov. 8 in Beijing. Vice President  Xi Jinping  will
probably become head of the party and he is likely to succeed  Hu Jintao  as president at the annual session of the nation’s
legislature in March. Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  may succeed  Wen Jiabao  as premier.  Index Volatility  The Shanghai Composite lost 0.8 percent in October on
concern earnings growth will decelerate. Some 948 of the index’s
companies reported third-quarter profit with an average drop of
1.6 percent from a year earlier,  data  compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The Shanghai index trades at 10 times estimated profit,
compared with the 17.8 average multiple since Bloomberg began
compiling the weekly  data  in 2006. Trading volumes of the
gauge’s companies were 9.3 percent above the 30-day average for
this time of day. Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai gauge
was at 16.6, lower than this year’s average of 17.2.  A gauge of property developers in the Shanghai Composite
rose 1.8 percent today, adding to a weekly gain of 6.9 percent,
the biggest five-day advance since the week ended Feb. 24. Poly
Real Estate, the country’s second-largest developer, gained 1.6
percent to 11.79  yuan , extending this week’s advance to 10
percent. China Vanke Co., the largest developer, added 0.7
percent today for a five-day gain of 5.5 percent.  Property Outlook  Sales volume in 54 Chinese cities rose more than 51 percent
in September and October, according to China Business News.
China’s new home prices rose for a fifth month as sales picked
up in a sign government curbs are helping stabilize the  property
market , SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest real estate
website owner, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday, based on
its survey of 100 cities.  Zhejiang Shibao Co. shares were halted after jumping six-
fold to 17.19 yuan on their first day of trading.  SAIC, the biggest automaker, gained 0.1 percent to 13.47
yuan today, extending this week’s advance to 6 percent after
saying third quarter net income rose 1.4 percent to 5.35 billion
yuan. Gree Electric Appliances Inc. declined 0.6 percent today,
paring its weekly gain to 9.8 percent. The company reported
third-quarter net income surged 57 percent. Consumer
discretionary stocks rose the most this week among the the CSI
300’s 10 industry groups, gaining 3.4 percent.  China Resources Sanjiu Medical & Pharmaceutical lost 2.1
percent to 22.20 yuan, the lowest close since Sept. 3. A gauge
of healthcare stocks gained the second most this week on the CSI
300, rising 3.1 percent.  In  New York  trading, The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund ,
the biggest Chinese exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rallied
2.6 percent to $37.75, the highest level since May 3.  Qihoo 360
Technology Co. drove a 2.1 percent surge in the Bloomberg China-
US Equity Index. AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc., a  software developer 
mulling a buyout proposal, soared 6.5 percent after a fourth-
quarter profit forecast beat analysts’ estimates.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  