-- House Democrats Not Getting Medicare Traction They Sought
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-11-02T18:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/house-democrats-not-getting-medicare-traction-they-sought.html
New York  Democrat Kathy Hochul won
her U.S. House seat in 2011 by attacking a Republican plan to
partially privatize Medicare. This year she is emphasizing
trade, jobs and the economy in her re-election campaign.  For Hochul and fellow House Democrats such as Mark Critz of
Pennsylvania, the Republican plan to offer private insurance for
future Medicare recipients isn’t providing the same political
mileage that helped Hochul win in a special election. The Hochul
and Critz races are rated “tossup” by the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report.  “The percentage of the electorate that cares about
Medicare as their foremost issue” is “just nowhere compared to
the economy and jobs,” said  David Wasserman , House analyst for
the Washington-based Cook Political Report. “Republicans have
effectively neutralized that line of attack by pointing to
Obamacare.”  In their counterattack, Republicans accuse House Democrats
such as Iowa’s Leonard Boswell of voting to raid $716 billion
from Medicare to finance President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
overhaul. While polls show most voters agree with the Democrats,
they view the economy as the more important issue.  Wasserman predicted that Democrats won’t achieve the net
gain of 25 seats they need to retake the majority of the 435-
member House in the Nov. 6 election. He cited congressional
redistricting that favored Republicans and retirements by a
handful of moderate Democrats that make it probable Republicans
will pick up those seats.  Local Politics  House races are often influenced by local politics, so
issues that work for a candidate in one district -- such as
Medicare, the coal industry and foreign trade -- may not be as
effective somewhere else.  Democratic Representative Ben Chandler of Kentucky is in a
competitive race following Republican accusations that Democrats
are waging a “war on coal” by tightening government regulation
of mining and coal-fired power plants. Still, in West Virginia’s
coal country, a similar attack featuring ads with coal miners
complaining about lost jobs hasn’t ignited significant
opposition to Democratic Representative Nick Rahall.  The Medicare issue is making some races more competitive.
It may help Democrat  Dan Maffei  regain the House seat he lost in
2010 by 659 votes to Republican Representative Ann Marie Buerkle
in upstate New York. The rematch is rated “lean Democratic” by
Cook.  Guaranteed Benefits  A House Democratic campaign ad says Buerkle supports House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s proposal that “ends
guaranteed Medicare benefits.”  After Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  chose
Ryan as his running mate in August, New York Representative
Steve Israel, leader of House Democrats’ campaign, predicted
Ryan would be a “down-ballot disaster for Republicans across
the country.”  The attacks by Maffei and his Democratic allies prompted
Buerkle to run an ad casting herself as a Medicare defender.  “I am a registered nurse, the mother of six and the
grandmother of 13,” she said in the ad. “For me, Medicare
isn’t a political issue, it’s personal.”  Buerkle, who voted to repeal Obama’s health-care law, said
in the ad her 91-year mother “depends on Medicare” so “I
don’t let anyone cut it for her or seniors like her.”  Another House Republican in a close race, Minnesota
Representative Chip Cravaack, appeared in an ad with his father,
saying, “Medicare is a commitment we made to our parents and
it’s a promise I intend to keep.”  Illinois, New York  Medicare may be helping Democrats mount competitive
challenges to House Republicans  Judy Biggert  in Illinois, Dan Benishek in  Michigan  and Nan Hayworth in New York. The races are
rated tossups by Cook.  In Florida, with a large senior-citizen population,
Democratic attack ads about Medicare aren’t “really moving a
lot of people” to vote against freshman Representative  Allen West  or other Republican House members, said  Susan MacManus , a
political scientist at the University of  South Florida  in Tampa.  West, running in a redrawn district that includes  Palm
Beach , is in a tight race with Democratic challenger Patrick
Murphy. The Cook report rates it as a tossup.  The Medicare issue has more significance for “ baby boomers 
closer to retirement,” MacManus said. “The expectation that it
would really push seniors to the Democrats isn’t realistic in
light of Florida’s senior makeup,” which leans “a little bit
more Republican.”  On the trade issue, Hochul is airing ads in western New
York accusing her opponent, businessman  Chris Collins , of
sending jobs from his Buffalo manufacturing plants to China.  Shipping Jobs  Trade “is still a very hot-button issue” in the Buffalo
area where the economy has been “fairly depressed” and
opposition to free-trade deals “strikes a chord with the more
union blue-collar electorate,” said  James Campbell , a political
scientist at the  State University of New York  at Buffalo.  In an Iowa race between two incumbent House members,
Democrat Boswell has accused Republican Tom Latham of supporting
tax benefits to companies that “shipped” 650 jobs to Mexico
and China. In southeastern  Ohio , ads for Democratic challenger
Charlie Wilson say Republican incumbent  Bill Johnson  supported
the same tax breaks.  Coal is a top issue in the Kentucky rematch of Chandler and
Republican Andy Barr, which the Cook report switched from “lean
Democrat” to “tossup.”  ‘Especially Vulnerable’  Chandler is an “especially vulnerable target,” partly
because of his narrow victory over Barr in 2010, University of
Louisville political scientist Laurie Rhodebeck said in an e-
mail. “Coal interests blame President Obama, and by
association, Chandler, for coal jobs recently lost in Kentucky,
rather than acknowledge that last winter was mild and that coal-
fired plants are switching to natural gas.”  Coal is also an issue in Democrat Critz’s re-election race
in a district that includes mines in southwestern  Pennsylvania .
Critz has run an ad saying that lawmakers don’t understand that
“our clean coal can go a long way toward making America energy
independent.”  Chandler, Critz and Rahall were among 19 Democrats
supporting legislation the House passed in September to block
government rules curbing greenhouse-gas emissions or regulating
coal mining. That day, Rahall said in an interview, he opposed
the Environmental Protection Agency’s “war on coal.”  “Who’s fighting it? I’m fighting it,” Rahall said.
“Who’s conducting it? The EPA.”  Republicans haven’t had much success with the issue against
Rahall, said Wasserman, who predicted he will win re-election.
Wasserman said Republicans ran ads for their party’s challenger
Rick Snuffer and “made some progress but not enough to justify
staying until the end” of the campaign.  In Rahall’s  West Virginia  district, “Republicans aren’t
playing to win,” Wasserman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  