-- Panasonic Downgraded by S&P After $9.6 Billion Loss Forecast
-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2012-11-02T05:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/panasonic-downgraded-by-s-p-after-9-6-billion-loss-forecast.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,  Japan ’s No. 2 TV
maker, had its  credit rating  downgraded two levels by  Standard &
Poor’s  after forecasting a loss 30 times bigger than analyst
estimates because of restructuring costs and falling demand.  The long-term debt was rated BBB, down from A-, S&P said in
a statement today, citing “huge” losses and the outlook for a
slow recovery at the Osaka-based maker of consumer electronics,
solar panels and home appliances. It’s the second-lowest
investment grade. The rating was assigned with a stable outlook.  Panasonic’s  net loss  may be 765 billion yen ($9.6 billion)
in the year ending March 31, the Osaka-based company said in a
statement Oct. 31, scrapping its May projection of 50 billion
yen in net income. The forecast for the second-highest loss in
its history prompted Panasonic to say it won’t pay a  dividend 
for the first time since 1950 because of an “urgent need” to
improve its financial position.  “Such huge losses for the second year in a row weaken the
company’s financial profile and could further slow its
recovery,” S&P said in today’s statement. “The company’s
profitability and cash flows should be stable, benefitting in
the next one to two years from the company’s recent
restructuring efforts and its diverse business portfolio.”  The bulk of Panasonic’s projected loss will come from 440
billion yen of restructuring expenses, which includes writedowns
of goodwill on solar cells, lithium-ion batteries and mobile-
phone operations, the company said in its earnings statement.
Panasonic is also taking 412.5 billion yen in charges to write
down deferred tax assets, it said.  ‘Severe Outlook’  Panasonic has “a severe outlook for the second half,”
Chief Financial Officer Hideaki Kawai said Oct. 31, citing
worse-than expected demands for TV, cameras, Blu-ray disc
players and personal computers.  Kawai said the company may sell real-estate assets to
generate cash and that the company doesn’t have a plan to cut
jobs in significant numbers.  Panasonic fell 2.2 percent to 405 yen as of 2:45 p.m. in
Tokyo trading. The stock declined by the daily limit yesterday,
plunging 19 percent to the lowest level since February 1975,
following the previous day’s earnings announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  