-- Patrick Says Obama Will ‘Earn’ Re-Election (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-11-02T22:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/patrick-says-obama-will-earn-re-election-transcript-.html
Democratic  Massachusetts  Governor
 Deval Patrick  predicted in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend, that President  Barack Obama  will win re-election
Nov. 6.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: Welcome back. We’re now joined by
Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick, who is a co-chair of
the Obama campaign. He joins us from Denver,  Colorado .  Governor, thank you for being with us. We’re going to
start with the jobs report that was out -  GOVERNOR DEVAL PATRICK: Thank you for having me.  HUNT: The jobs report showed OK growth, but the
 unemployment rate  was 7.9 percent, higher than when Barack
Obama took office.  Mitt Romney  says it’s a sad reminder that
the economy is at a virtual standstill.  PATRICK: Well, you know, it’s a - it’s a sad commentary
on - on the governor’s campaign and on his approach that he
would take positive job growth as - as bad news. In fact,
we’ve had 25 or 26 straight months of job growth, 5.5
million private-sector jobs in that period of time, more
than  George W. Bush  added in eight years in office. We’re
moving in the right direction. And I think in the second
term, we’re going to move even faster in that direction.  HUNT: Romney says that under President Obama  Washington 
is bitterly partisan and dysfunctional. And he’s running ads
right now in the key states saying that in Massachusetts,
with an 87 percent legislature, he worked across party lines
and got things done, and that’s what he would do in
Washington.  PATRICK: Well, they tell a very different story in the
legislature back home, I can tell you that. The leadership
talk about how, you know, he went through the motions
mostly, that he was more interested in having the job than
actually doing it, with one profound exception, and that is
the health care reform bill, where he was engaged and he
worked with the Democratic legislature, a Democratic United
States senator,  Ted Kennedy , a broad coalition of business
and labor and patient advocates and industry, and he - he
signed a bill that expanded access. It took effect the day I
took office. And we’ve been working toward universal care.
We’re nearly there, at 98-plus percent. It’s something he is
proud of, and he ought to be proud of it.  HUNT: You don’t think that’d be a model for what he
would do as president?  PATRICK: I think it was a model for health care reform.
But I don’t think he has shown very much interest or showed
very much interest in working with the legislature when he
was governor. In fact, because he moved against priorities
that the legislature had, and cut education, and stymied
innovation, and cut infrastructure, we slipped from 36th in
 job creation  to 47th in the nation when he was governor. We
turned that around, because we’ve turned those policies
around, and the policies we’re pursuing have been supported
by the president.  HUNT: Governor,  New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  -
who I should say owns Bloomberg LP - endorsed Obama this
week, but said, while coming into office as a problem-solver
and a consensus-builder, the president has, unfortunately -
this is quoting Mayor Bloomberg - “devoted little time and
effort to developing and sustaining a coalition of centrists
and has not uplifted the country around the message of
shared sacrifice,” end quote. Why?  PATRICK: I’m not sure I agree with all of that, but I
will say that the president’s message of common cause and
common destiny is exactly the message that I am hungry for.
It’s the message I think that Mayor Bloomberg is hungry for.
And it’s a radically different message from what we’re
hearing from  Governor Romney .  I do think that we’re at a time in this country where
we need to turn to each other, rather than on each other,
and that if we’re going to be a nation of opportunity, as we
have been at our best in our history, then we have to have
growth, and growth requires investment in education,
innovation and in infrastructure. And that is exactly the
opposite from what Governor Romney is proposing.  So I’m very excited and enthusiastic about a second
term, Al, because I think the president has - has us on a
good course and on a course that can accelerate and, with
the mandate that will come from re-election, will
accelerate.  HUNT: Governor Patrick, you are close to President
Obama and his top aide,  David Axelrod . You talk to them a
lot. What do you think they’ve learned? What lessons have
they learned about governing these past several years?  PATRICK: Well, you know, it’s interesting. It’s so - so
similar in some ways, on a much smaller scale, to my own
lessons at home, how important it is to - to bring voices
into the conversation and to do so early, to make sure that,
as you’re trying to look for compromise, you are thinking
about the things that are on the minds of the people whose
compromise you need, that may not relate to the subject
right in front of you, some of the sort of care and feeding,
if you will, of legislators and other partners.  HUNT: And we would look for more of that?  PATRICK: And I think they’ve learned that. And I think
they’ve gotten stronger.  HUNT: We’d look for more of that in the second term?  PATRICK: Count on it.  HUNT: -  Colin Powell  endorsed Barack Obama, and Romney
surrogate John Sununu said he did it because of race. Has
the Romney campaign tried to inject race into this campaign?  PATRICK: Well, I don’t know what that comment was
about. I mean, I don’t think that - that anybody has asked
John Sununu whether race was the reason why he - he endorsed
Governor Romney. I think that was just a silly comment,
approached and appreciated by most as just that.  HUNT: If the president does win next Tuesday, a prime
candidate to be secretary of state would be your senator,
 John Kerry . Now, if he were picked, under your law, you
would have to have another Senate election in about six
months. Given those variables, would you -  PATRICK: I know.  HUNT: - would you recommend to the president that he
tap Senator Kerry?  PATRICK: Well, you know what? I don’t want to get ahead
of anything. The first thing that has to happen, Al - and I
respect your question - but the first thing that has to
happen is that the American people have to choose which path
we’re going to take as a country, what kind of country we
want.  HUNT: Would John Kerry be a good secretary of state?  PATRICK: I think he’d be great. I think he’s a great
senator, so it’d be a huge loss for us, but let’s get to
that after Tuesday. First things first.  HUNT: OK. You’ve got a high-powered race for the other
Senate seat in Massachusetts,  Elizabeth Warren  and  Scott
Brown .  PATRICK: That’s right.  HUNT: The latest Boston Globe shows it’s dead even.
What do you expect?  PATRICK: It’s a tough race. I think Elizabeth Warren is
going to win. Scott Brown has not been a particularly
distinguished senator for Massachusetts, but he’s a very
effective campaigner and politician. I think Elizabeth
Warren has gotten stronger and stronger. And more to the
point, her policies are exactly what we need. She will be a
senator for the people of Massachusetts all of the time, not
just some of the time. And I’m excited about her candidacy.
I’m looking forward to stumping with her.  HUNT: All right, Governor, it’s D-Day. It’s decision
day. It’s only a couple days away. Tell us on Tuesday what
you expect in the popular vote and the Electoral College.  PATRICK: I think the president’s going to win. I think
he’s going to earn this win. And I think he’s going to come
right back to work on Wednesday, working not just for
Democrats and those who voted for him, but for everybody,
because he understands that if we’re going to have a true
national community, where we lift everyone, then people have
to understand, by his example, that we have a stake in our
neighbors’ dreams and struggles, as well as our own.  HUNT: I’m going to try to pin you down one more time.
Do you expect a big victory - do you expect a victory in the
Electoral College and in the popular vote? And how big?  PATRICK: I don’t know, Al. I think it’s going to be a
victory that enables us to have a second term of the Obama
administration. We’re going to see even better and stronger
results in that term -  HUNT: All right. Governor Deval Patrick, thank you very
much for joining us. And when we come back, the political
impact of those October jobs numbers, and Kate and Margaret
make their final election predictions. The last word, right
after this break.  #<738796.1204164.3.2.1.0.25>#
 