-- Pimco Says Embattled 1-Year Mortgage Bonds Denmark’s Top Buy
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-11-02T10:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/pimco-says-embattled-1-year-mortgage-bonds-denmark-s-top-buy-1-.html
Short-term Danish mortgage bonds,
singled out by the central bank and rating companies as a threat
to the $500 billion industry, are the best debt investment in
Denmark, according to the head of  Pacific Investment Management
Co. (ALG5JAE) ’s covered bond operations in Europe.  “There’s not a lot of incentive for us to go out on the
curve,” Kristion Mierau, Munich-based senior vice president at
Pimco, which manages the world’s biggest bond fund, said in an
interview. One-year notes, used to finance 20- and 30-year
mortgages, provide the highest return given their risk, when
purchased together with a currency hedge, he said.  The bonds identified by Pimco as Denmark’s best-returning
debt class are injecting refinancing risks into Denmark’s home-
loan market, according to the central bank, Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings. The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision’s stable funding requirement is also making the one-
year bonds less appealing to issuers.  Some Danish lenders have responded by trying to wean
borrowers off the adjustable-rate mortgages that the short-term
bonds finance. Realkredit Danmark A/S, the mortgage arm of
 Denmark ’s biggest lender Danske Bank A/S, has run ads to
persuade borrowers to switch to loans backed by longer bonds and
has even charged higher fees for the one-year notes.  The Shift  The Danish Housing Ministry said it will shift to fixed-
rate mortgages with longer maturities, to finance new public
housing projects.  About 80 percent of the 475 billion kroner ($83 billion)
headed for refinancing auctions starting this month will be one-
year bonds, Realkredit Denmark estimates. The deadline for
borrowers to switch mortgages was Oct. 31.  Lenders have encouraged borrowers to shift to mortgages
backed by bonds with maturities of at least three to five years,
to lock in record-low rates. The Mortgage Bankers’ Federation
has also urged issuers to make customers less reliant on annual
refinancing.  “What we hear from the mortgage banks is that it will have
an effect, but we will have to see how big that effect will
be,” Karsten Beltoft, director of the Mortgage Bankers’
Federation in Copenhagen, said in an interview. “The signals we
have gotten until now indicate the effect may be between 5 and
10 percent changing from one-years to longer-dated adjustable-
rate mortgages.”  Limited Appeal  As long as it remains unclear how much will be issued in
three- and five-year notes, Pimco sees limited appeal in the
securities, Mierau said.  “The way it looks now, I don’t see compensation being so
extraordinary, especially considering the uncertainty in supply
and demand, which has implications for valuations and
liquidity,” he said. “Lending institutions have made efforts
to incentivize homeowners to rotate into three- or five-year
loans and reduce the growing refinancing risk in the system.”  Denmark’s mortgage-bond market has moved away from
traditional fixed-rate, callable-at-par securities into more
varied debt instruments. Some 55 percent of outstanding loans
are in adjustable-rate bonds, the central bank estimates, after
the products were introduced in 1996. Interest-only loans, which
the central bank has criticized for exacerbating volatility in
the country’s property market, were sold starting in 2003.  ‘Nice Sweetener’  Nykredit’s bond maturing Jan. 1, 2014, had a bid-to-
maturity yield of 0.52 percent at 10:20 a.m. in Copenhagen
trading, after peaking at 1.1 percent in April. That compares
with a yield of 1.44 percent for Nykredit’s note maturing Jan.
1, 2018.  Low rates on longer-term bonds may turn investors away
while appealing to borrowers, Martin Lundholm, chief analyst for
Spar Nord Bank A/S’s capital management division.  “Before we were reluctant to give advice on loans other
than one-year bonds,” Lundholm said. “If the rates fell and
they had to sell their homes, they would have had to buy back
their loans at over 100 and that was problematic. Now the rates
have been so low so long, they can’t really fall anymore.”  Though mortgage yields have sunk to record lows, the notes
still offer better returns than government debt. The yield on
Denmark’s 2 percent note due November 2014 was minus 0.036
percent yesterday. The central bank has left its  deposit rate  at
minus 0.2 percent since July to counter a capital influx that
threatened the krone’s peg to the euro.  ‘Nice Sweetener’  “If you can get a one-year bond and hedge it and come back
with a 0.5 percent yield, that is a compelling alternative to
government bonds,” Mierau said. “We’re picking up roughly 40
basis points on the hedge. That’s a nice sweetener on the
trade.”  Fitch Ratings this week cited refinancing risks when it
lowered ratings on short-term bonds issued by Realkredit
Danmark. Notes sold out of the lender’s capital center T, which
has 285 billion kroner in covered bonds, were cut to AA+ from
AAA, following changes to Fitch’s ratings criteria.  Non-Danish investors’ holdings of one-year mortgage notes
rose to 410 billion kroner in September, or 54 percent of the
total held offshore, the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks
estimates. For Danish investors, one-year bonds made up 26
percent of the total.  ‘Held Up’  “It’s a market that’s held up well during the crisis,”
Mierau said. The Danish mortgage market is among the few with
“opportunities” in the short end, he said.  While Denmark’s government debt is less than half the euro-
zone average, allowing the country to be treated as a haven from
 Europe ’s debt crisis, private indebtedness is the highest in the
world, at 322 percent of disposable incomes in 2010, Standard &
Poor’s estimates. The country’s housing market will continue to
decline until 2014 after prices sank 25 percent since a 2007
peak, the government-backed Economic Council said yesterday.  “It’s not that Denmark is a shining star-- it has its own
problems, including the housing market,” Mierau said. “But if
you compare it with Spain, Portugal or  Italy , they have a more
complex situation. Net-net, Denmark is a less dirty shirt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 