-- Quinn Gets 9 Weeks in Jail for Contempt From Irish Judge
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-11-02T15:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/quinn-gets-9-weeks-in-jail-for-contempt-from-irish-judge.html
Bankrupt Irish businessman  Sean Quinn , once the country’s richest man, was sentenced to nine
weeks in jail by a Dublin court.  Judge Elizabeth Dunne made the ruling in Dublin today after
a contempt-of-court hearing related to efforts to move some of
his family’s property beyond the grasp of Irish Bank Resolution
Corp., formerly known as Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Quinn will begin
serving his sentence today while pursuing an appeal, his lawyer,
Eugene Grant, said.  “It is not disputed that significant assets worth millions
of euros have been put beyond the reach of the bank,” the judge
said today. Moving the assets is “nothing short of outrageous -
- it is a serious contempt of court.”  The jailing caps the downfall of the former cement-to-
insurance empire tycoon, whose demise mirrors the collapse in
the country’s property boom that pushed the country to the brink
of bankruptcy.  Quinn was declared bankrupt in January, two
months after a court ruled Quinn owed IBRC 2.16 billion euros
($2.78 billion). Quinn was worth about $6 billion in 2008,
according to Forbes magazine.  Quinn gave his backing to efforts to place assets outside
the reach of nationalized IBRC, Dunne said today, a matter for
which she found him, his son, who is also named Sean, and his
nephew Peter Darragh Quinn in contempt in June. Dunne said she
had no choice but to sentence the elder Quinn to prison, even
after taking his charitable work and medical condition into
account.  ‘Get On’  Quinn said he wanted to “get on” with his prison term
before being taken into custody.  “I did stupid things,” Quinn told reporters, saying that
IBRC “took my companies, my reputation and they put me in
jail.”  Quinn’s fortune had its origins in a sand quarrying
operation he set up in 1973 on his father’s farm just over the
Irish Republic’s border in  Northern Ireland . The Quinn family
still has support in the area, where his companies provided
employment. National broadcaster RTE said 5,000 people turned
out for a rally to support Quinn in nearby County Cavan last
month.  Quinn Group said in April 2010 that the Quinn family’s
debts were “due primarily to equity losses of circa 3 billion
euros.” The losses largely stem from Quinn’s investment in
Anglo Irish through financial derivatives called contracts for
difference.  Dunne rejected a request by Quinn to attend a christening
in December. Quinn is entitled to seek compassionate leave,
though that is a matter for the prison service, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  