-- Rand Declines First Week in Four on Growth Concern, Commodities
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-11-02T13:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/rand-declines-set-for-first-weekly-retreat-in-four-on-growth.html
The rand declined for the first
weekly retreat in four on concern slowing growth will damp
demand for South  Africa ’s assets and as commodity prices fell.  The currency slipped as much as 0.5 percent, and traded 0.3
percent weaker at 8.6652 per dollar as of 3:24 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The rand has retreated 0.3 percent this week,
paring a 1.6 percent advance in the preceding three weeks.
Yields on benchmark 6.75 percent bonds due March 2021 were
unchanged at 6.67 percent today, for a decline of three basis
points this week.  Unemployment in Africa’s biggest economy rose in the third
quarter as mining companies shed jobs amid wildcat strikes, a
report showed yesterday. The Kagiso Purchasing Managers’ Index
dropped for a third month in October, indicating a slump in
manufacturing. South Africa’s economy will probably expand 2.5
percent this year, the Treasury estimates, down from 3.1 percent
in 2011, as labor unrest and  Europe ’s debt crisis lower demand
for exports.  “Yesterday’s data releases point to a subdued growth
backdrop,” Carmen Nel and Mamello Matikinca, analysts at
Johannesburg-based Rand Merchant Bank, wrote in a note e-mailed
to clients today. “The increase in labor costs and social
unrest could lead to renewed job losses.”  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index declined for the first time in
three days as prices of metals including copper fell on concern
demand from  China  may slow. Metals and other commodities account
for 45 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to
government data.  Foreign investors sold a net 6.2 billion rand ($714
million) of South African stocks in October, according to JSE
Ltd. data, as mining strikes hampered growth. The nation needs
about 16 billion rand of inflows a month to plug its current
account gap and prevent the rand from weakening, according to
Standard Bank Group Ltd. calculations. The shortfall widened to
6.4 percent of gross domestic product in the second quarter, the
most in four years.  “For foreign interest to return to the local equity market
in any significant way, it would perhaps either have to cheapen
or the growth story would have to brighten,” Bruce Donald, a
Johannesburg-based currency strategist at Standard Bank, said in
e-mailed comments. “We are not holding our breath with respect
to the latter.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar dropped 22 basis points today to 14.5 percent, the lowest
since May. The South African currency’s implied volatility
remains the highest out of emerging-market and major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  