-- RBC Leading Banks Seeking Small-Business Loans
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-11-02T19:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/rbc-leading-banks-seeking-small-business-loans.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,  Toronto-
Dominion Bank (TD)  and Canada’s other big banks are boosting efforts
to win a slice of the C$18.4 billion ($18.4 billion) market for
small-business loans as consumer lending slows.  The lenders, ranked the world’s soundest for the past five
years by the World Economic Forum, have hired business advisers
and small-business specialists across the country over the past
few years, as competition for loans to companies up to C$250,000
intensified.  “We find it as an attractive area to grow in Canada, which
is a relatively slow-growth market for us,”  Bank of Nova Scotia 
Chief Executive Officer Richard Waugh said in an interview on
Oct. 23. “It remains a priority, because we see growth.”  Consumer borrowing has slowed amid record household debt
levels and repeated warnings from Bank of  Canada  Governor Mark Carney about the dangers of too much borrowing. Personal
lending, a category that includes credit cards and residential
lines of credit,  rose  8.9 percent in September over the same
month the year before, down from a monthly average of almost 12
percent in 2010, according to Statistics Canada.  Canada will see an “unprecedented boom in new business”
over the next decade, Benjamin Tal, deputy chief economist at
 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  said in a September report.
He predicted a net creation of 150,000 new businesses in the
next decade.  Business Bankers  The 10-member S&P/TSX Banks Index rose 0.3 percent today
and has climbed 8.1 percent this year, led by  Canadian Western
Bank (CWB)  of  Edmonton ,  Alberta . That compares to a 28 percent
increase on the  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which include U.S. lenders such
as  Bank of America  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Toronto-Dominion, the country’s second-largest bank by
assets, said in March it would focus on corporate lending, and
has added 500 Canadian business bankers in the past five years
for a total of 1,420.  Bank of Montreal , the fourth-largest bank,
has hired 180 small-business bankers since March 2011, Paul
Cunliffe, a bank spokesman said.  Royal Bank, the country’s largest lender, has increased its
“relationship management team” for business clients by about 3
percent this year for a total of 580 people, said Peter Conrod,
the bank’s vice president of client and business strategy. The
Toronto-based lender also conducts seminars and sessions for
business owners, he said.  Lending Rising  Outstanding loans issued by Canada’s seven largest lenders
to small businesses -- generally credit offered up to C$250,000
-- totaled C$18.4 billion as of June, Conrod said, citing data
from the Canadian Bankers Association.  Scotiabank has increased its small-business adviser group
by more than 10 percent over the last few years, Andrew
Chornenky, a spokesman said.  CIBC has added 40 “dedicated small business roles” this
year, said Kevin Dove, CIBC spokesman.  The increased emphasis banks are placing on commercial
clients is already being reflected in financial results. Sumit Malhotra, an analyst at Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto,
said domestic commercial and small-business loans for the
country’s six biggest banks climbed 10 percent in the fiscal
third quarter, a faster rate than the 6.1 percent increase in
domestic consumer lending.  “Business borrowers - whether small-and-middle market
commercial or larger corporate clients - are on aggregate
carrying a much lower level of debt than Canadian consumers,”
said Malhotra. “So while business lending is a smaller portion
of the book for most banks, it’s also an area that should have
more capacity for growth in the interim when compared to the
highly leveraged position of the consumer.”  Household Debt  Household debt rose to a record 166 percent of disposable
income in the second quarter, Statistics Canada said. Toronto-
Dominion Bank CEO  Edmund Clark  has said he expects domestic
consumer-banking profit growth to slow.  “The Canadian consumer cannot constantly leverage
themselves up, and so we had a pretty classic leverage-driven
expansion in Canada that aids the banks,” Clark told investors
at a Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets conference in
September. “You’re going to see slower growth.”  Small-business clients are less satisfied with major
financial institutions than consumer clients even as they visit
a bank branch three times as often, said a  study  last month by
J.D. Power & Associates.  The J.D. Power report, which surveyed 1,200 small-business
owners in Canada between July and August, found that the average
customer satisfaction score for a bank was 728 out of 1,000
compared with an average score of 753 for individual clients.  Less Satisfied  “They’re less satisfied than their retail counterparts,”
said Jim Miller, senior director of banking at J.D. Power.
“Based on the value of those relationship and the amount that
they’re interacting with the bank, we would expect that their
satisfaction should be equal or higher than we see with
retail.”  Small-business clients will visit a bank branch an average
of 33 times per year, Miller said, which means “banks have an
opportunity because they should know these customers.”
Companies with fewer than 50 employees are doing less business
with banks including CIBC,  National Bank of Canada  and Royal
Bank, said a 2010 study conducted by the Canadian Federation of
Independent Business.  The federation study showed that CIBC lost 48 percent
market share between 1989 and 2009 in the so-called small and
medium enterprise market, with National Bank and Royal Bank also
declining. Credit unions, on the other hand, increased that
business by 96 percent.  CIBC has set up general managers and financial advisers
just for small business, said David Williamson, CIBC group head
of retail and business banking. “We’re performing and picking
up market share,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg in
Toronto today.  Angels and Dragons  Institutions including FirstOntario Credit Union of
Hamilton, Ontario, say that they have a higher level of
satisfaction with small-business clients.  “Banks aren’t even close to the levels of satisfaction”
of credit unions, FirstOntario Chief Operating Officer Dave
Schurman said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto office.  Optimism among small and medium-sized business in Canada
rose in September for the first time since March,  according  to
the Canadian Federation of Independent Business.  Many startup companies are turning to so-called angel
investors for their financing needs, said Jim Treliving, co-
owner of Boston Pizza International Inc. and star of Canadian
Broadcasting Corp.’s television programs ’Dragon’s Den’ and ’The
Big Decision’.  “There’s a lot of entrepreneurs across Canada that are
sitting there saying, ‘I’ll try the banks first and if that
doesn’t work, I’ll go to these angel investors,’” Treliving
said in a telephone interview. “There are people advertising
saying, ‘I’m an investor.’ Five, seven years ago you never saw
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  