-- Treasuries Stay Lower Ahead of Employment Report
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-11-02T11:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/treasuries-stay-lower-as-jobs-data-show-gains.html
Treasuries were little changed before
data that economists said will show U.S. added more than 100,000
jobs for a fourth month, the Labor Department’s last employment
report before the Nov. 6 presidential election.  U.S. government debt handed investors a 0.6 percent loss in
the three months through yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes, as demand for the safety of debt waned.
The  jobless rate , calculated differently from the number of
positions gained or lost, rose to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent,
based on Bloomberg News surveys of economists. Two reports
yesterday showed improvement in the U.S. labor market.  “The market will need a big number to move, given other
uncertainties including the upcoming election,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European fixed-income strategy at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “We expect
economic recovery in the U.S. to be gradual.”  The U.S. 10-year note  yielded  1.72 percent at 7:11 a.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625
percent security due in August 2022 was at 99 1/8. The rate rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, yesterday.  The benchmark yield will climb to 2.25 percent by March 31,
according to Credit Agricole. A Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies projects 1.92 percent by the end of March
and 2.06 percent by June 30, with the most recent projections
given the heaviest weightings.  Jobless Claims  U.S. initial applications for jobless benefits dropped
9,000 to 363,000 last week, the Labor Department said yesterday.
Companies added 158,000 workers in October, according to an
industry report. The increase was higher than forecast, data
from the Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute
showed. It was the first ADP report derived using a larger
sample and new methodology.  Federal Reserve Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren 
said the central bank should buy mortgage bonds until the
jobless rate falls to 7.25 percent and hold the target interest
rate near zero until hitting 6.5 percent unemployment.  “As long as inflation and inflation expectations are
expected to remain well-behaved in the medium term, we should
continue to forcefully pursue asset purchases,” Rosengren said
yesterday in a speech in Wellesley,  Massachusetts .  The Federal Open Market Committee said on Oct. 24 it will
continue buying $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities each
month, aiming to reduce unemployment. It reiterated that it will
probably keep its benchmark interest rate near zero at least
through the middle of 2015.  Fed Sales  The central bank is also swapping shorter-term Treasuries
in its holdings with those due in six to 30 years. It plans to
sell as much as $8 billion of debt maturing from February 2013
to April 2014 today as part of the program, according to Fed
Bank of New York’s  website .  Kevin Yang, head of bond investment in Taipei at Hontai
Life Insurance Co., which has $6 billion in fixed-income assets,
said he plans to trim his Treasury holdings before the
employment report. While the economy is improving, yields will
probably hold below 2 percent, he said.  “At 2 percent, a lot of buyers will come in,” Yang said.
“The Fed will maintain low interest rates.”  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest mutual fund, favors inflation protection in the U.S.,
betting stimulus efforts around the world will stoke faster
price increases.  ‘Inflation Risk’  “Central banks have implemented increasingly far-reaching
policy measures and they are more willing to take inflation risk
as a trade-off for growth and employment,” said Michael Althof,
a senior portfolio manager in Munich. “Index-linked bonds are
good assets to have, as longer-term we think the pressure for
higher inflation is there.”  U.S. consumer prices increased 2 percent in September from
a year earlier, based on the latest data from the Labor
Department, meaning 10-year notes have a negative real yield.  The  difference  between 10-year yields and similar-maturity
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for costs in the economy over the life of the debt,
was 2.52 percentage points. The average over the past decade is
2.18 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  