-- Treasuries Little Changed as Earnings Slowdown Tempers Jobs Gain
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-02T21:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/treasuries-drop-as-u-s-economy-adds-jobs-recovery-strengthens.html
Treasuries were little changed,
erasing losses posted after a report showed faster- than-
projected jobs growth last month, as average hourly earnings
were unchanged, raising concern the U.S. economy is struggling
to accelerate.  Benchmark 10-year notes rose earlier today after the
payrolls data, which comes four days before the U.S.
presidential election. The report showed the U.S. added 171,000
jobs in October, compared with a forecast of 125,000 and a
revised 148,000 gain the previous month, while the unemployment
rate rose to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent the month before.  “The rise in yields was just a knee-jerk data being
stronger than expected,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial
economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York, one of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve. “What
we’ve seen since that time is indecisiveness as to what this
data means as far as the election is concerned.”  The  yield  on 10-year notes was little changed at 1.72
percent at 5:02 p.m. New York time, after gaining as much as
five basis points. The 1.625 percent note due in August 2022
traded at 99 6/32.  Thirty-year bond yields climbed one basis point to 2.91
percent, after touching 2.96 percent.  Futures Holdings  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  more than
doubled  their net-long position in 10-year note futures in the
week ending Oct. 30, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Speculative long positions, or bets prices will
rise, outnumbered short positions by 169,456 contracts, the most
this year, on the Chicago Board of Trade. Net-long positions
rose by 90,160 contracts, or 114 percent, from a week earlier.  Treasury trading slowed, with volume reported by ICAP Plc,
the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, at
$112.6 billion through 10 a.m., compared with $208.7 billion
yesterday and $261.3 billion on Oct. 5, the date of the previous
payrolls report. It has averaged $240.5 billion in 2012.  The Treasury is scheduled to sell $72 billion of securities
next week, including $32 billion of three-year notes Nov. 6, $24
billion of 10-year debt Nov. 7 and $16 billion of 30-year bonds
Nov. 8.  “Focus goes immediately to how do we set up for the
auctions next week in light of the election and that fact that
desks are still understaffed,” said Chris Ahrens, an interest-
rate strategist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
a primary dealer. “You will have power next week, but whether
you have these places mopped out and equipment ready to go is a
question mark,” Ahrens said referring to damage in New York
City and the region from  Hurricane Sandy .  Earnings Slows  While employment improved, today’s report showed
compensation lagged behind. Average hourly earnings were
unchanged last month and climbed 1.6 percent in October from the
same time last year, the smallest gain since comparable year-
over-year records began in 2007. Earnings for production workers
rose 1.1 percent in the 12 months to October, the weakest since
records began in 1965.  “It’s nice that more people were employed, which is a
positive and over time can be helpful, the income side of things
was not as robust,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York one of 21 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed. “With hourly earnings flat and the
work-week actually down a tenth compared to the report last
month, it’s a good report, but not a great report.”  U.S. consumer prices increased 2 percent in September from
a year earlier, based on the latest data from the Labor
Department, meaning 10-year notes have a negative real yield.  Inflation Reading  The  difference  between 10-year yields and similar-maturity
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for costs in the economy over the life of the debt,
was 2.48 percentage points. The average during the past decade
is 2.18 percentage points.  Employment and the economy are central themes in the
campaign, with President  Barack Obama  and Republican nominee
 Mitt Romney  each trying to convince voters they can best
energize the expansion and create jobs. The jobless rate had
stayed above  8 percent  since February 2009.  “It probably improves Obama’s prospects,” said Richard Schlanger, who helps invest $20 billion in fixed-income
securities as vice president at Pioneer Investments in  Boston .  Bond investors are better off during the Obama
administration now than four years ago, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch bond index data show.  Debt Returns  From Treasuries to mortgage securities to corporate bonds,
returns on U.S. fixed-income assets have averaged 6.6 percent
throughout Obama’s term, exceeding the 4.6 percent during the
previous four years under George W. Bush, according to Bank of
America indexes. Yields on America’s fixed-income assets yield
nine basis points less than the global average, compared with 51
basis points more back then, the data shows.  U.S. government debt securities have returned 24.7 percent
since the end of October 2008, including reinvested interest, or
5.7 percent a year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Treasury Master Index shows. That compares with 21.6 percent for
government debt worldwide, according to the firm’s indexes.  Fed Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said the
central bank should buy mortgage bonds until the jobless rate
falls to 7.25 percent and hold the target interest rate near
zero until hitting 6.5 percent unemployment.  “As long as inflation and inflation expectations are
expected to remain well-behaved in the medium term, we should
continue to forcefully pursue asset purchases,” Rosengren said
yesterday in a speech in Wellesley,  Massachusetts .  Fed View  The Federal Open Market Committee said on Oct. 24 it will
continue buying $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities each
month, aiming to reduce unemployment. It reiterated that it will
probably keep its benchmark interest rate close to zero at least
through the middle of 2015.  The central bank is also swapping shorter-term Treasuries
in its holdings with those due in six to 30 years. The Fed sold
$7.7 billion of securities maturing from February 2013 to April
2014, according to Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said the Fed
will continue with accommodative monetary policies even with the
U.S. economy adding more jobs than forecast last month.  “There is nothing the Fed can do but continue down this
road,” Gross, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in
a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  