-- Rise in U.S. Unemployment a Sign of Growing Worker Confidence
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-11-02T18:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/rise-in-u-s-unemployment-a-sign-of-growing-worker-confidence.html
Out-of-work Americans may be starting
to believe the labor market has something to offer.  The civilian  labor force , those people who are either
employed or actively looking for work, jumped by 578,000 in
October, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
The number of people unemployed rose by 170,000, pushing the
jobless rate to 7.9 percent from a three-year low of 7.8 percent
in September, the report also showed.  “This is good news because we had gone through a long
period where people were giving up and dropping out of the labor
market,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. Inc. in  New York . “People are feeling a bit
more chipper about the labor market.”  The news of more job opportunities may be triggering a
self-reinforcing cycle of gains in confidence, spending and
hiring that will help spur growth. Household purchases rose in
September by the most in seven months, helping the world’s
largest economy overcome slowdowns in business investment and
exports.  The  participation rate , or the share of the working-age
population in the  labor force , climbed in both October and
September, the first back-to-back gains since early 2010. It had
dropped in August to 63.5 percent, the lowest in more than 30
years, in part because some of those discouraged by futile job
hunts abandoned the search.  About 58.8 percent of the  U.S. population  had a job last
month, the most since August 2009, the report showed.  Household Survey  The  unemployment rate  is derived from a survey of about
60,000 households that is conducted by the Census Bureau and
includes groups like the self-employed and agricultural workers.  A separate Labor Department survey of almost 500,000 work
sites showed employers boosted payrolls by 171,000 last month,
exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  The healing labor market coincides with a surge in  consumer
confidence . The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  sentiment
index  rose last month to the highest level since before the
recession began five years ago. The Conference Board’s  gauge 
reached the highest level since February 2008.  The share of consumers who told the Conference Board jobs
were plentiful in October was the highest since September 2008,
and the share who said there would be more jobs available in
next six months was the highest since March 2011. Confidence
among the unemployed last week was the  highest  since April in
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index survey.  ‘Coming Back’  Confidence measures “signal there is some true improvement
in the labor market,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief economist at
UniCredit Group in New York. “Some frustrated people are coming
back into the labor market because they think they have a chance
to find a job.”  In October, the number of unemployed workers who were not
in the labor force the previous month rose to 3.12 million, the
most in more than a year, Labor Department  data  show. The number
of  discouraged workers , those who have stopped looking for a job
and are therefore not included in the calculation of the
unemployment rate, was 813,000 last month, down from 967,000 in
the same month last year.  And while the jobless rate moved up last month, another
measure of labor market slack pointed to progress. The so-called
underemployment rate -- which includes part-time workers who’d
prefer a full-time position and people who want work but have
given up looking -- decreased to 14.6 percent, the lowest level
since April.  “The labor market has started to strengthen again, and
it’s going to improve further,” Bandholz said. “The latest
information we’ve received confirms that view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  