-- Rochdale Said to Seek Capital Lifeline After Trading Error
-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-11-02T17:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/rochdale-said-to-seek-capital-lifeline-after-trading-error.html
Rochdale Securities LLC , the 37-year-
old brokerage that employs bank analyst Dick Bove, is seeking a
capital injection after a trading error, said three people with
knowledge of the firm’s situation.  Executives at Rochdale are telling employees and potential
investors that a trader made an unauthorized purchase of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  shares, which has eroded the capital of closely held
Rochdale, said one of the people, who requested anonymity
because the overtures have been private.  Rochdale bought more Apple shares than the brokerage’s
management intended around the technology company’s Oct. 25
earnings report, two of the people said. Rochdale officials told
employees that a rogue trader amassed the position, one of the
people said.  Smaller brokerages are becoming more vulnerable as money
managers buy and sell fewer securities and execute more
transactions electronically. Led by President Daniel J. Crowley,
Rochdale had $3.44 million of capital at the end of last year,
according to a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The firm approached potential investors over the weekend,
including rival brokerages, said two of the people.  Research Services  Rochdale has provided trading and research for
institutional clients since 1975 and doesn’t do  investment
banking , according to the  Stamford , Connecticut-based company’s
 website . Its most visible analysts include Bove, who covers the
biggest U.S. banks.  In May 2008, months before the peak of the financial
crisis, Bove reduced his ratings to sell on Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Merrill Lynch & Co. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
citing concern that earnings would falter. Lehman collapsed four
months later, filing the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history, and
Merrill sold itself to Bank of America Corp.  Crowley didn’t return phone calls today seeking comment.
Apple, based in Cupertino, California, forecast profit last week
that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  