-- Romania Central Bank Leaves Key Rate on Hold for 5th Meeting
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-11-02T14:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/romania-central-bank-leaves-key-rate-on-hold-for-5th-meeting-2-.html
Romania left  interest rates  unchanged
at a record low for a fifth meeting as policy makers weigh a
faltering economic recovery against a temporary jump in
inflation and turn to other means to prop up the leu.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei kept its policy rate at a
record-low 5.25 percent, the second-highest in the European
Union, according to an e-mailed statement today. The decision
matched the estimates of all 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “An updated forecast shows inflation will stay above the
targeted band until the second half of next year” and “under
these conditions, the bank’s board decided to keep the rate
unchanged to anchor efficiently inflationary expectations and
firmly manage banking sector liquidity,” Governor Mugur Isarescu said today.  The central bank has kept borrowing costs on hold since
May, when it stopped cutting rates after political turmoil
knocked the leu to a record low and a drought pushed inflation
to its fastest in a year in September. The recent pickup in
inflation is “transitory,” Isarescu said in Warsaw on Oct. 18.  “Although inflation is envisaged to stay outside the
variation band around the target by the end of 2013, we believe
that it won’t react to these supply shocks by raising the key
rate,” Florentina Cozmanca, a senior economist at RBS Bank
Romania, said in a note after the decision.  Leu Movements  The leu touched a one-month high after the rate
announcement and traded at 4.5296 per euro as of 4:34 p.m. in
Bucharest. Today’s advance extended gains this week to 0.6
percent, the second-best performer after the Polish zloty among
central and eastern European currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
after the central bank limited liquidity to commercial lenders
for a fourth week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Isarescu said the central bank is limiting liquidity at
weekly repurchase operations and intervening in the foreign-
exchange market to prop up the currency.  The bank’s operation “is obvious and it means that the
action is efficient,” he said. “We are no longer prudent”
since the bank started a firm liquidity management and “this
reflects a tightening of the monetary policy.”  Policy makers will probably continue to cap weekly
liquidity offered to commercial banks to support the currency,
Banca Comerciala Romana SA economist Eugen Sinca said in an e-
mailed note after the rate announcement. He expects the leu to
trade at 4.55 per euro in December.  Inflation Report  The central bank also approved its quarterly inflation
report, which will be published Nov. 7, according to the
statement. It said it left its minimum  reserve requirements  on
foreign-exchange deposits at 20 percent and the ratio for leu
deposits at 15 percent.  “It’s important to observe the central bank change of
language regarding the liquidity management in Romanian banking
system: the term was changed from ‘‘adequate’’ to ‘‘firm,’’
suggesting that we could expect that the bank will continue to
cap the amounts borrowed to commercial banks through repo
operations,” RBS’s Cozmanca said.  Central banks in the region are cutting rates to boost
their economies. Hungary cut its main interest rate on Oct. 30
for a third month to 6.25 percent and may consider further
easing on concern about a recession, while the Czechs lowered
their main rate to a record-low 0.05 percent yesterday.  Rate Decisions  Romanian policy makers lowered rates 1 percentage point
before pausing on May 2 after the government collapsed and
economic growth slowed.  Gross domestic product  will grow 0.9
percent this year, compared with 2.5 percent last year,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Inflation accelerated more than forecast to 5.3 percent,
the fastest in more than a year in September, as rising food and
energy costs threaten to push price growth above the central
bank’s target for this year. The bank has a 2012 inflation
target of 2 percent to 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  