-- Romania Leu Gains to One-Month High as Key Rate Kept Unchanged
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-11-02T15:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/romania-leu-gains-to-one-month-high-as-key-rate-kept-unchanged.html
The leu rose to the strongest in a
month after  Romania ’s central bank kept its policy rate
unchanged at the second-highest level in the European Union and
said it was limiting funding for lenders to support the
currency.  The currency appreciated less than 0.1 percent to 4.5304
per euro by 5:12 p.m. in Bucharest, the highest on a closing
basis since Oct. 2. Today’s advance extended this week’s gain to
0.6 percent, the second-best among central and eastern European
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei left its main interest rate
unchanged at a record low of 5.25 percent for the fifth
consecutive month today, matching the estimates of all 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Governor Mugur Isarescu said
today he is limiting funding at weekly repo and intervening in
the foreign-exchange market to prop up the currency.  “The central bank felt forced to tighten the monetary
policy reins,” after the leu weakened 0.8 percent in the first
week of October, Thu Lan Nguyen, a Frankfurt-based foreign-
exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG, said in an e-mailed note
today.  Price increases quickened to an annual 5.3 percent in
September, the highest in more than a year. The recent pickup in
inflation is “transitory,” Isarescu said in Warsaw on Oct. 18.  Policy makers tightened a cap on lending to commercial
banks to 4 billion lei ($1.1 billion) on Oct. 29, compared with
6 billion lei on Oct. 8 to support the leu, which fell to a two-
month low on Oct. 5.  Lower Rates  Central banks in the region, including the Czech Republic
and  Hungary , are cutting rates or considering lowering borrowing
costs to boost their economies. Hungary cut its main  interest
rate  on Oct. 30 for a third month to 6.25 percent and may
consider further easing on concern a recession is taking hold,
while the Czech central bank cut its main rate to close to zero
yesterday.  The Bucharest-based statistics institute will release flash
estimates for the country’s third-quarter gross domestic product
on Nov. 15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on 2018 euro-denominated bonds rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.63 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  