-- Romney Duels With Obama on Voter Pitches in CNN Opinion Pieces
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-11-02T15:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/romney-duels-with-obama-on-voter-pitches-in-cnn-opinion-pieces.html
As the 2012 campaign reached its
final weekend, Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  argued for a
change from President  Barack Obama ’s economic policies, while
the incumbent said the challenger’s proposals were those that
led to the economic downturn in the first place.  The two men made their contrasting arguments in dueling CNN
opinion pieces. The two candidates are locked in a White House
race that polls call a dead heat. Election Day is Nov. 6.  Romney  reiterated  his call for increasing domestic energy
supplies, including oil and gas; cutting federal spending on
domestic programs while raising defense outlays; promoting more
trade, and removing regulations on business, all of which he
said would be in contrast to Obama’s programs.  Obama  said  Romney would return the country to where it was
under President George W. Bush, who left office with the U.S. in
the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Instead,
Obama argued, the nation should follow former President Bill Clinton’s approach and ask the wealthiest to pay more in taxes
to fund education and job training, and to reduce the  deficit .  “The path Governor Romney offers is the one we tried for
eight years after President Clinton left office -- a philosophy
that says those at the very top get to play by a very different
set of rules than everyone else,” Obama wrote. “Bigger tax
cuts for the wealthy that we can’t afford. Encouraging companies
to ship jobs and profits overseas. Fewer rules for big banks and
insurance companies. They’re the policies that caused this mess
in the first place.”  Finishing Job  Obama said the key to improving the economy was to help the
middle class.  “When these Americans do well, America does well,” Obama
said. “That’s the change we need right now. It’s time to finish
what we’ve started.”  Romney, a former governor of  Massachusetts , criticized
Obama for proposed cuts to the defense budget. Known as the
sequester, the legislation requires $1.2 trillion in automatic
spending reductions over a decade -- half of which would affect
the Defense Department -- unless Congress comes up with an
alternative deficit-reduction plan.  Romney’s running mate, Wisconsin Representative Paul Ryan,
backed the plan as part of a bipartisan deal to reduce the
deficit.  Soldiers’ Mission  “Our soldiers should never lack the tools they need to
complete their mission and come home safely,” Romney wrote. “I
have always believed that the first purpose of a strong military
is to prevent war. And preventing war is a supreme national
interest.”  He pledged to work on a bipartisan basis to pass
legislation, calling attention to his ability to deal with a
Democratic legislature as governor of Massachusetts.  “I was always ready to reach across the aisle and I can
proudly point to the results,” Romney wrote. “I’ve learned
that when we come together to solve problems in a practical
spirit, we can accomplish miracles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 