-- Rothschild Said to Hire Morgan Stanley for Rival Bumi Plan
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-11-02T17:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/rothschild-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-for-rival-bumi-proposal.html
Nathaniel Rothschild , who quit the
board of Bumi Plc last month, has appointed Morgan Stanley to
advise him on a plan to counter a $1.2 billion proposal for the
assets of the London-traded Indonesian coal producer, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Rothschild, who founded Bumi with  Indonesia ’s Bakrie family
in 2010, has held talks with potential new investors as well as
holders in Bumi, the person said, requesting anonymity as the
discussions are private. The plan, which is at an advanced
stage, would remove the Bakries, Chairman Samin Tan and PT
Recapital Asset Management as Bumi investors, the person said.  A move by Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old banking
dynasty, to counter the Bakries’ offer for Bumi’s assets would
intensify a feud that started last year. On his resignation from
the Bumi board following a dispute with the Bakries, one of
Indonesia’s most powerful families, he said bringing them to
London was a “matter of great regret.”  “Anything that he puts forward would have to be better or
more concrete in terms of financing than the existing offer from
the Bakries,”  Richard Knights , a London-based analyst at
Liberum Capital Ltd., said by phone today. “The board of Bumi
Plc should assess any offer on its merits and I’m sure they’ll
assess it as such.”  The group led by Rothschild, 41, isn’t planning a rival bid
to the Bakrie family’s $947 million offer for Bumi’s 85 percent
stake in  PT Berau Coal Energy Tbk. (BRAU)  The financier and his
associates are seeking to maintain a U.K. listing and resolve
corporate governance issues, the person said.  Bumi Statement  Bumi hasn’t received any proposal from Rothschild, the
company said in a statement. The hiring of Morgan Stanley was
earlier reported by  Sky News .  The stock rose 14 percent in  London  trading, the biggest
gain in three weeks, to close at 283 pence. Spokesmen for
Rothschild, the Bakrie Group and Morgan Stanley declined to
comment. Berau Coal Energy jumped 17 percent in Jakarta trading
today, valuing the company at about $870 million.  The Bakries, who run a palm-oil-to-property empire that
started in Sumatra in 1942, last month offered to buy all of the
assets of London-listed Bumi in a bid to help resolve
“irreconcilable differences” with Rothschild and his fellow
founders. That would completely unwind the $3 billion deal
struck by the financier and the Bakries in 2010 to create a
London listing for the two Indonesian coal producers.  Probing ‘Irregularities’  The $1.2 billion proposal from the Bakries, described by
Rothschild as not being in the interests of investors, came
almost three weeks after  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  started a probe into potential
financial “irregularities” at its Indonesian investments.  Bumi Plc supports a plan to exit its 29 percent stake in  PT
Bumi Resources (BUMI) , Indonesia’s biggest coal producer, as it seeks
to sever ties with the Bakries, two people familiar with the
matter said last month.  Bumi Plc isn’t currently considering the Bakries proposal
to buy within six months its stake in Berau Coal Energy, the
people said. The London-traded company hasn’t ruled out
accepting a more formal bid for Berau in the future, they said.  Bumi Plc said earlier today in a separate statement it had
appointed Rothschild Group as its financial adviser, after
saying Oct. 17 it had hired the bank to evaluate the Bakries’
proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  