-- Rotting Mangoes Find Home in Garbage as New York City Cleans Up
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/rotting-mangoes-find-home-in-garbage-as-new-york-city-cleans-up.html
Dozens of green shopping carts filled
with ruined food -- bananas, mangoes, lettuce -- were unloaded
into garbage trucks in the parking lot of Fairway Market, a
grocery near the water’s edge in the Red Hook neighborhood of
 Brooklyn .  The scene yesterday in one of the areas hardest hit by
superstorm Sandy is playing out across the five boroughs, as the
most populous U.S. city cleans up from the damage inflicted by
hurricane-force winds and  storm surge  that reached a record 14
feet. The majority of Red Hook’s waterfront warehouses and port
facilities are in the city’s high-risk flood zone.  “Today was more about trying to get the community back on
its feet, rather than business,” said Matt Lewis, co-owner of
Baked, a bakery on the neighborhood’s main street. In an area
still mostly blacked out, it was one of the few businesses with
power and able to open. The tables were filled with customers
using laptops and recharging phones from power strips.  New York, a city of 8 million, is reeling after the storm
inundated transit tunnels and underground utilities Oct. 29.
Sandy, the largest tropical system measured in the Atlantic,
killed at least 90 people in the U.S., including at least 38  New
Yorkers , and knocked out power to as many as 8.5 million homes
and businesses along the East Coast.  Throughout Red Hook, residents and business owners spoke of
the community spirit that was bringing people out to ask how
they could help clean up. Generators noisily powered pumps
emptying water out of basements along Van Brunt Street, the main
shopping area.  ‘Typical’ NY  “Typical New York City stuff -- everybody’s helping each
other out,” said Ralph Gorham, owner of the Red Hook Lobster
Pound. By flashlight, he showed the damage to the store’s food
truck, parked in the company’s commissary across the street.
There was still seawater in a box that held metal pots.  Closer to the water’s edge, workers at  Steve’s Authentic 
Key Lime Pies had just arrived to assess the damage. Work
stations, equipment and frozen desserts were scattered through
the kitchen.  Steve Tarpin, the owner, said the shock of the storm
devastated him and his neighbors. The first thing they did was
drink heavily, he said, along with “most of the neighborhood.”  “You can quote me on that,” he said, standing amid the
ruin of his shop. “Then we sobered up” and began to rebuild.  Tarpin’s food losses were limited -- a fortunate aspect of
making fresh pies, he said. As he spoke, a worker tossed graham
cracker crusts into the garbage. At the same time, new equipment
was ruined, including a machine delivered only a few weeks ago,
he said.  Back on Van Brunt Street, city sanitation workers collected
debris and garbage. About a dozen people stood outside an art
gallery, awaiting a community meeting to plan the next steps in
the neighborhood recovery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  