-- S&P 500 Advances in Shortened Week Ahead of Elections
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-11-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/s-p-500-advances-in-shortened-week-ahead-of-elections.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
in a three-day trading week, as the market reopened after
 Hurricane Sandy  caused the longest weather-related shutdown
since 1888, and American voters prepared to choose a president.  Equities retreated on the last day of the week as a better-
than-forecast payrolls report failed to keep technology and
commodity shares from slumping.  Visa Inc. (V)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
climbed at least 3.6 percent as earnings beat projections.
Macy’s Inc. rallied 5.5 percent after raising its sales
forecast.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sank 4.5 percent, capping a sixth weekly
decline, the longest losing streak since October 2008.  The S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,414.20 for the week. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid 14.05 points, or 0.1 percent,
to 13,093.16. The equity market was closed Oct. 29 and 30.  “You have the hurricane, the election, the employment
report and the earnings numbers all impacting the market,”
 David Sowerby , a fund manager at Boston-based Loomis Sayles &
Co., said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees about $175
billion. “Earnings continue to surprise on the upside. We’ve
had a slight improvement in manufacturing. That’s favorable for
stocks.”  The S&P 500 gained as 71 percent of companies that released
quarterly  results  have beaten analysts’ estimates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Reports showing better-than-forecast
manufacturing data and a surge in consumer confidence gave
benchmark indexes their biggest gains in seven weeks on Nov. 1.
Hiring in the U.S. increased more than forecast in October as
employers looked past slowing global growth and political
gridlock at home.  Jobs Report  The employment data was the last before the Nov. 6
election, as voters decide between giving President Barack Obama
another four years in office or changing course with Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney .  “The jobs report was a very solid, positive report,”
Darrell Cronk, the New York-based regional chief investment
officer at Wells Fargo Private Bank, which oversees $169
billion, said in a telephone interview. “The business community
is showing some moderation in their hiring and a little tepid
with their concern of Hurricane Sandy and the election. But the
consumer through stronger data is showing us that they’re
willing to jump back in and seek out a job.”  Stocks have on  average  rallied 3 percent in the two months
following Election Day after a tight race, according to Thomas J. Lee, the chief U.S. equity strategist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., who cited historical data from the last five elections with
close contests. The equity market gains even more if the
challenger wins, he said.  Economic Stimulus  The  S&P 500  climbed 15 percent from a June low to a four-
year high on Sept. 14 as central banks around the world stepped
up stimulus to boost the economy. The benchmark gauge for
American equities has surged 12 percent this year.  Companies which are most-tied to the pace of the economy,
including industrial, consumer discretionary and financial
shares, had the biggest gains among 10 S&P 500 groups for the
week. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index rallied 2.4 percent.  Visa jumped 3.7 percent to $143.40. The world’s biggest
payments network posted a fiscal fourth-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as the company reversed $627 million in
previously recorded tax reserves.  GM surged 11 percent to $25.79. The largest U.S. automaker
reported third-quarter  profit  that surpassed analysts’ estimates
by more than 50 percent and said it wants to break even in
Europe by mid-decade.  Record Earnings  Ford Motor Co. (F)  advanced 7.8 percent to $11.17. The second-
largest U.S. automaker reported its 14th consecutive profitable
quarter as its North America unit delivered  record  earnings that
made up for higher taxes and losses in Europe.  Macy’s (M)  gained 5.5 percent to $40.61. The second-biggest
U.S. department-store chain said comparable-store sales in the
second half of the year will gain about 4 percent, up from a
previous estimate of about 3.7 percent.  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  climbed 11 percent to $6.06. The
insurer beat third-quarter estimates and posted a narrower loss
at the unit backing home loans. Acting Chief Executive Officer
Martin Klein said the company plans to sell businesses to raise
funds that can be used to cut debt and buy back shares.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  surged 11 percent to $76.90. Billionaire  Carl
Icahn  acquired almost a 10 percent stake in the operator of the
largest online video streaming service, and is considering ways
to maximize value.  Apple Tumbles  Apple tumbled 4.5 percent to $576.80 after Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  embarked on a sweeping management overhaul at
the world’s most valuable company. The shares have tumbled 18
percent since Sept. 19, trimming this year’s advance to 42
percent.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  slumped 3.5 percent to $24.55. The world’s
biggest drugmaker narrowed its 2012  forecast  after reporting
third-quarter earnings that met analyst estimates and sales that
fell short of expectations. The company also said it was buying
back as much as $10 billion in shares.  Western Union Co. (WU)  plunged 33 percent to $11.95. The world’s
biggest money-transfer business cut its profit forecast for
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  