-- San Bernardino Says It Chopped $29 Million From Deficit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-11-02T23:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/san-bernardino-says-it-chopped-29-million-from-deficit.html
Bankrupt San Bernardino, California,
officials said in a status report released today that they’ve
eliminated about $29 million from the city’s  budget deficit , and
are making progress “toward fiscal stability.”  City administrators also asked a U.S. bankruptcy judge
supervising their Chapter 9 case in Riverside to set a status
conference within 45 days to help resolve objections to their
decision to seek court supervision.  “The city has made expenditure reductions that
substantially reduce its staggering $48.5 million budget
deficit,” resulting in “a remaining projected budget deficit
of about $16.03 million for the current fiscal year,” wrote
City Attorney Paul Glassman the eight-page report.  He said city staff “are diligently working” to develop a
plan for a balanced budget for this fiscal year. Among the cost
savings were budget cuts, “revenue offsets” and “adjusted net
transfers,” according to court papers. The city also said it
saved money by deferring payments to the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , apparently the city’s biggest
creditor.  San Bernardino, with about 200,000 people, lies about 60
miles (97 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles . It’s the third
California city to file bankruptcy since June.  Under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  -- used by
governmental entities that can’t pay their debts -- a
municipality must prove that it is eligible for court protection
from creditors.  In the status report, the city said that without court
protection from creditors, it wouldn’t be able to pay employees,
and service debt for police cruisers, fire engines, or garbage
trucks to protect the health and safety of its citizens.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  