-- Sandy to Slow October Home Sales in the U.S. Northeast
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-11-02T17:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/sandy-to-slow-october-home-sales-in-the-u-s-northeast.html
Existing-home sales, a market
indicator followed by economists and analysts, probably will
slow in the U.S. Northeast for the rest of 2012 as superstorm
Sandy disrupts deals, the National Association of Realtors said.  “Closings may be delayed, and a lot occur at the end of
the month,”  Walter Molony , a spokesman for the group, which is
scheduled to report October sales on Nov. 19, said in a
telephone interview from  Washington . “In theory, you wouldn’t
see the impact just in October sales. You’d see it in subsequent
months.”  Sandy made landfall on Oct. 29, knocking out power,
communications and transportation services in parts of New
Jersey,  New York , Pennsylvania,  Delaware  and other northeastern
states. Some local multiple listing services that supply data to
the Chicago-based Realtors association may be incapacitated,
while sales elsewhere won’t be completed because of bank and
other business disruptions, Molony said.  An index of pending home sales for September jumped 26
percent in the Northeast, the biggest gain of any region, the
Realtors association reported Oct. 25.  Contracts to buy  existing
homes increased 15 percent nationwide, the 17th consecutive
increase from a year earlier.  Existing homes  sold at an annual pace of 4.75 million
nationwide in September, up 11 percent from a year earlier and
the 15th consecutive increase on an annual basis, according to
the group. The Northeast accounted for 12 percent of U.S. sales
in September.  Sandy inflicted as much as $50 billion in damage, according
to Eqecat Inc., a provider of catastrophic risk models. Homes
accounted for about 55 percent of the insured property hurt by
the storm. About 34 percent of the damage occurred in New York,
30 percent in  New Jersey , 20 percent in Pennsylvania and the
remainder in other states hit by Sandy, Eqecat reported
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  