-- Sandy Leaves House Floating in Bay Amid N.J. Devastation
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-11-02T21:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/sandy-leaves-house-floating-in-bay-amid-n-j-devastation.html
A house floats on Barnegat Bay in
Mantoloking, propelled a mile from its foundation by superstorm
Sandy. Across the waterway, which separates mainland  New Jersey 
from two washed-out barrier islands, a yacht sits atop a motor
boat in a pile of debris left by a raging tidal surge.  The devastation in Mantoloking, an upscale community in
Ocean County, is among the worst along the state’s coast from
the biggest Atlantic storm in history. Rows of bay-front
mansions were inundated, and at least six -- including the one
with brown cedar shakes floating near the Mantoloking Bridge --
sit in the water or on the lawns of other properties.  “Our fear has always been that if we took a direct hit
that the barrier islands and all the houses down here would get
hit back,” said Bob Lake, 67, of nearby Brick as he led a
three-hour boat tour of the area yesterday for a Bloomberg
reporter. “Nobody expected this. This is beyond even
comprehension.”  New Jersey’s oceanfront communities were among the hardest
hit by Sandy, which splintered boardwalks and leveled vacation
homes up and down the state’s 127-mile coastline. At least 14
people died in the Garden State from the storm, part of an
estimated national death toll of at least 96, according to the
 Associated Press .  The storm, which made landfall on Oct. 29 near Atlantic
City, caused as much as $50 billion in economic damage
nationwide, according to Eqecat Inc., a provider of catastrophic
risk models.  Shore Attractions   New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  toured the damage in
Mantoloking today, saying 22 homes in the community were
destroyed by gas fires. He expressed disbelief over the scale of
destruction.  “This is unfathomable; you can’t even recognize it,”
Christie told reporters in Brick today after visiting
Mantoloking and walking along its beach. “It was like a scene
out of a disaster movie.”  No bodies have been found in the town and there are no
reports of deaths among those who chose to remain on the islands
during the storm. The superstorm “cut our shoreline in two,”
he said.  From Belmar to the mansions of Mantoloking and south to the
1950s-era motels of Wildwood, shore towns confronted destruction
to beaches and local attractions, the prime economic engine for
New Jersey’s $38 billion-a-year  tourism industry .  ‘Jersey Shore’  Seaside Heights, about 7 miles (11 kilometers) south of
Mantoloking on the same barrier island, had gained fame in
recent years as the location for  MTV ’s hit reality-television
series “ Jersey Shore ,” which depicted the beachfront carousing
of eight housemates.  Now, the boardwalk and amusement pier in Seaside Heights
lie in ruins, with a roller coaster that once entertained
generations of vacationers left dangling into the sea.  “This is going to kill us; it’ll kill our property values
-- I mean, the beach is gone,” Larry Martin, 51, who works for
a software development company, said Oct. 31 as he carted the
soggy contents of his home in Monmouth Beach onto the front
lawn. “I’m going to clean up. I’m going to dry out. And then
I’ll assess what my options are, whether to stay.”  Emergency Shelters  About 6,300 people, many from the barrier islands between
the Atlantic Ocean and Barnegat Bay, remained in state-run
emergency shelters. Almost 1.5 million homes and businesses in
New Jersey, or about 37 percent of the state’s customers,
remained without electricity as of 2 p.m. today, according to
the U.S. Department of Energy.  In Mantoloking, where the median value of houses was $2.5
million as of Sept. 30, according to Zillow Inc.’s Home Value
Index, several properties uprooted by the storm were seen
yesterday strewn about the base of the bridge into town.  A brown, wood-sided mansion lay against the bridge. Another
house, gray with blue shutters, sat askance on the front lawn of
a neighboring property. At least a dozen more homes were
cracked, and a gray house had its garage ripped off.  After the storm, a natural-gas fire erupted in Mantoloking
and yesterday fires still smoldered in the Camp Osborn section
of nearby Brick on the mainland. White smoke from fires could be
seen wafting over the bay.  Barrier Islands  Places such as Seaside Heights and  Atlantic City  to the
south were swamped on Oct. 29 as tidal surges flooded gaps
between the low-lying barrier islands. In some areas, the waters
haven’t fully receded.  In the Point Pleasant Canal north of Mantoloking and
leading into the bay, Lake pointed to a seawall and estimated
that the water was still more than a foot above normal.  During the tour, Lake also showed where the tidal surge at
Mantoloking burrowed under a four-lane road at the base of the
bridge leading into town.  The result was a new inlet that allowed greater volumes of
Atlantic Ocean water to flood into the bay, exacerbating the
flooding from the storm’s surge, he said. Houses that once stood
there were now gone, and water swirled over what was once dry
land.  “When you look at the amount of damage here it’s just
beyond belief, we’re talking about billions upon billions of
dollars,” Lake said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  