-- Sean Penn Hunts Nazi; Schlocky ‘Bay’; Monty Python: Films
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/sean-penn-hunts-nazi-schlocky-bay-monty-python-films.html
Corrupt politicians and juiced-up
chickens take it on the chin in “ The Bay ,” Barry Levinson’s
silly ecological thriller.  The director of “ Diner ” and “ Rain Man ” shoots for
relevance and misses here with the now cliche “found footage”
gimmick, a pollution-is-bad message and an epidemic that leaves
blood-vomiting victims looking like extras from “The Walking
Dead.”  The film begins with a young reporter (Kether Donahue,
among the largely unknown cast) being interviewed via Skype
several years after witnessing the gruesome outbreak of gut-
eating parasites that wiped out a Chesapeake Bay town.  Interspersing her tale-telling with long-suppressed police
surveillance footage, cellphone video and news accounts, “The
Bay” recounts a particularly unhappy Fourth of July weekend
when small-town festivities took a bad turn.  How bad? A woman soaked in a dunk-’em booth erupts in
nasty-looking boils. Townies in a crab-eating contest start
projectile-spewing their innards.  Something, it seems, has infected the water supply, turning
tiny, Sea Monkey-like isopods into intestine munching parasites
the size of Madagascar cockroaches.  Familiarity with “ Jaws ” isn’t needed to peg the greedy
mayor for letting swimmers cavort in a bay polluted with
steroid-laden chicken droppings and radiation.  Fowl Waste  Levinson and screenwriter Michael Wallach transform real-
world concerns -- yes, chicken waste -- into joyless, B-movie
nonsense.  But at least one character has reassuring words.  “I’ve got a town full of dead bodies!” says a panicky
doctor.  “A small town,” responds a Homeland Security agent.
“Let’s keep this in perspective.”  “The Bay,” from Lionsgate and Alliance Films, is playing
in  Boston , New York, Washington D.C.,  Cleveland ,  Detroit  and St.
Louis, and is available on video on demand. Rating: ** (Evans)  Earnest Oddball  Sean Penn powders his face, paints his lips red and does
some Nazi hunting in Paolo Sorrentino’s earnest, oddball “ This
Must Be the Place .”  Dolled up like The Cure’s Robert Smith, with a wispy Andy Warhol monotone, Penn plays Cheyenne, a washed-up New York
rocker living off royalties in a Dublin mansion.  “I suspect sadness is not compatible with sadness” is a
typical observation, stretched by Penn’s breathy delivery beyond
patience.  When the rocker’s long-estranged father dies, the bored
Cheyenne heads stateside, finding purpose by resuming his old
man’s hunt for a concentration camp tormenter.  “I’m looking for a Nazi criminal from Auschwitz,” he says
airily to one of the true-grit Americans he meets along his
journey (if nothing else, “Place” employs some fine character
actors, including Frances McDormand, Harry Dean Stanton, Judd
Hirsch and Joyce Van Patten).  Written by Sorrentino and Umberto Contarello, and shot with
rainy-day grayness by cinematographer Luca Bigazzi, the morose
“Place” wants to say something about humiliation -- the former
rock star is routinely reminded of his has-been status, while
the ex-Nazi apparently had the degradation skills of, well, a
Nazi.  But no amount of playful irony or droll absurdism can
infuse these cartoons with significance. “Place” is no more
credible than an old Nazi’s comeuppance -- a nasty thing to
watch -- at the black-nailed hands of a middle-aged Goth.  “This Must Be The Place,” from The Weinstein Company, is
playing across the U.S. Rating: ** (Evans)  Monty Python  When Graham Chapman (he was the one in Monty Python who
smoked a pipe) died of throat cancer in 1989, at 48, he had not
only written his memoirs; he’d recorded them.  Using the tapes, Bill Jones (the son of Monty Python’s
Terry Jones), Jeff Simpson and Ben Timlett reunited the troupe
and 14 animation companies to tell Chapman’s story in “ A Liar’s
Autobiography: The Untrue Story of Monty Python’s Graham
Chapman .”  They supply no more than the outlines of his life: his
conventional upbringing; his education (in medicine) at
Cambridge, where he met John Cleese; their work as writers for
David Frost; and, eventually, the rise of Monty Python.  Animated Film  This animated feature film also addresses his homosexuality
(if he was going to be a “raging poof,” he said, he would be
“a butch one, with a pipe”) and his alcoholism, which he
eventually beat by going cold turkey.  For more information than that, you’ll have to go to the
book. But the picture offers other compensations.  Though the directors have insisted that this isn’t a Monty
Python film (“it’s a Graham Chapman film”), and the 3-D
animation seldom resembles Terry Gilliam’s animation for the TV
show, it nevertheless captures some of the familiar old insanity
(and blasphemy and obscenity).  The directors have assembled a dialogue between Chapman and
Cleese using voices recorded more than two decades apart. Best
of all is a clip of Cleese intoning words at Chapman’s memorial
service that his friend would have loved:  “Good riddance to him, the freeloading bastard. I hope he
fries.” “Anything for him,” he adds, “but mindless good
taste.”  “A Liar’s Autobiography: The Untrue Story of Monty
Python’s Graham Chapman,” from EPIX and Brainstorm Media, is
playing in Los Angeles,  Seattle  and San Francisco. It opens in
New York on Nov. 9. Rating: *** (Seligman)  (Greg Evans and Craig Seligman are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 