-- Singapore Managers Turn Delivery Men in Labor Crunch: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-11-02T05:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/singapore-managers-turn-delivery-men-in-labor-crunch-economy.html
At Pine Garden’s Cake Pte., Wei Chan
used to have three drivers delivering chocolate and martini-
flavored cakes around  Singapore . Now, the head of the company
transports the goods himself because he can’t get enough workers.  A government push to reduce the city-state’s reliance on
cheap imported labor has led to an emerging shortage of workers
and increased business costs. The squeeze has left Chan with
only one driver, a Chinese national, after he failed to obtain
new permits to replace the other two.  “I can’t accept new orders and my top-tier people are
doing the lowest-end jobs,” said Chan, 40, whose managers also
fill in for the lost drivers at his family’s 28-year-old
Singapore bakery. “I’m fighting for survival and expanding is
definitely not on the cards. Productivity is certainly
compromised.”  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has raised foreign-worker
levies and salary thresholds after Singapore’s population jumped
by more than 1.1 million since mid-2004, driving up property
prices and stoking social tensions. The clampdown has driven the
 jobless rate  to a six-quarter low of 1.9 percent, pushing up
manpower costs and constraining the central bank’s scope to
combat an economic slowdown with monetary easing.  “We are not getting any cheaper as a location and
businesses are getting squeezed from all corners,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore.
“We may approach a labor cliff in about eight years when the
workforce starts to shrink based on current participation rates
and population growth profiles.”  Manpower Shortage  An Association of Small and Medium Enterprises survey shows
more than eight in 10 companies are facing manpower shortages,
while Singapore’s authorities said they rejected more foreigner
work permit applications and renewed fewer existing ones in the
first seven months of 2012. The labor-policy tightening and
efforts to raise wages for service workers from nurses to
cleaners have added to price pressures.  The central bank, which refrained from slowing gains in the
currency in October even after the economy contracted last
quarter, said this week Singapore’s economy will grow at below-
potential levels for a second year in 2013 while a tight labor
market and rising costs of goods and services will add to
inflationary pressures. The island uses the  exchange rate  as its
main monetary policy tool.  The  economy  is forecast by the government to expand 1.5
percent to 2.5 percent in 2012, from 4.9 percent in 2011.  Policy Constraint  “The Monetary Authority of Singapore has alluded that wage
price risks are still there, which is one reason why policy
cannot be loosened,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based
economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “The backlash would
have been that they wouldn’t be able to do it preemptively or
ahead of the curve.”  The  Singapore dollar  has climbed 6.1 percent this year,
among the best performers in  Asia , as the central bank refrained
from joining neighbors from  Thailand  to the  Philippines  in
easing policy to counter the faltering global economy.  In  Europe  today, a report may show U.K. construction output
shrank for a third month in October, according to a survey of
economists. Manufacturing in  Italy  probably contracted at a
faster pace in October, a separate survey showed. In the U.S., a
Labor Department report may show the nation’s jobless rate rose
to 7.9 percent in October, according to economists surveyed.  Growth Curb  Singapore’s tighter labor regime means the country will
forgo 1.3 percentage points of growth this year in an economy
that narrowly avoided a recession, Bank of America Corp.
predicts. The island’s  nominal gross domestic product  has
doubled since 2004 as the population grew more than 26 percent
to 5.3 million.  The population explosion boosted property prices and
strained transportation services in an island about half the
size of Houston, fuelling public discontent that led the ruling
party to its smallest electoral win last year since independence
in 1965. The government responded to citizen dissatisfaction by
imposing tighter regulations on the inflow of foreigners, while
increasing its engagement with citizens on their concerns.  The crunch has led to scams including so-called phantom
workers, where companies pretend to hire locals to boost their
foreigner quota, while others falsely inflate wages to apply for
permits in categories that are subject to less stringent
requirements, the government said.  Sacrificing Opportunities  “The government is acutely aware that there are a lot of
tradeoffs involved,” said Varathan. “It is a choice to bite the
bullet and move a few rungs up on the productivity ladder
because it’s going to be better for Singapore 20 years down the
road, not just in two years.”  The foreign workforce excluding domestic helpers increased
by 34,100 in the first six months of 2012 to 1.03 million,
compared with a 79,800 gain for all of 2011, according to the
Ministry of Manpower. Unit labor costs will probably rise 4
percent to 5 percent this year and 3 percent to 4 percent in
2013, the central bank said. It climbed 3.4 percent in 2011.  “Businesses are constantly complaining about a shortage of
workers, and inflation and wage pressures are building,” said
Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of America. “Singapore is
sacrificing opportunities and the costs would be larger when the
world economy booms again.”  The economy would add about 36,000 more jobs this year than
it is currently creating if the government accommodates
employers’ demands for more overseas workers, Chua estimates.  The government is encouraging companies to turn to locals
to fill the gap. Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in
February the government will partially reimburse businesses for
older Singaporean workers on their payrolls.  Wooing Women  Singapore is subsidizing training for workers to upgrade
their skills and make them more productive. It has also urged
companies to implement flexible arrangements to encourage those
approaching retirement age to stay at their jobs and entice
women with families to rejoin the labor market.  The resident  unemployment rate  was 2.8 percent as of
September, matching the lowest level since 2007. Sixty percent
of residents who were retrenched in the first quarter found jobs
by the end of the second, compared with 50 percent in the
previous period, the Manpower Ministry said in September.  “The resident labor force participation rate has likely
reached a record high in 2012 and there is probably limited
scope for it to rise much further in the short term,” the
central bank said this week. “Demand for low and mid-skilled
workers will run up against a number of supply-side
constraints.”  Risky Strategy?  The government is persisting with its policy shift as it
seeks to meet the goal it set in 2010 to at least double its
productivity growth to between 2 percent and 3 percent annually
until the end of this decade. In an interview with the  Straits
Times  newspaper published last week, acting Minister for
Manpower Tan Chuan-Jin signaled new areas his ministry will next
target for tightening.  “The government is strenuously telling us there is no
turning back,” said Kurt Wee, a vice president at the
Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. “We have told the
government they’re running a high-risk strategy that will
eventually lead to higher prices for consumers and higher living
costs. Policy has been pushed beyond what it should be and it’s
getting vicious out there.”  Combined with the weakening growth outlook, the labor
squeeze is set to crimp employment creation. A survey of 141
companies conducted in September by the Singapore Human
Resources Institute and Remuneration Data Specialists Pte showed
only 56 percent plan to hire next year. Job growth may halve to
about 2 percent annually in the coming years, the Straits Times
said today, citing Lim Swee Say, secretary-general of the
National Trades Union Congress and a cabinet minister.  Chan of Pine Garden’s Cake calls the government’s actions a
“horrible recipe.” His labor costs climbed to the equivalent
of as much as 35 percent of sales from under 30 percent less
than a year ago.  “When you have a piece of sugarcane and you continue
squeezing it, by the end of it, you’ll have nothing left to
squeeze,” he said. “That’s exactly how I would describe the
situation in Singapore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  