-- Singapore Airlines Profit Falls 54% as Cargo Loss Triples
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-11-02T16:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/singapore-air-posts-lower-than-estimated-profit-on-cargo-slump.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  posted a
worse-than-estimated 54 percent drop in quarterly profit after
losses at its cargo unit tripled.  Net income  fell to S$90.1 million ($74 million) in the
three months ended September from S$194.2 million a year earlier,
the airline said in a statement yesterday. Analysts expected a
profit of S$141 million, based on the average of five estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 2.5 percent to S$3.8 billion.  Losses at the cargo unit jumped to S$50 million amid a
global trade slowdown and rising competition from Middle East
carriers. The airline, the world’s second-largest by market
value, said it will further reduce cargo capacity by parking one
of its 13 Boeing Co. 747 freighters for more than a year.  “There’s very weak demand, and it’s very difficult to
change that,” said K. Ajith, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian
Research Ltd. in  Singapore . “SIA is doing the right thing by
cutting cargo capacity.”  UOB-Kay Hian had expected the cargo unit to post a S$37 
million loss for the quarter, he said.  Operating profit at the main airline unit fell 5.6 percent
to S$84 million in the second quarter. The engineering
division’s earnings fell 5.9 to S$32 million, while regional
carrier SilkAir boosted operating profit 46 percent to S$19
million. The figures were derived by subtracting first-quarter
earnings from the first-half results.  Dividend Cut  The airline cut its interim  dividend  to 6 Singaporean cents
from 10 Singaporean cents a year earlier. The 747 freighter will
be parked from January until May 2014, according to a separate
statement. The move follows cuts in long-haul freighter flights
earlier this year.  “The air-cargo market remains badly depressed and the
near-term outlook continues to be challenging,” SIA Cargo
President Tan Kai Ping said in the statement. “Freight rates
have declined to a level where certain flights are no longer
viable.”  Global cargo volumes fell 0.6 percent in September from
August, according to the  International Air Transport Association .
Freight load factors were 45.6 percent in the period.  Singapore Air rose 0.7 percent to S$10.58 in the city-state
yesterday before the release of its results. It’s risen 4.1
percent this year, trailing a 15 percent gain for the benchmark
 Straits Times  index.  Lower Fares  Passenger yield, a measure of average fares, at the main
airline unit dropped 2.6 percent in the quarter as the carrier
lowered ticket prices to lure travelers. Passenger numbers rose
5.1 percent to 4.5 million. The carrier filled 79.8 percent of
seats, matching its break-even  load factor .  “Passenger traffic is slowly growing but yield is under
pressure,” said Andrew Orchard, an analyst at CIMB Securities
Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “For the big legacy carriers, that’s still
the issue.”  Singapore Airlines this week agreed to buy a 10 percent
stake in  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  for A$105 million ($109
million). The company is facing rising competition on Australia-
Europe routes from fast-growing Gulf airlines led by Emirates.
Singapore Air also this year formed long-haul budget unit Scoot.  The carrier said Oct. 24 it would end the world’s longest
non-stop flights, from Singapore to  Newark ,  New Jersey , and  Los
Angeles . It announced plans to buy 25 Airbus SAS aircraft worth
about $7.5 billion at list prices to replace less fuel-efficient
models the same day.  Separately, Japan Airlines Co. yesterday raised its full-
year profit forecast 7.7 percent as cost-cutting efforts help it
weather a slowdown on China routes caused by a territorial
dispute. The carrier expects to make a profit of 140 billion yen
in the year ending March, compared with an earlier forecast of
130 billion yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  