-- Slovenian Parliament Speaker Rejects Bank Plan Vote
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-11-02T14:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/slovenia-to-ask-court-to-prevent-referendum-on-bank-plan.html
Slovenia’s  Parliamentary Speaker
Gregor Virant rejected a move by opposition lawmakers to call a
referendum on the government’s bank stabilization plan, easing
concern the nation may be forced to seek a bailout.  Thirty legislators filed a motion on Oct. 30 to call a
plebiscite on the plan to recapitalize the nation’s banks and
create a wealth fund meant to ease the sale of state assets,
saying they are a “bad solution.” Virant said proponents
failed to follow the rules when they filed the motion on Oct.
30. The wealth fund motion was valid and a referendum will
probably be held in January, Virant said.  “Lawmakers failed to follow rules when they filed the
motion just before midnight on Oct. 30, which means I will not
put the bank plan motion for a vote on the next session of
parliament,” Virant told reporters in Ljubljana today. “It
means there will be no referendum on the bank plan. It is their
mistake and they have to live with it.”  The Adriatic nation would be forced to ask for
international assistance if the two measures are rejected in a
vote called by opposition leaders, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic said on Oct. 31. The government of Prime Minister
 Janez Jansa  will ask the  Constitutional Court  next week to block
the motion for a popular vote on the wealth fund.  Before Virant’s announcement, the Finance Ministry said he
had a “reasonable doubt” over the authenticity of signatures
by lawmakers on the bank plan.  Pushing Plan  Slovenia has been pushing for a bank recapitalization plan,
the creation of a wealth fund and other measures to overhaul the
economy as it seeks to avoid becoming the sixth euro-region
nation after  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Cyprus to
require assistance.  Due to a new political crisis it is very likely that the
credit rating companies will re-assess Slovenia’s credit score,
InterCapital Group, an  asset management company  and brokerage in
Zagreb,  Croatia , said in a report today.  The debt rating may be downgraded again if there is further
deterioration in  economic prospects  or funding conditions
because of “new, substantial domestic economic and financial
shocks from the euro area crisis or the banking sector,” Jaime Reusche and Rebecca Karnovitz, analysts at Moody’s Investors
Service in  New York , said in a Oct. 30 note.  Moody’s cut Slovenia’s credit score to Baa2 in August, two
levels above junk territory and keeps a negative outlook on the
sovereign. Standard & Poor’s rates Slovenia A while  Fitch
Ratings  keeps a A- rating.  Bank Creation  Slovenia’s bank stabilization plan foresees the creation of
a bank that would take non-performing loans from the country’s
ailing lenders amounting to as much as 4 billion euros ($5.16
billion) in exchange for state-backed bonds that would probably
be eligible as collateral for further financing with the
 European Central Bank .  “Should a referendum go ahead in December, the government
will have to seek alternative bank restructuring options,”
Gillian Edgeworth, economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in  London  wrote in
a note to clients yesterday.  Such a move would be “less efficient” as it would also
reduce appetite among foreign buyers for direct investment into
the lenders, Edgeworth said in the note.  If voters reject the plan, Slovenia would probably sell
ailing banks like Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna
Banka Maribor d.d.  for a token 1 euro and leave it to the new
owners to clean up their balance sheets, Sustersic said Oct. 31.  Sufficient Funding  Slovenia has sufficient funding until spring next year
before it would consider asking for aid, Sustersic said, after
the country sold $2.25 billion of 10-year bonds last month.  The sale “staves off the risk of Slovenia becoming the
latest euro area member to seek international assistance,”
Moody’s said in the report. “However, the weak banking sector
and an unsupportive economic environment continue to pose major
risks to the sovereign’s credit profile.”  The referendum request increased Slovenia’s borrowing
costs, especially on the dollar bond sold last month, the
 Finance Ministry  said in a separate statement today.  The yield on the country’s benchmark 10-year dollar bond
sold last month jumped 29 basis points to 5.49 percent on Oct.
31, a day after the referendum request was filed. The rate slid
today by eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.41
percent at 11:58 a.m. in Ljubljana, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  