-- Solyndra Judge’s Approval of Bankruptcy Plan Appealed
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-11-02T20:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/solyndra-judge-s-approval-of-bankruptcy-plan-appealed.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  appealed
a bankruptcy judge’s approval of Solyndra LLC’s plan to exit
court protection and requested an immediate stay to keep the
plan from being implemented.  The agency notified U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in
Wilmington,  Delaware , of its appeal to the U.S. District Court
of Delaware in a court filing yesterday. U.S. District Judge
Gregory M. Sleet set a hearing to be held by telephone on the
government’s appeal for Nov. 5.  The IRS asked for an immediate stay to be placed in effect
to fill the void until the court considers its request to hold
up the plan approval during its appeal. The U.S. can only get an
extension of the stay from the federal court.  The government said in court papers “irreparable harm will
result from denial of the stay” because Solyndra could take
actions to implement the plan which would essentially make its
appeal moot. The IRS is “well aware that an equitable mootness
argument can be fatal by mooting the appeal before the issues
are even heard.”  Walrath approved the plan last month over the government’s
objection that it couldn’t be approved because the principle
purpose of the plan was to allow Argonaut Ventures I LLC and
Madrone Partners LP, Solyndra’s plan sponsors and indirect
owners, to avoid taxes.  Walrath rejected the IRS’s challenge, saying at an Oct. 22
hearing that  tax avoidance  “has to be the primary, most
important part of the plan, and I just don’t see that here.”  Liquidation Plan  Under the plan, Solyndra, the failed solar-panel maker that
received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department loan guarantee
before going bankrupt, will be liquidated. Its parent, 360
Degree Solar Holdings Inc., will exit court protection with so-
called net operating loss carryforwards of as much as $975
million, which it may use against future income, according to
court papers. The potential tax breaks may be as much as $341
million for 360 Degree investors Argonaut and Madrone.  There are “multiple errors” in the  Bankruptcy Court ’s
ruling, the IRS said in papers supporting its appeal. The errors
include its finding that “the plan has legitimate purposes,
instead of determining whether the principal purpose is tax
avoidance.”  The court also failed to ascribe any weight to each purpose
of the plan to see if tax avoidance is the primary one. The U.S.
said much of what the plan accomplishes could be achieved under
a chapter 7 liquidation and thus the court also erred in finding
the plan doesn’t enhance the value of the tax breaks because
they would be lost under such a scenario.  Not Harmed  The IRS, which says its appeal has a “strong likelihood of
success on the merits,” argues the stay should be granted
because Solyndra, Argonaut and Madrone won’t be harmed if it is
put in place.  Solyndra has agreed to extend the 10-day stay that Walrath
put in effect, which ended yesterday, two business days to Nov.
5, due to  Hurricane Sandy , according to court documents.  “An interim stay is not warranted in light of the fact
that the government waited to file its appeal,” and whatever
impact Sandy may have had “does not excuse the government from
sitting on its hands last week and then filing its notice of
appeal and motion for stay pending appeal on the last day” of
the original stay put in place by Walrath, Solyndra lawyers said
in an objection to the IRS’s request to hold up the plan.  Settlement Reached  Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , was forced to shut
down operations and fire most of its 1,100 workers on Aug. 31,
2011. The solar-panel maker reached a $3.5 million settlement,
which was integrated into the plan, with ex-workers who claimed
they didn’t get adequate notice before being fired.  The company’s listed $854.1 million in assets and $867.1
million in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31, 2011.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. It was the first company to receive
a loan guarantee under Obama’s stimulus program.  Under Solyndra’s plan, the government will probably get
nothing for its $528 million claim from the loan guarantee
because creditors ranking ahead of the U.S. won’t be fully
repaid.  Argonaut and Madrone, whose $75 million loan in a February
2011 restructuring supplanted the U.S. as the top priority of
repayment, won’t receive a full recovery on their claims,
according to testimony from financial adviser Eric Carlson at an
Oct. 17 hearing.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington). The appeal is In re
USA v. Solyndra LLC, 12-cv-01380, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  