-- Sony Shares Rise After Maintaining Profit Forecast: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2012-11-02T00:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/sony-shares-rise-after-maintaining-profit-forecast-tokyo-mover.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Japan ’s biggest consumer-
electronics exporter, rose the most in six weeks in  Tokyo 
trading after maintaining its full-year profit forecast as
losses on televisions narrowed.  Sony climbed 3.6 percent, headed for the biggest gain since
Sept. 18, to 948 yen as of 9:11 a.m., trimming its decline this
year to 31 percent. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
advanced 1.2 percent.  The electronics maker will probably post 20 billion yen
($249 million) in net income for the year ending March 31, it
said in a  statement  yesterday, reiterating its previous forecast
even as it posted a seventh straight quarterly loss. Sony’s loss
from making TVs narrowed to 10.2 billion yen in the quarter
ended Sept. 30 from 16.8 billion yen in the previous quarter,
Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato said yesterday.  “The results for the second quarter were slightly better
than expected, and the company maintained the full-year
forecast,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , chief fund manager at Shinkin
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Their restructuring efforts may
bear fruit in the second half.”  Sony is cutting 10,000 jobs and selling assets as Chief
Executive Officer Kazuo Hirai focuses on mobile devices, games
and digital imaging after four consecutive annual losses. The
company sold a chemical-products making unit, stakes in two
display-making ventures and invested in  Olympus Corp. (7733)  to revive
growth after racking up 692 billion yen in losses selling TVs in
the past eight years amid falling demand and competition from
market leader Samsung Electronics Co.  TV Sales Target  The company cut its annual TV sales target to 14.5 million
units from 15.5 million units. The business, slated to post a
ninth consecutive loss this year, will turn profitable next
fiscal year, Kato told reporters.  The second-quarter  net loss  was 15.5 billion yen, Tokyo-
based Sony said in the statement. That compared with the 15.6
billion-yen  average  profit of three analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  The maker of Bravia TVs, PlayStation game machines and Vaio
computers cuts its overall sales forecast to 6.6 trillion yen
from 6.8 trillion yen.  “The operating environment for Sony continued to be severe
primarily due to a slowing of the global economy,” Sony said in
the statement.  Sony is ahead of its plan to turn around the TV business,
Hirai said in October. The company has halved the number of
Bravia models sold in the U.S. and Japan to a combined 39 from
79.  The company ended a TV panel venture with Sharp Corp.
earlier this year after closing down a similar partnership with
Samsung last year as part of efforts to trim costs.  Industrywide TV demand fell 8 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter of this year, according to DisplaySearch,
led by a 77 percent plunge in shipments in Japan. Sony’s
domestic  peers   Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp also posted record
losses last year mainly because of falling demand at the TV
unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  