-- South Africa Vehicle Sales Gain at Fastest Pace in Three Months
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-11-02T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/south-africa-vehicle-sales-gain-at-fastest-pace-in-three-months.html
South African vehicle sales increased
at the fastest pace in three months in October as car rental
companies expanded their fleets, an industry group said.  Sales rose 10.5 percent from a year earlier to 57,845, the
Pretoria-based National Association of Automobile Manufacturers
of South Africa said in an e-mailed statement today. Growth
accelerated from 1.4 percent in September.  Car sales were “supported by strong demand on the part of
the car rental companies,” the association said. That helped
offset the impact of strikes at vehicle manufacturing plants,
which hampered production, it said.  Demand for rental cars has increased along with a rise in
the number of tourists visiting South Africa. The country had
4.4 million visitors in the first half of 2012, 10.5 percent
more than the same period a year ago, according to the Tourism
Ministry.  Passenger-car sales rose 13 percent in October from a year
earlier to 41,621, with rental companies accounting for 18
percent of purchases. Sales of light commercial vehicles, such
as pick-up trucks and minivans, rose 5.4 percent, while heavy
trucks and buses fell 3.2 percent.  Domestic sales will probably increase 10 percent this year,
the association said.  “Negative factors that could influence the new vehicle
market over the balance of the year and in 2013 include rising
inflationary pressures despite subdued economic growth,” the
association said. A decline in the value of the rand may push up
prices, it said.  Vehicle exports fell 3.3 percent to 24,904 last month
mainly due to a decline in demand from  Europe , the association
said.  RGT Smart (RGT)  compiles the data for the industry association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  