-- Steelers Flying Same Day to Play Giants as Storm Shuts Hotel
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-02T15:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/steelers-flying-same-day-to-play-giants-after-storm-shuts-hotel.html
The Pittsburgh Steelers will fly in
and out on the same day they play the  New York Giants  this
weekend because they can’t find an area hotel with power in the
aftermath of  Hurricane Sandy .  With their reserved hotel in Jersey City,  New Jersey , in
the dark in advance of the Nov. 4 game at MetLife Stadium in
East Rutherford, New Jersey, the Steelers were unable to find a
reasonable alternate option, Burt Lauten, a spokesman for the
National Football League team, said in a telephone interview.  Instead, they’ll fly the morning of the game that begins at
4:25 p.m. New York time and return that night to Pittsburgh,
about an hour’s flight away. They received permission from the
NFL, which requires visiting teams to arrive at least one day
before kickoff.  “The Steelers were given permission to travel on Sunday
due to the unique circumstances,”  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for
the NFL, said in an e-mail. “There was a lack of hotel
accommodations and the late afternoon game gives the Steelers
more time on Sunday to travel.”  As of yesterday afternoon, about 1.7 million homes and
businesses in New Jersey remained without power following the
storm that killed at least 12 in the state. Sandy has been
described by weather analysts as the biggest Atlantic storm in
history.  No Trains  The New Jersey Transit train that usually carries about
10,000 fans 2 1/4 miles from Secaucus to MetLife Stadium for NFL
games won’t be running this weekend, Pat Hanlon, a spokesman for
the Giants, said today on Twitter. Bus service from the Port
Authority terminal in New York will be available. NJ Transit
resumed limited commuter-line service today.  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  spoke with New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  in an effort to ensure that the game
wouldn’t divert public resources from the relief and recovery
efforts, said  Brian McCarthy , a spokesman for the league.  “The governor said it would not and was pleased the game
was being played and that the Giants and NFL were saluting first
responders during the game,” McCarthy said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  