-- Steve Coll Wins FT/Goldman Prize for Exxon Mobil Study
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k   a n d   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/steve-coll-wins-48-000-ft-goldman-for-exxon-mobil-study.html
Steve Coll’s “ Private Empire :
ExxonMobil and American Power” (Penguin Press) won the
 Financial Times and Goldman Sachs Business Book of the Year
Award  Thursday night.  Coll is a staff writer at The New Yorker magazine and
president of the New America Foundation, a nonpartisan public-
policy institute in Washington.  He overcame competition from Walter Isaacson’s “ Steve
Jobs ” and four other books to claim the prize, which comes with
30,000 pounds (about $48,000), during a dinner at the Mandarin
Oriental Hotel in Manhattan.  “‘Private Empire’ is forensic, nuanced and extremely well
written,” Lionel Barber, the editor of the Financial Times and
chairman of the judging panel, said in a press release. “It is
the story of  Exxon Mobil (XOM) , one of the world’s most powerful
companies. Through a series of compelling narratives, it covers
Exxon’s huge geopolitical footprint and its influence.”  Coll, who started out as a Wall Street reporter, said in
his acceptance speech that “We live in a world in which we
really have to think holistically about the relationship between
these institutions, our societies, and our politics.”  Five Finalists  Each of the five other finalists received 10,000 pounds
($16,000). They included Isaacson’s biography of the founder of
Apple (published by Simon & Schuster in the U.S. and Little,
Brown in the U.K.), which was written with Jobs’s cooperation
and published just after his death.  The other finalists were:  “Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity and
Poverty” by  Daron Acemoglu  and James A. Robinson (Crown
Business/Profile), which argues that the answer lies in
politics.  “The Hour Between Dog and Wolf: Risk-Taking, Gut Feelings
and the Biology of Boom and Bust” by  John Coates  (Penguin
Press/Fourth Estate), in which a former Wall Street trader
examines whether testosterone and other hormones impair the
judgment of traders.  “What Money Can’t Buy: The Moral Limits of Markets” by
Michael J. Sandel (Farrar, Straus & Giroux/ Allen Lane ), the
Harvard professor’s argument that some things should be beyond
markets.  “Volcker: The Triumph of Persistence” by William L. Silber (Bloomsbury), a biography of the former Federal Reserve
Board chairman.  Judging Panel  This year’s judges were Barber; Vindi Banga, a partner at
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice; Lynda Gratton, a professor at London
Business School; Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American
Action Forum; Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission; Jorma Ollila, chairman of
Royal Dutch Shell; Shriti Vadera, director of Shriti Vadera Ltd.  Goldman Sachs (GS)  and the Financial Times inaugurated the prize
in 2005 to highlight books that provide “the most compelling
and enjoyable insight into modern business issues.” Previous
winners include  Thomas Friedman ’s “The World Is Flat”; Mohamed El-Erian’s “When Markets Collide”; and Raghuram G. Rajan’s
“ Fault Lines .”  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater  and  Greg
Evans  on  movies .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net ;
Hephzibah Anderson in London at 
 handerson68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  