-- Superstorm Sandy’s Record Damages Reach Bond Market: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/superstorm-sandy-s-record-damages-reach-bond-market-muni-credit.html
Local-debt investors absorbing the
steepest  annual issuance jump  in almost a decade are bracing for
added sales to pay for damage that  Hurricane Sandy  caused to the
New York metropolitan region.  From  New Jersey  coastal towns where the storm hit Oct. 29
to the area’s transit network, investors are tallying the costs.
The New York vicinity’s public-transportation infrastructure,
including the city’s 108-year-old subway system, may suffer $10
billion in physical losses from a storm such as Sandy, and the
transit tab may reach eight times that amount when including the
economic impact, according to a 2011 state study. That compares
with a $100 billion loss for  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005.  Federal aid probably won’t pay the entire bill, possibly
necessitating bond issuance and fare increases, said Richard
Little, an infrastructure specialist at the University of
 Southern California . For potential borrowers, financing needs
would come at an opportune time, with municipal interest rates
close to the lowest in a generation.  “They could do a short-term borrowing to get some working
capital and roll it into a larger offering later,” said John Hallacy, muni research head at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
New York. “They’d be paying favorable short-term rates.”  Coast Slammed  Sandy slammed into New Jersey with hurricane-force winds.
The storm has killed at least 75 people in the U.S. and left
millions along the East Coast without power.  In New Jersey, the hurricane ravaged shore towns, some of
which may borrow to finance reconstruction, said  Peter Hayes ,
head of muni debt at New York-based BlackRock Inc. The company
oversees $106 billion of local borrowings. NJ Transit, the
nation’s biggest statewide public-transit service, had 25
percent of rail cars damaged.  In New York, the storm flooded subway tunnels and shut the
transit system for most of three days.  The tab may total from $54 billion to $84 billion for New
York’s transportation system, including parts of the subway that
were submerged, according to Klaus Jacob, a special research
scientist at  Columbia University ’s Lamont-Doherty Earth
Observatory and co-author of the 2011  study  on the effect of a
 storm surge  on  New York transit .  100-Year Benchmark  “The essence of that report unfortunately came true,” he
said in an interview. Based on initial reports, he said Sandy
was close to the 100-year storm the study factored in.  New York and its localities are picking up recovery costs
until federal authorities reimburse them, according to Governor
 Andrew Cuomo . While the U.S. would typically cover as much as 75
percent of local recovery costs, because the region has been
declared a major disaster zone it has a chance to tap as much as
100 percent, Cuomo said.  The  Federal Emergency Management Agency  will reimburse New
York 100 percent for the cost of emergency transportation, U.S.
Senator  Charles Schumer  at a briefing yesterday in  Manhattan . At
the same time, he said this week that FEMA has only $7.2 billion
in its  disaster relief  fund.  “There’s obviously going to be some federal disaster
relief because of the national significance of getting New York
up and operating,” said Little, a senior fellow at the Los
Angeles-based Sol Price School of Public Policy. “There is no
way they’re going to recover this at the fare box.”  Reimbursement Expected  Robert Foran, the  New York  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s chief financial officer, said yesterday he doesn’t
expect to have to borrow because of Sandy.  “At this point we’re not anticipating any external
borrowing to cover this,” he said on a conference call with
reporters. “We fully expect that the operating and capital
costs that we would incur will largely be reimbursed either from
FEMA or from our insurance.”  The MTA has about $31.9 billion of debt among its different
credits, according to Pat McCoy, finance director at the agency.
On Oct. 15 the authority unveiled fare increases designed to
bring in $450 million in annual revenue to help offset costs
such as health care and debt service.  States and local issuers have sold about $298 billion of
fixed-rate, long-term debt this year, up 46 percent from the
same period of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It would
be the steepest annual jump since at least 2003, fueled in part
as cities and towns retire higher-cost debt with yields close to
the lowest since 1967.  Phased In  Hallacy predicted repairs would come in phases, with
initial work to get the subway line operating safely followed by
improvements, some of which may have been under consideration
before the storm. Work may eventually include steps to bolster
the system against future storms, he said.  A “Sandy surcharge” could also be used to attract outside
investors to help finance the bill, said Little.  “Politically I see that as problematic,” he said. “Every
time they raise fares in the city, there is strong political
opposition. But you wouldn’t see private investors put up money
without some way to recover their investment.”  In trading yesterday, the  interest rate  on AAA tax-exempts
maturing in 30 years fell about 0.1 percentage point to 2.85
percent, touching the lowest since July 31, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  