-- U.K. Home Prices to Rise Most Since 2009 on Midlands Gain
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-11-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/u-k-home-prices-to-rise-most-since-2009-on-midlands-gain.html
U.K.  home prices  will rise 2 percent
next year as markets outside the affluent London and southeast
region start to recover from four years of declines, property
broker Hamptons International said.  Gains in the Midlands and northern  England  will drive the
strongest nationwide price growth since 2009, the  London-based
broker  said in a report today. Values will climb another 2
percent each year through 2015 and 4 percent the following year,
it said.  While home prices have been rising in and around the U.K.
capital, they dropped steadily across much of the rest of
Britain, particularly in northern areas hurt by falling
employment since the onset of the financial crisis. Now values
have fallen to a point where homes are becoming attractive to
buyers again, Hamptons said in the report.  “There’s been four years of negative movement in the North
and the Midlands; now there’s really good value out there,”
Adam Challis, head of research for Hamptons, said in an
interview. “The yawning gap between  London  and the rest of the
country will moderate.”  Prices in the Midlands will gain 3 percent next year, the
most of any U.K. region, according to Hamptons. The north and
south of England will advance 2 percent while values in the
London will be little changed.  London Prices  London prices have risen 24 percent from a May 2009 low as
better job opportunities fueled demand and foreign investors
bought luxury homes to protect their wealth from volatile
markets elsewhere in the world. Homes in the city’s most
expensive neighborhoods recouped their losses following the U.K.
credit crisis and prices are now 15 percent above their March
2008 peak, according to broker Knight Frank LLP.  Those gains are likely to stall next year as buyers are
deterred by increases to property-transaction taxes and concerns
that the government may introduce on annual charge on luxury
properties, Hamptons said.  An improving U.K. economy will also affect prices in 2013,
according to the report. The country exited recession in the
third quarter as gross domestic product surged the most in five
years, boosted by the London 2012 Olympic Games.  “There’s a modest improvement in the broader economic
backdrop and lending environment,” Challis said. “Consumer
sentiment has been severely eroded over the past few years and
it’ll take more than one quarter of good news to turn that
around.”  Residential real estate prices in England and  Wales  are
down 11 percent from the November 2007 peak, according to the
U.K. Land Registry. The average home was valued at 162,561
pounds ($262,780) in September, a gain of 7 percent from an
April 2009 low.  Around 720,000 transactions will be completed in England,
 Scotland  and Wales in 2012, Hamptons estimates. That’s about
half the number of sales before the slump, Challis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  