-- U.K. Airport Study to Weigh Moving Heathrow Over M25 Highway
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-11-02T16:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/u-k-airport-study-to-examine-moving-heathrow-across-m25-highway.html
A U.K. study into retaining London’s
status as a hub for international travel will consider options
including expanding  Heathrow airport  via the construction of
four new runways above the M25 motorway, in addition to long-
standing plans such as an island terminal in the Thames estuary.  Options for upgrading Heathrow, hemmed in by housing on
three sides and London’s ring road on the west, will be fully
explored as the Airports Commission seeks “plausible” ways of
adding capacity, Chairman  Howard Davies  said. Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s coalition government has ruled out any decision
to expand  Europe ’s busiest hub during the current Parliament.  “The government has made it clear that we can relook at
those options,” Davies said at press conference in London today
at which he detailed the probe’s objectives. “The coalition
commitment not to go forward with those options during the life
of this Parliament is firm, but options after that are open.”  The construction of a third runway at Heathrow north of the
current site will be evaluated, Davies said, together with more
novel options such as linking Cardiff airport in  Wales  to London
via a high-speed rail line. The plan to expand Heathrow to the
west, proposed last month by the Policy Exchange research group,
entails building 3-kilometer (2-mile) long runways over the M25
and Wraysbury reservoir, thereby reducing the impact on housing.  Terminals Retained  Heathrow attracted 69.4 million passengers in 2011 and is
operating close to the capacity of its two runways. The Policy
Exchange initiative would increase the limit to 130 million
people a year using all existing passenger facilities, except
Terminal 4. One new building would be required toward the west
of the site, where Wraysbury reservoir would be filled in.  “It is not technically difficult to construct such an
airport,” according to the report published Oct. 5, which put
the project’s cost at about 10 billion pounds ($16 billion).
“The runways would run above the M25, as happens at Atlanta,
Paris  Charles de Gaulle , Manchester and other airports.”  Heathrow Airport Ltd., formerly BAA, said it is hopeful the
Davies Commission will help establish a consensus on the need to
expand capacity before rigorously assessing the alternatives.
“None of the options for hub airport capacity is easy,” it said.
“Every choice, including doing nothing, has its consequences.”  Cameron ’Open’  Stewart Wingate, chief executive officer at London Gatwick
airport, the busiest in the world with a single runway, said
today that his site south of London is ripe for development.  “A new runway at Gatwick could be more affordable and
practical than other options,” he said in a statement. “We
would have a significantly lower environmental impact when
compared, for example, to a third runway at Heathrow.”  Cameron, who ordered the study amid pressure from business
to abandon his pledge ruling out the expansion of Heathrow, has
indicated he’ll examine its findings “with an open mind,” Davies
said. Still, expanding Heathrow might require the premier’s
Tories to win an outright majority at the next election, since
their Liberal Democrat coalition partners voted on Sept. 23 to
reject building new runways at any of London’s main airports.  Island Option  London Mayor  Boris Johnson , a party colleague of Cameron’s,
also opposes any new runway at an existing site and favors
construction of a wholly new hub on a sandbank in the Thames
estuary east of the capital, dubbed “Boris Island.”  Ex-Transport Secretary Justine Greening, who represents a
district under the Heathrow flight path and had opposed its
growth, was replaced by Patrick McLoughlin in a cabinet
reshuffle in September. Johnson said at the time that the move
might indicate Cameron was planning to press ahead with
expanding the airport, something he described as “madness.”  Short-Term Boost  Transport Minister Simon Burns committed to accepting the
findings of the Davies study last month at the Airport Operators
Association conference. The Department for Transport is
“convinced that it will deliver,” according to an e-mail today.  Davies will submit an interim report on options for
preserving  London ’s hub status next year while making
recommendations on boosting capacity on existing runways over
the next five years. Measures might include night flights and
“mixed mode” operation, in which runways are used for take-
offs and landings simultaneously.  A final report is due no later than summer 2015, after the
next election, and will recommend a long-term strategy and the
best way of implementing it, Davies said at the press briefing.  The former chairman of the U.K. Financial Services
Authority will be assisted by Geoff Muirhead, who ran Manchester
airport until 2010, John Armitt, ex-chairman of the body that
oversaw construction of stadiums for the 2012 Olympics and a
past rail-industry chief, plus erstwhile  BP Plc (BP/)  executive
Vivienne Cox and academics Julia King and Ricky Burdett.  Cox was CEO of BP Alternative Energy, while King has a
background in aerospace engineering and is a member of the
Committee on  Climate Change , an independent adviser to the U.K.
government. Burdett is professor of urban studies at the  London
School  of Economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  