-- Unemployment in U.S. Probably Rose as Companies Curbed Hiring
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-11-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/unemployment-in-u-s-probably-rose-as-companies-curbed-hiring.html
Unemployment probably rose from a
three-year low in October as U.S. employers curbed hiring on
concern growth will suffer if lawmakers fail to avert tax
increases and spending cuts slated to take effect next year,
economists said before a report today.  In the last employment report before next week’s election,
the  jobless rate  climbed to 7.9 percent, the first increase in
three months, from 7.8 percent in September, according to the
median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Payrolls
grew by 125,000 workers last month following a 114,000 gain, the
survey showed.  “We’re adding enough jobs to tread water but not to make
much progress in bringing down the slack that remains,” said
Richard Moody, chief economist at Regions Financial Corp. in
Birmingham,  Alabama . “The labor market is consistent with the
middling growth we’ve seen in the overall economy.”  Employers have little reason to boost staff as global
demand slows and the so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases and
spending cuts raise the risk the expansion will sputter next
year. The report comes before Americans go to the polls on Nov.
6 to decide whether to give President  Barack Obama  another four
years or change course with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  The Labor Department’s figures will be issued at 8:30 a.m.
in Washington. Payroll projections in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from gains of 30,000 to 154,000. An average of 146,000
jobs a month were added in the third quarter.  The report may show private payrolls, which exclude
government jobs, probably climbed by 123,000 in October after
rising 104,000 the prior month, according to the Bloomberg
survey.  Survey Results  Forecasts for the  unemployment rate  ranged from 7.7 percent
to 8 percent. The unemployment rate in September matched the
level when Obama took office in January 2009. It exceeded 8
percent for 43 months prior to September, the longest such
stretch since monthly records began in 1948.  The most recent polls suggest the race for the presidency
is in a dead heat. The Washington Post/ABC News national
tracking poll released Oct. 31 showed Romney and Obama tied at
49 percent among likely voters. An aggregation of national polls
compiled by the website RealClearPolitics also showed a tied
race, with each candidate at 47.4 percent.  Ronald Reagan  is the only president to have been re-elected
since World War II with a jobless rate above 6 percent. The rate
was 7.2 percent on Election Day 1984, having dropped almost 3
percentage points in the previous 18 months. Assuming the rate
is 7.9 percent in October this year, the rate would have dropped
1.1 points in the same period under Obama.  Gaining Confidence  While torn about who will be president, Americans have
grown more optimistic about the U.S. economy, an indication the
labor market may be improving for some.  Spending by households climbed in September by the most in
seven months. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
consumer sentiment  index (S15MACH)  rose last month to the highest level
since before the recession began five years ago. The Conference
Board’s  index  reached the highest level since February 2008.  Businesses, on the other hand, appear more worried about
the weak global economy and the fiscal cliff and have begun
cutting back. Spending on equipment and software was unchanged
in the third quarter, the weakest reading in three years, a
report from the Commerce Department showed on Oct. 26.  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  said Oct. 31 it will reduce its headcount by
1,000 to 1,500 by the end of the year after revenue dropped 14
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier. The maker of
heavy-truck engines said shipments fell 26 percent last quarter,
and production and new orders have come in weaker than expected.  ‘Significantly Weaker’  “We are experiencing significantly weaker demand in many
of our largest markets,” Tom Linebarger, chairman and chief
executive officer of the Columbus, Indiana-based company, said
on a call after the earnings release.  “End users are reluctant to proceed with new purchases,
apparently due to uncertainty about the  U.S. economy  and
concerns about possible impacts from the fiscal cliff,” he
said. “There is also a high degree of uncertainty about the
direction of the global economy, and at this point in time it is
not clear when demand will improve.”  Shares of retailers and manufacturers reflect the split
between households and businesses. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Retailing Index has risen 24.6 percent so far
this year, outpacing a 12.3 percent gain in the S&P’s Industrial
Machinery Index over the same period.  Cuts in public spending are also hurting employment at
government contractors, showing what could happen in the event
the fiscal cliff materializes, unleashing $607 billion in
federal spending cuts and tax increases set to start in 2013
unless Congress and the president can reach a compromise.  Spending Cuts  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) , the Wisconsin-based company that makes
commercial trucks and supplies blast-resistant trucks to the
U.S. Army and Marine Corps, said Oct. 26 it would cut 450 jobs
in January due to lower demand from the Defense Department.
 Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL)  said it plans to cut 1,250 employees, or
about 6 percent of its workforce, in the next year as the
aerospace manufacturer’s defense revenue falls amid curtailed
U.S. military spending.  Warning that they can’t combat a slowdown in growth caused
by stricter fiscal policy, Federal Reserve officials said Sept.
13 the central bank would hold its target interest rate near
zero until at least mid-2015 to stimulate more hiring. The Fed
also began a third round of stimulus, buying $40 billion in
mortgage bonds a month.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  