-- UPS-TNT, Hutchison-Orange Deals Need Remedies: Almunia
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-11-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/ups-tnt-hutchison-orange-deals-need-remedies-almunia.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ’s bid for
 TNT Express NV (TNTE)  and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s pending purchase of
Orange Austria Telecommunications GmbH need “substantial
remedies” to settle antitrust concerns, the top European Union
competition official said.  “Our preliminary view is that serious competition concerns
would arise in both cases, and substantial remedies are
needed,”  Joaquin Almunia  said in prepared remarks for a speech
yesterday in Cernobbio, Italy.  UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, received
antitrust objections from regulators last month listing possible
issues with the takeover of Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based TNT --
a 5.16 billion-euro ($6.62 billion) deal announced in March that
would double its size in Europe.  “We are committed to the transaction and look forward to
the confidential discussions with the EU over the coming weeks
to address the concerns,” Peggy Gardner, a spokeswoman for
Atlanta-based UPS, said in an e-mail.  A TNT spokesman, Cyrille Gibot, said late yesterday that he
was unable to comment until he had seen the full content of the
speech. The Dutch company and UPS remain in conversation with
competition authorities.  Hutchison (13) , based in  Hong Kong , has made additional
concessions over its bid for mobile-phone operator Orange
Austria in an attempt to soothe European Commission concerns on
the deal.  Merger Review  The EU’s merger review can require companies to divest
businesses or change the way they do business to eliminate
concerns a combined firm could unfairly squeeze rivals or
increase prices.  The bloc’s scrutiny of  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s $33
billion takeover bid for Swiss mining company  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  is
“well advanced,” Almunia said in the speech. Regulators will
soon decide whether to approve the deal or open an in-depth
investigation after they receive feedback from a market survey
of the companies’ unspecified concessions, he said.  An EU decision will come “in a few days” on whether an
offer from Finland’s  Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V)  to sell an Italian steel
plant is enough to allow regulators to approve its purchase of
ThyssenKrupp’s Inoxum unit, Almunia said.  Regulators focus less on merged companies’ high market
share, which is “not always problematic,” Almunia said, and
examine how a deal affects pricing, quality, choice and
innovation. Companies’ claims that a deal benefits the wider
economy, in terms of prices or innovation, will be looked at
with great care, he said.  The EU plans to simplify merger filings in uncomplicated
transactions next year, Almunia said. The revised rules may also
see regulators examine non-controlling minority stakes for the
first time, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 