-- United, Southwest Take Extra Fuel to NYC as Precaution
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-11-02T23:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/us-airways-planes-bound-for-new-york-taking-on-extra-fuel.html
Four of the five largest U.S.
airlines, a group led by  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , are
taking extra jet fuel aboard New York-bound flights to avoid any
shortages after superstorm Sandy.  Joining United are  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines,  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , spokesmen said.  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  said they’re not making
any changes to fuel loads on planes serving the nation’s busiest
aviation market.  “It’s just something we can do to help in the recovery
process” and avoid drawing on existing stocks of jet kerosene
in the region, Brad Hawkins, a spokesman for Dallas-based
Southwest, said in an e-mail.  All New York airports have an “adequate” supply of jet
fuel and continue to receive deliveries, said Pasquale DiFulco,
a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey.
Gasoline supplies are dwindling in New Jersey and New York in
Sandy’s wake, leading to long lines at the pumps.  Airlines topped off jets’ tanks for Miami-bound flights
after a March 2011 fire at an airport fuel farm, and did the
same thing after ice-storm disruptions in Atlanta two months
earlier. Jet fuel for immediate delivery in New York Harbor  fell 
2.5 percent to $2.97 a gallon for a fourth daily drop in a row.  Fuel Adjustments  United usually takes fuel precautions “in the event of
snowstorms or other significant travel disruptions,” Charles
Hobart, a United spokesman, said via e-mail. “We will continue
to assess the situation in New York and adjust our fuel loads to
meet our needs.”  The Chicago-based carrier is the world’s largest airline,
followed by Delta. American, Southwest and US Airways are the
next biggest in the U.S., based on passenger traffic.  Delta canceled more than 3,500 flights in October due to
Sandy and projected that the storm cut the month’s profit by $20
million and reduced revenue by $45 million, according to a
statement today. Sandy’s effect on November would be less,
Atlanta-based Delta said.  JetBlue, which expects to resume its full schedule in New
York tomorrow, said it expects a “material” impact on fourth-
quarter results. The New York-based airline didn’t quantify the
effect.  Airlines and airports have been working around the clock to
resume full service in Sandy’s wake. Both John F. Kennedy and
Newark Liberty airports are fully operational, while LaGuardia
is still ramping up, Ron Marsico, a Port Authority spokesman,
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  