-- Verizon, Cablevision Faced With Power Outages, Low Fuel
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-11-02T23:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/verizon-cablevision-faced-with-power-outages-low-fuel.html
Phone and cable companies, working to
restore service to areas battered by the Atlantic superstorm
Sandy, struggled with lingering power failures and a shortage of
fuel for backup generators.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the largest phone company in
the region, said thousands of employees have fanned out across
New York and New Jersey to repair the damage, though power
outages and blocked roads slowed efforts. By 10 a.m. today, 15
percent of mobile-phone sites remained out of service, down from
25 percent three days earlier, according to the U.S. Federal
Communications Commission.  “Fuel has been a challenge,” said  Peter Thonis , a
spokesman for Verizon. “But we are working with federal and
local officials, and we are making it happen.”  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , the electric company serving New
York, said today it has restored power to 67,000 customers in
the East Village and to 27,000 customers in the Chelsea, West
Chelsea and FlatIron neighborhoods. It expects the rest of lower
Manhattan to be restored by tomorrow.  “Getting commercial power will enable us to no longer be
on generator power, and that will certainly make a big
difference,” Thonis said.  Repair Costs  Sandy, the largest tropical system ever measured in the
Atlantic, struck Oct. 29. It killed at least 90 people in the
U.S., flooded subway tunnels and knocked out power to as many as
8.5 million homes and businesses along the East Coast, including
about half of New Jersey. The storm will cost telephone and
cable companies as much as $600 million in repair and cleanup
costs, according to James Ratcliffe, a New York-based analyst
with Barclays Plc.  Verizon said costs related to repairs and service
interruption from the storm “could be significant,” according
to a filing today. Thonis declined to provide more precise cost
estimates.  About 97 percent of Verizon’s cell sites hit by the storm
in the Northeast are now operational, Thomas Pica, a spokesman
for Verizon Wireless, the company’s mobile-phone carrier, said
by e-mail.  Engineers and technicians with Verizon restored backup
power to four critical facilities in lower  Manhattan  and one on
Long Island that incurred severe flood damage and lost
commercial power. The locations included the company’s own
headquarters at 140 West Street, which became a symbol of
Sandy’s wrath after Verizon  posted  a picture of its flooded
lobby on the Web.  Headquarters Building  Damage from the flooding has been cleaned up at 140 West
Street and the facility’s network operations are now “100
percent functioning,” Thonis said. Executives and other staff
who normally work at the lower Manhattan office building have
been using other offices, including an operations center in
Basking Ridge, New Jersey, he said.  Verizon has the most exposure to the damage because it has
many customers in the Northeast with land-line service,
Ratcliffe said in a note.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , meanwhile,
has the biggest portion of its customer base without service.
The cable company, which focuses on the New York market, said
that at 4 p.m. today about 1.32 million subscribers can’t
connect to its service because their power is out. That compares
to about 1.5 million yesterday. Cablevision, based in Bethpage,
New York, has about 3.3 million video subscribers in total.  “Restoration efforts in the hardest hit areas -- including
New York and New Jersey -- continue to be more difficult,”
David Turetsky, chief of the FCC’s  Public Safety & Homeland
Security Bureau , said in a statement. Finding enough fuel for
generator-powered equipment is a major concern, he said.  No Power  Cable service disruption rose to 17 percent from 14 percent
or less yesterday, an increase that was due to including a
stricken company from earlier counts, Turetsky said in a
statement today. Without the additional company, which he didn’t
identify, the disruption would have declined, he said. Today the
agency assessed 146 counties in seven states and the District of
Columbia, down from 158 counties across 10 states and the
District yesterday.  To help appease subscribers, Cablevision, followed by
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , Cox Communications Inc.,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ,
 DirecTV (DTV)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  announced today that customers
without service due to the storm will receive credits on their
television service bills.   Charging Stations  AT&T Inc. (T)  was working with New York officials to deploy
generator-driven charging stations in the city,Michael Balmoris, a spokesman, said in an e-mail. AT&T and Verizon, the
two largest U.S. wireless carriers, invited people to charge
their mobile devices at their stores.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  also was struggling with power failures
in New York and New Jersey, Crystal Davis, a spokeswoman for the
third-largest carrier, said in an e-mail. In New York City,
about three-fourths of the network was working, Davis said.  Sprint’s networks were fully restored in seven states and
the District of Columbia, she said. More than 90 percent were
operational in four more states, and 80 percent were restored in
New York, New Jersey and  Connecticut .  T-Mobile USA Inc.’s network was “close to normal” outside
of lower Manhattan, the fourth-largest U.S wireless carrier said
in  a statement .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  