-- Vietnam’s Stocks Fall Most in Asia as Bourbon Tay Ninh Slides
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-02T06:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/vietnam-s-stocks-fall-most-in-asia-as-bourbon-tay-ninh-slides.html
Vietnam ’s  stocks  declined, dragging
the benchmark index down the most in  Asia , as Bourbon Tay Ninh
slumped after a former chairwoman resigned from the board.  Bourbon Tay Ninh Joint-Stock Co., the nation’s biggest
publicly traded sugar company, slumped the most in more than six
weeks after Huynh Bich Ngoc resigned yesterday, according to a
statement to the exchange. Saigon Thuong Tin Commercial Joint-
Stock Bank, known as Sacombank, sank to the lowest level in more
than eight months, even as the company’s chief executive officer
said business was proceeding as “normal.”  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  fell 2.6 percent to 377.77 at the break in Ho
Chi Minh City. The decline was the biggest since Aug. 27. The
gauge has fallen 23 percent from its peak this year on May 8 as
slowing economic growth hurt corporate earnings and arrests of
banking officials fueled concerns about further instability in
the nation’s financial system.  Bourbon Tay Ninh fell 4.5 percent to 16,900 dong, poised
for the steepest slide since Sept. 18. Ngoc resigned because
she’s too busy to attend regular board meetings, General
Director Nguyen Ba Chu said by phone today. Ngoc stepped down as
chairwoman of Bourbon Tay Ninh in April when Dang Huynh Uc My,
her daughter, took over, Chu said.  Sacombank dropped 2.6 percent to 18,800 dong, headed for
the lowest close since Feb. 23. CEO Phan Huy Khang said bank
operations are “normal” when contacted on his mobile phone
today. Chairman Dang Van Thanh declined to comment when reached
on his cell phone. Thanh confirmed he is in  Ho Chi Minh City .  Saigon Thuong Tin Real Estate Joint-Stock Co., or
Sacomreal, slumped 5.6 percent to 5,100 dong, on the Hanoi Stock
Exchange, headed for an eight-month low. Chairman Dang Hong Anh
sold 21.45 million shares in the company, according to a
statement yesterday on the stock exchange’s website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  