-- Washington Post’s Shares Gain After TV Units Boost Profit
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-11-02T20:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/washington-post-reports-profit-gain-as-tv-division-sales-grow.html
Washington Post Co. (WPO) , the media
company partly owned by billionaire  Warren Buffett , gained the
most in more than a year after broadcast and cable television
divisions fueled third-quarter profit growth.  The shares rose 5 percent to $356.50 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day gain since June of last year. The
stock has declined 5.4 percent this year.  Excluding items such as restructuring expenses, third-
quarter income from continuing operations rose 23 percent to
$50.4 million, or $6.79 a share, from $40.9 million, or $5.18 a
share, a year earlier, the company said today in a statement.
Operating revenue was little changed at $1.01 billion.  Broadcast and cable television revenue helped make up for
sluggish results at other divisions, the company said. Its
education unit has come under government scrutiny -- along with
the rest of the for-profit education industry -- and faces
increasing regulation. The Washington Post newspaper also is
struggling to retain readers and hasn’t capitalized on online-
subscription programs that have benefited other major
newspapers, including the New York Times.  Operating revenue at the broadcasting division jumped 44
percent to $106.4 million as the Olympics and election season
boosted demand for advertising. The cable business climbed 6
percent to $199.6 million, the Washington-based company said.  Sales at its Kaplan education business -- the company’s
largest unit, making up more than half of revenue -- slid 8
percent to $552.6 million.  Circulation Decline  The Washington Post  newspaper, meanwhile, continues to lose
readers and revenue. Weekday circulation fell 8.9 percent to
462,228, while the Sunday edition dropped 20 percent to 674,751,
according to the latest figures from the  Audit Bureau of
Circulations . Print advertising at the Post fell 11 percent to
$51.4 million.  U.S. newspapers in general have suffered a slide in
advertising sales, dropping 6.6 percent in the first half of
this year, according to the most recently available data from
the  Newspaper Association of America .  The company’s online-publishing revenue, which mostly comes
from Washington Post and Slate digital advertising sales, rose
13 percent to $26.9 million.  Hospice Business  The company has moved to diversify its business beyond
education and media to include health care. It agreed last month
to acquire a majority interest in Celtic Healthcare Inc., a
provider of health-care and hospice services in the Northeastern
and mid-Atlantic.  The move is in keeping with the company’s strategy of
operating a “diverse group of businesses,” Chief Executive
Officer Donald E. Graham said at the time.  In an effort to add digital expertise, Graham also named
Dave Goldberg, the CEO of SurveyMonkey.com LLC and husband of
Facebook Inc. executive Sheryl Sandberg, to join the board in
September.  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  is the company’s largest
shareholder, with a 28 percent stake, according to  data compiled
by Bloomberg .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  