-- Western Asset Said to Seek More Control of Distribution
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-11-02T21:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/western-asset-said-to-seek-more-control-of-distribution.html
Western Asset Management Co., the
fixed-income affiliate of money manager  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , is
seeking more control of its fund sales, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Western Asset, which manages $459.7 billion, is trying to
negotiate a move away from the centralized distribution model in
which sales of retail products go through its parent company,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because they’re
private. The unit won’t seek a spinoff from Legg Mason if the
talks aren’t successful, the person said.  The bond unit is seeking to bolster its brand and control
sales as Legg Mason reviews the relationship with affiliates
following the departure of Chief Executive Officer  Mark Fetting ,
who oversaw client redemptions of $135 billion during his
tenure. Joseph A. Sullivan, the former head of distribution at
Baltimore-based Legg Mason who took over as interim CEO, is more
open to the idea of altering distribution, according to another
person familiar with the matter.  Sullivan declined to comment. Maria Rosati, a spokeswoman
for Legg Mason, declined to comment on Western Asset’s
distribution model.  Western Asset, the Pasadena, California-based unit that
accounts for 71 percent of the parent company’s assets, said in
May it was removing the Legg Mason name from its U.S. mutual
funds as part of a rebranding to make the funds more competitive
and increase sales to individual investors. ClearBridge
Advisors, Legg Mason’s largest stock-fund affiliate, said last
month it was dropping the Legg Mason name from its mutual funds
as part of a push to make its brand better known.  Fund Returns  “I recognize that the status quo is not an option,”
Sullivan said during a conference call Oct. 26 with analysts and
investors. “We are reviewing and evaluating our current
business strategy with our affiliate leadership and our board
and are prepared to modify as appropriate.”  Activist investor Nelson Peltz said last year that he
expected Western Asset to lead the firm’s turnaround. The $10.1
billion  Western Asset Core Plus Bond Fund (WACPX)  returned 8 percent
this year through yesterday, beating 86 percent of competing
fixed-income funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A dispute among executives over who should handle
distribution in the retail and defined contribution channels is
fueling a possible split of Western Asset and Legg Mason,
Pensions & Investments reported Oct. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  