-- Williams Says Fed Should Extend Bond Purchases Into 2013
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-11-02T22:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/williams-says-fed-should-extend-bond-purchases-into-next-year.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  said the central bank should extend its
program of bond purchases into next year by buying both
mortgage-backed securities and Treasuries.  “We should continue the MBS purchases into next year and
continue the Treasury purchases,” Williams said to reporters
today after a speech in  Salt Lake City . “I haven’t seen the
kind of improvement in labor-market conditions that would call
for ending the MBS purchases.”  U.S. companies hired 171,000 workers in October, more than
forecast by economists, after a 148,000 gain in September that
was more than first estimated, the Labor Department said today.
The jobless rate rose to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent as more
people entered the labor force.  The  Federal Open Market Committee , aiming to spur growth
and reduce unemployment, on Oct. 24 affirmed plans to buy $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities each month without
specifying the total size or duration of the purchases.
Williams, who holds a vote on policy this year, was among the
first Fed officials to advocate open-ended bond buying.  The purchases will be warranted until there’s evidence of
“a sustained, significant improvement in the labor market,”
such as a pace of payrolls growth more than 200,000 jobs a
month, Williams told reporters.  ‘Not Enough’  “If you talked about 200,000 or 190,000 or that kind of
thing, that’s not enough of an improvement,” Williams said. “I
would want to see a measurable decline in the  unemployment rate 
and a significant, sustained, well above 200,000 jobs a month on
payrolls, and coherence across lots of indicators. Not one
that’s strong, but all of them pointing in the same direction.”  Improvement in the labor market failed to keep commodity
and technology shares from slumping today.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 0.9 percent to
close at 1,414.20 in  New York , down  1.6 percent  since Sept. 12,
the day before the Fed announced the new bond-buying. The yield
on the benchmark 10-year treasury was little changed at 1.72
percent after gaining as much as 0.05 percentage point.  Williams said in his speech today that the Fed’s bond-
buying will help spur U.S. economic growth to 2.5 percent next
year and 3.5 percent in 2014 while not fueling inflation. The
world’s largest economy expanded at a 2 percent annual rate in
the third quarter after climbing 1.3 percent in the prior
quarter, the Commerce Department said last month.  ‘Desired Effects’  “Our policy measures are having the desired effects,”
Williams told community leaders. “We have substantial scope to
use monetary policy to stimulate the economy without creating
too much upward pressure on prices.”  Concern that large-scale asset purchases “might ignite a
bout of inflation” are unwarranted because price increases are
being held in check by elevated unemployment and an economy that
“isn’t operating at full speed,” Williams said.  Wage pressures are limited. Average hourly earnings climbed
1.6 percent in October the same time last year, the smallest
gain since comparable over-year records began in 2007, today’s
Labor Department report showed. Earnings for production workers
rose 1.1 percent in the 12 months to October, the weakest since
records began in 1965.  The civilian  labor force , those people who are either
employed or actively looking for work, jumped by 578,000 in
October. The number of people unemployed rose by 170,000,
pushing the jobless rate higher.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion in securities in its previous
two rounds of bond-buying and has swapped its short-term
Treasuries with longer-term securities in a program called
Operation Twist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Salt Lake City at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  