-- Wipro Profit Beats Estimates as Outsourcing Orders Climb
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   S u r e s h   S e s h a d r i
-- 2012-11-02T10:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/wipro-profit-beats-estimates-as-outsourcing-orders-climb.html
Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) ,  India ’s third-largest
software-services exporter, reported profit that beat analysts’
estimates as businesses sought savings through outsourcing.  Net income  rose 24 percent to 16.1 billion rupees ($300
million) in the second quarter ended September, Bangalore-based
Wipro said in a statement today. That exceeded the 15.5 billion-
rupee median of 42 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Wipro joins larger rival  Tata Consultancy (TCS)  Services Ltd. in
reporting profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates, as
businesses outsource more information technology services to cut
costs. The board of the  company , controlled by billionaire
Chairman  Azim Premji , yesterday agreed to separate Wipro’s
consumer care and lighting, infrastructure engineering and
medical diagnostic businesses into a closely held company.  “IT services got better margins and the restructuring of
the business units is quite positive for the minority
shareholders,” said Jigar Shah, an analyst at Kim Eng
Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “It should augur well for the stock
going forward.”  Shares of Wipro rose 0.9 percent to 364.60 rupees at the
close of trading in Mumbai, compared with a 1 percent gain in
India’s benchmark Sensitive Index.  Revenue Outlook  Net sales  rose 17 percent to 106.2 billion rupees,
according to the to a stock exchange filing. That lagged behind
the 108.5 billion-rupee median of 45 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue from its information-technology services  business 
may range between $1.56 billion and $1.59 billion in the current
quarter, according to the statement. Sales at the unit in the
three months ended September rose 4.6 percent to $1.54 billion,
Wipro said.  “We have been in the investment mode as far as mining
accounts is concerned, putting a hunting engine in place,”
Chief Financial Officer Suresh Senapaty said in a briefing
today. The investments have led to a “very good pipeline” of
new deals, he said.  Separating Businesses  Wipro’s board approved the separation of Wipro Consumer
Care & Lighting, Wipro Infrastructure Engineering and Medical
Diagnostic Product & Services business into a company called
Wipro Enterprises Ltd., according to a filing made to exchanges.  Separating units that make baby soaps and light bulbs will
help Premji increase focus on the IT business, which accounted
for 86 percent of Wipro’s 372 billion-rupee revenue in the year
ended March 31, amid intensifying competition from  rivals 
including  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH)   The move will also help Premji increase Wipro’s public
ownership and meet India’s shareholding requirement. Premji, his
family and related entities, who own 80 percent of the company,
need to reduce their stake to 75 percent.  Wipro, which provides services such as designing and
building software programs, product-engineering and back-office
support to companies including  BP Plc (BP) , William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc. and Verizon Communications Inc. added 53 new
clients in the quarter.  Global spending on information technology may grow at a 3
percent pace in 2012 to $3.6 trillion, Gartner said in a July 9
report. That’s slower than 7.9 percent increase last year as the
euro zone crisis, a weaker U.S. recovery and a slowdown in  China 
curb economic growth, the researcher said.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest software exporter, cut
its annual sales forecast in rupee terms on Oct. 12, warning
that higher wages and currency fluctuations will hurt
profitability amid a business environment that continues to be
“challenging.” Bangalore-based Infosys lowered the revenue
projection for the fiscal year ending March 31 to 395.8 billion
rupees from a July estimate of 403.6 billion rupees.  Still, Tata Consultancy said last month it would grow at a
faster rate than the industry, driven by “tremendous traction”
with projects in social media, data, analytics and cloud
computing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Suresh Seshadri in Bangalore at 
 sseshadri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  