-- Hyundai, Kia to Lower Fuel-Economy Estimates After Probe
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-11-02T21:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/hyundai-kia-to-lower-fuel-economy-estimates-after-probe.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270) , whose growth has been aided by 40-mile-per-gallon claims,
will compensate U.S. customers for overstating the  fuel
efficiency  of their latest models.  The Seoul-based affiliates, which share engines, model
platforms and a chairman, must re-label the window stickers on
their cars and trucks for the error, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency said yesterday. The automakers said in a
statement that they will issue debit cards to buyers of about
900,000 vehicles sold in the U.S. in the past two years to
reimburse them for higher-than-expected fuel expenses.  “Given the importance of fuel efficiency to all of us,
we’re extremely sorry about these errors,”  John Krafcik , chief
executive officer of Hyundai’s U.S. sales unit, said in the
statement. “We’re going to make this right for everyone.”  The companies said the overstatement resulted from
“procedural errors” at their testing facility in  South Korea .  Combined U.S. sales of Hyundai and Kia vehicles this year
through October reached a record 1.07 million cars and trucks,
placing them sixth in the U.S. this year, ahead of Nissan Motor
Co. Led by its Elantra compact, Hyundai boasted in its
advertising of having more cars offering 40 miles per gallon in
highway driving than competitors. With the revisions, no Hyundai
or Kia model reaches 40 mpg.  The companies plan to run newspaper ads Nov. 4 apologizing
for the incorrect ratings, with details on how to apply for a
refund card.  Soul Decline  “In an industry where reputation is so important, this
will undoubtedly give both carmakers ugly black eyes,” John O’Dell, green-car editor for Edmunds.com, said in a telephone
interview. “In our reviews we’ve pointed out that we can’t come
anywhere close to getting the mileage they claim.”  Consumer Watchdog, an advocacy group based in  Santa Monica ,
 California , filed a lawsuit in July claiming Hyundai overstated
mileage for 2011 and 2012 Elantras.  The Kia Soul will face the largest adjustment, down 6 miles
per gallon in its highway rating. Most 2012 and 2013 models from
the automakers will be adjusted by 1 or 2 miles per gallon, the
agency said yesterday in a statement.  “EPA’s investigation will help protect consumers and
ensure a level playing field among automakers,”  Gina McCarthy ,
assistant administrator for the agency’s Office of Air and
Radiation, said in the statement.  EPA’s testing of vehicles occasionally uncovers individual
vehicles with incorrect labels, and twice since 2000 the agency
required changes. This is the first time a large number of
vehicles from the same manufacturer have deviated so much,
according to the EPA.  Debit Cards  “EPA doesn’t have the resources to individually test each
vehicle and it relies on manufacturers to do the testing and
submit legitimate numbers,” O’Dell said. “There were enough
consumer complaints to warrant a review of the data.”  Owners of vehicles affected by the revision will receive
debit cards with values covering the difference in “the EPA
combined fuel-economy rating, based on the fuel price in their
area and their own actual miles driven,” plus an additional
15 percent, Hyundai and Kia said in their statement.  The total cost of those reimbursements can’t yet be
calculated, said Jim Trainor, spokesman for Hyundai’s U.S. unit.  “Even with the correction, the fundamentals of what made
Hyundai and Kia brands a success in the U.S. do not change,”
said  Jesse Toprak , industry analyst for TrueCar.com, a vehicle
pricing and data website in Santa Monica, California. “They
still offer some of the best value propositions in the industry,
along with attractive styling and low cost of ownership.”  Hyundai a decade ago reimbursed U.S. customers with
discounts on accessories and offered extended warranties and
roadside assistance for overstating horsepower ratings, which
the company said then were also the result of testing errors.  Hyundai’s U.S. sales unit is based in  Costa Mesa ,
California, and Kia’s is in  Irvine , California.  Hyundai Motor fell 0.5 percent to 215,000 won in  Seoul 
yesterday, before the EPA announcement. Kia rose 0.7 percent to
60,500 won.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  