-- Zloty Advances to Strongest in a Week on U.S. Jobless Data
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2012-11-02T14:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-02/zloty-advances-to-strongest-in-a-week-on-u-s-jobless-data.html
The zloty gained to the strongest
level in more than a week, erasing earlier losses, after U.S.
payrolls topped analyst estimates, boosting investors’ appetite
for riskier assets.  The Polish currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 4.1122 per
euro as of 15:03 in Warsaw, extending this week’s advance to 0.6
percent. Yields on 10-year Polish bonds fell 10 basis points, or
0.1 percentage point, to 4.483 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Labor Department in  Washington  said 171,000 workers
were added to U.S. payrolls in October. That figure exceeded the
most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey in which the
median called for an advance of 125,000. Manufacturing in  Poland 
contracted for a seventh month in October, bolstering the case
for a cut in interest rates at a monetary policy meeting next
week.  “Strong U.S. data built investors’ confidence,”  Piotr Bielski , an economist at Warsaw-based Bank Zachodni WBK SA, said
by phone today. “There is the question how long will it support
the zloty as local factors connected to expected rate cuts and
continuous public finance crisis in  Europe  work against currency
appreciation.”  The Purchasing Managers’ Index for Poland, a gauge of
manufacturing performance, stayed below the level indicating
expansion while rising to 47.3 percent in October.  Poland’s Monetary Council will meet on Nov. 7 to review
interest rates. Economists expect a 25 basis-point cut,
according to a Bloomberg  survey .  A cut in rates now would be a “natural” consequence of
the slowdown, Governor Marek Belka was reported as saying in
Gazeta Wyborcza on Oct. 25.  The U.S. jobless rate increased to 7.9 percent from 7.8
percent in September as more people entered the labor force.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  