-- ‘Rebecca’ Producers Get 10 Weeks to Raise $4.5 Million
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-10-16T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/-rebecca-producers-get-10-weeks-to-make-4-5-million-shortfall.html
The producers of “Rebecca: The
Musical” have 10 weeks to raise $4.5 million or confront the
prospect of returning millions more in funds.  Such a task would be formidable in the best of
circumstances. It’s all the more daunting because investors are
likely to be wary of putting money into a project whose twisted
history -- replete with phantom angels and a rainmaker currently
in the hands of federal authorities -- is more gothic than the
show itself.  That’s the predicament faced by Ben Sprecher and Louise
Forlenza, the lead producers, or general partners, of
“ Rebecca .”  They have until Dec. 31 to fill their financial hole or
face the real-life investors who contributed millions and are
entitled to a full refund, according to a criminal complaint
filed in  Manhattan  federal court yesterday against Mark Hotton,
a former Oppenheimer & Co. broker.  Hotton, 46, was charged with  wire fraud  after allegedly
pocketing thousands of dollars in commissions for raising $4.5
million from investors who turned out to be figments of his
imagination, according to the complaint.  In a telephone interview, Sprecher said he hadn’t done
anything wrong. “I did a  Google search  on him,” he said of
Hotton.  “Rebecca” was budgeted at $12 million to $14 million and
based on Daphne du Maurier’s 1938 novel. It was to have been
directed by Michael Blakemore and Francesca Zambello.  “We’re going to put the show on,” Sprecher, 58, said. The
existing investors, he said, “have been fantastically
supportive.” An opening has been delayed indefinitely.  Wire Fraud  Hotton and entities he controlled received more than
$60,000 from the “Rebecca” fraud, including compensation for
arranging a $1.1 million loan that was never funded, according
to the complaint.  Hotton pleaded not guilty and was detained in jail, said
 Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office.  The twice-delayed show, which most recently had planned to
begin performances on Oct. 30 at the Broadhurst Theatre, has
already spent $6 million in production costs, according to the
complaint.  The general partners owe additional money to vendors,
including the Shubert Organization, which owns the Broadhurst,
according to the complaint. Sprecher would not say how much more
is owed. Shubert is also an investor in the show.  Notorious History  The prospects for Sprecher and Forlenza, referred to in the
complaint as “Producer-1” and “Producer-2,” are not
enviable, one Broadway veteran said yesterday.  “Given the notoriety of the production, it’s hard to
overcome that,” said attorney  Mark Sendroff , a partner with
Sendroff and Baruch, an entertainment law firm.  Hotton worked at Oppenheimer in Jericho,  New York , from
November 2005 to February 2009, according to a 42-page
disciplinary  record  from the  Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority .  A third party suggested to Producer-2 that she approach
Hotton, who portrayed himself as someone experienced in raising
money, according to the complaint.  Hotton seemed passionate about the show, Sprecher said.  “When you talk about something with someone who shares
your enthusiasm,” he said, “it engenders a certain amount of
trust.”  $7,500 Fee  On Feb. 7, 2012, just over a year after Hotton filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in federal court on Long island, the
“Rebecca” partnership made an agreement with TM Consulting, a
company he controlled, said the complaint. He’d raise money for
the show for a fee of $7,500, plus 8 percent of any funds over
$250,000, according to the complaint.  The producers paid Hotton the $7,500 plus “expense
reimbursements,” according to the complaint, amounting to about
$18,000 in March and April.  He wrote in e-mails to the producers that he was
successful.  “I have soft circles on $3.18 million,” he wrote in one
cryptic e-mail cited in the complaint.  On about March 5, Producer-1 e-mailed Hotton to say that he
was meeting with a large investor who’d committed the Broadhurst
and that he needed “everything with me regarding the
capitalization target” at the meeting. That was likely to have
been the top executives of Shubert.  Unnamed Producer  That month, Hotton provided the unnamed producer with
signed agreements from four investors to buy stakes in
“Rebecca,” according to the complaint. They were “Paul
Abrams,” “Roger Thomas,” “Julian Spencer” and “Walter
Timmons.” In April, Hotton sent Producer-1 a list of e-mail
contact details for them, which contradicted contact information
for them supplied weeks before, the complaint said.  Prosecutors said that websites associated with the
investors Hotton supplied were almost identical to one another
and featured photographs of the same office building, albeit
from different angles. Both were created through web.com within
the past year and registered by Hotton, according to the
complaint.  In late April, Hotton demanded an advance against his 8
percent commission reflecting costs for treating “Abrams” to a
safari, the complaint said. It was then that Producer-1 sent an
e-mail address he had for “Abrams” introducing himself and
inviting him to a “Rebecca” event for group sales agents.  Safari Hunt  “Abrams” wrote back that Mr. Hotton had spoken highly of
the producer.  “I received your invitation and Mr. Hotton and my
assistant have been working all morning to switch our safari to
next week so we can attend the event,” the e-mail said,
according to the complaint.  The producers learned in August from a purported assistant
of “Abrams” that he had suddenly died.  Sendroff said that dangling a larger-than-usual share of
any profits would help entice new investors to the show.  “They could be offering tremendously generous terms,” he
said.  Sprecher said he’s searching for new money.  “Do you know of anyone who wants to invest?” he asked a
reporter.  The case is U.S. v. Hotton, 12-2686, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books ,  Craig
Seligman  on  movies .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  