-- Abu Dhabi’s Shah Gas Field Poised for 2014 Completion, CEO Says
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-10-16T09:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/abu-dhabi-s-shah-gas-field-poised-for-2014-completion-ceo-says.html
Abu Dhabi ’s $10 billion Shah natural
gas project, a joint venture between Abu Dhabi National Oil Co.
and  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , is on track for completion by
late 2014, the venture’s chief executive officer said.  Facilities and pipelines are more than 60 percent complete,
and four of the 20 wells needed to process 1 billion cubic feet
a day of high-sulfur, or sour, gas have been drilled,  Al Hosn
Gas Co. ’s Saif al-Ghafli said in Abu Dhabi today. The company
won’t need any more than the three drilling rigs it is using, he
said.  Collaboration with Occidental “is going very well,” al-
Ghafli told reporters. “We are going according to the budget.”  Occidental won a contract to develop Shah last year after
ConocoPhillips, the original foreign partner, withdrew from the
project in 2010. Shah, 210 kilometers (130 miles) southwest of
the city of Abu Dhabi, poses a technical challenge because it
contains gas that is mostly sour, or high in hazardous hydrogen
sulfide, which must be removed before the fuel can be used.  Occidental, based in  Los Angeles , raised its estimate for
 capital spending  this year to $9.2 billion, an increase of $900
million. Of this increase, $600 million will go to Shah,
according to a  transcript  of its second-quarter earnings call on
July 28. Development capital remained in line with previous
estimates, Chief Executive Officer Stephen Chazen said on the
call.  Al Hosn will drill additional phases after the project
starts, to maintain production levels and discover more gas.
Increases in output are “possible,” Ghafli said.  The company is not bidding for other sour gas projects in
Abu Dhabi, such as the Bab and Hail field tenders, he said.  Abu Dhabi National holds 60 percent of the project, and
Occidental the remaining stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  