-- Accused 9/11 Mastermind Says Military Court Lacks Justice
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/accused-9-11-mastermind-says-military-court-lacks-justice.html
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the accused
chief plotter of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, scoffed
at the military commission that will try his case as a judge
granted him and four co-defendants the right to skip hearings
the rest of this week.  “I don’t think there’s any justice in this court,”
Mohammed, his long beard dyed a reddish hue, said through a
translator before a military tribunal yesterday at the U.S.
naval station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. It was his first public
comment since a hearing in 2008, when he said he wished to be
found guilty and martyred.  The remark came on the opening day in a week of preliminary
hearings aimed at defining the rules of a trial for Mohammed and
the four others accused of plotting the attacks that used
hijacked passenger planes to destroy the World Trade Center in
 Manhattan  and damage the Pentagon, killing almost 3,000 people.  Mohammed didn’t comment when he was arraigned on terrorism
charges on May 5, and he used a recess to pray. One of his
accused co-conspirators disrupted that 13-hour session by
standing and praying, while another was wheeled into the
courtroom in restraints after the judge said he had refused to
attend voluntarily.  Yesterday, all five men appeared attentive and cooperative
as their lawyers fought a motion by the prosecution that would
have required their attendance at all court proceedings.  The military judge, Army Colonel James Pohl, said he would
give the five men an option each day this week as to whether to
attend that day’s hearing.  Choosing Voluntarily  “The accused can, prior to assembly, choose voluntarily
not to attend a session” as long as “he understands his right
to be present and what his actions may or may not mean,” Pohl
said. He stopped short of making the ruling permanent, saying he
hadn’t decided whether to revisit the issue in future weeks or
months.  Defense lawyers haven’t disclosed whether or how they will
challenge the evidence of their clients’ involvement in the
Sept. 11 attacks. In public to date, much of the defense
strategy rests on exposing the interrogation techniques used on
the men after they were captured as well as the conditions of
their continued detention at the base at Guantanamo Bay.  James Harrington, an attorney for Ramzi bin al Shibh, who
is accused of helping finance the hijackers who committed the
attacks, referred to his client’s years in captivity as he
argued yesterday for the right not to attend hearings.  ‘Designed’ to Convict  Harrington said the defendants may believe, “I don’t want
anything to do with the court. I don’t recognize the
jurisdiction of the court. I don’t want to be subjected to this
procedure that transports me here, brings up memories, it brings
up emotions of what happened to me.”  Several family members of Sept. 11 victims who attended the
hearing could be heard gasping at that statement.  David Nevin, Mohammed’s chief counsel, defended his
client’s opposition to the military commission at a news
conference after the hearing.  “See whether you can come to the conclusion that he’s
wrong,” Nevin told reporters. “It’s a court that’s designed in
a way to achieve a conviction.”  Urging that the defendants be compelled to attend all
sessions, Army Brigadier General Mark Martins, the chief
prosecutor, said, “Apathy or disdain for the proceedings does
not qualify as good cause” for being absent.  Two of the accused spoke in English as they challenged the
debate over whether they had to appear in the military
courtroom.  Leaving Notes  When the judge asked Mohammed’s nephew, Ali Abdul Aziz Ali,
whether he understood the proceedings would continue even if he
escaped prison, the defendant said he did and “I’ll be sure to
leave some notes.”  Bin al Shibh said he was troubled by a provision requiring
him to notify prison guards if he opted to skip a hearing and
then changed his mind.  “Some guards, they can make it very hard and difficult for
us,” he said.  Navy Commander Walter Ruiz, an attorney defending Mustafa
al Hawsawi, who allegedly helped finance the hijackers, said he
didn’t expect his client to attend the hearing today.  With a trial before a military judge and jury still a year
or more away, lawyers for the five men have filed a barrage of
motions seeking to define or expand the legal rights they will
be afforded as they attempt to air grievances about their
treatment in captivity.  The defendants are charged with conspiring to finance,
train and direct the 19 hijackers who seized the planes. The
charges include terrorism, hijacking aircraft, conspiracy,
murder in violation of the law of war and attacking civilians.
The men could face the death penalty if convicted.  Interrogation Secrets  Today, the hearing may focus on motions by the defense that
would allow the accused “to wear reasonable clothing of their
own choice.” They appeared yesterday in Pakistani-style
clothing, with turbans and vests over long shirts.  The judge also may tackle several motions dealing with how
much information about the men’s interrogation and detention
must be kept secret.  Mohammed, who has said he was the mastermind of the
attacks, was held by the Central Intelligence Agency until 2006,
before being sent to Guantanamo. The CIA has acknowledged he was
one of three al-Qaeda operatives who were waterboarded. He
underwent the procedure, which simulates drowning, 183 times,
according to government documents.  Under President  Barack Obama ’s administration, the U.S. has
since banned the practice, which critics such as  Human Rights
Watch  call a form of torture. Members of former President  George W. Bush ’s administration, led by former Vice President  Dick Cheney , have continued to champion waterboarding as an
appropriate technique they say can extract urgent information
from terrorists.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
Judiciary (Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  