-- Agrium Evades ‘Genuine Debate’ on Farm Retail Arm, Jana Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-10-17T03:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/agrium-evades-genuine-debate-on-farm-retail-unit-jana-says.html
Agrium Inc. (AGU) , the agricultural
retailer and fertilizer producer, is avoiding a “genuine
debate” over the company’s performance, said  Jana Partners LLC ,
the hedge fund pushing for the spinoff of Agrium’s agricultural
retail arm.  Jana, Agrium’s  largest shareholder , has been urging the
Canadian company since May to break off its network of farm
supply stores, the largest farm chain in  Canada  and the U.S.,
and to make other changes that the fund said may add as much as
$50 of value to each Agrium share.  “It’s time to stop avoiding this discussion and embrace
solutions to Agrium’s long-term undervaluation and
underperformance,” Jana Managing Partner Barry Rosenstein said
today in a statement.  Rosenstein’s assertion is the latest volley between the two
companies over the proposed separation of the retail operations
from Calgary-based Agrium’s so-called wholesale fertilizer arm.
Jana, based in New York, also is urging Agrium’s management to
improve disclosure, boost capital returns and reduce costs and
working capital, Rosenstein said Oct. 1 in an investor
 presentation .  Agrium’s board and Chief Executive Officer Mike Wilson have
rejected Jana’s demand for a spinoff, saying the move would be
too risky and offer no sustainable benefits to its investors.  “Agrium has thoroughly addressed Jana’s arguments through
public filings, extensive discussions with shareholders and
analysts and also directly with Jana,” Richard Downey, vice
president of investor and corporate relations said in e-mail in
response to Rosenstein’s statement. “There are major flaws in
Jana’s analysis and conclusions.”  Share Performance  Agrium contends that Jana understates Agrium’s share price
performance against its peers by using an end date of June 1
rather than the latest date, according to a  presentation  updated
Oct. 5. Agrium says that Jana incorrectly compares the
performance of Agrium’s Canadian-dollar shares to the U.S.
dollar-denominated shares of its fertilizer industry peers.  Rosenstein suggested in an investor presentation
accompanying today’s statement that Agrium shares have been
helped by his public campaign to improve the company’s
performance and by a drought in parts of the U.S. that has
spurred grain prices to record highs.  “While the company may dispute narrow elements of our
analysis, nothing they have said refutes the overall picture of
undervaluation and underperformance relative to Agrium’s true
potential,” Rosenstein said in today’s statement.  Agrium’s U.S. shares have risen 8.1 percent since Jana’s
proposal became public Aug. 13 while  CF Industries Holdings
Inc. (CF) , North America’s largest maker of nitrogen-based fertilizer
has gained 2.5 percent.  Agrium is up 55 percent this year in New York, compared
with CF’s 48 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  