-- Thai 3G Auction Raises $1.4 Billion as Low Price Brings Risks
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-10-16T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/thai-3g-auction-raises-1-4-billion-as-low-price-brings-risks.html
Thailand  raised 41.6 billion baht
($1.4 billion) selling licenses to provide high-speed mobile-
phone services, about 30 percent below the value assessed by the
country’s telecommunications regulator.  The  National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission 
sold nine licenses to provide third-generation technology for an
average of 4.63 billion baht to the country’s three biggest
operators in an auction delayed since 2005. Six of them sold for
the minimum price of 4.5 billion baht, according to Sutisak
Tantayotin, the regulator’s director.  “There is no evidence of collusion,” Suthiphol
Thaweechaikarn, a commissioner with the regulator, told
reporters yesterday in Bangkok. “Our process is transparent and
in line with the law. If someone will sue us for setting a low
price, we can explain that.”  Delays in auctioning licenses to provide faster download
speeds left Thailand as one of  Southeast Asia ’s only countries
without widespread 3G technology. Mobile-phone stocks fell as
further legal challenges may come from groups who say the sale
should bring the government more revenue, according to Rattana Leenutaphong, an analyst at IV Global Securities Pcl.  “The license price is a bit low at almost the minimum,”
Rattana said by phone. “This may increase the risk that the
auction may be called off.”  Stocks Fall  Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC) , Thailand’s biggest mobile-phone
operator, fell 3.5 percent, the most in seven weeks. Total
Access Communications Pcl, controlled by Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL) ,
dropped 3.7 percent, the biggest decline since April 11. True
Corp. Pcl fell 0.9 percent.  Advanced Info bid 14.63 billion baht in total, giving it
first pick of the spectrum offered, said Sethapong Malisuwan,
the regulator’s vice chairman. Total Access and True both
offered cumulative bids of 13.5 billion, the minimum price.  “We have pressure on both sides -- those who said the
price is too high and those who said the price is too low,”
Sethapong said. “But we need to find the equilibrium price.”  Several lawsuits challenging the auction are now before the
 Administrative Court , which has blocked sales in the past. The
regulator must take responsibility for failing to generate more
income from the sale, Somkiat Tangkitvanich, president of the
 Thailand Development Research Institute , told Thai PBS
television station.  ‘Take Responsibility’  “The license prices at close to the minimum level
demonstrated there was absolutely no competition in the auction
process,” Somkiat said. “NBTC has to review this auction and
make a decision to take responsibility for it.”  Thailand first planned to auction 3G licenses in 2005, a
year before former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra ’s sale of
Advanced Info and other companies to  Singapore ’s Temasek
Holdings Pte sparked protests that culminated in the military
coup that ousted him. Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister and
a former president of Advanced Info, became prime minister last
year after her party won a parliamentary majority.  In 2010, a Thai court blocked an auction for 3G licenses
after state-run CAT Telecom Pcl sought an injunction claiming
the regulator didn’t have the authority to conduct the sale. The
delays have prompted Thai mobile-phone companies to start
offering limited 3G services using upgraded 2G networks they
operate under concessions from state companies CAT and TOT Pcl.  The three private operators are counting on mobile Internet
to spur revenue from users of smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry. Average revenue
per user this year in Thailand is $6.7, compared with a high of
$56 in other Asian markets, according to Nattaporn Phan-Udom, a
partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Thailand.  Advanced Info maintained its leading market position with
671,000 net additions in the three-month period ending June,
bringing its total subscriber base to 34.8 million. That
compares with 23.6 million for Total Access and 19.3 million for
True Corp., according to the most recent stock exchange filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  