-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Advance to Five-Month High on U.S. Data
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-10-16T09:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/taiwan-dollar-forwards-climb-to-five-month-highs-on-u-s-data.html
Taiwan  dollar forwards reached a
five-month high after better-than-estimated U.S. retail sales
brightened the outlook for the island’s overseas sales.  Taiwan’s  export orders  rose 1.9 percent in September from a
year earlier, after dropping 1.5 percent the previous month, a
Bloomberg survey showed before data due Oct. 19. Retail sales in
the world’s largest economy rose 1.1 percent last month, beating
the 0.8 percent gain economists forecast, an official report
showed yesterday. Local-currency gains in the spot market may be
limited by central bank intervention and concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis will worsen, according to  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)   “There’s strong positive data from the U.S. that’s going
to drive risk activities,” said Suan Teck Kin, a Singapore-
based economist at United Overseas Bank. “At the end of the day,
Europe will come in and offset. People worry more about Europe
than the U.S.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.1 percent to
NT$29.140 as of 5:11 p.m. in Taipei, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The contracts reached NT$29.115 earlier, the
strongest level since May 9, and are at a 0.5 percent premium to
the spot rate.  In the  spot market , the local currency closed 0.2 percent
higher at NT$29.289 against its U.S. counterpart, data from
Taipei Forex Inc. showed. The currency was up 0.4 percent three
minutes before the end of trading and touched NT$29.170 earlier,
the strongest level since May 2. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.5 percent.  Intervention  Taiwan’s central bank has intervened to stem advances in
the currency in late trading on most days in the past five
months, according to traders who asked not to be identified.  The monetary authority will probably “come in and buy U.S.
dollars,” Suan said earlier today before the market closed.
“Most of the time it’s for export competitiveness and to
maintain an orderly  exchange rate .”  The yield on the 2 percent government bonds due July 2017
increased one basis point to 0.88 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market. The overnight interbank lending rate was
steady at 0.385 percent, a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Centre shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  