-- American Airlines Seeks Extension for Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-10-16T21:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/american-airlines-seeks-extension-for-filing-bankruptcy-plan-1-.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines , which
has agreed to share financial information with suitor  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC) , is seeking a one-month extension of a deadline for
filing a plan to restructure and exit bankruptcy.  American, which faces a Dec. 28 deadline to submit the plan
in court, asked for an extension to Jan. 28 in a filing today in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan. The request is supported by
the committee representing unsecured creditors.  “American has made significant progress in its
restructuring,” said  Sean Collins , a spokesman for the airline.
“This work, while progressing well, takes time, and American
and the unsecured creditors’ committee believe that the proposed
30-day extension is appropriate for this process to continue in
an orderly and efficient manner.”  The Fort Worth, Texas-based airline, which will mark its
one-year anniversary in bankruptcy next month, is working with
creditors on a “collaborative review” of strategic
alternatives and has reached a so-called nondisclosure agreement
with  US Airways  “and others,” it said in the filing. US
Airways backs a tie-up of the companies.  US Airways rose 1.4 percent $11.58 at the close in New
York, leading gains among U.S. airlines. The shares have more
than doubled this year on speculation that the fifth-largest
U.S. carrier would succeed in a takeover of No. 3 American.  Dennis Tajer, a spokesman for the  Allied Pilots
Association , which represents American’s pilots, called the
request for an extension “a positive” given the company’s
agreement with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways.  Parties Talking  “Considering US Air and AMR are in discussions, we are
pleased and can only assume that as long as the parties are
talking, progress is being made,” he said in a phone interview.  The union for American’s flight attendants told members in
an e-mail that it is encouraged that US Airways and American
“have had substantive conversations and hopeful that this
extension will bring us another step closer to a merger inside
bankruptcy.”  AMR’s $460 million of convertible, unsecured 6.25 percent
notes due October 2014 gained 0.5 cent to 66 cents on the dollar
at 10:59 a.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
They have almost quadrupled from 17.5 cents on Nov. 29, when AMR
filed for bankruptcy.  Pilot Negotiations  American said in the court filing that it also needs time
to continue negotiations with pilots on a new labor contract and
analyze $292 billion in claims filed against the company as part
of the bankruptcy case.  The approval of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane, who is
overseeing AMR’s bankruptcy, is needed to extend the deadline.
If granted, it will prevent others from proposing competing
plans with the court.  American said that without an extension it would face “the
threat of multiple plans, unnecessary adversarial situations and
confrontations and a deterioration of the orderly” bankruptcy
process.  The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 