-- Manhattan District Attorney Names New Investigation Head
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-16T21:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/manhattan-district-attorney-names-new-investigation-head.html
David Szuchman was named head of the
investigation division of the  Manhattan  District Attorney’s
office to succeed Adam Kaufmann, who is leaving for a job in the
private sector.  Szuchman, 40, will become chief of the unit on Nov. 15 to
replace Kaufmann, 47, who is leaving the office at the end of
the year, Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. said
today in a statement. Szuchman currently serves as chief of the
cybercrime and identity theft  bureau , and deputy chief of the
investigation unit, Vance’s office said.  A graduate of the University of  Vermont  and Hofstra Law
School, Szuchman started his career as an assistant district
attorney in Manhattan in 1997. He also worked for the state
Attorney General’s Office, investigating and prosecuting complex
fraud and antitrust cases, and as a federal prosecutor at the
U.S. Justice Department’s Child Exploitation and Obscenity
 Section , according to Vance’s office.  He was nominated by former New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine
to become that state’s consumer affairs director, a post he held
until he  returned  to the Manhattan District Attorney’s office in
2010 as chief of an expanded cybercrime and identity theft
bureau, Vance’s office said.  Under Szuchman’s leadership, the bureau “investigated and
prosecuted major cyber fraud rings, theft of intellectual
property, computer intrusions and malware attacks, and organized
money laundering operations,” Vance said.  Bank Probes  Kaufmann, who has been with the district attorney’s office
for 18 years, has headed the investigation division for three
years and has supervised probes of sanctions violations by
international banks that have led to $1.8 billion in fines and
forfeitures. Vance’s office didn’t disclose where Kaufmann is
going.  The investigation division is a “recognized leader” in
white-collar and organized crime prosecutions and also probes
and prosecutes “more localized and traditional cases involving
fraud and corruption,” such as embezzlement, insurance fraud
and credit-card and check fraud, according to Vance’s  website .  “One of our core philosophies is that the Manhattan
District Attorney’s Office has an obligation to police the
financial markets to root out fraud,” according to a statement
on Vance’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  