-- Apple, Zynga, Gruma, Dole, Jovani: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-16T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/apple-zynga-gruma-dole-jovani-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  appealed a Tokyo ruling
that said Samsung Electronics Co. didn’t infringe on the iPhone
maker’s patent as the world’s top two smartphone sellers
continue their global legal dispute.  Apple appealed an Aug. 31 ruling by Tokyo District Court
that said Samsung didn’t violate Apple’s invention of technology
for synchronizing music and video data with servers, Yutaka
Sakai, a court spokesman, said by phone yesterday. Cupertino,
California-based Apple was ordered by Tokyo District Judge
Tamotsu Shoji at the time to pay costs of the lawsuit.  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , and Apple have been
suing each other over patent-infringement claims on four
continents for more than a year since the U.S. company accused
its rival and partner of copying some features of the iPhone and
iPad. In August, Apple won more than $1 billion in damages in a
 jury trial  in San Jose,  California .  Carolyn Wu, a spokeswoman for Apple in Beijing, couldn’t be
reached immediately for comment. Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-based
spokesman for Samsung, said the company didn’t have immediate
comment.  The two companies lead the global market for smartphones
estimated by Bloomberg Industries to be worth $219 billion last
year. They also maintain commercial ties where Samsung gets
about 4 percent in revenue from selling chips and displays used
in Apple products, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Zynga Sues for Trade Secret Theft After Ex-Employee Joins Kixeye  Zynga Inc., the San Francisco-based games company, has sued
its former studio general manager for trade-secret
misappropriation and breach of contract.  Alan Patmore took with him more than 700 files containing
confidential Zynga information when he left the company in
August to join competitor  Kixeye , according to the complaint
filed Oct. 12 in state court in  San Francisco .  Zynga claims these files contained revenue information, and
monetization strategy for its games, plus design documents for
more than 10 unreleased games, in addition to 14 months of
confidential e-mails reserved exclusively for Zynga’s executive
staff.  The San Francisco games company alleges that Kixeye, which
like Zynga, releases free-to-play online social games, has
“failed to achieve success” because it lacks Zynga’s know-how.
Zynga said that on Patmore’s final day of employment, he refused
to confirm he had returned company data, and refused to sign a
termination certification document.  According to a  statement  on the Kixeye website, Patmore
joined the company, which is also based in San Francisco, as
vice president of product on Aug. 23. Will Harbin, Kixeye chief
executive officer, said in the statement that Patmore brought
“a killer product instinct and an ability to deliver high
quality games” to his new job.  Zynga asked the court to bar use of its  trade secrets  by
Patmore and 50 unidentified defendants, and asked that the
confidential information be returned immediately. Additionally,
it asked for money damages, claiming Kixeye has been “unjustly
enriched” through the use of the trade secrets. Zynga also
seeks extra damages to punish Patmore and the other defendants
for their actions, together with awards of litigation costs and
attorney fees.  Kixeye “has nothing to do with the suit,” company
spokesman Bryan Lam said in an e-mail. He said the suit
“appears to be Zynga’s new employee retention strategy: suing
former employees to scare current employees into staying.
They’ve clearly exhausted other options in their employee
retention playbook.”  The case is  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  v. Alan Patmore, CGC-12-525099,
Superior Court of the State of California (County of San
Francisco).  W.L. Gore Seeks Court Sanctions Against Ex-Company Scientist  W.L. Gore & Associates Inc., the maker of waterproof Gore-
Tex fabric, asked a judge to punish one of its former top
scientists, claiming he’s using company secrets to start his own
business in violation of a court order.  Huey Shen Wu was ordered in 2006, following a lawsuit in
 Delaware  Chancery Court, to refrain from developing any products
for sale related to polymers he worked on while he was with
Gore, the company said in a complaint filed yesterday in
Wilmington, Delaware. Wu has established companies in Taiwan and
 China  that will use trade secrets he learned while at Gore, the
complaint alleges.  Wu “has told Chinese television reporters that the
anticipated annual revenue of this enterprise will be
approximately $95 million,” according to the court filing in
Chancery Court.  The dispute involves the use of one of Gore’s signature
products, material made from polymers known as PTFE. Gore makes
military clothing designed to protect troops against chemical
and biological weapons. Wu is planning to compete with Gore
through various companies he is affiliated with, including
Perfect Defense Technology, according to court papers.  Wu and other officials of Perfect Defense didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mailed message seeking comment on the
allegations.  Closely held Gore is based in based in  Newark , Delaware.
The company was founded by a former  DuPont Co. (DD)  scientist.  The case is W.L. Gore & Associates Inc. v. Huey Shen Wu,
7946, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Trademark  Gruma’s ‘Mission’ Trademark Infringed, Appeals Court Rules  Gruma SAB, the maker of Mission brand tortillas, convinced
a federal appeals court that a chain of  Texas  restaurants
infringed its trademarks.  The tortilla company, based San Pedro Garza Garcia,  Mexico ,
sued Mexican Restaurants Inc. in federal court in Sherman,
Texas, in September 2009, claiming the Houston-based company’s
Mission Burritos chain infringed the “Mission” trademark.  That case was dismissed after a judge found that that the
similarities between the marks didn’t have a negative effect on
the Mexican company, and that there was no infringement. Gruma
appealed, and the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New Orleans agreed.  In its Oct. 11 ruling, the appellate court said that there
is a “great deal of similarity” between Gruma’s and the
restaurant chain’s marks. Gruma’s mark “is distinctive, is in
substantial exclusive use and has a high degree of
recognition.” The restaurant’s Mission Burrito mark “dilutes
the distinctive quality” of the Mexican company’s mark, the
appeals court said.  The distinction between Gruma’s pre-packaged food products
sold in retail stores and finished food products sold in the
restaurants “is not enough to show that products are
dissimilar,” the court found.  After reversing the trial court’s holding, the appeals
court sent the case back for further proceedings.  The appeals court case is Gruma Corp. v.  Mexican
Restaurants Inc. (CASA) , 11-41105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit (New Orleans). The lower court case is Gruma Corp. v.
Mexican Restaurants Inc., 4:09-cv-00488-MHS-ALM, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Texas (Sherman).  Dole Seeks ‘Ethical Choice’ New Zealand Trademark Registration  Dole Food Co. (DOLE)  applied to register “ethical choice” as a
trademark in New Zealand,  Television New Zealand   reported .  The mark is intended to be used with an ad campaign,
“Supporting Dole’s ethics initiatives,” according to
Television New Zealand.  Barry Coats of the Oxfam charity told Television New
Zealand that if the term is registered, the producer of fresh
fruit and vegetables could escape scrutiny about whether its
practices were more ethical than its competitors.  In June, Dole removed “Ethical Choice” advertising from
New Zealand, following a complaint from that country’s Commerce
Commission that consumers were likely to believe mistakenly that
Dole’s business practices were vetted by a third party,
according to Television New Zealand.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Fiesta Fashion Didn’t Infringe Jovani Prom Dresses, Court Rules  Jovani Fashion Ltd. , a New York-based maker of pageant and
prom dresses, lost its copyright-infringement case against a
competitor it claimed was making knockoff prom dresses.  The suit began in September 2010 when Jovani sued a number
of dress manufacturers, claiming copies of more than 30 dresses
it made and sold in its catalogs were being manufactured and
sold. The knockoffs were being made in China, Jovani said in
court papers.  In its Oct. 15 ruling, the U.S. Court of Appeals in  New
York  affirmed a lower-court ruling dismissing the case against
Fiesta Fashion Inc. of  Los Angeles . Jovani argued that its
frocks were entitled to copyright protection because they were
comprised of a combination of features “that can be identified
separately from and are capable of existing independently of,
the utilitarian aspects of the article,” according to court
papers.  Jovani argued that its arrangement of embellishment on the
dress bodices, the layers of tulle fabric in the skirts and the
treatment of fabric at the dress waistlines were elements that
were copyrightable.  The appeals court said this wasn’t the case because none of
these design elements could be removed from the dresses and sold
separately. It agreed with a lower-court finding that removing
any of these elements from the dresses would “certainly
adversely affect the garment’s ability to function as a prom
dress, a garment specifically meant to cover the body in an
attractive way for a special occasion.”  All of the elements Jovani claims were separable and
therefore protectable merged with functional elements that
decide how to cover the body, the court said. The aesthetic and
functional in the prom dresses at issue were inseparable,
according to the appeals court’s opinion.  The appeals court case is Jovani Fashion Ltd. v. Fiesta
Fashions, 12-598-CV, U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit (New York). The lower court case is Jovani
Fashion Ltd. V. Cinderella Divine Inc., 1:10-cv-07085-JFK-FM,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 