-- Pennsylvania Top Court Weighs Marcellus Shale Rights
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P a t r i c k   M c A t e e r
-- 2012-10-16T17:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/marcellus-rights-draw-pennsylvania-top-court-in-fight.html
A property deed fight over Marcellus
Shale natural-gas rights that may threaten thousands of drilling
leases could be decided by  Pennsylvania ’s top court based on
what was considered a mineral more than a century ago.  The Pennsylvania Supreme Court heard arguments from lawyers
for a couple who are challenging an intermediate appeals court
ruling that puts into question how deeds transferring ownership
in subsurface rights are worded.  The case might mark the first time in more than five
decades that the court will address a 130-year-old rule, known
as the Dunham Rule, governing land transfers of oil and gas
rights. The rule serves as a foundation for many Marcellus Shale
leases.  “One hundred years ago, shale was a useless rock that had
no economic value,” Justice J. Michael Eakin said during
today’s hearing in Pittsburgh while question a lawyer for the
landowners. “If people 100 years ago thought it was a mineral,
would it be considered relevant?”  Gregory Krock, an attorney for John and Mary Josephine
Butler, replied, “No expert can testify as to whether someone
would know if people knew the value of shale.”  Pennsylvania has attracted some of the biggest oil-and-gas
operators in the country, including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and
 Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  Chesapeake has leased 1.78 million acres
in the Marcellus Shale, an area larger than  Delaware , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  5,000 Wells  Since 2009, more than 5,000 wells have been drilled in
Pennsylvania’s portion of the Marcellus Shale, which stretches
from New York to  West Virginia . The formation may contain 141
trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to meet U.S. demand for about
six years, according to the Energy Department.  “A lot of people care about what happens here,” said
David Fine, a Harrisburg, Pennsylvania-based attorney at K&L
Gates LLP who represents oil and gas companies with leasing
interests in the state. “If the court decides this in one of
the many ways it could, it could cause chaos for no good
reason.”  In the past decade, energy companies have learned how to
recover oil and gas from the Marcellus Shale and similar fields
using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a process that breaks
up the rock using water, sand and chemicals.  1881 Deed  At issue is an 1881 deed governing 244 acres in the
Apolacon Township of Susquehanna County in the northeastern part
of the state along the  New York  border. The deed, drawn by
Charles Powers, transferred to his heirs half the oil and
mineral rights for the land, which can be separated from surface
rights under Pennsylvania law.  The Butlers sued in 2010 to claim the gas under their land,
arguing that Powers’s failure to include the word “gas” in
separating subsurface rights on his former property gives them
the right to tap it. The Powers heirs claimed they own the
rights to half of the gas because Marcellus gas, which is
trapped in rock, should be considered a mineral and part of the
rights explicitly transferred.  A lower court sided with the Butlers in 2010, relying on
previous rulings that established ownership of oil or gas
doesn’t change hands unless specified in a deed. In September
2011, the state’s Superior Court reversed the trial court’s
decision, ruling that state law governing the issue isn’t clear
and expert scientific testimony was needed to determine whether
shale gas is in fact a mineral.  Ordinary People  That evidence is “irrelevant in determining what ordinary
people intended to include in the term ‘mineral’ when they
negotiated their deed,” Krock and Thomas Meagher, another
attorney for the Butlers, said in written arguments filed in the
case.  “The very foundation of the Dunham presumption is that
ordinary people don’t use the word mineral in the scientific
sense,” Krock told the six-justice panel during today’s
hearing. Minerals in the 1800s wouldn’t have included anything
other than metallic substances to ordinary people, he said.  The Dunham Rule, which stems from a case before the state
 Supreme Court  in 1882, provides that when a deed transfers
ownership in minerals it must refer specifically to oil and gas
to transfer rights to those products. The Powers deed mentions
only petroleum oils and minerals. There is no mention of gas,
according to court documents.  Attorneys for William and Craig Pritchard, the Powers
heirs, argued that the rule should not apply in this case
because the deed was written a year before the Dunham decision.
The reservation language included in the Powers deed is also
more inclusive than language used in the case underlying the
Dunham rule, the Pritchards’ attorney Laurence Kelly wrote in
court papers filed in the case.  35 Words  “We’re dealing with a 35-word exception in this case,”
Kelly argued today. “We’re not taking the Dunham case head
on.”  The Dunham case recognized that clay, rock and sand
constitute minerals, Kelly said.  “Gas by its nature is going to flow free to the ozone if
it’s not encapsulated in the earth,” Justice Max Baer replied.
“Because you own what’s holding it there doesn’t mean you own
the gas.”  The court should seek to ascertain not what the parties may
have intended by the language but what is the meaning of the
words they used, Kelly said.  If the court were to say that Dunham is no longer
appropriate, “do we just turn the whole world upside down?”
Baer asked. Pennsylvania stands alone among the 50 states in its
reliance on the Dunham Rule to interpret land transfers of
subsurface rights, Baer said.  “Pennsylvania is certainly in the minority but the rule
has been in place so long and the people in the industry know
it,” Krock replied.  The case is Butler v. Charles Powers Estate, 27 MAP 2012,
 Supreme Court of Pennsylvania , Middle District (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  