-- Target to Match Web Holiday Prices at Amazon, Wal-Mart
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-10-16T20:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/target-to-match-web-holiday-prices-at-amazon-wal-mart.html
Target Corp. (TGT)  stores will match the
online prices of retailers including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Best Buy Co. during the holiday season as it
works to stem the loss of sales to rivals’ websites.  The pricing policy, which also will include Toys “R” Us
Inc., will run from Nov. 1 to Dec. 16, Chief Executive Officer
 Gregg Steinhafel  said today in a presentation in New York.  Target is trying to fight the trend known as
“showrooming,” in which shoppers use physical stores to browse
merchandise and then order it from online retailers. Websites
are grabbing more of shoppers’ dollars, with industrywide online
sales rising 39 percent on Thanksgiving and 24 percent on Black
Friday last year, according to International Business Machines
Corp.’s Coremetrics.  “We wanted to be competitive whether they are brick-and-
mortar or an online retailer,” Steinhafel said in an interview.
“We wanted to be in the game.”  Target rose 1.8 percent to $62.90 at the close in New York.
The Minneapolis-based company’s  shares  have gained 23 percent
this year.  Target also will match the prices of other physical stores
from Nov. 1 to Dec. 24.  The new online price matching will be promoted in Target
stores along with its rewards card and free online shipping,
Steinhafel said. Shoppers will do the price match at the
customer service desk with a receipt, not while checking out.
Customers also can return to a store later with an item if they
find a lower online price at one of the named competitors.  Target will begin testing in-store pickup for online orders
next year, Casey Carl, the retailer’s president of multichannel,
said in the presentation. The retailer also is adding free Wi-Fi
in all of its stores this fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  