-- Market Lacks Hedge for Euro Breakup, Collins Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-10-19T13:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/market-lacks-hedge-for-euro-breakup-record-s-wood-collins-says.html
(Corrects location of Berenberg Bank in last paragraph.)  Financial markets lack an instrument
to hedge against a member of the 17-nation common currency
leaving the euro, according to James Wood-Collins, chief
executive officer of currency manager  Record Plc. (REC)   “We are concerned about and believe in the possibility of
a euro-zone exit,” Wood-Collins, of Windsor, England-based
Record, said in a panel at the Bloomberg FX12 Summit hosted by
 Bloomberg Link  in  London  today. “There is today no liquid
market instrument with which investors can protect themselves
against that specifically.”  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras will seek an
additional two years to meet budget-deficit targets at a meeting
this week with his European Union counterparts, after three
years of broken promises led to  Greece  becoming the only bailout
nation to need a second rescue package. Spain is weighing aid
from Europe’s bailout fund.  The euro rose above $1.30 for the first time in a week amid
speculation that  Spain  is moving toward asking for financial
assistance, reducing concern the region’s debt crisis is
worsening.  While Europe’s common currency has strengthened because
“it’s a natural reserve currency,” the euro “needs to
depreciate itself fundamentally,” Adrian Lee, chief investment
officer at currency manager Adrian Lee & Partners in Dublin,
said at the FX12 Summit.  ‘Recessionary Risk’  “There’s a latent risk there that people misunderstand,”
he said. “It can be confused with the breakup risk, which we
think is nonexistent, but there’s a recessionary risk that is
underestimated.”  The euro region’s gross domestic product is forecast to
contract 0.5 percent this year and to expand 0.3 percent in
2013, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “Active currency management works best when the markets
show the highest risk,” Maria Heiden, an  investment adviser  at
Berenberg Bank in Hamburg, said at the summit. “When the trends
come into the market, then an active manager moves away from the
benchmark and then can add the value for the client in
comparison to the benchmark.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  