-- As Global Economy Sags, Political Leaders Are AWOL
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-10-16T22:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/as-global-economy-sags-political-leaders-are-awol.html
I keep reading that politics right
now is all about the economy -- in the U.S., in  Europe , in
 China , in  India , wherever. The U.S. presidential election is
focused so fiercely on the economy, in fact, that actual policy
making has been shut down for months. Apparently it’s not
possible to worry about the economy and do something about it at
the same time.  Here’s an odd thing, though. Despite the apparent
concentration on economic affairs, an important fact about
global economic conditions appears to have been missed: Things
are getting worse.  In the U.S., analysts sift through tentative signs of
improvement in the labor market, leveling  house prices  and
higher  consumer confidence . Maybe the recovery is picking up.
Alarm in Europe over the imminent collapse of the currency
system has subsided since governments and the European Central
Bank said they’d never let that happen -- a promise they seem
unsure how to keep, but still. The condition of the world
economy, you might think, is serious but stable.  Actually, it continues to deteriorate.  Bleak Expectations  The International Monetary Fund has just released new
 forecasts . Global growth this year, fourth quarter over fourth
quarter, is expected to be just 3.0 percent -- less than last
year’s 3.2 percent, and cut from the already puny 3.7 percent
the IMF’s economists were predicting for 2012 last spring.
They’ve cut the forecast for growth in the U.S. by 0.3
percentage points, and they now expect the U.S. economy to
expand even more slowly this year (1.7 percent) than it did in
2011 (2.0 percent).  Japan ’s prospects have been downgraded too. So have
Britain’s -- and how. Six months ago the IMF predicted UK  growth 
of 1.5 percent in 2012; now the forecast is for zero growth.
Projected growth in smaller advanced economies is down from 3.6
percent to 2.3 percent (compared with 2.4 percent in 2011). For
emerging and developing economies it has fallen from 6.3 percent
to 5.5 percent (compared with 5.7 percent in 2011).  According to the forecasts, 2013 will be a better year than
2012, but not by much -- global growth of just 4 percent. And
again, for the U.S. and especially for the euro area and
Britain, the prospects look worse than they did six months ago.  Why? Because of epic political incompetence.  Admittedly, the Great Recession confronted governments
everywhere with almost unprecedented challenges. (Policy errors
explain why the Great Recession happened in the first place, of
course, but put this aside.) Even allowing for this, the
response has been feeble in every domain but monetary policy. I
shudder to think how bad things would be if the Federal Reserve
and other central banks hadn’t acted so forcefully, resorting to
quantitative easing and other measures that would have seemed
reckless just a few years ago.  Compare this with fiscal policy, the realm of elected
leaders. It’s in shambles both in the U.S. and Europe, albeit in
different ways. What governments ought to do is conceptually
simple: Maintain fiscal support for lower-than-normal economic
activity in the short term, while announcing plans -- detailed,
credible plans -- to strengthen public finances over the longer
term. It hasn’t happened.  Fiscal policy is paralyzed in the U.S. by the mutual enmity
of the two political tribes.  Mitt Romney  and the Republicans are
simply wrong about the fiscal stimulus of 2009: It was necessary
and it should have been bigger. But the Obama administration’s
failure to explain how it would restore the government’s long-
term finances -- not to mention its desire for a permanently
larger government, regardless of the business cycle -- has
strengthened the opposition’s case in the minds of many voters.
The idea of further short-term stimulus, which the economy
sorely needs, has become so politically toxic that the Democrats
dare not advance it.  Looming Cliff  Meanwhile the U.S. economy heads for the “fiscal cliff,” a
previously legislated doomsday scenario of tax increases and
spending cuts designed to be so stupid it would force the two
sides to agree -- as it turns out, they still can’t. Could you
make this up? What’s next? Maybe the world’s biggest debtor will
threaten to default.  Europe’s  fiscal problem  is more difficult, because it
raises far-reaching constitutional issues, but it’s nonetheless
soluble. Collectively, the euro area still has enough fiscal
space to support demand and ease the pain of economic adjustment
in countries where public borrowing ran wildly out of control
(as in  Greece ) or where private credit fueled an asset-price
bubble and cost inflation (as in Spain). Without that support,
the adjustment probably won’t happen: The domestic political
stress is too great. But mobilizing this collective response is
proving impossible because the EU’s stronger economies, led by
 Germany , are reluctant to subsidize their weaker neighbors any
more than they already have.  That may seem reasonable, but in fact it’s Washington-grade
political malfeasance -- because it’s in Germany’s own
interests, and that of the euro area’s other strong economies,
to hold the euro system together and avoid the EU-wide financial
catastrophe that would otherwise ensue.  I’m not denying it’s hard. In Europe the right balance must
be struck, country by country, not only between short-term
fiscal support and medium-term fiscal consolidation but also
between each euro member’s rights and responsibilities within a
reconstituted economic and monetary union. This would be a tough
constitutional challenge even if the EU economy were in good
health. It’s shameful, nonetheless, that with the region’s
economy crashing around them, Europe’s politicians are still so
far from rising to it.  The world economy isn’t healing. It’s getting sicker. Let’s
be clear who’s to blame. Europe and America stand betrayed not
just by their leaders of the day, but by their entire political
class.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors calculate what  Europe must do to
save its currency ; Margaret Carlson on  Marco Rubio ; Cass R.
Sunstein on the hypocrisy of  originalist  justices; Peter Orszag
on the promising  future of health-care costs ; Virginia Postrel
on the  economics of kidney transplants ; Steven Greenhut on  tax
collusion in California .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 