-- Asian Currencies Advance After U.S. Retail Data Beats Estimates
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-10-16T08:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/asian-currencies-advance-after-u-s-retail-data-beats-estimates.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led
by  India ’s rupee and Malaysia’s ringgit, as retail sales data
from the U.S. that beat economists’ estimates supported demand
for riskier assets.  Advanced retail sales in the world’s largest economy rose
1.1 percent last month, compared with the 0.8 percent increase
forecast in a Bloomberg survey, a report showed yesterday. The
MSCI  Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares gained the most in more than
two weeks ahead of a two-day European Union summit to tackle the
region’s debt crisis starting Oct. 18. Chinese exports increased
by the most in three months in September, data showed Oct. 13.  “With positive U.S retail sales, hopes for a rebound in
 China  and the EU news on Thursday, the market has been going
long on Asian currencies,”  Nizam Idris , head of Asian fixed
income and foreign-exchange at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  Singapore ,
wrote in an e-mailed response to questions. “Equities have
rallied and Asian currencies have benefited from the underlying
positive tone in trading bias.”  The rupee appreciated 0.4 percent to 52.8225 per dollar as
of 1:22 p.m. in Mumbai, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The ringgit advanced 0.4 percent to 3.0495, while
South Korea’s won and the Philippine peso strengthened 0.3
percent to 1,107.19 and 41.335, respectively.  The Bloomberg-JP Morgan  Asia  Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies outside Japan, rose 0.1
percent and touched the highest level since March.  The won reached the strongest level against the dollar in
almost a year as the yen fell for a fourth day and the Kospi
index rose by the most in a month.  Taiwanese Exports  “The U.S. data was positive and with the dollar-yen
 exchange rate  rising, demand for safer assets has weakened,”
said Han Sung Min, a Seoul-based currency trader at Busan Bank.
“I expect the won’s appreciation trend to continue.”  Taiwan dollar  one-month forwards touched a five-month high
as the U.S. data brightened the island’s export outlook. Orders
for overseas sales rose 1.9 percent in September from a year
earlier, after dropping 1.5 percent the previous month,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey before
data due Oct. 19.  The Taiwan dollar closed 0.2 percent stronger at NT$29.289
against its U.S. counterpart after being up as much as 0.6
percent earlier. The central bank has intervened to stem gains
in the currency in late trading on most days in the past five
months, according to traders who asked not to be identified.  The ringgit advanced after Bank Negara  Malaysia  Governor
Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in an Oct. 14 interview in  Tokyo  that
gross domestic product will see “good growth” in the third and
fourth quarters, with full-year expansion at about 5 percent.
GDP increased 5.1 percent in 2011, official data show.  China GDP  The  yuan  rose 0.09 percent to 6.2649 per dollar as the
People’s Bank of China set the daily fixing at the strongest
level since June 21. The currency has rallied 1.6 percent since
the end of July. Asia’s largest economy expanded 7.4 percent in
the third quarter, the least since 2009, according to a
Bloomberg survey before data due Oct. 18.  “Some investors could be taking profits from the recent
rapid gains in the yuan as they are cautious on the economy,”
said Patrick Cheng, a currency analyst at Haitong International
Securities Co. in  Hong Kong .  Elsewhere in Asia, Thailand’s baht and Vietnam’s dong were
steady at 30.67 and 20,850, respectively. Indonesia’s rupiah
weakened 0.2 percent to 9.610.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  