-- Aussie Climbs to Two-Week High as Spain Bailout Bets Boost Risk
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-10-17T06:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/aussie-climbs-to-2-week-high-after-spain-retains-moody-s-rating.html
The Australian dollar climbed to its
highest level in two weeks and  government bonds  fell as
speculation Spain is closer to requesting a sovereign bailout
spurred appetite for riskier assets.  New Zealand’s currency rebounded from the biggest drop in
two weeks after Spain yesterday retained its investment-grade
 credit rating  from Moody’s Investors Service, easing concern
that the Europe’s debt crisis will worsen. Demand for the so-
called Aussie and kiwi was also supported as Asian stocks joined
a global rally amid signs the U.S. economy is gaining momentum.  The Australian currency rose 0.4 percent to $1.0315 as of
5:47 p.m. in Sydney. It earlier touched $1.0324, the strongest
since Oct. 2. The Aussie gained 0.2 percent to 81.20 yen. The
 New Zealand dollar  climbed 0.4 percent to 81.77 U.S. cents,
after dropping 0.5 percent to 81.41 yesterday. It rose 0.2
percent to 64.38 yen.  “There certainly has been a lot of smoke around a Spanish
bailout deal in recent trading sessions and I think there is a
rising sense that that is coming soon,” said  Robert Rennie ,
chief currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney.
“That probably means we take the pressure off Aussie in the
short term.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares advanced 1 percent
after the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index of U.S. stocks added 1
percent yesterday and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 1.3
percent.  Volatility, Bonds  Three-month implied volatility on the Australian dollar
fell to 8.645 percent, the lowest since July 27, 2007.  Australian bonds declined, pushing the  yield  on 10-year
debt up by nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.12
percent. It earlier reached 3.16 percent, the highest since
Sept. 25.  A sale of benchmark 10-year securities today drew bids for
5.02 times the amount of notes offered, the highest since at
least 2009, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Germany is open to Spain seeking a precautionary  credit
line  from Europe’s rescue fund, two senior coalition lawmakers
said yesterday.  The comments by Michael Meister, a deputy caucus leader of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, and
 Norbert Barthle , her party’s budget spokesman, indicate a
rolling back of German resistance to a full sovereign bailout
for Spain. European Union leaders will hold a summit in Brussels
on Oct. 18-19.  Spain Rating  Moody’s said it would keep Spain’s rating at Baa3 as it
concluded a review of the country’s credit score that it
initiated in June, according to a statement from the New York-
based company yesterday. It assigned a negative outlook to the
ranking.  Spain avoided joining euro-region peers Cyprus, Portugal,
Ireland and Greece as below investment grade. Standard & Poor’s
has a negative outlook on its BBB- rating, one step above junk,
and  Fitch Ratings  has Spain at BBB, the second lowest
investment-grade score.  “There had been some rumors in the market that a potential
downgrade of Spain was possible,” said Westpac’s Rennie. “So
the confirmation that we got from Moody’s is a positive.”  In the U.S., the number of dwellings builders began work on
in September probably increased, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before the Commerce Department releases a report today on
housing. Starts may have climbed to an annual rate of 770,000,
up 2.7 percent from August. A report yesterday showed industrial
production increased a more-than-forecast 0.4 percent last
month, partially reversing the previous month’s 1.4 percent
slump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  