-- Austria’s Raidl Says Banks Didn’t Give Money ‘Recklessly’
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-10-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/austria-s-raidl-says-banks-didn-t-give-money-recklessly-.html
Austrian Central Bank President
Claus Raidl said his nation’s financial institutions didn’t lend
money irresponsibly in eastern Europe.  “No Austrian bank did give money recklessly,” Raidl said
in an interview in Vienna yesterday. “We have some problems
because of the slower economic development, slower growth,
foreign-currency loans, political situations in some of the
countries -- so we have to adapt,” he said. “I know there are
no hidden risks.”  Austrian banks, including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank  Austria ,
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , are
the biggest lenders in the former communist part of Europe. Bank
profits in eastern Europe have eroded as the euro-zone debt
crisis has hurt the the region, which relies on exports to
western Europe.  The Austrian central bank last year introduced rules asking
Bank Austria, Erste and Raiffeisen to stop lending significantly
more than they raise in local deposits in eastern Europe.  Fitch
Ratings  said yesterday that a survey of 43 foreign-owned banks
in the region indicated that their parent funding decreased
“moderately” since 2008.  Austria had to nationalize Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank
International AG, the third-biggest lender in the former
Yugoslav nations, in 2009. Hypo Alpe has to fill a capital gap
of 2.19 billion euros next year. A third of the bank’s loan book
is delinquent.  Another Austrian bank,  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , had
to be partially nationalized this year. While Volksbank sold its
eastern Europe unit to OAO Sberbank before the state took its
stake, the Russian lender refused to take on Volksbanken’s
money-losing Romanian unit.  Still, Raidl wouldn’t want Austrian lenders to turn their
back on the region.  “The engagement and the investment of the Austrian banks
in that region of central and eastern Europe is -- when I take
the last 10 years -- a success story,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  