-- Lawmakers Seek $60 Billion Deficit-Cutting Fallback Plan
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-10-16T19:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/lawmakers-seek-60-billion-deficit-cutting-fallback-plan.html
Both parties in Congress are
discussing fallback plans for $60 billion to $100 billion in
 deficit reduction  to avert larger spending cuts and tax
increases that could trigger a recession in 2013, according to
several congressional aides.  With Republicans including House Speaker  John Boehner 
saying a broad tax-and-spending deal after the Nov. 6 election
probably can’t happen, the two parties are separately discussing
a down payment to replace at least half of $110 billion in
automatic spending cuts set to begin in January, said the
Democratic and Republican aides.  Congress might delay the rest of the spending cuts while
lawmakers work on entitlement or tax policy changes in the first
half of 2013, said the aides, who weren’t authorized to talk
publicly about the discussions.  “There is this developing consensus around a down payment
and a framework,” said  Bob Bixby , head of the Concord Coalition
in  Washington , which advocates limited spending. The $60 billion
figure is “just enough to be taken seriously” by the nation’s
creditors, he said. “It’s something to show that you’re in the
game, that it’s not just a total can-kick.”  The $60 billion to $100 billion in reductions would come
from unspecified savings from mandatory and discretionary
federal spending, said the aides, who didn’t give details
because any plan would be open to negotiation.  Far Apart  Republicans and Democrats are still far apart on a broader
agreement on taxes. Republicans want the George W. Bush-era tax
cuts, scheduled to expire at the end of this year, to be
extended for everyone. Democrats want top earners to pay more.  One Democratic aide said the party may be willing to
consider cutting a larger share of spending from non-defense
programs to get a deal through the House, assuming the Bush tax
cuts expire because both sides can’t reach a consensus on
continuing them.  The parties have fought during Obama’s presidency over
Republicans’ desire to extend the tax cuts for all income levels
and Democrats’ effort to end the cuts for income exceeding
$250,000 a year for married couples and $200,000 for
individuals. Republicans have insisted that tax increases can’t
be part of an agreement on deficit reduction, while Democrats
say top earners should pay more.  A 2011 deficit-reduction agreement between Obama and
congressional leaders created the so-called fiscal cliff of $607
billion in spending cuts and tax increases starting in January
unless Congress acts to stop it.  Economic Effects  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink
said yesterday the economy could shrink at the start of 2013 as
companies curb hiring ahead of the fiscal cliff.  The Democratic and Republican congressional aides say a $60
billion down payment on spending cuts may be the largest amount
they can come up with this year, and the minimum needed to calm
concerns by the nation’s creditors that Congress and the
president are incapable of addressing the  budget deficit .  The aides said stopgap plans being considered by each party
could continue miscellaneous tax breaks, prevent more people
from having to pay the alternative minimum tax and delay cuts in
Medicare payments to doctors. Democrats are also talking about
ways to extend expanded unemployment benefits.  The Senate’s No. 2 Democrat,  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, said
at the Democratic presidential convention in Charlotte, North
Carolina, that many lawmakers want to “buy” a six-month delay
in the scheduled tax increases and spending cuts by finding
other ways to reduce the deficit.  ‘Pretty Small’  Paul Weinstein, a former White House domestic policy aide
who advised Obama’s 2010 fiscal commission, said a $60 billion
deal would be “pretty small.” He said it would give Congress
only a few months to work out differences on a broader agreement
without roiling the credit markets.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if there’s a short-term deal,”
Weinstein said. “I’m not sure that $60 billion without some
kind of timetable or bigger deal is going to satisfy the  ratings
agencies .”  In September, Moody’s Investors Service said it would
probably cut its triple A rating on  U.S. government debt  if
deficit negotiations fail. Moody’s cut its outlook on  U.S. debt 
to “negative” in August 2011, a warning that it might
downgrade the rating. That same month,  Standard & Poor’s 
stripped the government of its triple A rating on bonds.  Donnelly of Indiana  Congress also may vote to delay all of the automatic
spending cuts and tax increases. Representative Joe Donnelly of
Indiana, a Democrat running for a U.S. Senate seat, said today
he expects Congress to put off the fiscal cliff into 2013.  “That time after the election will be spent on trying to
put a framework together,” he said.  Regarding the spending cuts and tax increases, “there
would be a vote to push them back for six months,” Donnelly
said. “That time would be spent finishing up an agreement on a
long-term financial program.”  There’s little sign that Republicans and Democrats are
accomplishing much before the election to bridge their
differences.  Last week, a bipartisan group of U.S. senators that has
worked on the issue for almost two years finished a three-day
retreat at Mount Vernon in  Virginia  with no sign of progress.
The Democratic and Republican aides said little or no bipartisan
work is being done by the committees governing taxes and
entitlements.  Rejecting Overhaul  New York  Senator Chuck Schumer, the Senate’s third-ranking
Democrat, last week rejected a tax overhaul that would lower
income tax rates while limiting deductions and credits, which
Republicans consider an essential part of a deficit agreement.  In the House, Boehner said he is reluctant to back a major
deficit-reduction deal in a post-election session. It’s unclear
whether Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , could get the chamber’s
anti-deficit advocates to go along with a $60 billion deal that
would delay the second half of the scheduled spending cuts.  Failure to reach a deal would put the nation at risk of
another recession, said former New Hampshire Senator  Judd Gregg ,
a Republican and co-chairman of the Campaign to Fix the Debt, a
nonpartisan group urging a debt compromise.  “We cannot afford to have the fiscal cliff,” Gregg said.
‘It would definitely throw us into reverse, if not directly into
recession. It would be a terrible failure of government for that
to happen.”  Strengthened Hand  Many Democrats, including Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
of  Nevada , predict that an Obama victory on Nov. 6 would
strengthen his hand in persuading Republicans to agree to tax
increases. Conversely, Republicans say a win by Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  would cause Democrats to give
in on extending tax cuts for all income levels.  There will be other political considerations after the
election. Boehner will be reluctant to agree to a compromise
that would frustrate anti-tax Tea Party members in the House
before January, when the Republican rank-and-file will decide
whether to re-elect him as speaker.  Some Democratic leaders, including Senator  Patty Murray  of
Washington, say they are willing to let all of the Bush-era tax
cuts temporarily expire next year rather than continue them for
all income levels.  White House and congressional aides are working on ways to
address the tax-and-spending issues depending on which party
will control the White House and the House and Senate in 2013,
according to congressional aides.  In July 2011, Obama and Boehner came close to reaching an
agreement before talks broke down, at least in part over whether
fresh  tax revenue  should amount to $800 billion or $1.2
trillion. Democrats say that could provide the basis of
negotiations between Obama and Boehner after the election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  