-- Bank Credit Risk Falls to 16-Month Low as EFSF Sells Bonds
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-10-16T14:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/bank-credit-risk-falls-to-16-month-low-as-efsf-sells-bonds.html
Bank debt is the safest relative to
corporate bonds in almost 16 months amid confidence  Europe ’s
political leaders will step up efforts to end the region’s
crisis when they meet this week.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on the senior debt of 25 European banks and insurers fell for a
fifth day and now exceeds a broader measure of 125 investment-
grade companies by 49 basis points, compared with 120 basis
points in July. The European Financial Stability Facility, the
region’s temporary bailout fund, is selling 5.9 billion euros
($7.7 billion) of five-year bonds in its biggest deal since
July.  Investors are growing more confident banks will ride out
the crisis that started in  Greece  nearly three years ago after
the  European Central Bank  unveiled a bond buying plan last
month. Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras will pitch for an
additional two years to meet budget-deficit targets at the
meeting with his European Union counterparts as Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  delays asking for a bailout.  “Financials have outperformed on the basis of liquidity
injections and being ring fenced from peripheral risk by the
rhetoric if not the actions of the ECB,” said Simon Ballard, a
senior credit strategist at National Australia Bank in  London .
“The macro picture in terms of growth is still anemic.”  The financial index fell six basis points to 170 at 4 p.m.
in London, while the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings dropped five basis points to 122.
The difference between the gauges peaked at 150 basis points in
November.  Investors should sell default protection on the corporate
index and buy the financial measure, according to Pierre-Yves
Bretonniere, a strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London.  Crossover Index  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 23 basis
points to 509. A decline signals improvement in perceptions of
 credit quality .  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The EFSF bonds will be priced at 23 basis points more than
the benchmark mid-swap rate, according to a person with
knowledge of the deal. The notes were initially marketed with a
spread of 25 basis points.  Numericable Sells  Numericable Finance & Co. is also selling 410 million euros
of bonds, according to a person familiar with the offering, who
asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set. Speculation
the Luxembourg-based cable operator is set to merge with  Vivendi
SA (VIV) ’s SFR mobile phone unit is credible, Bank of America Corp.
analysts said yesterday.  Solihull, England-based Paragon Group of Companies Plc is
offering 175 million pounds ($282 million) of top rated bonds
backed by buy-to-let mortgages, according to a banker with
direct knowledge of the deal.  Sales of sub-prime mortgage backed debt are increasing,
with Investec Plc pricing 150 million pounds of the securities
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  