-- Beating Stagflation Lifts Brazil to Turkey Bids for Linkers
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-10-17T13:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/beating-stagflation-boosts-brazil-to-turkey-demand-for-linkers.html
     Oct. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Growth is so slow in  emerging
markets  that central bankers are tolerating faster inflation to
stimulate their economies, driving investors to debt linked to
consumer prices at the fastest pace in two years.  Average inflation in the 15 largest developing economies
accelerated to a seven-month high of 4.3 percent in September,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield gap between  Brazil ’s
10-year benchmark fixed-rate notes and bonds indexed to consumer
prices surged 56 basis points in the past three months through
yesterday, the biggest increase since 2010, to 5.99 percent. The
gap rose 108 basis points, or 1.08 percentage points, in  Turkey 
to 6.09 percent and 63 in South Africa to 5.52 percent.  The widening gap, a sign of inflation expectations, shows
investors expect policy makers to keep  interest rates  low and
shore up growth as the  International Monetary Fund  says the risk
of a global recession is “alarmingly high.”  Thailand ’s central
bank unexpectedly cut benchmark interest rates today, one week
after Brazil reduced borrowing costs to a record 7.25 percent
and signaled the intention to hold the benchmark down for a
“prolonged period” as the economic outlook deteriorates.  “When they have to choose between growth and inflation,
growth has become more important than it has been in the past
five years,”  Guillermo Osses , who oversees $12 billion assets
as head of emerging-market debt at HSBC Asset Management, said
in a phone interview from  New York  on Sept. 28. “We start to
see inflation slowly picking up.”  Osses said he bought  inflation-linked bonds  of Turkey and
Brazil over the past two months.  Commodities Surge  Emerging-market inflation-linked bonds, which pay investors
interest rates that rise with consumer prices, returned 5
percent in the third quarter, the biggest gain in more than two
years, data compiled by Bank of America Corp. show. The
securities have advanced 15 percent in 2012, compared with a 6.5
percent gain in U.S. inflation-linked debt and an 8.9 percent
increase in fixed-rate bonds in  developing countries .  In the U.S.,  the 10-year breakeven rate  reached a 17-month
high of 2.64 percent on Sept. 14, one day after the  Federal
Reserve  announced plans to buy $40 billion of assets per month
in a third round of so-called quantitative easing. The rate was
at 2.46 percent yesterday, compared with an average of 2.1
percent in the 10 years through 2011.  Bond-buying programs in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  are
flooding the global economy with cash to stimulate growth and
contributing to the 14 percent increase in commodity prices
since June. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials
has advanced 5.3 percent over the past three months, the biggest
jump in more than a year.  Stagflation Risk  Developed countries’ monetary policies are “creating the
risk of a stagflationary environment,” Arko Sen, a debt and
currency strategist at Bank of America, said in a phone
interview from  London  on Oct. 10, referring to the phenomenon of
slower economic growth accompanied by higher inflation. The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank recommends buying linkers
in Brazil,  South Africa  and Turkey, he said.  The highest inflation rate since March for emerging markets
is temporary, the Washington-based IMF said Oct. 8, urging
policy makers to focus on delivering stimulus to support
economic growth. The lender said Turkey’s growth rate will drop
to 3 percent from 8.5 percent in 2011, the biggest slowdown
after  Argentina  among the Group of 20 biggest nations. Brazil
will expand 1.5 percent this year, the second slowest growth
since 2003.  Polish Exception  “I don’t think that the main issue for emerging-market
policy makers is inflation at the moment,” said Roberto Sanchez-Dahl, who oversees $1.4 billion of emerging-market debt
at Federated Investment Management Co., said by phone from
Pittsburgh on Oct. 9.  Poland is an exception. The nation’s 10-year breakeven rate
suggests that inflation will slow to 2.51 percent from 3.8
percent last month after policy makers unexpectedly kept
borrowing costs at 4.75 percent for a fourth straight meeting on
Oct. 3. The central bank raised the benchmark interest rate in
May, the only country in the European Union to boost borrowing
costs this year. Central bank Governor Marek Belka told
reporters Oct. 3 that he wants to make sure inflation will keep
decelerating.  Brazil Rates  Brazilian central bank President Alexandre Tombini has
lowered the benchmark rate 5.25 percentage points since August
2011, the biggest reduction among the G-20.  Annual inflation 
quickened to a seven-month high of 5.3 percent in September,
marking the 25th straight month that the rate was above the
central bank’s 4.5 percent main target.  The global slowdown will slow price increases over the next
few years, Tombini told reporters on Oct. 15 in  Tokyo . The
central bank declined to comment on its monetary policy outlook
in an e-mailed statement.  Turkey’s central bank reduced the  overnight lending rate  by
150 basis points to 10 percent last month. Inflation rose to a
five-month high of 9.2 percent in September, almost double the
bank’s target of 5 percent, after the government raised taxes on
fuel and cars.  Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci said in a speech
on Sept. 13 that  price stability  is an “essential component”
for economic growth.  In Thailand, 10-year breakeven rates increased 39 basis
points over the past three months, the biggest advance since
March, to 2.51 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Support Growth  The Bank of Thailand lowered its one-day bond repurchase
rate by 25 basis points to 2.75 percent today, after central
bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said in an Oct. 13
interview that there was no need for a rate cut. All but three
of 23 economists in a Bloomberg survey had expected no change.  Central bank Chairman Virabongsa Ramangkura said in a
speech in Bangkok on Aug. 7 that the country’s inflation-
targeting system is inappropriate and that monetary policy
should be used to support growth. Trairatvorakul told reporters
in Bangkok 10 days later that there is no better course than
inflation targeting.  Consumer prices in the Asian country rose 3.38 percent last
month from a year earlier, the fastest pace since March.
Inflation remains “benign,” Trairatvorakul said in the
interview in Tokyo on Oct. 13.  In South Africa, the 5.52 percent breakeven rates shows
investors anticipate higher inflation after strikes in the
 mining industry  that started in August pushed up wages and
caused an 8 percent drop in the rand against the dollar.
Consumer prices rose 5 percent in August.  ‘Deteriorating Rapidly’  South African Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said in a
speech at Rhodes University in the southern town of Grahamstown
on Oct. 10 that the economic outlook is “deteriorating
rapidly” as strikes spread, fueling speculation that she will
lower borrowing costs for a second time since July. The central
bank’s press office didn’t return calls and e-mails for comment.  Speculation that looser monetary and fiscal policies across
the world may lead to higher inflation spurred  Kieran Curtis ,
who helps oversee $4 billion in emerging-market debt at Aviva
Investors Ltd., to buy inflation-linked bonds in countries
including Brazil, Turkey and Thailand over the past two months.  “You definitely have a higher probability of inflation in
a low-growth environment given the stance of the policy around
the world,” Curtis said in a phone interview on Oct. 2 from
London. “You don’t need growth to get inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  