-- Billionaire Peterffy Says $1.9 Billion Taxes Support Poor
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2012-10-16T19:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/billionaire-peterffy-says-1-9-billion-taxes-support-poor.html
Thomas Peterffy, the 68-year-old
billionaire funding anti-socialism commercials, said he helps
the needy by paying his tax bill.  “The rich support the poor primarily via taxes,” he said
in an e-mail sent to  Bloomberg News  by spokeswoman Caitlin
Duffy. “I paid $1.9 billion in taxes in my lifetime.”  The Hungarian-born chairman of Greenwich, Connecticut-based
 Interactive Brokers Group Inc. (IBKR) , the world’s largest online
broker, advocates voting Republican in his commercial, which
began airing last week on Bloomberg TV, CNN and CNBC. Socialism,
he says in the ad, is removing Americans’ will to succeed.  “Take away their incentive by badmouthing success and you
take away the wealth that helps us take care of the needy,” he
says in the ad, which is titled Freedom to Succeed.  Peterffy is worth $7.6 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . He owns 86.3 percent of IBG Holdings, a
closely held partnership that controls 88.5 percent of publicly
traded Interactive Brokers. He also has collected $3.9 billion
in dividends, share sales and carried interest distributions
since 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from
regulatory filings.  Berkshire School  Peterffy does not have a charitable foundation, preferring
to give directly to groups and causes. “My charitable donations
go to educational efforts, such as Teach for America,  Vanderbilt
University , Berkshire School,” he said in the e-mail.  He donated $3 million in IBG equity to Vanderbilt
University’s Financial Markets Research Center in 2003. He also
is listed on the Berkshire School website as having given more
than $20,000, the top category of donors. At least one of
Peterffy’s children attended the boarding secondary school in
Sheffield,  Massachusetts .  Neither Peterffy nor Interactive Brokers is listed by Teach
for America as having given $1 million or more in its history.
Nine anonymous donors have given seven-figure sums to the group.  Born in Budapest during World War II, Peterffy saw little
hope in communist  Hungary  as a teenager, he says in the
commercial. He emigrated to the U.S. in 1965. After learning
computer programming in  New York  and consulting for Wall Street
companies, he bought a seat on the  American Stock Exchange  to
trade options in 1976.  Electronic Trading  He automated his operation, and began offering electronic
trading services to institutional clients. Two decades later, he
began taking orders from retail investors.  In 2007, Peterffy and his minority partners sold 10 percent
of the company in an initial public offering and an additional
1.5 percent in a secondary offering four years later. In the
first two quarters of 2012, the company generated net income of
$585.8 million on sales of $1.36 billion. Under the ownership
structure, 88.5 percent of Interactive’s profit goes to
Peterffy’s IBG partnership and 11.5 percent to common stock
holders, according to  filings  made to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Peterffy has done better than his investors. Since the
company’s IPO in 2007, when shares priced at $30.01, Interactive
Brokers stock has dropped 47.8 percent while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has returned almost 9 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Interactive Brokers handles about 10 percent of equity
options traded worldwide, executing about 1 million trades a day
in 6,500 securities, according to its website. It plans to
expand into  Brazil  by the beginning of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Coffey in Boston at 
 bcoffey10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  