-- Blackstone Venture to Sell Senior Homes for $1.7 Billion
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-10-17T01:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/blackstone-venture-to-sell-senior-homes-for-1-7-billion.html
(Corrects company paying rent in sixth paragraph.)  A  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  fund and
 Emeritus Corp. (ESC)  agreed to sell a group of senior housing
properties to  HCP Inc. (HCP)  for $1.73 billion, the largest deal for a
health-care real estate investment trust this year.  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VI bought the 133-property
portfolio out of bankruptcy in 2010, HCP said in a statement
today. The  Long Beach , California-based company, the largest
health-care REIT by market value, said the purchase will add 8
cents a share to its annual funds from operations.  Demand for senior housing is rising as the U.S. population
ages.  Health Care REIT Inc. (HCN)  agreed in August to pay an 87
percent premium for  Sunrise Senior Living Inc. (SRZ) , the biggest ever
for an operator of homes for the elderly. U.S. health-care REITs
have announced or completed $4.6 billion in acquisitions this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The HCP transaction “significantly expands our senior-
housing portfolio,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jay Flaherty said in today’s statement.  HCP’s planned purchase will be the largest acquisition by a
health-care REIT acquisition since Toledo, Ohio-based Health
Care REIT bought almost all the real estate owned by closely
held Genesis HealthCare for $2.4 billion in April 2011.  Emeritus, a Seattle-based operator of assisted-living
communities, will lease the properties from HCP and continue to
operate them, according to the statement. Emeritus will pay
$105.5 million in rent in the first year of the lease, the
company said in a separate statement. Emeritus will also
purchase nine other properties from the Blackstone venture.  HCP said it expects to complete its purchase in phases
beginning in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  