-- BOE Shunning Mortgage Controls ‘Discomforting,’ BSA’s Coles Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-16T13:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/boe-shunning-mortgage-controls-discomforting-bsa-s-coles-says.html
The  Bank of England ’s decision not
to seek control over loan-to-value and loan-to-income ratios on
mortgages is “discomforting,” Building Societies Association
Director General Adrian Coles said.  Speaking in  London  today to lawmakers examining proposals
to give the central bank unprecedented financial regulatory
powers, Coles also said “proper transparency” is needed as the
move will make the institution one of the most “powerful
unelected entities in the democratic world.”  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee asked the
government in March for controls over certain capital and
leverage requirements and rejected seeking powers on mortgage
LTV and LTI ratios, saying these would need a “high level of
public acceptability.” Policy makers said other tools such as
the ability to vary sectoral  capital requirements  may be able to
achieve some of the same stability benefits.  “There is a concern about the extent to which they’re
saying ‘We don’t want LTV and LTI explicit controls, but we are
in favor of having the power to raise sectoral capital
requirements on particular LTI and LTV ratios,’” Coles told the
Treasury Committee today. “I’m a little discomforted by that
because that may serve to confuse the debate somewhat.”  When asked if he thought the FPC wanted the power to
influence LTV and LTI ratios without the accountability, Coles
said “I wouldn’t like to accuse of them thinking that way
directly, but it’s crossed my mind.”  The BSA director general also said it would be sensible for
the central bank to consider having a housing-market gauge as
part of the financial-stability indicators used to calibrate its
new tools.  Speaking alongside Coles, British Bankers’ Association
Chief Executive Officer Anthony Browne said he welcomed recent
announcements by policy makers that they are aware there is a
trade-off between increasing the resilience of the financial
system and growth.  “There has been more recognition now,” Browne said. “We
certainly welcome having more flexibility there.”  The FPC, led by Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King , is
currently meeting on an interim basis while the Banking Bill is
considered in Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  