-- Brooks Said to Have Received $11.3 Million News Corp. Payout
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-10-16T16:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/brooks-said-to-have-received-11-3-million-news-corp-payout-1-.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former head of
News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper operations, was given a payout
package worth about 7 million pounds ($11.3 million) after
stepping down amid the unit’s phone-hacking scandal, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  The package included legal fees, cash and a chauffeur-
driven car, the person said, declining to be identified because
the payment is not public.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News
Corp.’s News International unit, declined to comment. Brooks’s
lawyer Angus McBride couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  Brooks, who stepped down in July 2011, and 13 other people
will face the first criminal trial next year over their roles in
the phone-hacking scandal. Brooks was among executives charged
with either conspiring to intercept the voice mail of
celebrities, lawmakers and crime victims, or conspiring to cover
up the practice as the police probe intensified last year.  News Corp., the New York-based company controlled by Rupert Murdoch, is trying to move on from the scandal after civil
lawsuits and a parallel media-ethics inquiry that began last
year revealed damaging evidence about hacking and other
wrongdoing. The company has since closed its News of the World
tabloid, where the phone-hacking scandal started, and is
splitting its publishing assets from entertainment.  Annual Meeting  News Corp. (NWSA) , which holds its annual general meeting in Los
Angeles today, has paid out more than $315 million for legal
fees, civil court settlements, and the cost of shutting News of
the World.  Brooks became head of News International, which also
publishes the Sun, the Times and the Sunday Times, in 2009 after
serving as editor of the Sun for 6 1/2 years. Beginning her
career as a feature writer for the News of the World in 1989,
Brooks rose through the ranks and was editor of that newspaper
from 2000 to 2003.  Separately, prosecutors investigating voicemail
interception and bribery at News Corp.’s U.K. publications today
said they declined to file charges against a police officer who
briefed a journalist on the status of the original phone-hacking
probe in 2006. The Crown Prosecution Service said the journalist
was a potential victim of the crime.  Brooks was a victim of phone-hacking and briefed on the
initial probe, according to testimony at the U.K. media
triggered by the scandal. The Guardian newspaper  reported  today
the unidentified officer cleared by prosecutors was the one who
briefed Brooks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  