-- HCA’s Third-Quarter Earnings to Miss Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-10-16T16:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/hca-s-third-quarter-earnings-to-miss-analysts-estimates.html
HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the largest for-
profit U.S. hospital chain, provided a preliminary look at
third-quarter earnings that fell short of analysts’ estimates
even as admissions at the company’s facilities rose.  Net income jumped sixfold to $360 million, or 78 cents a
share, while sales rose 11 percent to $8.06 billion, Nashville,
Tennessee-based HCA said in a statement today. Adjusted for
sales of facilities, profit was 77 cents a share, short of the
average 80-cent projection of 23 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Complete results will be given on or around Nov. 1.  HCA tumbled and its results dragged other hospital stocks
down, including  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  and  Tenet (THS) 
Healthcare Corp. HCA’s softer earnings, despite a 2.1 percent
rise in admissions at comparable facilities, are probably due to
more patients who may be uninsured or on Medicare, said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at CRT Capital in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “It depends on who shows up in the bed,” she said in an
e-mail. “It can really make a difference on your margin.”  The slightly lower-than-expected revenue from HCA, an
industry bellwether, may portend similar problems for other for-
profit hospitals, Skolnick said. Analysts had estimated $8.07
billion in revenue, according to the average of estimates.  HCA fell 1.4 percent, or 45 cents, to $31.52 at 12:26 p.m.
New York time, and was as low as $30.64. Tenet dropped 0.5
percent to $24.05, while Community Health fell 1.3 percent to
$28.19.  Special Dividend  HCA tried to reward shareholders, telling them it would pay
a  special dividend  of $2.50 a share, funded partly by $2 billion
in new senior notes. Proceeds from the debt sale will also go
toward other corporate activities and may be used to repay a
term loan, HCA said in a separate statement.  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Wells Fargo & Co. are helping manage the offering.  HCA’s net income in the year-earlier period was $61
million, or 11 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  