-- Canada August International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-10-16T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/canada-august-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for August
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-resident investors acquired $6.9 billion of Canadian
securities in August, as they favoured debt instruments over
equity in contrast to July. Canadian investors reduced their
holdings of foreign securities by $1.7 billion, following three
straight months of acquisition.  Foreign investment in the Canadian  debt market  focuses on
corporate securities  Foreign investors purchased $7.5 billion of Canadian debt
securities in August, up from the $2.0 billion acquired in July.
Non-residents added bonds and money market instruments to their
holdings, led by Canadian corporate securities.  Foreign investment in Canadian bonds was $4.7 billion and
targeted new bonds issued by corporations, both private and
public. Non-residents reduced their holdings of Canadian
government bonds for the second time in three months, mainly
federal bonds with short-term maturities. Nonetheless, foreign
investors accumulated $19.5 billion of federal  government bonds 
between January and August of 2012, nearly fourfold the
investment recorded during the same period in 2011.  Non-resident investment in the Canadian money market
reached $2.8 billion in August, following a large divestment in
July. Foreign acquisitions of paper issued by Canadian private
corporations posted the second largest inflow on record. This,
combined with investment in provincial government paper,
accounted for most of the activity over the month.  Non-residents reduce their holdings of Canadian equities  Foreign investors removed $0.6 billion from their holdings
of Canadian equities in August, after a $4.7 billion investment
in July. The divestment was in a wide variety of Canadian
equities transacted on the secondary market. Canadian stock
prices increased further in August, posting the largest monthly
gain since January.  Canadian investors sell foreign debt securities after two months
of acquisitions  Canadian investors reduced their holdings of foreign debt
securities by $1.1 billion in August, following two straight
months of investment totalling $6.4 billion. US government bonds
and, to a lesser extent, non-US foreign bonds accounted for most
of the reduction. Acquisitions of US corporate bonds and
government T-bills moderated the overall divestment over the
month. On a year-to-date basis, the level of divestment in
foreign debt securities has decreased considerably compared with
2011.  Canadian holdings of foreign equities down  Resident investors, led by pension funds, reduced their
holdings of foreign equities by $0.5 billion in August.
Transactions in the month reflected certain portfolio
adjustments, Canadians adding $2.1 billion of US shares and
removing $2.6 billion of non-US foreign shares from their
holdings. Most major world equity markets posted gains in August.  Note to readers  The data series on international transactions in securities
cover portfolio transactions in equity and investment fund
shares, bonds and money market instruments for both Canadian and
foreign issues.  Equity and investment fund shares include common and
preferred equities as well as units/shares of investment funds.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and US-
dollar Canada bills.  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  