-- Canadian Stocks Poised for Best Gain Since August on Europe
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-10-16T16:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/canadian-stocks-advance-most-in-one-month-on-europe-optimism.html
The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite
Index headed for its best gain since August as U.S. industrial
production beat forecasts and two German lawmakers said the
country is open to Spain seeking a precautionary  credit line .  Thompson Creek Metals Co., a producer of molybdenum in
Canada and the U.S, and  Iamgold Corp. (IMG) , a producer of the
precious metal, added at least 3.4 percent.  Regal Lifestyle
Communities Inc. (RLC)  slid 0.5 percent in its trading debut after a
C$138.8 million ($140.8 million) initial public offering.  The  S&P/TSX (SPTSX)  rose 162.07 points, or 1.3 percent, to
12,392.03 at 12:35 p.m. in Toronto. It has rallied 9.8 percent
from this year’s low on May 18, and is up 3.6 percent in 2012.  “There’s an effort to have them working together to solve
the European crisis,” Bill Harris, who manages C$279 million at
Avenue Investment Management in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. “Any good news that comes out at the moment will get
stocks to bounce back.”  Equities rose as Michael Meister and  Norbert Barthle ,
officials within  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic
bloc, indicated a reversal to German resistance to a full
bailout for Spain. A report showed U.S. industrial production
increased a more-than-forecast 0.4 percent in September,
partially reversing the prior month’s slump and indicating
manufacturers are regaining their footing.  Canadian  factory sales  rose three times faster than
economists forecast in August on gains in energy and
automobiles. The Canadian dollar weakened the most in almost
three months against its U.S. peer after Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  suggested he may reduce his economic outlook and
delay raising policy interest rates.  Biggest Gains  All 10 groups in the S&P/TSX rose as health-care and raw-
material companies had the biggest gains. Thompson Creek Metals
added 5.8 percent to C$2.76. Iamgold increased 3.4 percent to
C$15.77.  Argonaut Gold Inc. (AR)  added 1.5 percent to C$9.79 after being
raised to outperform from neutral at Macquarie Group Ltd. by
equity analyst Michael Siperco. The 12-month share-price
estimate is C$12.  Loblaw Cos. gained 2.6 percent to C$34.75. Canada’s largest
grocery chain by market capitalization will cut 700 jobs and
take a $60 million charge as it seeks to reduce costs after
projecting annual profit would fall below last year.  Regal Lifestyle fell 0.5 to C$9.95. The company, which
plans to buy 10 retirement communities in Canada, sold about
13.9 million shares on Oct. 4 in a sale led by Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce and Bank of Montreal.  Additional Sale  The banks have the option to sell an additional 15 percent
of the company, which would increase proceeds to about C$159.6
million, the Toronto-based company said in an Oct. 5 statement.  Ivanplats Ltd. , a mining company founded by billionaire
Robert Friedland, raised C$300.8 million in its IPO in Toronto
after selling shares at the lower end of the marketed range.
Ivanplats sold 63.3 million shares for C$4.75 apiece yesterday,
within its offered range of C$4.50 to C$5.40 each, according to
sales documents. The stock will trade in Toronto under the
ticker IVP.  Ivanplats is the largest Canadian mining IPO since  Tahoe
Resources Inc. (THO)  raised C$348 million in its 2010 share sale. The
company plans to use proceeds from the sale for exploration and
development projects in  Africa  and to complete the purchase of
the Kipushi copper-and-zinc mine in the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo from companies associated with Dan Gertler, an Israeli
mining investor, according to a Sept. 28  prospectus .  Best Performing  Gildan Activewear Inc.’s (GIL)  drive to take market share from
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s (BRK/B)  Fruit of the Loom and  Hanesbrands Inc. (HBI) 
has made it the best performing North American underwear stock
this year.  Gildan, the biggest supplier of blank tops to makers of
printed clothing such as T-shirts, has soared almost 70 percent
this year, the most among 23 North American apparel, footwear
and accessories makers with market values of more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares are
trading at 36 times earnings as investors back the company’s
move into the retail market for socks, underwear and
undershirts.  “Why this year will be a major breakthrough for us is
we’ve taken our low-cost manufacturing and enhanced it with
quality features at the same time as giving the retailers better
margins than Fruit or Hanes,” Glenn Chamandy, chief executive
officer, said last week by phone from Montreal, where the
company is based. “That’s how you win shelf space.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  