-- Canadian Dollar Falls as Carney Douses Rate-Increase Speculation
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-16T21:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/canadian-dollar-falls-as-carney-suggests-pared-growth-outlook.html
The Canadian dollar weakened the
most in about three months against its U.S. peer after Bank of
 Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  suggested he may reduce his economic
outlook and delay raising policy interest rates.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell against almost all of its
most-traded peers after Carney’s comments yesterday that his
quarterly economic forecast next week will reflect a prolonged
global recovery. Dalton McGuinty said yesterday he is stepping
down as Ontario premier amid controversy over canceled  power
plants  and an inability to implement budget cuts.  “A lot of people were riding the Canada bull rhetoric,
Carney ride and now is the time to pare back some of those
positions, and the market is doing so,”  Dean Popplewell , head
analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda
Corp., said in a phone interview. “He has certainly been less
aggressive and fixed income and money markets are pricing out a
hike anytime soon, pushing it to the curb.”  Canada’s currency weakened for a third day, falling 0.6
percent to 98.66 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, the
biggest decline since July 23. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0136.  Oil, the country’s largest export, gained 0.2 percent to
$91.99 a barrel. The Standard & Poor’s Index climbed 1 percent,
the most in a month. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
added 0.2 percent.  Factory Sales  Canadian factory sales rose three times faster than
economists forecast in August on gains in energy and
automobiles. Sales climbed 1.5 percent to C$49.5 billion ($50.2
billion), Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The percentage
gain exceeded all forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of 22
economists.  “We would fade the headline strength in manufacturing
sales, as this number could be revised lower,” Mazen Issa,
Canada macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities, said in a note to clients. “Set against the
backdrop of weak foreign demand, the prospects for a robust
rebound in manufacturing activity over the balance of the year
are dim.”  Government bonds  fell, pushing the benchmark 10-year note
up 0.03 percentage point, or three basis points, to 1.83
percent. The price of the 2.75 percent notes maturing in June
2022 fell 25 cents to C$108.15.  Economic View  The central bank’s revised forecast next week “will take
into account the impact of the uncertainty,” Carney said in the
text of a speech that he gave in Nanaimo, British Columbia,
yesterday. Carney has said since April that that tighter policy
“may become appropriate” as the economy moves toward full
output, a phrase that didn’t appear in yesterday’s text.  “Governor Carney’s comments yesterday were far less
hawkish than previous ones so it has the market reevaluating
their expectation for an interest-rate hike in Canada,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “The other side is that we
have political uncertainty in Ontario now. Ontario is a province
that is struggling and it’s a large and important province for
the Canadian economy. There are subtle undertones that it is
important for the Canadian dollar, even though the federal side
is far more important.”  Investments in Canadian money market securities increased
more than in any other country last quarter, sparked by an
exodus from the zero yields and under-capitalized banks in
 Europe .  Investments in short-term debt sold mostly by Canadian
banks almost doubled to 11 percent of the $383 billion in U.S.
money-market funds tracked by  Fitch Ratings . Canada ranked third
based on allocations to its money markets, up from eighth a year
ago, according to the Oct. 11 Fitch report.  Foreign Purchases  Foreigners bought Canadian securities for a second
consecutive month in August, led by debt issued by companies and
government enterprises,  Statistics Canada  said today.  Purchases totaled C$6.90 billion in August following July’s
purchase of C$6.67 billion. The total included C$2.77 billion of
money-market paper, and C$5.21 billion of corporate and
government-enterprise bonds. Foreign investors also sold C$595
million of stocks.  The Canadian dollar has gained 1.2 percent this year among
10 industrial-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The greenback has fallen 2.6
percent and the euro is down 1.8 percent for the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  