-- Cebu Air to Serve Middle East on AirAsia Threat: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-10-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/cebu-air-to-serve-middle-east-on-airasia-threat-southeast-asia.html
Cebu Air Inc. (CEB) , the Philippines’
biggest budget carrier, plans to get 33 percent of sales from
long-haul flights within five years as AirAsia Bhd. and Tiger
Airways Holdings Ltd. challenge its grip on the domestic market.  The airline, which operates as  Cebu Pacific , will begin the
push in the second half of 2013 by adding flights to the  United
Arab Emirates  and  Saudi Arabia , President Lance Gokongwei said
in an interview yesterday in Manila. It will target the more
than 3 million Filipino nurses, maids and other workers employed
in the  Middle East , who generally fly there via Singapore or
 Hong Kong .  “Our key project next year is the long-haul expansion,”
Gokongwei said.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. “will be my main competitors” on Middle East
routes as no Philippine carriers fly them, he said.  Cebu Air intends to get 25 percent of the 50 billion peso
($1.2 billion) Philippine-Middle East market by 2015, Gokongwei
said. The carrier has also said it may fly to  Australia , the
U.S. and  Europe  as its 45 percent share on domestic routes is
threatened by Philippine Airlines Inc. and low-cost carriers.  “This expansion to the Middle East can give Cebu Pacific
an edge because its rivals don’t fly there,” said Edmund Lee,
an analyst at COL Financial Group Inc. In the domestic market,
“I don’t see competitive pressure easing anytime soon.”  Tiger Air, part-owned by Singapore Air, entered the
Philippine market this year by buying a 40 percent stake in
Southeast Asian Airlines Inc. AirAsia’s Philippine venture began
flights in March and it plans to have a fleet of 16 planes in
five years. Philippine Air and its low-cost affiliate Air
Philippines Inc. are also expanding after winning investment
from  San Miguel  Corp.  Share Slump  The increasing competition has contributed to Cebu Air
dropping 12 percent this year in Manila trading, compared with a
24 percent gain for the benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange
Index. The carrier closed unchanged yesterday at 57 pesos,
compared with the 125 peso price in its initial public offering
about two years ago.  The budget carrier has probably “seen the worst” in its
share price as it is addressing the risks from greater
competition, Gokongwei said. The billionaire Gokongwei family,
headed by Lance’s father, John Gokongwei, controls Cebu Air’s
biggest shareholder,  JG Summit Holdings Inc. (JGS)   Cebu Airport  The parent company is in talks with potential partners to
bid for the expansion and operation of the Mactan Cebu
International Airport, the nation’s second biggest, Gokongwei
said. Cebu is a resort island, south of Manila.  Gokongwei also said he would support San Miguel’s plans to
build a new Manila airport to replace Ninoy Aquino International
Airport, the country’s busiest. Cebu Air flies from Ninoy Aquino
and the capital’s more distant second facility, Clark.  “If they can build an airport that’s 15 minutes away and
structure it in such a way that the fees are transparent, we
will encourage it,” Gokongwei said. “That being said, I do
believe there’s room for both Clark and Manila to prosper.”  Passenger numbers at the state-owned Ninoy Aquino have
surged more than 60 percent in the past five years because of
economic growth and rising budget flights.  Cebu Air’s long-haul plans “won’t make sense” unless
there’s enough airport capacity in the  Philippines , said COL’s
Lee. The carrier announced plans to lease as many as eight
Airbus SAS A330s in January.  Middle East Traffic  The airline may carry as many as 400,000 passengers
annually to and from the Middle East by 2015, Gokongwei said.
About 1,000 passengers a day travel from Manila to Dubai, he
said.  Emirates , the only airline with direct flights on the
route, plans to start a third daily service in January.  The new Middle East routes may help Cebu Air boost
passenger numbers to 15 million next year from about 14 million
this year, Gokongwei said. Sales may rise to about $1 billion,
he said.  The carrier flies to 52 domestic and 28 international
routes from four hubs in the Philippines, according its first-
half report. It had a fleet of 38 aircraft, with an average age
of 3.6 years.  Sales rose 17 percent to 33.9 billion pesos in 2011 and may
increase 18 percent to 39.8 billion pesos this year, according
to the median of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 