-- Cemig Jumps Most in 4 Years After Lower Rates Refusal: Rio Mover
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-10-16T21:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/cemig-jumps-most-in-4-years-after-lower-rates-refusal-rio-mover.html
Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais ,
 Brazil ’s largest power company by market value, rose the most in
almost four years after rejecting the renewal of three licenses
under the government’s plan for cheaper energy.  Cemig, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based utility is
known, climbed 1.5 percent to close at 25.90 reais in  Sao Paulo ,
after increasing as much as 6.2 percent, the most intraday since
November 2008.  President  Dilma Rousseff  and Energy Minister Edison Lobao
last month announced measures to force power utilities to cut
rates by as much as 28 percent to stoke economic growth and
boost the competitiveness of Brazilian manufacturers. Cemig’s
decision to exclude licenses for the Sao Simao, Jaguara and
Miranda dams from the renewal shields the company from lower
prices and means it can seek an extension under previous terms,
BTG Pactual analysts said in a report.  “With such a decision, the worst case scenario we
previously analyzed for Cemig can be ruled out,” BTG analysts
Antonio Junqueira and Joao Pimentel said in a report. The
decision signals that “Cemig will still fight for the automatic
renewal rights for the three plants.”  The hydroelectric plants account for almost 50 percent of
Cemig’s power generation capacity, BTG said.  The company is probably counting on support from lawmakers
to have the licenses renewed under previous rules, Juliao
Coelho, a director at electricity regulator Aneel said in
Brasilia today. The previous rules granted Cemig the right for
an automatic extension, BTG said.  Right to Renew  Cemig yesterday listed all the licenses it plans to renew,
excluding the three dams.  “Cemig believes in its right to renew the concessions for
these three plants for another 20 years under existing
conditions before the measure,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement late yesterday, citing Chief Executive Officer Djalma
Bastos de Morais. The company said it will only sign final
accords to extend its other concessions if detailed terms are
favorable when presented by the government.  Cemig’s press office declined to comment further.  Other utilities including Cia. de Transmissao de Energia
Eletrica Paulista, or Cteep, and state-run  Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  showed interest in renewing their transmission
and distribution concessions, said Aneel in a statement on its
website.  According to the Aneel statement, every transmission and
distribution concession, including  Cia Paranaense de Energia (CPLE3) ,
Cia Estadual de Geracao e Transmissao de Energia Eletrica and
Eletrobras subsidiaries Eletronorte and Furnas, showed interest
in renewal. Of the country’s power plants, 14 didn’t send their
interest to the electric regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Caminada in Sao Paulo at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  