-- Chinese Fisherman Dies After South Korean Coast Guard Raid
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-10-17T07:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/china-fisherman-dies-from-injures-in-s-korean-coast-guard-raid.html
A Chinese fisherman died from
injuries sustained in a South Korean coast guard raid after his
vessel entered South Korean waters in the Yellow Sea, adding to
heightened tensions sparked by maritime disputes in the region.  South Korea ’s foreign ministry notified the Chinese embassy
in Seoul about the death and will investigate the incident, the
ministry said in a text message to reporters. The ministry
expressed regret over the “unfortunate” incident and sent its
condolences to the dead fisherman’s family, it said.  Chinese fishing crews have clashed repeatedly in recent
years with the coast guards and commercial vessels of nearby
countries, including South Korea,  Vietnam  and  Japan . Yesterday’s
killing comes amid heightened tensions with Japan over islands
claimed by both sides in an area of the  East China Sea  rich in
fish, oil and gas.  The raid on two vessels occurred at 3:45 p.m. yesterday in
southwestern waters, according to the coast guard statement.
Yonhap News reported that a coast guard officer shot and killed
the man during a raid on 30 Chinese boats fishing illegally in
the area. A separate Korean-language Yonhap report said the
fisherman was killed when he was hit by a rubber bullet.  China  filed a protest to South Korea and expressed
“serious concern” over the incident, Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing in Beijing today. He said
China demanded an investigation and wants South Korea to “take
concrete measures to prevent violent  law enforcement  and similar
incidents from happening again.’”  Officer Stabbed  Last year, a Chinese sailor stabbed and killed a South
Korean Coast Guard officer during a raid on his ship. South
Korea occasionally seizes Chinese ships. In 2010, two Chinese
sailors were killed when their boat overturned and sank after
ramming a South Korean Coast Guard vessel.  China’s territorial dispute with Japan sparked protests in
several Chinese cities last month and strained a trade
relationship worth more than $340 billion.  Speaking at a briefing in Bangkok yesterday, U.S. Pacific
Commander Admiral Samuel Locklear said the U.S. seeks a
“peaceful environment” in the East and South China seas. He
said it’s important to “recognize these will be difficult
issues.”  Rival maritime claims among half a dozen Asian nations have
fueled tension this year ahead of China’s leadership transition.
China is establishing a military garrison on a disputed island,
while the  Philippines , Vietnam,  Malaysia ,  Taiwan  and Brunei are
asserting their own claims.  Philippine President Benigno Aquino today said he sees
“more room” to discuss territorial disputes with China after
it completes its leadership change at a Communist Party congress
that begins next month. The Southeast Asian nation wants to
resolve the issue “amicably” and there are currently “no back
channel efforts” with China, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  