-- Chinese Show Deepening Concern at Officials’ Corruption
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-17T04:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/chinese-growing-more-concerned-about-rich-poor-gap-survey-finds.html
Chinese people are increasingly
worried about growing  income inequality  and official corruption,
according to a Pew Research Center survey released weeks before
a once-a-decade leadership transition.  Forty-eight percent of 3,177 adults surveyed said the gap
between rich and poor in China is a “very big problem,” up
seven percentage points from a 2008 survey, the  Pew Global
Attitudes Project  found. Fifty percent said official corruption
was a very big problem, compared with 39 percent four years ago.
The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.3 percentage
points.  The poll results reflect growing public disenchantment with
a rich-poor divide that has widened as growth accelerated,
averaging  10.1 percent  since 1981. Even as China has succeeded
in lifting hundreds of millions of people out of poverty, high-
profile corruption cases among business and government leaders
have exacerbated social tensions ahead of the leadership change.  “While the Chinese have consistently rated their national
and personal economic situations positively over the last few
years, they are now grappling with the concerns of a modern,
increasingly wealthy society,” the survey said. “As  China 
prepares for its once-in-a-decade change of leadership, their
country faces serious and growing challenges.”  The survey was conducted as the biggest political scandal
in a generation was unfolding in China, the sacking of Bo Xilai
from his post as a regional party boss and removal from the
ruling Politburo. Chinese authorities allege that he was
involved in the murder of a British businessman, accepted bribes
and maintained improper sexual relations with other women.  Bo’s Family  Public documents show that Bo’s family and that of his
wife, convicted in August of murder, had assets of at least $136
million. Some Communist Party cadres have been criticized on
Chinese social media websites and even in state news outlets for
wearing expensive watches and clothes, and attending extravagant
banquets.  The survey found that even though people overwhelmingly
said their financial situation had improved in recent years and
that they were better off than their parents, many were
concerned that economic gains were increasingly going to those
with the most means.  Rich Get Richer  Forty-five percent said they “completely agree” with the
statement that “today, it’s really true that the rich just get
richer while the poor get poorer.” Another 36 percent mostly
agreed with that statement.  In a press conference on March 9, Bo said China’s Gini
coefficient, an index of the  income gap , exceeded 0.46. The
index ranges from 0 to 1 and the 0.4 mark is used as a predictor
for social disturbances. The reading for China was below 0.3 in
1981 and 0.39 in 1999, the  World Bank  says.  “The big question mark is what are the implications,”
Jean-Pierre Cabestan, head of the department of government and
international studies at  Hong Kong  Baptist University, said in a
telephone interview. “Is it going to create more resentment
that leads to more unrest and more pressure on the government to
reform?”  Cabestan said Chinese people were angrier at unfairness in
opportunities, which can stem from corruption, than they were
with inequality, which he said was a “fact of life.”  Still, 70 percent of Chinese adults surveyed said they were
better off financially than five years ago, a number only topped
by Brazilians. Twenty-seven percent of Americans said they were
better off than five years ago. Ninety-two percent of Chinese
surveyed also said they were better off than their parents at a
comparable age.  China’s economy   expanded  at an average annual
10.6 percent rate from 2007 through 2011.  Marxist Country  Survey respondents in the officially Marxist country were
slightly more supportive of capitalism than people polled in the
U.S. Seventy-four percent of Chinese surveyed said they either
completely or mostly agreed with the statement that most people
are better off in a free-market economy, compared with 67
percent of Americans.  Chinese people consider the U.S. to be the world’s
preeminent economic power, in contrast to attitudes held in
other countries, including the U.S.,  Germany  and the U.K., where
people consider China to have the world’s most powerful economy,
the survey found.  Forty-eight percent of Chinese people surveyed said the
U.S. was the world’s top economy, with 29 percent naming China.
When Americans were asked the same question, 41 percent said
China had the top economy, and 40 percent named the U.S. The
U.S. gross domestic product, at $15.1 trillion in 2011, was more
than twice the size of China’s $7.3 trillion economy.  American Democracy  A majority of Chinese surveyed -- 52 percent -- said they
like the idea of American democracy, an increase of four
percentage points from a 2007 poll. Support for U.S.-style
democracy was highest among young people and those with higher
incomes, the Pew survey found.  At the same time, Chinese people said that relations
between China and the U.S., the world’s two biggest economies,
are deteriorating. Thirty-nine percent of respondents described
the relationship as one of cooperation, down from 68 percent in
2010. Another 26 percent said the relationship was “one of
hostility,” up from 8 percent two years ago.  The biggest change in attitudes from a 2008 survey was in
 food safety , with 41 percent of Chinese polled saying it was a
very big problem in their country, compared with 12 percent four
years ago. The change comes after a series of highly publicized
incidents of tainted baby formula and pork.  The poll, conducted from March 18 through April 15,
surveyed people in every region of China except  Tibet , Xinjiang,
Hong Kong and Macau. The survey was  conducted  by Beijing-based
Horizon Research Consultancy Group.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  