-- China Loves the Mitt and Barack Show
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-10-16T20:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/china-loves-the-mitt-and-barack-show.html
For Chinese viewers, the first U.S.
presidential debate took place at 9 a.m. on a Thursday morning,
in English.  It was broadcast and streamed live from several outlets,
but it did not generate much live commentary on the country’s
microblogs. Of course, the low level of online Chinese interest
shouldn’t be a surprise. China has its own politics and issues,
and -- especially in a U.S. election year that some in the
Chinese media have derided as  boring  -- those remain far more
pressing to most Chinese than what happens to Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  in  Ohio .  But in this case, at least, the story isn’t found in the
live reaction to the presidential faceoff, but in the delayed
response. In the days following the debate, interest grew
rapidly, driven largely by streamable clips posted throughout
the Chinese Internet. It’s impossible to say just how many
people have watched the encounter between Romney and President
 Barack Obama  in the almost two weeks since it took place, but if
traffic counts at various hosting sites can be trusted, it’s
clear that the audience has been relatively large.  On Sina.com, China’s most popular web portal, a page
containing streaming  video  of the complete debate -- without
Chinese subtitles -- has been viewed more than 705,000 times
since it was posted on Oct. 4. A  version  with subtitles posted
by the online arm of Hong Kong-based Phoenix Television on Oct.
5 has been viewed more than 640,000 times. Other hosting sites
with debate clips have garnered smaller, but  still impressive ,
viewership, suggesting that the total audience may well be in
the millions.  Of course, not all these viewers watched the debate in its
entirety. Still, based on the size of the comment threads below
those streamable debate clips, there appear to be plenty of
viewers who watched for long enough to form opinions (an
admittedly low bar). As of early Oct. 17 in  China , the all-
English version of the debate at Sina.com had  generated 1,169
comments ; the subtitled version at Phoenix’s site had  generated
1,451 comments.   Discussion of the debates isn’t confined to comment
threads. An Oct. 16 search for “Obama Romney debate” at Sina
Weibo, China’s leading microblog, generated 198,000 results
(some of which are news summaries, others commentaries, re-
tweets and information related to tonight’s debate). These are
modest threads by the robust standards of China’s entertainment-
driven online communities, where the Chinese version of the
singing reality show “The Voice”  dominated  trending topic lists
for weeks and regularly generated millions of comments (and
tweets) in a matter of hours. But the debate numbers aren’t
small, either: In the days that followed the first debate,
“Romney” debuted (and remained) on the lower rungs of the
trending topics list at Sina Weibo. “Obama” entered the list
too, though not for the first time. The debate itself, under the
guise of several different search terms, also trended.  Still, for all of the traffic, it’s exceedingly difficult
to assign any particular reason for the sustained popularity on
China’s Internet of the first official Obama-Romney encounter. A
brief scan of Sina Weibo reveals a range of possible reasons,
from microbloggers who watch the debates to  improve their
English , to others who simply  enjoy political fisticuffs .
China’s growing role in the U.S. national economic debate, no
doubt, is fueling interest in how it’s being discussed in the
presidential debates, and -- no surprise -- considerable
 microblogging energy  has been expended on the subject.  It’s also very much the case that Obama remains a
personally popular figure in China (his  China policies and
rhetoric , however, are another matter), where his rags-to-riches
story is embraced in part for the powerful contrast it offers to
the  nepotism  that defines, and blocks access to, the upper
reaches of Chinese political power. Last week’s vice-
presidential debate has barely registered online in China,
suggesting that perhaps it’s Obama’s star-power that continues
to drive traffic.  Likewise, the debates themselves provide Chinese
microbloggers with a powerful contrast to their own country’s
opaque and tight-lipped politics. For those observers, the
debates are a novelty and -- in non-democratic China -- the
wall-to-wall coverage of them by Chinese state media is a
particularly rich irony. Take, for example, Yi Lan Cherry, the
Sina Weibo handle of a microblogger in  Guangzhou  who favors
Obama. She watched the debate, and like most of the Chinese
microbloggers who’ve commented on the outcomes (not to mention
the Western media), she appears to have given the win to Romney.
Still, she saw good reason to recommend the debate, and on Oct.
5,  tweeted  a link to the Sina.com hosted version, with this
commentary:  “A televised debate is really exciting. I wonder when
Chinese leaders won’t use scripts, exhibit political
transparency, and face the topics most crucial to people’s
lives. I still support Obama but over the course of these four
years he’s just been busy cleaning up Bush Jr’s messy affairs.”  The comparison between China’s tight-lipped leaders and the
American president and his challenger isn’t just sharp, but it’s
also timely. Just two days after the U.S. election in November,
China’s leaders will gather in Beijing for a once-per-decade
 leadership transition  that -- so far -- has been shrouded in
secrecy. The group’s most important task will be to unveil the
membership of China’s all-powerful Politburo Standing Committee,
but few outside the top layers of power know who the candidates
are or how they’re chosen. A Shanghai microblogger,  tweeting 
from his Sina Weibo account the day after the first debate,
praised the U.S. system while bitterly lamenting the Chinese
one:  “In the American presidential election debate, both Romney
and Obama’s performances were fully worthy of the presidency. A
governor is able to ridicule and challenge the president’s tax
policy. This kind of transparent democracy is absent in my
country ... they are in a virtuous cycle, we are still spinning
in an outdated, dead circle.”  Earnest rhapsodies praising the virtues of the debating
format might strike many Americans as  hopelessly naive , but in
China they are not only sincere but also common. Significantly,
they are not limited to the candidates and the debate format,
either. Chinese microbloggers -- reared in a media environment
where news coverage is expected to reflect Communist Party
priorities -- eagerly embrace punditry, and especially post-
debate fact-checking. Among those most enthusiastic about these
U.S.-bred innovations are those Chinese microbloggers who don’t
actually live in China and more directly experience the Western
media. On Oct. 5, a Sina Weibo microblogger who uses the handle
Déjà Vu Ken, and who identifies himself as a Chinese citizen in
Canada,  tweeted :  “After the debate  CNN  immediately checked the validity of
each argument, informed the audience which was true and false.
They had guest commentary and the host’s analysis of the
situation, and quickly produced voter opinion poll results. I
wonder how long it will take for our country to have such
transparency when it comes to choosing our leaders.”  It’s a question that certainly won’t be answered at this
fall’s Communist Party Congress. But so long as China’s media
continues to broadcast the debates, and China’s media censors
allow it, China’s microbloggers are going to continue asking.
Their numbers could soon grow, too. Tonight’s town hall-style
debate will touch on both domestic and foreign policy, and may
include a discussion of U.S.-China policy and a spike in Chinese
interest leading up to next Monday’s foreign policy-focused
debate.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing a book on the global recycling industry. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this blog post: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Zara Kessler at
 zkessler@bloomberg.net  