-- Citigroup CSO Fund Investor Sues to Recover $400 Million
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-16T22:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/citigroup-cso-fund-investor-sues-to-recover-400-million.html
Citigroup Alternative Investments
LLC was sued by an investor seeking to recover $400 million lost
in the bank’s Corporate Special Opportunities fund.  David Beach, of the U.K., accused the unit of New York-
based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  of misleading investors about ill-fated
trades in the debt of German firm  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG, (PSM)  one
of the largest broadcasters in  Europe .  The now-defunct CSO fund suffered severe losses after its
founder, John Pickett, leveraged the fund’s assets to buy about
558 million euros’ ($730 million) worth of debt in the offering
by the German firm, according to the complaint filed in
Manhattan federal court. Pickett resigned in December 2007,
according to the complaint.  “Investors were not informed that his departure was the
result of his breaches of the fund’s investment restrictions,”
lawyers for Beach, Jacob Zamansky and David Straite, said in the
complaint.  Citigroup Alternative Investments has since been
restructured and part of it has been renamed Citi Capital
Advisors, according to the bank. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a
spokeswoman for Citigroup, declined to comment on the suit.  In April 2008, hedge fund firm Robeco-Sage Capital LP also
filed a lawsuit alleging it had suffered damages from Pickett’s
“disastrous” investment in the German firm. The case, brought
in  Manhattan  state court, is no longer active, according to
court records.  The federal case is Beach v. Citigroup Alternative
Investments LLC, 12-cv-7717, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  The state case is Robeco-Sage Capital v. Citigroup
Alternative Investments LLC, 601030/2008, New York Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  