-- Claridge’s Owner Sees Profits Rise as London Luxury Booms
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-10-16T09:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/claridge-s-owner-sees-profits-rise-as-london-luxury-booms.html
Coroin Ltd., owner of  London  luxury
hotels including Claridge’s, reported an increase in profit as
the U.K.’s billionaire Barclay brothers and Irish developer
Patrick McKillen battle over the company’s ownership.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose about 11 percent to 51 million pounds ($82
million) last year, according to an Oct. 1 filing by the closely
held company. Revenue increased 8 percent to 138 million pounds.  David and  Frederick Barclay , owners of the Daily Telegraph
newspaper, and companies they control are being sued by McKillen
over the takeover of Coroin’s Maybourne Hotels affiliate.
McKillen holds 36 percent of Coroin, which also owns The
Berkeley and Connaught hotels in London, and is seeking a
judgment giving him the right to buy the remaining shares.  “The hotels are trading exceptionally well and
outperforming all targets,” Breda Keena, a spokeswoman for
McKillen, said in an e-mail. “It is very clear why they are the
target for a hostile takeover.” The Barclays interests in the
group declined to comment in an e-mail. Maybourne Hotels
spokeswomen Paula Fitzherbert and Christina Norton didn’t return
calls or an e-mail seeking comment.  Wealthy Clients  London’s luxury hotels are defying the U.K.’s double-dip
recession as wealthy visitors from abroad drive sales. Room
occupancy increased to 83 percent from 81 percent the previous
year, Coroin said in the document. Revenue per available room,
an industry gauge of profitability, rose 6 percent to 447 pounds
a night, according to the filing.  The London-based company had loans of 660 million pounds
that were due for repayment in September, according to the
filing with  Companies House . Additional equity may be required
from shareholders, auditor KPMG wrote in the filing.  The Barclay brothers won a ruling in June in a dispute with
McKillen involving a transfer of 660 million pounds of debt
linked to the hotel group. The loan was sold by Ireland’s
National Asset Management Agency last year to Maybourne Finance
Ltd., a holding company controlled by the Barclays.  The improved performance at Coroin is the result of
restoration work and improvements to all three hotels especially
the Connaught, Keena said.  The Ritz Hotel in London is owned by Sir David and Sir
Frederick Barclay Family Settlements, according to an Oct. 3
filing. Operating profit at the luxury hotel fell to 8.5 million
pounds last year from 9 million pounds in 2010, the filing by
The Ritz Hotel (London) Ltd. to Companies House said.  Amber Aldred, a spokeswoman for the Ritz, wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 