-- Clinton Accepts Responsibility for Protecting Diplomats
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2012-10-16T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/clinton-calls-libya-attack-her-responsibility-in-cnn-interview.html
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said she accepts responsibility for security conditions
at the U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi, Libya, before last
month’s attack that killed the American ambassador.  Clinton said in an interview with CNN yesterday that
President  Barack Obama  and Vice President Joe Biden aren’t
involved in diplomatic security decisions and shouldn’t be
blamed for the deaths of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three
other Americans.  “I take responsibility,” Clinton told CNN during a visit
to  Lima ,  Peru . “We’re going to get to the bottom of it, and
then we’re going to do everything we can to work to prevent it
from happening again.”  The Libya attack has emerged as an issue in the U.S.
presidential race, with challenger  Mitt Romney  and fellow
Republicans saying the Obama administration failed to secure the
diplomatic post before the attack and painted a misleading
picture of the incident afterward.  During the Oct. 11 vice-presidential debate, Biden defended
the administration’s handling of the incident, saying the White
House wasn’t aware of any requests for added security. A day
later, Romney chastised Biden, citing congressional testimony
from State Department officials who said the post in Libya had
requested additional protection.  Clinton told  CNN  yesterday that security professionals are
“the ones who weigh all the threats and the needs and make a
considered decision” and not the White House.  ‘Buck Stops There’  Three Republican senators on the Armed Services Committee
last night called Clinton’s acceptance of responsibility a
“laudable gesture” while criticizing the White House for not
doing the same.  “The security of Americans serving our nation everywhere
in the world is ultimately the job of the Commander-in-Chief,”
Senators John McCain of  Arizona , Lindsey Graham of South
Carolina and Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire said in an e-mailed
statement. “The buck stops there.”  In her CNN interview, Clinton also tried to defuse
criticism that administration officials stuck for several days
with a mistaken depiction of the attack as a spontaneous
demonstration against an anti-Islamic video that was hijacked by
extremists.  In the wake of such a violent incident, “there’s always
going to be confusion” and the information about the Benghazi
assault has changed over time, she told CNN.  “I want to avoid some kind of political gotcha,” she
said. “I know that we’re very close to an election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  