-- Codelco Said to Cut Copper Premium 5.6% for European Clients
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n ,   J P   S p i n e t t o   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-10-16T15:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/codelco-said-to-cut-copper-premium-5-6-for-european-customers.html
Codelco , the world’s largest copper
producer, cut the premium charged to European buyers next year
by 5.6 percent, according to two people with direct knowledge of
the matter.  The fee will be $85 a metric ton, from $90 this year, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the terms
haven’t been made public. The premium is added to the price of
 copper for immediate delivery  on the  London  Metal Exchange to
cover costs including shipping and insurance.  Copper prices fell to a one-month low yesterday on concern
that policy makers in  China , the biggest consumer of the metal,
may refrain from additional economic stimulus after exports grew
more than expected in September. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut
its 12-month estimate for the metal used in homes, cars and
power grids by 11 percent yesterday and copper traders are the
most bearish in four months, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “Lower premiums are clearly an attempt to incentivize
European consumers to contract for more copper next year,”
David Wilson, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London, said by e-
mail. “European demand has been very soft, and consumers seem
to be showing a reluctance to contract for much material next
year given the gloomy European macro outlook.”  Codelco declined to comment, according to a person from the
press office who can’t be named because of internal company
policy.  Aurubis AG (NDA) , located in Hamburg, and Tokyo-based Pan Pacific
Copper Co. already lowered premiums. The 17-nation euro area’s
economy will contract 0.4 percent this year, the International
Monetary Fund said this month.  Copper for delivery in three months climbed 0.5 percent to
$8,132.25 a ton by 4:11 p.m. in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  