-- Colombia’s Best Rally Ending as Cemargos Most Expensive
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-10-16T18:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/colombia-s-best-rally-ending-as-cemargos-most-expensive.html
The four-month rally that made
Colombia’s  Cementos Argos SA (CEMARGOS)  the most expensive cement stock in
the Americas is set to end, according to Barclays Plc and Bolsa
& Renta SA.  The 34 percent advance since June in the company known as
Cemargos pushed its price-to-earnings ratio to 27.6, the highest
of 11 construction and materials suppliers in the Western
Hemisphere with a market value of $5 billion or more, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares will drop 0.7 percent in
the next 12 months, according to the average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, compared with a 19 percent  gain 
forecast for stocks in the benchmark IGBC Index.  Demand for Cemargos shares took off after a June 8 transfer
of non-cement assets to its parent made the company attractive
to investors who expect Colombian spending on infrastructure and
housing will boost use of the building material. Further gains
are limited until the U.S. housing market recovers and boosts
revenue from North America, the source of 27 percent of
Cemargos’s first-half sales, said Benjamin Theurer, an analyst
at Barclays in Mexico City.  “I don’t see much more upside from where we are now,”
Theurer, who has seen the stock gain 17 percent since he
initiated coverage with a buy rating on Aug. 14, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s at a level where the valuation is
too demanding. I like their operations, I like their management,
but we’re getting to a point where it’s too high if they don’t
start to show more results from the U.S.”  U.S. Housing  Theurer updated his price target to 8,500 pesos on Sept.
18, within 4.4 percent of today’s 8,140 price as of 1:01 p.m. in
Bogota.  Cemargos’s investor relations office didn’t respond to two
phone calls and two e-mails seeking comment about the outlook
for its share price. The company projects that its U.S. division
will account for 31 percent of revenue and 18 percent of
earnings before interest, depreciation, taxes and amortization
by 2015, according to an e-mailed presentation.  Recent data show signs of improvement in the U.S. real
estate market. Housing starts increased 2.3 percent to a 750,000
annual rate in August, close to the 754,000 pace in June that
was the highest level since October 2008. Confidence among U.S.
homebuilders climbed in September to the highest in more than
six years, according to the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo builder sentiment index.  Colombia Construction  During the three months ended in June, Cemargos snapped
seven quarters of negative Ebitda from the U.S., posting $2
million in adjusted earnings from the country, according to an
e-mailed report on July 26. U.S. sales show “encouraging
signs” that the worst of the housing crisis has passed, company
President Jorge Velasquez said in a Sept. 27 telephone
interview.  There are “more than enough reasons to be optimistic”
about growth in Colombia as demand for building materials
increases, Velasquez said. The country’s infrastructure agency
said last month it is putting 40 trillion pesos of contracts out
for bids to build more than 8,000 kilometers (5,000 miles) of
road. Cemargos said in a June statement that it will sell a
“significant share” of cement used in a government project to
provide 100,000 houses to low-income families.  The company said in a statement last month it would spend
167 billion pesos to boost cement capacity in Colombia to 10.9
million tons per year from 10 million tons. The government
spending “reinforces” the investment plan, Velasquez said.
Last year, Cemargos bought Paris-based Lafarge SA’s southeastern
U.S. assets including cement plants in South Carolina and
 Alabama .  Business Model  The stock’s rally since June, the biggest on the IGBC
index, has been driven in part by foreign investors attracted to
a simpler business model after the company spun off non-cement
assets including equity investments and port operations to its
corporate parent Grupo Argos SA, said Mauricio Restrepo, an
analyst at Bolsa y Renta in Medellin, Colombia. Further gains
are dependent on a turnaround in the Lafarge operations, he
said.  “I don’t see many catalysts for the company to continue to
outperform,” Restrepo said. “Investors want to see if there’s
a recovery in the U.S. market, if there are important
improvements from their operations with their new Lafarge
assets.”  Jairo Agudelo, an analyst at Celfin Capital in Medellin,
said Cemargos may extend its rally as demand for building
materials in the country increases amid the government’s higher
infrastructure spending and signs of improvement in the U.S.
housing market.  ‘Major Player’  “The country has never seen infrastructure investment that
high, and Argos will be one of the mayor players there,”
Agudelo said in a telephone interview last week. “A large part
of how we see Cementos Argos in one to two years is also how we
see the U.S., and if you’re optimistic then you’ll see potential
for important gains.”  Colombia’s jump in infrastructure spending follows annual
economic growth of at least 3.5 percent every year since 2005,
including a 6.9 percent expansion in 2007. The growth trailed
that of  Peru  in the past two years, and analysts forecast
Colombia’s gross domestic product will rise 4.5 percent this
year, compared with 6 percent in the neighboring country.  While Cemargos could benefit from the expansion in Colombia
and a recovery in the U.S., its high valuation relative to peers
has Francisco Suarez, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in Mexico
City, looking at Peru’s  Cementos Pacasmayo SAA (CPACASI1)  as an
alternative. Pacasmayo’s American depositary receipts were
trading 33 percent cheaper on an estimated price-to-earnings
basis for next year, Suarez wrote in an Oct. 7 report.  Cemargos is “expensive compared to everyone,” said
Theurer of Barclays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  