-- Congo Mining Code Tax Increase to Harm Investment, Randgold Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-10-16T20:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/congo-mining-code-tax-increase-to-harm-investment-randgold-says.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
decision to increase taxes under its mining code will harm
investment,  Mark Bristow , chief executive of  Randgold Resources
Ltd. (RRS)  said today in Kinshasa, the capital.  The Central African country, which has about half of global
cobalt reserves and major deposits of copper and gold, is
revising ten-year old mining regulations to boost revenue.
Randgold and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.’s Kibali gold project is
scheduled to start production in 2013.  “We must all resist the temptation of having short-term
gains from an industry still in its infancy,” Bristow said at
the iPAD mining and infrastructure conference in Kinshasa.
“Would a new investor come if the first investors were punished
for their investment?”  Congo’s mines ministry has said it wants to increase the
government’s stake in mining projects from 5 percent and get
higher royalty payments from companies. The proposed changes,
which aren’t yet public, may pass by year end, according to the
ministry.  “The revision of the mining code will be a process that
will be consensual,” Valery Mukasa, chief of staff for
Congolese Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu , told reporters at the
conference. “We will discuss with all interested parties in a
workshop to harmonize the goals. We can’t impose a text on a
sector this complex.”  The Kibali project, which Bristow says will be one of the
largest gold fields in  Africa  with 10.21 million ounces of
reserves, is one of several mines slated to open or expand in
the next three years in Congo’s growing gold and copper
industries.  Kamoa Find  Kamoa, which owner Ivanplats Ltd. calls the biggest copper
find in Congo in a century, should have a feasibility study by
late 2013. Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Tenke project
and Glencore International Plc’s Katanga Mining Ltd. and Mutanda
projects are all expanding to increase output.  Congo copper output reached about 520,000 tons last year,
an amount the mines ministry wants to triple by 2016. Production
may be down this year and future expansion thwarted by Congo’s
electricity problems, companies have said.  Minmetals Resources Ltd.’s Kinsevere project had less than
50 percent of the power it needed to produce a projected 60,000
tons of copper this year and was forced to buy diesel generators
in June, Executive General Manager of Business Development for
Minmetals Michael Nossal said in Kinshasa.  Increased taxes in the mining code would “seriously
change” the valuations of projects in Congo, Nossal said.
“That will show us that the government has a more short-term
vision than long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hilton Shone at 
 hshone@bloomberg.net  