-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Rose in September on Fuel Costs
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-10-16T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-rose-in-september-on-fuel-costs.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose in September for a second month as a jump in
energy expenses overshadowed smaller gains in other goods and
services, economists said before a report today.  The consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent last month
after climbing 0.6 percent in August, according to the median
forecast of 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. So-called core
prices, which exclude volatile food and energy costs, may have
risen 0.2 percent. Another report may show manufacturing is
struggling to stabilize.  Companies such as  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and  Safeway Inc. (SWY) 
are among those saying price increases are difficult to achieve
as 12.1 million Americans remain unemployed and rising fuel
bills eat into workers’ paychecks. The lack of pricing power is
one reason the  Federal Reserve  eased policy further to focus on
jump-starting employment.  “This is purely an energy story,” said  Omair Sharif , a
U.S. economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“For the core reading, inflation looks pretty tame. Consumers
are seeing some relief in the growth rate of a lot of prices.
The Fed is perfectly fine with where inflation is right now.”  The Labor Department will release the CPI data at 8:30 a.m.
in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from gains of 0.1
percent to 0.7 percent.  Their median forecast would mean consumer prices advanced
1.9 percent in the past year. The core index is projected to
increase 2 percent from September 2011.  Production Floundering  At 9:15 a.m. in Washington, Fed data is projected to show
industrial production in September failed to recoup the ground
lost the prior month. Output at factories, mines and utilities
rose 0.2 percent following a 1.2 percent drop in August that was
the largest since March 2009, according to the survey median.  Propping up the  consumer price index , the  cost  of a gallon
of regular gasoline averaged $3.83 in September compared with
$3.70 in August, according to data from auto club AAA.  Even so, Fed policy makers said they aren’t worried the
run-up in fuel costs will spark inflation. Federal Open Market
Committee “members generally continued to anticipate that, with
longer-term inflation expectations stable and given the existing
slack in resource utilization, inflation over the medium term
would run at or below the Committee’s longer-run objective of 2
percent,” according to the minutes of their Sept. 12-13
meeting.  Investors see inflation holding near the Fed’s goal. The
difference in yields between 5-year notes and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, or TIPS, which represents traders’
 expectations  for the rate of inflation over the life of the
bonds, was 2.15 percentage points at 4:30 p.m. in  New York  on
Oct. 15.  Fed Mandates  The central bankers’ inflation goal is part of their dual
mandate for stable prices and maximum employment. Their
preferred price measure, issued by the Commerce Department and
tied to  consumer spending , rose 1.5 percent in the 12 months
ended in August.  Given the outlook for employment and inflation, the Fed
said Sept. 13 it would buy $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month
until the U.S. sees what Chairman Ben S. Bernanke described as
an “ongoing, sustained improvement in the labor market.” The
Fed said it will also probably hold its target lending rate near
zero at least through mid-2015.  New Albany , Ohio-based Abercrombie & Fitch, the teen
clothing retailer, said this month it may roll back price
increases taken last year at its flagship stores when cotton
costs soared.  Lowering Prices  “This year, we’re going to be lowering those prices back
to where they were previously,” Brian Logan, controller and
vice president for finance, said in an Oct. 2 consumer
conference. “We weren’t as competitive with those items, so we
thought it was more appropriate to bring that price back down.”  Safeway, the second-largest U.S. grocery store chain, has a
similar view.  “There is a reluctance to raise prices” for packaged
goods, said Steven Burd, the Pleasanton, California-based
company’s chief executive officer said in an Oct. 11 earnings
call. While rising expenses for some commodities like eggs and
cheese can be passed through, “the packaged goods sector is
behaving cautiously with respect to cost increases.”  A Labor Department report on Oct. 12 showed prices paid to
producers climbed 1.1 percent in September on rising fuel costs.
Import prices in the U.S., reported Oct. 11, also advanced 1.1
percent last month.  The CPI is the broadest of the three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  