-- U.S. Consumer Prices Rose in September on Cost of Fuel
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-10-16T13:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/consumer-prices-in-u-s-rose-in-september-as-fuel-costs-jumped.html
The cost of living in the U.S. rose
in September for a second month, reflecting a jump in energy
expenses that failed to trickle through to other goods and
services.  The consumer-price index increased 0.6 percent for a second
month, the Labor Department reported today in Washington.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a 0.5 percent
advance. The so-called core measure, which excludes more
volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.1 percent, less than
projected.  Companies such as  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and  Safeway Inc. (SWY) 
are among those saying price increases are difficult to achieve
as 12.1 million Americans remain unemployed and rising fuel
bills eat into workers’ paychecks. The lack of pricing power is
one reason the Federal Reserve eased policy further to focus on
jump-starting employment.  “There isn’t any meaningful risk of short-term core
inflation,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, who correctly
forecast the gain in core prices. “When it comes to everyday
goods and services, the lack of demand just isn’t going to push
prices higher.”  Treasuries remained lower after the report. The benchmark
10-year yield climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 1.71 percent at 9:50 a.m. in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Exceeds Forecasts  Industrial production in the U.S. rose more than forecast
in September, partially reversing the prior month’s slump,
indicating manufacturers are regaining their footing.  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 0.4 percent
after a 1.4 percent decline in August that was the biggest since
March 2009, the Federal Reserve reported today in  Washington .  Estimates for the consumer-price index from the 86
economists surveyed ranged from gains of 0.1 percent to 0.7
percent.  Today’s consumer-price report also suggested the estimated
monthly payment for retired workers receiving Social Security
benefits will rise 1.7 percent in 2013. It’s up to the Social
Security Administration to issue the official figures based on
today’s data.  In the 12 months ended in September, prices rose 2 percent,
the report showed.  Core Reading  The increase in the core reading followed similar 0.1
percent gains in August and July and was lower than the 0.2
percent advance  median  forecast by economists surveyed. Core
prices were up 2 percent for the year through September,
compared with 1.9 percent for the year through August.  Today’s report showed energy costs increased 4.5 percent
from a month earlier. The  cost  of a gallon of regular gasoline
averaged $3.83 in September compared with $3.70 in August,
according to data from auto club AAA.  The jump in fuel costs is hurting Americans’ buying power.
Hourly wages adjusted for inflation dropped 0.3 percent on
average in September after falling 0.6 percent the prior month,
a separate Labor Department report today showed. Over the past
12 months, real hourly pay fell 0.2 percent.  Food costs advanced 0.1 percent. Safeway, the second-
largest U.S. grocery store chain, is among merchants with first-
hand knowledge of the lack of pricing power.  Raise Prices  “There is a reluctance to raise prices” for packaged
goods, said Steven Burd, the Pleasanton, California-based
company’s chief executive officer said in an Oct. 11 earnings
call. While rising expenses for some commodities like eggs and
cheese can be passed through, “the packaged goods sector is
behaving cautiously with respect to cost increases.”  The core measure was restrained by a 1.4 percent drop in
the cost of used cars and trucks, the biggest decline since
February 2009. New-car prices also retreated, falling 0.1
percent from August.  Fed policy makers have said they aren’t worried about a
spike in inflation. Federal Open Market Committee “members
generally continued to anticipate that, with longer-term
inflation expectations stable and given the existing slack in
resource utilization, inflation over the medium term would run
at or below the Committee’s longer-run objective of 2 percent,”
according to the minutes of their Sept. 12-13 meeting.  The central bankers’ inflation goal is part of their dual
mandate for stable prices and maximum employment. Their
preferred price measure, issued by the Commerce Department and
tied to consumer spending, rose 1.5 percent in the 12 months
ended in August.  Near Zero  Given the outlook for employment and inflation, the Fed
said Sept. 13 it would buy $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month
until the U.S. sees what Chairman Ben S. Bernanke described as
an “ongoing, sustained improvement in the labor market.” The
Fed said it will also probably hold its target lending rate near
zero at least through mid-2015.  New Albany, Ohio-based Abercrombie & Fitch, the teen
clothing retailer, said this month it may roll back price
increases taken last year at its flagship stores when cotton
costs soared.  “This year, we’re going to be lowering those prices back
to where they were previously,” Brian Logan, controller and
vice president for finance, said during an Oct. 2 consumer
conference. “We weren’t as competitive with those items, so we
thought it was more appropriate to bring that price back down.”  A Labor Department report on Oct. 12 showed prices paid to
producers climbed 1.1 percent in September on rising fuel costs.
Import prices in the U.S., reported Oct. 11, also advanced 1.1
percent last month.  The CPI is the broadest of the three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  