-- CSX Drops as Falling Coal Cargoes Lead Market Challenges
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-10-17T20:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/csx-profit-tops-estimates-as-auto-shipments-increase.html
CSX Corp. (CSX)  declined after predicting
two of its biggest markets, coal and agriculture shipments,
would be depressed this quarter by the U.S. drought and
competition from cheap natural gas.  The biggest eastern U.S. railroad expects unfavorable
conditions for about a third of its businesses, Chief Commercial
Officer Clarence Gooden said. Total volume will be unchanged
from a year earlier in the quarter ending December, he said.  “Utility coal volume will continue to be challenged by low
gas prices and high utility stockpiles,” Gooden said on a
conference call with analysts and investors. “Although we
expect these headwinds to moderate somewhat through the balance
of the year, they will continue well into 2013.”  CSX, based in Jacksonville,  Florida , fell 2 percent to
$21.19 at the market close in New York. That was the biggest
decline since Sept. 20.  The move erased gains in after-hours trading yesterday,
when the railroad posted third-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates. The performance allayed concerns sparked by
rival  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) ’s prediction of lower earnings than
analysts had estimated.  Beating Estimates  “After Norfolk Southern’s pre-announced miss, there was a
real fear that the CSX number could be a lot worse,” Donald Broughton, an  analyst  at Avondale Partners LLC in  St. Louis ,
said in a telephone interview at the time. He has a market
outperform rating on the stock.  CSX’s third-quarter net income was $455 million, or 44
cents a share, according to a statement. That topped the average
estimates of $447.6 million, or 43 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The performance was driven by an 8 percent volume gain in
the intermodal business, which hauls containers that can move by
rail, road or sea, and 17 percent growth in automotive
shipments.  The gains tempered a decline in coal volumes, which fell 16
percent on an originated basis during the quarter as the pace of
global economic growth slowed. The decline was the biggest among
the largest North American carriers, according to the
 Association of American Railroads .  Economic Recovery  “We don’t see in any case the economy bounding back
strongly,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael Ward  said in a
telephone interview. “Everything we see points to moderate
growth.  Europe  is clearly going to be struggling for some period
of time, and in  China  there’s mixed signals as well.”  CSX fought back against the market challenges with
operational improvements. While total shipping volume fell 1
percent, the speed of its trains increased 10 percent and the
amount of time they spent waiting in terminals declined 9
percent, the company said in a regulatory filing.  Volume at Norfolk Southern, the second-biggest eastern U.S.
railroad, probably declined about 2 percent in the third
quarter, with coal dropping 13 percent and general merchandise
down 1 percent, the company said last month.  Quarterly  profit  at the Norfolk, Virginia-based company
will be $1.18 to $1.25 a share, according to a statement. That
was short of the $1.63-a-share average estimate of 27 analysts
before the announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 