-- Cypriot Leader Says EU Must Change Way It’s Dealing With Crisis
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-10-16T13:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/cypriot-leader-says-eu-must-change-way-it-s-dealing-with-crisis.html
The European Union must change the
way the 27-nation bloc is dealing with the financial crisis,
Cypriot President Demetris Christofias said.  “The strict austerity policies pursued in recent years in
a number of countries have proved inadequate solutions to the
problems of these countries,” Christofias said in a speech in
Nicosia today, according to a  transcript  of his comments posted
on the Cypriot government’s website.  “The EU is obliged to change the ways and means of
addressing the crisis,” Christofias said. “The basic issue is
rationalizing public finances with the fairest possible burden-
sharing on the one hand while not driving economies into deeper
and longer recession.”  Cyprus in June became the fifth euro-area nation to request
a financial rescue since a 2010 bailout of  Greece . The
government is in talks with the troika, which consists of
officials from the European Commission, the  European Central
Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund , to fix the size of the
bailout. Christofias has promised to defy a troika demand to
rein in wages.  EU member states need to pursue diverse and growth-friendly
fiscal policies, such as investing in sectors of the future, in
order to promote economic activity and competitiveness, fight
unemployment and address the social impact of the crisis,
Christofias said.  Cyprus, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, will
seek to put citizens at the center of European policy making, he
said. “Any detachment of European citizens from European
affairs creates a democracy deficit which sooner or later will
impair European institutions and European integration efforts,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  