-- Diageo Said in Talks to Buy About 20% of United Spirits
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-10-16T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/diageo-said-in-talks-to-buy-about-20-stake-in-united-spirits.html
Diageo Plc (DGE)  is in talks to buy a
stake of about 20 percent in Vijay Mallya’s  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) 
in a deal that would give it management control of the Indian
distiller, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Diageo would buy new shares in United Spirits and also
purchase part of Mallya’s 28 percent stake, said the people, who
asked not to be identified as the process is private. Diageo
would get the right to appoint United Spirits’s  chief executive
officer  and other key managers, while Mallya is expected to
remain chairman, they said.  Taking management control could trigger Indian takeover
rules that would force Diageo, the maker of Johnnie Walker
Scotch whisky, to make a so-called open offer for a further 26
percent of United Spirits, said the people. A deal would allow
Mallya to free up money for his struggling  Kingfisher Airlines
Ltd. (KAIR)  while giving Diageo a stronger foothold in the world’s
second-most populous country.  Diageo will probably pay a premium to the market price for
the United Spirits stake, one of the people said. United
Spirits, the maker of McDowell’s whiskey, has  soared 159 percent 
in Mumbai trading this year, taking its market value to 167
billion rupees ($3.16 billion). The stock rose as much as 5.2
percent yesterday, closing up 4.2 percent at 1,276.45 rupees.  Diageo Gains  Diageo rose 0.6 percent to 1,782.5 pence at the close of
trading in London yesterday, giving the company a market value
of about 44.7 billion pounds ($72 billion).  Buying a stake in United Spirits “is a positive move if it
can be achieved on the right terms,” said  Martin Deboo , an
analyst at Investec Securities in London.  India  is “a
strategically important market” where Diageo has historically
trailed competitor Pernod Ricard SA, he said.  Diageo and United Spirits announced the acquisition talks
in a Sept. 25 statement to the London and Bombay stock
exchanges, without giving details. Discussions are ongoing and
terms of a deal may change, the people said.  Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman for United Spirits, declined
to comment beyond the Sept. 25 statement.  Mallya, 56, would keep about a 10 percent stake in United
Spirits after the transaction, one person said. He gave 59
billion rupees of guarantees last year to Kingfisher’s lenders,
according to the company’s annual report. The carrier is
struggled to pay bills, wages and debts after posting five
straight annual losses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  