-- Does the Constitution Echo Republican Views?
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-10-16T21:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/does-the-constitution-echo-republican-views-.html
In the context of affirmative
action, some of the nation’s most important and distinguished
conservative legal thinkers, including Justices Antonin Scalia
and Clarence Thomas, appear to have abandoned their own deepest
beliefs about how to interpret the Constitution.  Unfortunately, this is not the only area in which they have
done so. To appreciate the problem, we have to step back a bit.  For at least 25 years, there has been a clear division
between leading  conservatives  and liberals with respect to
constitutional interpretation. Conservatives have tended to
favor  “originalism”  -- the view that the meaning of the
Constitution is fixed by the original understanding of its
provisions at the time they were ratified.  Liberals have tended to reject originalism. They contend
that the Constitution establishes broad principles whose
specific meaning changes over time and that must, in the words
of the influential legal theorist  Ronald Dworkin , be given a
“moral reading.”  Consider debates over the right to choose abortion and to
engage in sexual relationships with people of the same gender.
Many conservatives insist, rightly and to their credit, that our
moral judgments must be separated from our judgments about the
meaning of the  Constitution . They go on to argue that if no
provision of the Constitution was understood to protect these
rights when it was ratified, then none protects these rights
today.  Scalia’s Silence  Just this month, Justice Scalia put the  point 
unambiguously: “Abortion? Absolutely easy. Nobody ever thought
the Constitution prevented restrictions on abortion. Homosexual
sodomy? Come on. For 200 years, it was criminal in every state.”
By contrast, liberals have urged that the meaning of the
Constitution’s broad principles evolves, and that judges can
legitimately help shape the evolution.  Last week, the Supreme Court  heard  oral arguments involving
the constitutionality of an affirmative-action policy at the
University of Texas. Here is the great paradox: None of the
conservative justices asked a single question about whether
affirmative-action programs are consistent with the original
meaning of any provision of the Constitution.  This failure to consider history is long-standing. Justices
Scalia and Thomas, the court’s leading “originalists,” have
consistently argued that the Constitution requires
colorblindness. But neither of them has devoted so much as a
paragraph to the original understanding. As conservative Ramesh Ponnuru, liberal  Adam Winkler  and others have  suggested , their
silence is especially puzzling because for decades, well-known
 historical work  has strongly  suggested  that when passed by
Congress in 1866 and ratified by the states in 1868, the 14th
Amendment did not compel colorblindness.  Perhaps the most important evidence is the  Freedmen’s
Bureau Act  of 1866, which specifically authorized the use of
federal funds to provide educational and other benefits to
African-Americans. Opponents of the act (including President
Andrew Johnson) explicitly objected to the violation of
colorblindness, in the form of special treatment along racial
lines. In fact, much of the congressional debate involved
colorblindness. Along with many others, Representative Ignatius
Donnelly of  Minnesota  gave what the strong majority of Congress
saw as a decisive response: “We have liberated four million
slaves in the South. It is proposed by some that we stop right
here and do nothing more. Such a course would be a cruel
mockery.”  As law professor Eric Schnapper has shown, the 1866
Freedmen’s Bureau Act was one of several race-conscious measures
enacted in the same period during which the nation ratified the
14th Amendment -- which is now being invoked to challenge
affirmative action. If Congress enacted race-conscious measures
in the same year that it passed that amendment, and just two
years before the nation ratified it, we should ask: Isn’t it
clear that the  14th Amendment  doesn’t require colorblindness?  Originalists’ Duty  Maybe this question can be answered. Maybe current
affirmative-action programs, including the  one  at the University
of  Texas , are meaningfully different from the measures enacted
by Congress after the Civil War. But to invalidate current
programs, constitutional originalists have to say more. They
must show that such programs are fatally inconsistent with the
original understanding. Maybe they can do this, but remarkably,
they haven’t even tried.  How can we explain this conspicuous lack of historical
curiosity? A tempting answer would point to the Constitution’s
text, which bans states from denying any person the “equal
protection of the laws.” Perhaps any effort to consider race is,
by definition, inconsistent with this requirement. Yet that
argument is hopelessly unconvincing. As the historical debates
reveal, whether colorblindness is required by a commitment to
“equal protection” is the question, and the words themselves
don’t provide that answer.  In the context of affirmative action, conservative
constitutional thinkers appear to have adopted the approach of
some of their liberal adversaries. They are giving a moral
reading to the  14th Amendment .  This is far from the only area in which they have been
doing so. For example, many conservatives believe in strong
protection of property rights. They want courts to use the Fifth
Amendment’s takings clause to strike down regulations that
interfere with property rights -- even though some leading
historical accounts suggest that when originally ratified, the
 Fifth Amendment  was limited to actual physical takings of
property, and didn’t restrict regulation at all. Here too,
Justices Scalia and Thomas have made no serious inquiry into the
original understanding.  Conservatives tend to believe the First Amendment requires
courts to invalidate many restrictions on commercial
advertising. But until  1976 , the Supreme Court didn’t believe
that the First Amendment protected commercial advertising at
all. It would take a lot of work to establish that the
constitutional protection that some would give to commercial
advertising can be traced to the original understanding in 1791.  In short, the constitutional judgments of many influential
conservatives show an uncomfortably close overlap, not with the
original understanding of those who ratified the Constitution,
but with the political understandings of the Republican Party in
2012. Who, then, believes in the living Constitution?  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at Harvard University, is a Bloomberg View  columnist . He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and, most
recently, the author of “On Rumors: How Falsehoods Spread.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors calculate what  Europe  must do to
save its currency; Margaret Carlson on  Marco Rubio ; Clive Crook
on how governments can  improve the world economic outlook ; Peter
Orszag on the promising  future of health-care costs ; Virginia
Postrel on the  economics of kidney transplants ; Steven Greenhut
on  tax collusion in California .  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  