-- Dutch Pension Fund Manager Bets on Downtown Stores as Rents Rise
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-10-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/dutch-pension-fund-manager-bets-on-downtown-stores-as-rents-rise.html
The manager of the world’s third-
largest pension fund increased its investments in Dutch city-
center stores after retail properties beat other types of
commercial real estate in the Netherlands last year.  APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV invested about 200 million
euros ($261 million) in the Dutch Prime Retail Fund run by
insurer ASR Nederland NV’s property-management arm, said Patrick Kanters, who oversees APG’s 28 billion euros of real estate
investments.  Retail properties generated returns of 7.6 percent last
year, the highest in the Dutch commercial real estate market,
according to Investment Property Databank Ltd. Stores in Dutch
cities including Amsterdam and Rotterdam have benefited from
local planning policies dating from the 1970s designed to
preserve city centers by discouraging out-of-town retail parks
or large malls.  “The fund’s high street retail shops are located in the
top Dutch inner cities, providing further embedded rental
growth,” Kanters, 44, said in an interview at APG’s offices in
Amsterdam last week.  APG has invested or pledged about 1 billion euros this
year, including the 200 million euros earmarked for Dutch retail
properties in ASR’s second round of money-raising.  In December ,
ASR raised 380 million euros for the fund, which owned 210
stores on city shopping strips, supermarkets and shopping
centers valued at about 1.1 billion euros at the time.  Koningsplein Purchase  In July, the Dutch Prime Retail Fund completed the
acquisition of a 7,500 square-meter (81,000 square-foot) store
with upper-floor  office space  on Koningsplein, a prime shopping
strip in central Amsterdam, for an undisclosed sum.  APG manages 314 billion euros of assets for seven pension
funds including Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP, its owner. APG’s
latest investment is equivalent to 90 percent of total retail
property sales in the Netherlands during the first half,
according to calculations using data compiled by Los Angeles-
based CBRE Group Inc.  About 40 percent of APG’s real estate investments are in
funds or direct ownership of properties, such as its stakes in
Westfield Group’s Stratford City mall in east  London  and the Cap
3000 mall in the French city of Nice. The rest is in stocks.  Joint Investors  APG prefers to invest in partnership with other asset
managers to provide them with the ability to do larger
transactions or in funds with a limited number of investors “so
that we are nearer to the deals,” Kanters said.  Earlier this month, APG joined Government of Singapore
Investment Corp. and AP4, a Swedish national pension fund, in
committing 1.6 billion Swedish kronor ($240 million) to a
Swedish real estate fund managed by Stockholm-based  Andersson
Real Estate Investment Management AB .  APG also plans to step up its investments in real estate
lending, Kanters said. The company committed 38 percent of the
492 million pounds ($792 million) raised in May 2011 by
Pramerica Real Estate Capital I fund, managed by a unit of
Prudential Financial Inc.  “We’re planning to do more in the junior and mezzanine
debt space in  Europe , targeting the most deep markets in
Europe,” such as the U.K. and  Germany , Kanters said.  APG holds stakes of at least 5 percent in some of Europe’s
and the U.S.’s largest publicly traded companies, including
 Unibail-Rodamco SE (UL) ,  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , Klepierre SA,
 Corio NV (CORA) , Hammerson Plc, British Land Co. and Segro Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 