-- LME Says It Can’t Take Short-Term View on Metal Warehouse Waits
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-10-16T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/lme-says-it-can-t-take-short-term-view-on-metal-warehouse-waits.html
The  London  Metal Exchange said it
can’t afford a short-term view on waiting times at its
warehouses as Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., which is
buying the bourse, said it’s focused on the issue.  The LME changed its rules in April to increase the minimum
amount of metal that must be delivered daily, after getting
complaints about delays since at least 2009. The debate is
“complicated,” Chief Executive Officer Martin Abbott said at a
dinner in London today, according to an e-mailed copy of his
speech.  Shareholders in the 135-year-old LME approved a $2.2
billion takeover by Hong Kong Exchanges in July. Withdrawing
aluminum can take as long as 57 weeks at the Dutch port of
Vlissingen and 41 weeks in  Detroit , data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Reports on LME delivery issues are “deeply concerning,”
Hong Kong Exchanges Chief Executive Officer Charles Li said
yesterday, adding he’ll study the results of the LME’s review on
the matter and consult members before making changes.  “We have a situation that is created by the economics of
the aluminum industry and we are keen to mitigate its impact on
other markets,” Abbott said at the dinner. “We cannot afford
to take a short-term view, and that is especially so given that
the situation in which we find ourselves is the result of long-
term factors.”  Aluminum stockpiles, at 5.07 million metric tons, account
for 71 percent of the metal stored in LME warehouses, according
to bourse data. The exchange will in April introduce new daily
levels for the minimum amount of nickel and tin that warehouses
must deliver, the bourse said in August. The move comes amid
concerns that long wait times may limit availability.  ‘Complex Issue’  “We need to understand whether or not we’re really talking
about people waiting for a year,” Li said yesterday at an LME
metals seminar in London. “If somehow the LME system is making
the real economy suffer on that basis in that way, that’s
unacceptable.”  The dinner is during LME week, an annual event that
attracts thousands of miners, refiners and traders for talks on
metals markets and supply contracts. Hong Kong Exchanges is
expected to complete the purchase in the fourth quarter and will
help the world’s biggest metals bourse to expand in Asia, Abbott
said yesterday.  Hong Kong Exchanges agreed to maintain the LME’s contract
structure and open-outcry trading, as well as to keep the
existing warehousing network, help the London bourse develop its
own clearinghouse and freeze trading fees until at least the
start of 2015.  Clearinghouse Completion  Abbott said in June that the exchange’s clearinghouse will
be completed in the first quarter of 2014. That will “deliver
strategic benefits as well as increasing user efficiency,” he
said at today’s dinner. The LME is preparing plans to build a
trade repository in parallel with the clearinghouse, he said.  The LME has more than 600 registered warehouses in
locations from  Singapore  to the U.S. that ensure physical
delivery against futures. The exchange’s network doesn’t include
any in  China . Warehouse companies such as  Glencore International
Plc (GLEN) ’s Pacorini Metals, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Metro
International Trade Services LLC, and JPMorgan & Chase Co.’s
Henry Bath LLC are approved to store metals.  Being owned by Hong Kong Exchanges “means there will be
the potential for renminbi-denominated products, for efficient
global clearing solutions and for even closer working relations
with mainland China,” Abbott said. “It does not mean that we
will lose our focus on the rest of the world. The great strength
of the LME is its ability to act as the global metals
marketplace and we will continue to be just as attentive in our
non-Asian markets as we have always been.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  