-- Medical Marijuana Backers Ask Judges for Less Regulation
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-16T17:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/medical-marijuana-backers-ask-judges-for-less-regulation.html
The U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration ignored research showing marijuana had legitimate
medical uses when it rejected efforts to reclassify the drug as
a less harmful substance last year, a lawyer for medical
marijuana backers told a federal appeals court.  Joseph Elford, a lawyer for Americans for Safe Access,
asked a three-judge panel in  Washington  today to order the DEA
to reconsider its decision to keep marijuana a Schedule I
narcotic, saying the agency’s ruling that there are no
scientific studies finding an acceptable medical use was
arbitrary and capricious.  “There are over 200 studies that are adequate and well-
controlled studies,” Elford told the judges.  The case involves an 10-year-old petition from medical
marijuana advocates who asked the DEA to reclassify marijuana as
a Schedule III, IV or V drug, which would allow for looser
regulation. On June 21, 2011, the DEA rejected the request,
stating that existing clinical evidence wasn’t adequate to
warrant reclassification.  The judges questioned whether the medical marijuana
patients and the advocacy group had the authority to challenge
the DEA’s decision. U.S. Circuit Judge  Merrick Garland  said the
court has limited authority to review it as long as the agency
made a proper showing of support for it.  “I’m trying to figure out what our standard of review
is,” Garland asked a lawyer for the  Justice Department . “Is
there evidence to support the administration’s position that
there is no substantial evidence? That sounds funny.”  Lena Watkins, a lawyer for the Justice Department, said the
studies cited by the marijuana proponents were rejected because
the research didn’t meet government standards. She said about 15
studies meet the standards, though the government doesn’t have
the final results yet.  The case is Americans for Safe Access v. Drug Enforcement
Administration, 11-1265,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District
of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 