-- Russia Accuses Tobacco Makers of Hooking Women, Children
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-10-16T10:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/medvedev-pledges-no-reversal-on-russian-anti-tobacco-law.html
Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,
 British American Tobacco (BATS)  and other cigarette makers hooked
Russian women and children on smoking, Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said, vowing to crack down on the habit.  A ban on public smoking and cigarette advertising that will
take effect under a proposed law and higher taxes on tobacco
products are “just the beginning” of a campaign to counter
high mortality rates, Medvedev said in a video posted on his
blog today. Four  tobacco companies  have controlled the Russian
market since the early 1990s, he said.  “Unfortunately in the 1990s, the government didn’t
evaluate the risks of foreign tobacco companies’ investments”
that went into advertising and designing lighter cigarettes that
harmed women’s and children’s health, Medvedev said. The anti-
tobacco bill, to be submitted to Parliament this month, is aimed
at “protecting all these and other people,” he said.  In  Russia , the world’s second-largest market for cigarette
makers after  China , 39 percent of the population are regular
smokers, according to the  World Health Organization . About
400,000 Russians, or 0.3 percent of the population, die each
year from smoking-related diseases, Medvedev said. That compares
with 114,000, or 0.2 percent in the U.K.  The government is due to submit a bill to lawmakers by Nov.
1, proposing to outlaw all cigarette advertising and sponsorship
as well as kiosk sales immediately, with bans on cigarette trade
in all smaller retail outlets and smoking in public places
taking effect Jan. 1, 2015.  Last-Ditch Battle  Philip Morris , BAT,  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  and  Imperial Tobacco
Group Plc (IMT)  have been fighting a last-ditch battle to water down
the measures. The companies have asked for smoking sections in
bars and restaurants, fewer restrictions on sales and a
continuation of sponsorship.  “Many people claim these measures discriminate against
smokers, but today almost 60 percent of adults and all children,
including new-born babies, are discriminated against by smokers
themselves,” Medvedev said. “They are forced to inhale
poisonous cigarette smoke even though they didn’t choose to be
smokers.”  Regional Sales  Philip Morris, the world’s largest publicly traded tobacco
company and BAT,  Europe ’s biggest cigarette maker, generate
about a third of global sales in eastern Europe,  Africa  and the
 Middle East . Japan Tobacco Inc. relies on the region
encompassing Russia, the other ex-Soviet states excluding the
Baltic countries, the former Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania,
Croatia and Mongolia for 46 percent of global sales volumes.  Tokyo-based Japan Tobacco, whose brands include Camel and
Winston and is  Asia ’s largest listed cigarette producer by
market value, has about 37 percent of the Russian market. It’s
followed by 26 percent for Marlboro-maker Philip Morris, 21
percent for BAT and 9 percent for London-based Imperial,
according to the companies.  The proportion of female smokers in Russia increased
threefold from 1992 to 2010, to 22 percent, according to
Medvedev. Two-thirds of Russian teenagers aged 13 to 16 have
tried cigarettes and one-third smoke regularly, he said.  Japan Tobacco shares declined as much as 1.9 percent today
in Tokyo trading. BAT was down 0.1 percent and Imperial up 0.5
percent in London at 11.25 a.m  BAT and Imperial, the maker of Davidoff cigarettes, fell
the most in about a month in London trading on Oct. 8 after
Russian health regulators suggested raising cigarette taxes
almost eightfold.  Tax Increase  The Health Ministry proposed raising the tax to 4,000
rubles ($129) per 1,000 cigarettes by the end of 2015 from 510
rubles this year, according to a letter dated Sept. 22 from
Health Minister Veronika Skvortsova to Deputy Prime Minister
Olga Golodets obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The move escalates Russia’s anti-smoking efforts. Excise
taxes were already scheduled to increase about 40 percent a year
between now and the end of 2014 under current government policy.
A pack of Marlboros now sells for about $2 in Russia.  The tax increase, if it becomes law, may push Russian
cigarette consumption down by as much as 20 percent in 2015,
according to  Erik Bloomquist , an analyst at Berenberg Bank,
compared with his current estimate for an annual decline of 1
percent to 2 percent.  The Institute of Law and Comparative Jurisprudence, a
government agency that vets legislation and whose board of
trustees is headed by the speaker of the lower house of
parliament,  Sergei Naryshkin , in August criticized the anti-
tobacco law.  ‘Constitutional Principles’  The institute, which last year gave its stamp of approval
to the bill, in a new assessment criticized the planned ban on
tobacco sponsorship and advertising and restrictions on the sale
and display of cigarettes.  The tobacco companies’ efforts to overturn the anti-smoking
legislation are “worrying because they have hired some very
expensive lobbyists,” said Dmitry Yanin, head of the Moscow-
based International Conference of Consumer Societies.  Russians spent 600 billion rubles ($19.4 billion) last year
on cigarettes, Deputy Health Minister Sergei Velmyaikin told
reporters today.  Smoking-related diseases kill 23 percent of Russian men and
cause economic damages equal to 6.3 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the health ministry, which says the law
may save 200,000 lives a year and cut smoking in half.  “Neither the government nor the state are fighting against
the smokers, it’s the smoking habit we oppose,” Medvedev said.
“Let’s be frank: more than 80 percent of our citizens,
including two-thirds of smokers, support the fight against
smoking.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  