-- Egypt Top Court Protests Constitution Draft as Date Set for Vote
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-10-16T15:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/egypt-top-court-protests-constitution-draft-as-date-set-for-vote.html
Egypt ’s highest court plans to
remain in permanent session to protest articles related to it in
the country’s draft constitution, as the panel writing the
charter set a mid-November date to vote on the document.  The Supreme Constitutional Court said today it opposes
articles in the draft that dealt with the court, the appointment
of its justices and its purview. The court’s head, Maher El-
Beheiry, said the court was in permanent session to monitor the
progress of the draft, the state-run Ahram Gate website
reported.  Drafts of the constitution unveiled in the past few days
have fueled concern among secularists and youth groups that say
Islamists are dominating the writing of the charter and
liberties are being threatened. The dispute, in tandem with
broader political fissures, is weighing on efforts to revive the
economy after last year’s uprising.  The Islamist “electoral machine is strong,” Hani Sabra, a
Mideast analyst at the Eurasia Group, said today in e-mailed
comments. The secularists may struggle to win support from a
population weary of the unrest since last year’s uprising, he
said.  “More Egyptians are concerned with ending the
constitutional void than they are with issues like press
freedom, women’s rights or separation of religion and state
which secular Egyptians stress,” Sabra said.  Ties Sour  The court’s objections offer another perspective into the
rifts between the Islamists that comprise the majority on the
panel and secular groups and youth activists who accuse the
Islamists of trying to monopolize power.  The 100-member constitutional committee, which faces legal
challenges, will begin discussing the final draft on Nov. 4 and
a vote will be held in the second week of the month, the state-
run Middle East News Agency reported, citing committee head
Hosam El-Gharbany.  A partial draft of the constitution released last week was
among the rallying points for an Oct. 12 protest that turned
violent as secular groups and youth activists clashed with
members of the Muslim Brotherhood’s political party. The
demonstrations, which left 140 wounded, underscored the
escalation of tensions between the two sides since President
Mohamed Mursi, an Islamist, was sworn into office in June.  The latest dispute between the judiciary and the Islamists
occurred after Mursi tried -- and failed -- to appoint Egypt’s
prosecutor-general as the ambassador to the Vatican. The move
came after a Cairo court acquitted two dozen of former President
 Hosni Mubarak ’s top aides and supporters on charges linked to an
fatal clash in the early days of the uprising that was dubbed
the Battle of the Camel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  