-- Egypt Post-Mubarak Legal Challenges Test Foreign Investors
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-10-17T12:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/egypt-post-mubarak-legal-challenges-testing-foreign-investors.html
Vishnu Swaroop Baldwa is one
investor who won’t be returning to Egypt any time soon.  “We see better opportunities elsewhere,” said the chief
financial officer of Indorama Corp., one of eight companies
seeking arbitration at the Washington-based  International Center
for Settlement of Investment Disputes  after an Egyptian court
stripped it of its local unit, a textile producer.  As Egypt struggles to revive an economy battered by last
year’s uprising against  Hosni Mubarak , lawsuits attempting to
overturn the sale of state assets under his rule threaten to
deter foreign investment. The new government is trying to lure
funds from abroad while addressing the demands of a population
that is staging street protests and strikes almost weekly.  “I pity them,” said Hisham Fahmy, chief executive of the
American Chamber of Commerce in Cairo, of Egypt’s new rulers.
“They’re coming on the shoulders of a popular movement and,
being the government, they owe it to the public to make sure
there is social justice and that’s hard to balance.”  Most of the contractual disputes relate to a privatization
program started in the 1990s, which critics of Mubarak contend
is one of his most corruption-riddled legacies. While Prime
Minister Hisham Qandil has said the contracts will be respected,
“this remains to be seen in real life,” Mona Zulficar,
chairwoman of EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said at an investor
conference last week.  Legal Challenger  Khalid Ali, an Egyptian lawyer who ran for the presidency
this year, says he compiled hundreds of documents to convince
courts to overturn the investments of Indorama and others. Last
month, he persuaded a Cairo court to strip  Mexico ’s Cemex SAB of
its ownership of Assiut Cement Co., its most profitable unit
outside Latin America.  “Privatization meant workers’ rights were undercut,
companies were sold under value and Egyptian production was
destroyed,” Ali said, citing El Nasr Steam Boilers Co. as one
example.  The company was privatized in 1994 as part of an
 International Monetary Fund -backed economic program. It remained
a loss-maker after the sale and was handed back to the state by
Orascom Construction Industries, Egypt’s largest publicly-traded
company, after Ali won his case.  Sweetheart Deals  “We bought the asset in 2008 in anticipation of specific
contracts,” said Omar Darwazeh, OCI’s investor relations
manager. “These contracts never materialized.”  In all, 382 companies were sold for 57.4 billion pounds
($9.4 billion) from 1991 to 2009, according to a December 2011
report by the Egyptian Center for Economic and Social Rights.
Critics including Ali say they were often sweetheart deals to
Mubarak supporters who were not charged market value.  Some of the most prominent disputes surround land sales
related to the planned communities that have sprung up around
Greater Cairo.  Talaat Mustafa Group (TMGH) ’s Madinaty project, Egypt’s
biggest property development with 120,000 homes, is threatened
after a panel of judges recommended in July the annulment of a
contract allowing the Mubarak government to sell the land.  Qandil’s government, sworn in by President Mohamed Mursi in
August, is seeking to reverse a capital flight that drained more
than half of Egypt’s  foreign reserves  and left it with the
Middle East’s biggest budget deficit. Officials say they target
276 billion pounds in investments this fiscal year, with the
private sector called on to provide 176 billion pounds.  Strong-Arm Tactics  After the 1952 military coup that toppled the monarchy, the
government “subdued the workers’ movement to attract
investors,” said Fatma Ramadan, the head of the strikes
committee at the Egyptian Federation of Independent Trade
Unions, who sees the current government attempting similar
strong-arm tactics. That won’t succeed after Mubarak’s fall, she
said. “We now have a popular revolution, and they can’t do the
same thing,” she said.  Workers’ strikes and protests have persisted over the past
year and a half with demands for higher wages and improved
working conditions. “The labour issue is the biggest challenge
to foreign investment,” Investment Minister Osama Saleh said at
an investors’ conference last week.  Apart from the eight cases in arbitration at ICSID, other
disputes are still before Egyptian courts. Ali, who says they
have won seven suits since the 2011 uprising, promises “there’s
more to come.”  ‘Uncertainty’  While Assiut Cement remains committed to  Egypt , “we’re
worried because of the signal that this sends to the investment
community,” Chief Executive Officer Sergio Menendez said by
phone. “It generates a climate of uncertainty.”  Damac Properties Co., a Dubai-based developer, filed its
case at ICSID in June last year after Egypt seized land the
company purchased in 2006 and sentenced its chairman to five
years in prison with hard labor. The government has been trying
to reach an out-of-court settlement with Damac, asking it to pay
financial compensation for changing the agreed use of the land.
The company hasn’t accepted.  Indorama, which was stripped of Misr Shebin El Kom Spinning
and Weaving in September last year, filed its ICSID case in
December.  “We’ve not been approached by the government for dispute
settlement,” Baldwa said.  The cases may be a costly gamble for Egypt, which, with
between five to six international arbitrations per year, is well
above the average for emerging-market nations, said Aly
Shalakany, a partner at Shalakany Law Office, which works on
such cases.  The claims are rarely below $50 million to $60 million, he
said, and “Egypt loses the majority of ICSID cases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  