-- Egypt Seeks Preliminary IMF Deal on Economic Plan by End-October
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-10-16T11:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/egypt-seeks-preliminary-imf-deal-on-economic-plan-by-end-october.html
Egypt hopes to reach a preliminary
accord with the  International Monetary Fund  on its economic and
social program by the end of the month, paving the way for a
$4.8 billion loan, Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed said.  Egyptian officials are seeking the loan as a way to restore
investor confidence in the country after last year’s uprising
that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  sent the economy into its
worst crisis in a decade. While the credit won’t plug a deficit
that amounted to about 11 percent of gross domestic product last
year, officials say it will help encourage other donor funds.  El-Saieed said in an e-mailed statement today that he
sensed the IMF’s backing for the economic and social reform plan
and the “readiness of the fund to provide the necessary support
requested by Egypt.” He and other officials met with the IMF in
Tokyo during its joint meeting with the  World Bank  last week.  Egypt needs to develop economic policies with broad public
support “to ensure the program that is developed would be
implemented,”  Masood Ahmed , the IMF director for the  Middle
East  and Central Asia, said on Oct. 12. The fund expects Egypt’s
economy to grow 2 percent this year and 3 percent in 2013.  Egyptian officials have said they won’t consider devaluing
the country’s currency and stressed they’re looking to better
target subsidies that account for about a third of the budget to
those who most need the government support. Egypt is also
seeking to boost investments that faltered after last year’s
uprising, including through public-private partnership projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  