-- Telefonica’s German IPO to Raise as Much as $2.2 Billion
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-10-16T12:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/telefonica-s-german-ipo-to-raise-as-much-as-2-2-billion.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  may raise as much as
1.68 billion euros ($2.2 billion) by selling almost a quarter of
its German unit in an initial public offering, part of the
former Spanish phone monopoly’s effort to reduce debt.  Telefonica is offering as many as 258.8 million shares of
Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG at 5.25 euros to 6.50 euros
each, according to a statement from the Madrid-based company
today. The IPO values the German business at as much as 7.3
billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is selling assets,
including Telefonica’s German and Latin American businesses, as
he seeks to avert a further debt-rating cut. With more than 58
billion euros of net debt, Telefonica is Europe’s most indebted
phone operator.  Standard & Poor’s  said last week it may reduce
Telefonica’s BBB  rating , the second-lowest investment grade,
citing the company’s exposure to Spain’s sovereign risks.  The IPO will be “an attractive transaction and will help
it gain more financial flexibility” if Telefonica gets more
than 6 euros a share, Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at Banco de
Sabadell in  Madrid , said in a phone interview.  Telefonica  gained  2.3 percent to 10.40 euros at 2 p.m.
Madrid time, valuing the company at 47.4 billion euros. The
shares had lost 24 percent this year through yesterday, compared
with a 10 percent drop by the Spain’s  IBEX 35 (IBEX)  index.  Earnings Growth  The share sale will start Oct. 17 and end Oct. 29, with
trading debut in Frankfurt on Oct. 30, Telefonica said. The
parent will sell 225 million shares, with an option for an
additional 33.75 million shares to meet strong demand, bringing
the IPO to as much as 23.17 percent of the German unit.  The division, which sells services under the O2 brand, had
18.8 million mobile-phone customers at the end of June and it
vies with Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus for the position of the third-
largest wireless company in Germany, where  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  are the leaders.  Telefonica Deutschland’s second-quarter operating income
before depreciation and amortization, or Oibda, rose 12 percent
to 333 million euros. It had wireless-service revenue of 789
million euros in the period, almost the same as E-Plus.  “We expect to be able to show good year-on-year growth in
many metrics, including continued growth in post-paid
customers,” Rene Schuster, the unit’s CEO, said in the release.
“Our wireless service revenues will continue to increase,
although at a lower rate than in the previous quarters.”  Higher Valuation  Telefonica Deutschland has a valuation of 5.5 times to 6.5
estimated 2012 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization based on the  price range  announced today, according
to Bolumburu, who had estimated 7.7 times earnings. The average
enterprise value for European phone companies is 5.7 times 2012
Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg  show .  “Even with a higher valuation, Telefonica Deutschland’s
IPO is very attractive for investors because it’s a German
asset, with little debt, and growth expectations, and it also
offers good dividends,” Bolumburu said.  Telefonica Deutschland plans to pay about 500 million euros
in cash dividends from 2012 earnings. Telefonica forecasts the
dividend will increase in coming years.  The unit’s revenue may climb by 3 percent annually between
2012 and 2015 as the mobile-phone business will offset weaker
growth from fixed-line and cable, according to documents seen by
 Bloomberg News  last week. Operating income before depreciation
and amortization may increase 5 percent annually in the period,
the documents show.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the IPO, with
help from  Bank of America  Corp.,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  