-- Emerging Stocks Gain Most in Month on U.S. Sales Data
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-10-16T21:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/emerging-stocks-rise-to-one-week-high-on-u-s-retail-data.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in three weeks after U.S. retail sales beat estimates and as a
report showed German investor sentiment is improving, boosting
prospects for exports.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rallied 0.8 percent to
1,003.35 at the close of trading in New York, the biggest gain
since Sept. 21. Samsung Electronics Co. surged the most in more
than a month in Seoul. The Bovespa gained 0.2 percent as  Vale
SA (VALE3) , the world’s biggest iron-ore producer, jumped on speculation
infrastructure investments in China will boost the commodity.
Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose to the highest level in
almost two years.  The Commerce Department announced yesterday that retail
sales in the U.S. climbed 1.1 percent in September, compared
with the 0.8 percent expansion forecast by economists. German
investor confidence gained for a second month in October, the
ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim said
today. The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 30 percent of their exports to the European Union and 13
percent to the U.S. on average, according to data compiled by
the World Trade Organization.  “There is positive news where there wasn’t two months
ago,”  Charles Robertson , global chief economist at  Renaissance
Capital  in London, said by telephone. “There is a growing
belief we might avoid a hard landing.”  Turkish Banks  Equities in Istanbul gained 0.7 percent to the highest
level since November 2010.  Asya Katilim Bankasi AS (ASYAB)  surged 3
percent, the most since Sept. 10, after JPMorgan Chase & Co.
named Turkish banks among its top picks for central and eastern
Europe. Benchmark stock indexes in the Czech Republic, Poland,
South Korea and Taiwan also gained.  The Bovespa advanced for a third day. Vale’s preferred
shares surged 2 percent as Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. said
iron-ore is poised to rally to the highest level since July on
speculation that infrastructure investments in China, the
biggest buyer, will buoy demand. Power utility Cia. Energetica
de Minas Gerais rose 1.5 percent after excluding three
hydropower plants from a list of possible concession renewals,
shielding it from lower prices imposed by the government.  The BSE India Sensitive Index fell 0.7 percent to
18,577.70, the lowest since Sept. 20. Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  rose
for the first time in four days, jumping 2 percent after Prime
Minister Nguyen Tan Dung maintained power at the end of a two-
week meeting to assess the performance of the ruling Communist
Party. The gauge climbed the most among Asian benchmark indexes.  South Korea’s Kospi index advanced 0.8 percent and the  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong
Kong  slid 0.1 percent, reversing an earlier gain of as much as
0.6 percent.  Samsung, Reliance  The forint strengthened 0.6 percent versus the euro, the
best performing emerging-market currency today, as Hungary
worked to obtain an aid deal from the  International Monetary
Fund .  All 10 industry groups in the  MSCI Emerging Markets index (MXEF) 
rose, led by information technology shares. The developing-
nations gauge has advanced 9.5 percent this year, trailing a 12
percent gain in the MSCI World Index of developed countries. The
emerging-markets measure trades at 11.5  times estimated
earnings , compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.3,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung surged 2.3 percent in Seoul.  ZTE Corp. (000063) , China’s
second-biggest phone-equipment maker, fell 4.2 percent in
Shenzhen after the company said it probably posted a loss in the
third quarter. Reliance Communications Ltd. dropped 4.9 percent
in Mumbai, the biggest loser on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Federal Grid Gains  Federal Grid Co. rose 1.7 percent in Moscow as Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  decided against a proposed merger of
the monopoly for high-voltage power transmission with
distributor OAO MRSK Holding. Putin approved creating a
management company for the country’s power grids, Energy
Minister Alexander Novak told reporters yesterday after a
government meeting.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, advanced 1
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
 Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 4.4 percent.  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB) , India’s fourth-largest private lender by
market value, climbed 2.4 percent after reporting profit rose 22
percent in the quarter ended Sept. 30.  Poly Property Group Co. jumped 6.8 percent, the biggest
advance since Sept. 7, in Hong Kong trading, while  KWG Property
Holding Ltd. (1813)  gained 8.2 percent and  Evergrande Real Estate Group
Ltd. (3333)  rose 5.1 percent. New home sales volume in 54 major cities
in China increased by 210 percent in the second week of October
from a week earlier,  Securities Times  reported.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  fell 1.4 percent in Jakarta after
 Nathaniel Rothschild  quit the board of Bumi Plc.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 278, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  