-- Mercedes $3,900 Discounts Signal Germany Joins Downturn
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r ,   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-10-16T22:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/mercedes-3-900-discounts-signal-germany-joins-downturn.html
Germany , which had bucked the
decline this year in  Europe ’s auto market, is succumbing to the
economic downturn, prompting car companies to increase
incentives to a two-year high.  Deals include a 3,000-euro ($3,900) trade-in  incentive  for
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, equaling the price cut  Renault SA (RNO)  is
offering for the  Megane , according to the automakers’ German
websites. Reductions at  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel unit and  Ford
Motor Co.  exceed 3,500 euros on compact cars.  German discounts on new vehicles climbed to an average 12.2
percent last month, the highest since 2010, according to trade
publication  Autohaus PulsSchlag . The incentives have so far
failed to bring in buyers, with an 11 percent car-sales decline
in the country in September. The drop in Germany, which accounts
for 25 percent of the region’s auto market, may pull sales in
Europe this year to the lowest level since 1993.  “There’s no point buying a new car at the moment,” said
Jiri Macan, a 59-year-old nurse from  Frankfurt  who had just
purchased a used VW Golf from a dealership in the west of the
city. “A used car keeps its value much better.”  Largely thanks to their robust domestic market,  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  and Mercedes had been more resistant to the region’s sales
decline than Renault,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  or  Fiat SpA (F)  -- until
last month.  VW’s namesake brand posted a 14 percent drop in European
registrations in September, with sales in Germany plunging 20
percent from a year earlier, according to industry and
 government  figures. European sales by Mercedes, the world’s
third-biggest luxury-car manufacturer, fell 6.1 percent, with
the drop in Germany almost double that rate.  ‘Deep in the Woods’  “Germany’s sales results are sending the signal that we’re
certainly not out of the woods, but are deep in the woods and
aren’t going to get out soon,” said  Jonathon Poskitt , an
analyst at LMC Automotive in Oxford,  England . “It looks like
2013 is going to be another difficult year.”  Four of Europe’s five biggest car markets contracted last
month, with only the U.K. posting a gain. The 2012 sales decline
in Europe may be the steepest since 1993, said Quynh-Nhu Huynh,
statistics director at the Brussels-based  European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association .  European car registrations last month plummeted 11 percent
from a year earlier to 1.13 million vehicles, pushing nine-month
sales down 7.2 percent to 9.72 million, the association, known
as the ACEA, said yesterday.  1995 Volume  The monthly drop was the 12th in a row and, at both the
German and Europe-wide levels, was the steepest decline since
October 2010, Huynh said. The ACEA this week revised its
forecast for European sales downward, projecting an 8 percent to
10 percent contraction in the region this year.  Declines would have been steeper without so-called self-
registrations by dealers, in which car-sales outlets file
license paperwork on vehicles without customer orders. Those
cars are then sold as zero-mile used vehicles at discounts
typically of more than 20 percent to move them off dealer lots.  The practice accounted for 33.5 percent of German sales in
September from as low as 24.5 percent in July, according to
 Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive
Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen .  Renault, which is based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-
Billancourt, is selling the Megane in Germany for as little as
12,990 euros, compared with a sticker price of 15,990 euros,
according to its website. The French automaker is also offering
at least 2,500 euros on trade-ins.  “French automakers especially have been pushing incentives
lately,” Michael Punzet, analyst at  DZ Bank  in Frankfurt said
by phone. “This weighs on the resale value of their vehicles.”  Hyundai Offers  Hyundai Motor Co. is  promoting  so-called 5-Star editions of
models including the i10 minicar, i20 subcompact and ix20
compact, with savings of as much as 3,360 euros on the 18,970-
euro ix35 crossover.  Some drivers are seeking even deeper price cuts than
carmakers are willing to provide. Ursula Kienle, a 70-year-old
retiree, walked away from the western Frankfurt VW dealership,
where 15 of 17 cars in the lot were advertised as discounted,
after rejecting the seller’s offer.  “We wanted to buy the beautiful new Up!, but they wouldn’t
go below 11,000 euros, and we weren’t prepared to pay more than
10,000,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  