-- Here’s Why Europe Must Do More to Save Its Currency Union
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-16T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/here-s-why-europe-must-do-more-to-save-its-currency-union.html
The battle to save the euro turns on
one question: Can large governments, notably  Italy  and Spain,
get their debts under control?  Because they are in a monetary union, they can’t take the
easy way out by devaluing their currencies to make their
obligations smaller and exports cheaper relative to those of
other countries. Instead, they have to make painful budget cuts
and slash workers’ wages to restore their competitiveness --
moves that, in the short term, can make their debts less
manageable by eroding economic growth. If the belt-tightening
proves too much to bear, or if markets lose faith in their
ability to succeed, the euro area will break apart.  As  Europe ’s leaders meet for their two-day summit in
Brussels this week, they can take credit for considerable
progress in containing market panic and demonstrating their
commitment to the currency. They have pledged to  share
responsibility  for overseeing and shoring up euro-area banks,
potentially relieving struggling governments of a big liability.
More important, the  European Central Bank  has promised unlimited
 support  to keep countries’ borrowing costs in check, as long as
they act in a fiscally responsible manner.  So how much has all the activity achieved? To get a better
picture, we built a model to assess the solvency of euro-area
governments.  Fiscal Challenges  One way to judge a sovereign’s finances is to compare its
current fiscal challenges to what it has achieved in the past.
We did so by measuring the difference between two numbers. One
is the largest primary  budget surplus  (excluding interest
payments) that the government has maintained for any 10-year
period in the past few decades. The other is the primary surplus
it must achieve to ensure its debt burden doesn’t grow faster
than its economy. If the first number is larger than the second,
then history suggests a government’s debts are manageable. The
answer can change from day to day -- minute to minute, even --
along with market interest rates and the country’s economic
outlook. (See attachment for our methodology.)  The results are both encouraging and daunting. Crucially,
the ECB’s open-ended bond-buying program, announced Sept. 6, has
calmed markets enough to bring  Spain  and Italy back from the
brink (see attached graphic). As recently as July, high borrowing costs had
pushed both sovereigns into insolvent territory. As of Oct. 12,
with the yield on its 10-year bond down to 5.6 percent, Spain
could squeak by with a primary budget surplus of about 1.3
percent of gross domestic product, below its maximum 10-year
historical average of 2.1 percent. Italy, which has a larger
debt burden, would have to run a surplus of 2.3 percent to get
over the bar. It is  on course  to best that number this year.  Now for the daunting part. While financial health may be
within reach, many of Europe’s governments -- Spain in
particular -- have a long way to go. The  International Monetary
Fund  estimates that Spain will run a primary budget deficit of
4.5 percent of GDP this year. To get to the surplus of 1.3
percent required to stabilize its debt load, the country still
needs to cut spending or raise tax revenue by almost 6 percent
of GDP. That precipice is larger than the “fiscal cliff” of
automatic deficit-cutting measures and expiring tax breaks
threatening to dump the U.S. back into recession next year. With
Spain’s economy already shrinking, unemployment at 25 percent,
street protests gaining momentum and Catalonia threatening to
secede, it is hard to imagine how the government can inflict
more austerity and hold the country together.  Mutual Support  Spain’s difficulties demonstrate why Europe’s leaders must
think beyond the deficit-cutting measures that have been their
central solution to the euro’s ills. Giving troubled governments
more slack to meet budget targets isn’t enough. Economists have
 long argued  that, for the currency union to survive, the euro
area needs a system of mutual support that can help its members
through tough times, much as federal tax credits and other
payments in the U.S. offset about 30 percent to 40 percent of
any economic slump in an individual state. Such a transfer union
need not be extortionate:  Our calculations  suggest the average
annual cost to  Germany  would be in the hundredths of a percent
of GDP.  Europe also needs to move quickly on other risk-sharing
mechanisms, such as the banking union that leaders agreed to in
June. Germany lately has shown a reluctance to help recapitalize
the euro area’s banks. Such backsliding could prove costly. In
its latest  Global Financial Stability Report , the IMF warned
that if policy makers delay, the resulting shrinkage in bank
lending could deepen the recessions in the euro area’s most
vulnerable countries, adding six percentage points to their
aggregate  unemployment rate .  Three years after the first rumblings of sovereign-debt
troubles in the euro area, its leaders are beginning to get a
grip on what has become a defining crisis for the entire
European project. Lest their progress be wasted, they will have
to do a lot more to forge a deeper union.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights:  Margaret Carlson  on  Marco Rubio ; Clive Crook
on how governments can  improve the world economic outlook ; Cass
R. Sunstein on the hypocrisy of  originalist  justices;  Peter
Orszag  on the promising  future of health-care costs ;  Virginia
Postrel  on the  economics of kidney transplants ;  Steven Greenhut 
on  tax collusion in California .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 