-- Merkel to Review Industry Exemption for German Power Tax
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-10-16T15:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/merkel-to-review-industry-exemption-for-german-power-tax.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
review an exemption that companies receive offsetting power
taxes after consumers were told to pay a record fee for
subsidizing renewables such as solar and wind.  More industries were granted a waiver for the clean energy
surcharge underwriting renewable energy, saddling consumers with
a bigger increase, Merkel said in a speech to the BDA employers’
association. The exemptions account for half a euro cent of the
increase, Merkel said.  “We must review also this part because they’re now more
than just those facing international competition,” Merkel said
in the speech today in Berlin.  Merkel’s government is seeking to prevent a voter backlash
against rising energy costs before the next general election in
the autumn of 2013. Consumers in  Europe ’s biggest economy face
an extra 59 euros ($77) added to average power bills next year
because the fee for renewables will climb 47 percent to 5.28
euro cents a kilowatt-hour, the country’s grid operators said
yesterday.  The government needs to “urgently correct” the country’s
clean-energy subsidy system as companies face “an explosion”
of energy costs because of Merkel’s support for renewables,
 Dieter Hundt , head of the BDA lobby, said at the same
conference.  ‘Increasingly Important’  “For many companies, the cost of electricity today is an
increasingly important factor as they do business, and it
definitely works against  Germany ,” Hundt said.  While it’s “urgently necessary” to reform the subsidy
system, implementing any sweeping changes will be difficult
“when a sufficient number of people profit” from it, Merkel
said. Money paid to owners of solar panels for 20 years by the
state is “among the safest” investments, she said.  Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  last week set out plans
to reform the system by capping subsidies for wind, biomass and
solar power that have surged since 2004 when the government
guaranteed above-market prices for electricity generated from
clean sources.  The clean-energy industry and politicians from the
opposition  Social Democratic Party  and  Green Party  have called
on the government to cut exemptions for those companies that
don’t compete internationally instead of limiting support for
renewables.  Merkel’s government last year lowered the minimum
consumption of companies that can apply for the waiver from 10
gigawatts to 1 gigawatts. The measure was right as it protects
850,000 jobs at energy-intensive companies, Economy Minister
Philipp Roesler said yesterday in Berlin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  