-- Merkel Says Criticism of Weak Euro Nations Must be Eased
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-10-16T12:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/merkel-says-criticism-of-weak-euro-nations-must-be-eased.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
 Greece ’s economic overhaul is taking hold and Germans should
restrain finger-pointing at euro-area countries struggling to
beat the debt crisis.  “You can say all kinds of things about Greece, but there’s
also a lot of movement there,” Merkel said in a speech to
 Germany ’s BDA employer federation in Berlin today. While Greece
might be able to move more quickly, “something has changed in
the whole way of thinking” in the nation that set off the debt
crisis ravaging the 17-country currency union since late 2009.  Merkel’s comments are the latest sign that Germany, the
biggest country contributor to euro-area bailouts, is looking
for ways to accommodate Greece and keep it in the euro as
European Union leaders prepare to discuss the latest crisis
measures at an Oct. 18-19 summit in Brussels. German lawmakers
said separately today that Europe’s biggest economy is open to
 Spain  seeking a precautionary credit, in an easing of Germany’s
public stance.  “We recently went to Spain with a large business
delegation, and we witnessed with how much commitment, how much
elan Spain is working on improving its competitiveness
situation,” Merkel said.  Summit Pitch  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras will pitch at the
summit for an additional two years to meet budget-deficit
targets, emboldened by German backing and a rally in  bonds .
Setting up EU-wide banking supervision is on the agenda at the
summit, where Merkel said efforts to narrow competitiveness gaps
between euro countries will also “play a role.”  “On the other hand, we should sometimes think about how we
struggle with some reforms, and that therefore there’s no reason
to constantly point fingers at others who are a bit slower,”
Merkel said. Ending the debt crisis is “a good investment” for
Germany and  Europe , she said.  In a nod to countries such as the U.K., Merkel said she
doesn’t aim to exclude non-euro countries in seeking to “make
progress on economic-policy coordination” to stem the crisis.
The aims and aspirations of EU integration include all members
of the trade bloc joining the single currency, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  