-- MetLife Bets on Brazil Farms as Bond Yields Hurt Results
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-16T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/metlife-bets-on-brazil-farms-as-bond-yields-hurt-results.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, started a business to make agricultural loans in Brazil
as insurers expand in developing markets and seek investments to
boost income with interest rates near record lows.  “This is about taking advantage of opportunities that will
benefit us over the next several years, perhaps decades,” Chief
Investment Officer Steven Goulart said in an interview. “As we
build our business in Latin America, identifying investment
opportunities like we’ve done with agricultural lending will be
an important part of how we manage our portfolio.”  Agricultural loans in the 2011 to 2012 growing season
totaled 107 billion reais ($53 billion), according to Brazil’s
 Agriculture Ministry . There may be demand for more than twice
that amount, said Luiz Antonio Correa, director of the
ministry’s rural risk management department.  MetLife opened a two-person office in  Sao Paulo  in the
first expansion of the company’s agricultural lending beyond
 North America , said Robert Merck, who leads the real estate and
agricultural investments group. New York-based MetLife had
$12.85 billion of agricultural mortgages as of June 30 in its
 investment portfolio  of more than $500 billion.  “There’s good relative value in making these loans, and
that’s why we are in the business,” Merck said. “We get a
premium over” Brazilian government debt.  Investors demand about 1.45 percentage points of extra
yield to own Brazilian government dollar bonds instead of U.S.
Treasuries, down from 2.25 percentage points at the end of last
year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Brazil reduced its
benchmark rate to 7.25 percent on Oct. 10, the 10th-straight
cut, as the central bank works to revive an economy forecast to
grow slower than the U.S. this year.  Government Subsidy  The  interest rate  for agricultural credit will be 5.5
percent for the 2012 to 2013 season, down from 6.75 percent in
the prior period, Brazil’s government said in June. Private
lenders may charge as much as 25 percent, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture’s  Economic Research Service .  That compares with the 1.81 percent yield 10-year
Treasuries have averaged this year. The  Federal Reserve  has said
it will keep rates near zero at least through the middle of 2015
to stimulate growth in the world’s largest economy.  MetLife is making five- and 10-year agricultural mortgages
in dollars to growers of crops from soybeans to sugarcane, as
well as to farmers who raise livestock, Merck said. He declined
to give the interest rates.  Brazil Market  With more than 5 million customers in  Brazil , MetLife is
the nation’s eighth-largest life insurer, and sells dental and
accident-and-health coverage. The firm expanded in Brazil
through acquisitions including dental insurer Odonto A Saude
Empresarial in 2008 after entering the country in 1999.  “As the portfolio needs grow in Brazil, then there may be
the opportunity to expand agricultural lending in Brazil,” said
Goulart, 54.  Goulart’s role at MetLife has grown since he joined in 2006
from Bear Stearns Cos. to oversee mergers and acquisitions. He
became chief investment officer last year, following a promotion
to treasurer in 2009. On Oct. 9, MetLife said he would supervise
an expansion into managing assets for institutional clients.  Merck will oversee the real estate arm of the effort, which
also includes private debt placements. Chris Breslin, a company
spokesman, said the firm won’t open the Brazilian agricultural
loans business to institutional investors.  Principal Financial  Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG)  has also expanded in  Latin
America  via acquisitions and said Oct. 8 it would spend about
$1.5 billion to buy a Chilean pension provider in the largest-
ever deal for the  Des Moines , Iowa-based insurer. Principal said
earlier this year it would buy a Brazilian mutual fund provider.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ’s real estate unit has been
investing in Latin America since 2001. It hired Alfonso Munk
from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in July to oversee more than $3.2 billion in
gross assets in the region.  Brazil is the world’s largest exporter of commodities
including sugar, orange juice, coffee and beef, and may become
the biggest soybean exporter, according to the USDA.  Brazilian farmers are poised to harvest a record soybean
crop, according to estimates from Celeres. Soybean output for
the 2012-2013 crop season may rise 19 percent from the prior
year to 79.1 million tons, the agricultural consulting firm
estimated.  Demand Rising  Correa of Brazil’s Agriculture Ministry said demand for
agriculture loans may reach 250 billion reais.  “Brazil is a vast country with a lot of agricultural
production,” Correa said in an interview. “It is a country
that presents lots of opportunity for investors.”  Agricultural lending is a good bet for MetLife because a
growing global population will boost demand for food, and
Brazilian farmers can improve productivity, said  Allen
Featherstone , a professor of agricultural economics at  Kansas
State University .  “You’re going to see Brazil continue to grow in production
over the next 10 to 20 years,” Featherstone said by phone from
 Manhattan ,  Kansas . “The biggest thing they’re catching up on is
efficiency.”  MetLife sent  Joseph Herrmann , who helped oversee farm
lending in the central U.S., to help start the Brazil business.
Herrmann, a graduate of Kansas State, is regional director for
MetLife Agricultural Investments’ Latin America operation and
has worked at the insurer since 2008.  Still Expanding  The firm also hired Henrique Sperandio in February to be
associate director of the Brazil office. He previously worked at
Lloyds Banking Group Plc, in the origination of structured and
trade finance transactions. MetLife is still seeking to add a
farm-lending analyst and a loan-production employee, Merck said.  TIAA-CREF, the manager of retirement accounts for employees
of nonprofits, is also betting on farmers. The firm, with other
pension and money managers, is investing $2 billion in farmland
in the U.S., Australia and Brazil, via TIAA-CREF Global
Agriculture LLC., it said in May.  “We see increased protein consumption in developing
economies and alternative energy mandates driving increased
demand for food, fiber and fuel,” Jose Minaya, a TIAA-CREF
managing director, said in a statement. “Farmland also acts as
a hedge against inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 