-- Euro Seen Bowing to Dollar as ECB Gives Way to Fed Growth-Boost
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n ,   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-16T17:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/euro-seen-bowing-to-dollar-as-ecb-gives-way-to-fed-growth-boost.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi’s pledge to backstop the euro is giving the
currency a boost that will fade as U.S. growth outpaces  Europe ,
delegates said at the Bloomberg Link FX12 Summit in London.  “There is potential to see another euro leg higher but
after that has been played out the fundamentals should come more
into the forefront,” said Thomas Kressin, senior vice-president
and head of European foreign exchange at Pacific Investment
Management Co.  The euro has risen 6.2 percent against the dollar since
Draghi said in a July 26 speech that policy makers would do
“whatever it takes” to save the currency bloc. That may
include government-bond purchases, he said on Sept. 6. The
currency dropped to the low for the year of $1.2043 on July 24,
versus its five-year average level of $1.38. It was at $1.3049
at 6:23 p.m.  London  time.  “Even if you remove all of the tail-risk, Europe will be a
very weak economy for an extended period and there’s just
nothing more you can do about it,” Steven Englander, head of
Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New
York, said at the conference.  ‘Sustained Improvement’  While Draghi attempts to restore confidence in the euro
area, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is undertaking
measures to boost U.S. growth. He said on Sept. 13 that the
central bank will conduct a third round of so-called
quantitative easing, buying $40 billion of mortgage debt a month
until policy makers see “ongoing, sustained improvement in the
labor market.”  A report yesterday showed U.S. retail sales climbed 1.1
percent in September, exceeding the median forecast of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, which called for a 0.8 percent
increase. The unemployment rate fell to 7.8 percent last month,
the lowest level since January 2009.  The dollar will remain the global reserve currency in the
absence of the euro as a contender for the role, according to
Antulio Bomfim, senior managing director at St. Louis-based
Macroeconomic Advisers.  “If you had asked me this question a few years back, I
probably would have to stop and think that maybe the dollar
would be sharing the stage with the euro,” said Bomfim. “It
will still be the dollar.”  Currency Debasement  Alan Ruskin , New York-based global head of Group-of-10
foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG, agreed.  The euro “could have challenged it but given some of the
problems” in the region, that is no longer a possibility, he
said. “The dollar will lose a bit of ground” as the Fed
expands its balance sheet, he said.  The Fed’s pursuit of asset purchases risks debasing the
currency as the euro region pulls out of its debt crisis,
according to  James Rickards , senior managing director of Tangent
Capital Partners in New York.  “The strongest currency in the world, the one that is
going to do the best, is the euro,” he said. “They are doing
just about everything right. The U.S. is going to get a cheaper
dollar. The euro will get a lot stronger and it could trade
above $1.40.”  ‘So Bearish’  The euro is more likely to strengthen in the near term as
so many investors  have a negative view on the currency,
according to Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman Jim O’Neill.  “Everyone’s so bearish about the damn thing it’s not hard
for it to go up,” O’Neill said in a discussion with  Tom Keene .
“All you need is a period of no bad news.”  Spain has yet to request a bailout that would enable the
ECB to buy its bonds, easing the financial-market turmoil, and
 Greece  is seeking to agree with creditors on terms that will
allow the next tranche of its bailout funding to be distributed.
European Union leaders are scheduled to gather for a summit in
Brussels on Oct. 18-19.  Analysts estimate the euro-region economy will contract 0.5
percent this year and grow 0.3 percent in 2013, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with forecasts
for U.S. growth of 2.1 percent this year and 2 percent the year
after.  “We have severe reservations about the way it plays out in
Europe and we are more optimistic about the U.S. in the ugly dog
competition,” said Frances Hudson, a global strategist at
Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  