-- Euro Extends Gain as Spain Keeps Moody’s Investment-Grade Rating
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-16T21:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/euro-rises-before-german-sentiment-report-amid-spain-rescue-bets.html
The euro extended gains to four-week
high against the dollar after Spain retained its investment-
grade credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
a reduction in the risk of losing  market access .  The 17-nation currency strengthened earlier to beyond $1.30
for the first time in a week amid speculation that Spain is
moving toward asking for financial assistance, reducing concern
the region’s debt crisis is worsening. The Canadian dollar fell
against all its major peers after Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark
Carney  suggested he may reduce his economic outlook and delay
raising policy interest rates.  “There’s renewed optimism about Spain, which is clearly a
big part of the picture for euro strength,”  Greg Anderson , the
North American head of Group-of-10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“It’s also a risk-on day for markets generally. The dollar is
weaker against most currencies.”  The euro reached $1.3099, the strongest level since Sept.
18. It climbed 0.8 percent to $1.3054 at 5 p.m. New York time,
after reaching $1.3061, the strongest level since Oct. 5.
Against Japan’s currency, it gained 1.1 percent to 102.98. The
yen slipped 0.3 percent to 78.89 per dollar.  Euro Levels  The shared currency may reach its highest level in nearly a
month if it strengthens past its October high of $1.3074,  Niall O’Connor , a New York-based technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., wrote in a research note yesterday. The euro may reach the
$1.3150-to-$1.3172 area, which it last touched on Sept. 17,
according to O’Connor.  Europe’s common currency has gained 0.9 percent in the past
week, trailing behind the Swiss franc and Sweden’s krona among
the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. That cut its decline this year to
1.8 percent. The yen has fallen 5.3 percent in 2012.  Implied  volatility  among major currencies, which signals
the expected pace of price swings, was 7.5 percent, matching the
least since 2007. Lower volatility makes investments in
currencies with higher key lending rates more attractive because
the risk in such trades is that market moves will erase profit.
The five-year average is 12.4 percent.  Canada’s dollar weakened the most in almost three months
against its U.S. peer after Carney made comments yesterday that
his quarterly economic forecast next week will reflect a slowing
global recovery.  Canada Rates  “The governor omitted saying that a rate increase may
become appropriate, signaling that there’s a change in policy at
the  Bank of Canada ,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “His speech was relatively dovish,
signaling that the new forecast update next week could be a
downward revision.”  The so-called loonie, nicknamed for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, slipped 0.6 percent to 98.66 cents
per  U.S. dollar . The currency fell as much as 0.7 percent, its
biggest drop since July 23.  New Zealand’s dollar slid against its 16 major counterparts
after a report showed consumer prices grew at the slowest pace
in more than 12 years. The so-called kiwi, dropped 0.5 percent
to 81.41 U.S. cents.  Moody’s assigned a negative outlook on the Baa3 sovereign
debt as it concluded the review for possible further downgrade
of Spain’s rating that it had initiated in June, the New York-
based company said in a statement today.  Spain avoided joining euro-region peers Cyprus, Portugal,
Ireland and Greece as below investment grade. Standard and
Poor’s has a negative outlook on its BBB- rating, one step above
junk, and  Fitch Ratings  has Spain at BBB, two levels higher.  Seeking Support  Comments by Michael Meister, a deputy caucus leader of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, and
 Norbert Barthle , her party’s budget spokesman, indicate a
rolling back of German resistance to a full sovereign bailout
for Spain. Schaeuble cautioned Spain against seeking aid on top
of its bank bailout as recently as last month.  “Spain still needs to solicit support from the rest of the
world before they go and use the outright monetary transactions
mechanism provided by the  European Central Bank ,”  Mike Moran , a
senior currency strategist at  Standard Chartered  in New York,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money”
with Sara Eisen. “There are a few more hurdles to jump through
before we get to that point. We have a long, hard road ahead.”  Spain’s  10-year notes  climbed to a euro-era high of 7.75
percent on July 25, the day before the European Central Bank
chief pledged to preserve the euro. The yield fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.81 percent today.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which measures the currency against the
euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Swedish
krona, declined 0.5 percent to 79.360.  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities rose 0.4
percent after a 1.4 percent decline in August that was the
biggest since March 2009, the  Federal Reserve  reported today in
Washington. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 85
economists called for production to rise 0.2 percent.
Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of the total, climbed
0.2 percent.  Fed Bank of  St. Louis  President  James Bullard  said U.S.
growth will pick up next year.  “I still think it is reasonable to expect faster growth as
we go forward,” Bullard said in a speech in St. Louis
yesterday. “The normal expectation would be the effects start
to dissipate” from headwinds that have included the  European
debt crisis  and the slow housing recovery, he said.  Asset Purchases  International purchases of U.S. financial assets rose in
August as investors sought shelter from the debt crisis in
Europe, boosted by purchases from France, the U.K. and China.  Chinese holdings of Treasuries rose 0.1 percent this year
through August to $1.15 trillion, Treasury Department data on
international capital flows released today show. Japan, a
stronger ally of the U.S., raised its stake by 6 percent to
$1.12 trillion, on pace to top the list of foreign creditors by
January.  The yen depreciated to 78.86 versus the greenback
yesterday, breaking the 4.5-month trend-line resistance of
78.76, according to  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign-exchange and
interest-rates technical strategy in New York at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. The firm is targeting the yen to weaken to 80.56
to 80.60, and potentially to 81.88.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  