-- Euro-Region September Inflation Holds Steady, Exports Rebound
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-10-16T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/euro-region-september-inflation-holds-steady-exports-rebound.html
Euro-area inflation  held steady last
month and exports rebounded in August as European leaders
struggled to contain the region’s fiscal crisis.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-member currency region
remained at 2.6 percent from a year ago, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. It had previously
reported an annual gain of 2.7 percent. Euro-area exports rose
3.7 percent from July, when they fell 2.2 percent, a separate
report showed.  Crude  oil prices  have increased about 9.4 percent since
mid-June, eroding the purchasing power of companies and
households and undermining a return to growth. With the global
economy “awfully close” to recession, in the words of Bank of
Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer , European leaders meeting in
Brussels later this week are under pressure to shore up economic
growth and plug budget gaps across the region.  “There’s no tailwind for the economy from oil prices as
could have been hoped for,” said Christian Melzer, an economist
at Dekabank in  Frankfurt . “We expect the euro region to remain
in recession this year with negative growth rates both in the
third and fourth quarters as well. The problems of the fiscal
crisis are simply too big.”  The euro traded at $1.3001 at 10:19 a.m. in Brussels, up
0.4 percent on the day.  Commodity Costs  Euro-area consumer prices rose 0.7 percent from the
previous month, when they increased 0.4 percent, the statistics
office said. In the 27-nation EU, inflation remained at 2.7
percent.  Rising commodity costs have piled pressure on companies and
households already struggling with the impact of the region’s
fiscal crisis as governments from Ireland to Spain cut spending
to meet budget targets. Crude oil traded at $91.87 a barrel
today, little changed on the day.  The core inflation rate, excluding volatile costs such as
energy, alcohol and tobacco, held at 1.5 percent in September.
Economists in a Bloomberg News survey had forecast an increase
to 1.6 percent, the median of 25 estimates showed.  The economy probably continued to shrink in the third
quarter after contracting  0.2 percent  in the previous three
months, putting the economy into a recession. Euro-area
manufacturing and service industries continued to shrink in
September and economic confidence unexpectedly declined.  ‘Alarmingly High’  The  European Central Bank  on Sept. 6 forecast euro-area
inflation to average about 2.5 percent this year and 1.9 percent
in 2013, up from a June estimate of 2.4 percent and 1.6 percent
for this year and next, respectively. The economy may shrink 0.4
percent this year, the central bank said.  The  International Monetary Fund  this month said the world
economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the weakest pace since
the 2009 recession, with “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper
slowdown. Fischer told Bloomberg Television on Oct. 13 that
while European governments are “moving ahead,” the economy
“is technically in a recession.”  The euro-area’s unadjusted trade surplus narrowed to 6.6
billion euros ($8.6 billion) in August from 14.7 billion euros
in the previous month, today’s report showed. Imports rose 2.1
percent in August from July, when adjusted for seasonal swings.  Euro-area exports to the U.S. rose a non-seasonally
adjusted 14 percent in the first seven months from a year ago,
while shipments to the U.K. advanced 8 percent. Exports to  China 
and  Russia  rose 10 percent and 17 percent, respectively.
Detailed trade data are published with a one-month lag.  Still, Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on Oct. 12
that while the global economy is in a “difficult situation,”
there’s no reason for pessimism on the economic outlook.  “The adjustment process in  Europe  has started,” he said.
“But this process is only at the beginning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  