-- European Stock Holdings Surge on U.S. Fiscal-Cliff Risks
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-16T12:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/european-stock-holdings-surge-on-u-s-fiscal-cliff-risks.html
European stock holdings climbed to a
20-month high as the so-called U.S. fiscal cliff became a bigger
concern for investors than the euro-region debt crisis for a
second month, a Bank of America Corp. survey showed.  A net 10 percent of money managers, who together oversee
$561 billion, are now overweight euro-area equities, according
to the survey. Some 42 percent of respondent said impending U.S.
budgetary tightening was the largest risk for their investment
strategies, compared with 27 percent who named the euro-region
crisis as their top fear.  The U.S. faces $600 billion of tax increases and spending
cuts that will kick in automatically at the end of the year
unless Congress agrees on how to reduce the federal  budget
deficit . The International Monetary Fund’s  Christine Lagarde 
warned this month that the world’s largest economy may tumble
into a recession in 2013 if lawmakers fail to strike a deal.  “The fiscal cliff dominates the euro debt crisis,” John Bilton, European investment strategist at Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch unit, said at a press conference in  London  today.
“Until we see that tail risk recede, it’s going to be difficult
for investors to feel that they can go all-in. It’s certainly
holding investors back.”  In September, 35 percent of survey respondents rated
America’s budget outlook as their top concern, compared with 33
percent who cited the euro-area crisis. That was the first time
since April 2011 that the European situation wasn’t the foremost
fear among investors. Only one in five survey respondents this
month said the outlook for American tax increases and spending
cuts has been priced into stocks.  Cliff Concern  Even as concern about the fiscal cliff climbed, total
allocations to equities and commodities both advanced to six-
month highs this month, driven by an increase in global growth
expectations. A net 24 percent of respondents said they are
overweight global equities while 5 percent are overweight basic
resources. A net 20 percent expect the global economy to
strengthen, up from 17 percent last month.  Global investors cut their holdings in U.S equities in
October for a fourth straight month, moving funds into European
shares, the survey showed. A net 10 percent of fund managers
were overweight American stocks, meaning they hold more of the
region’s shares than are represented in global benchmarks, down
from 31 percent in June.  The allocation in euro-area stocks climbed from 1 percent
in September as European Central Bank policy makers agreed on an
unlimited bond-buying program last month. European stock
holdings in October matched those in the U.S. for the first time
in two years, according to the report.  Equity Valuations  “Investors like  Europe  a little bit more, they are buying
Europe a little bit more, but they are a long way from being as
enthusiastic as valuations would currently suggest they would
be,” Bilton told journalists at the briefing. “We’ve seen a
stabilization in Europe as opposed to an improvement.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  is trading at 12.1 times its
companies’ projected earnings, near the most expensive since
December 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere, investors reduced their underweight holdings in
U.K. stocks to 6 percent, the least bearish in almost two years.
They increased their allocation in  emerging markets  to 32
percent overweight in October from 19 percent last month.
Holdings in  Japan  dropped to 38 percent underweight, the lowest
since March 2009.  Two hundred respondents participated in the survey which
was conducted from Oct. 5 to Oct. 11  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  