-- Evidence Points to Hasty Strike on U.S. Compound in Libya
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-10-16T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/evidence-points-to-hasty-strike-on-u-s-compound-in-libya.html
While details of the attack that
killed the U.S. ambassador to Libya last month may never be
fully known, there is ample evidence neither the Obama
administration’s initial accounts nor Republican portrayals of
the incident are accurate.  The administration has abandoned its early depictions of
the assault in Benghazi that killed Ambassador Chris Stevens and
three other Americans as the escalation of a spontaneous and
peaceful demonstration. Republicans, meanwhile, have sought to
tie the attack to a resurgent al-Qaeda that President  Barack Obama ’s administration failed to detect and deter.  Instead, accounts from U.S. intelligence officials and
Benghazi residents, along with evidence in the burned-out
American diplomatic compound, point to a hasty and poorly
organized act by men with basic military training and access to
weapons widely available in Libya.  The Sept. 11 assault has emerged as an issue in the U.S.
presidential race, with challenger  Mitt Romney  and fellow
Republicans saying the Obama administration failed to secure the
facility in Benghazi properly before the attack and painted a
false picture of it for eight days afterward.  The White House was “trying to sell a narrative about the
Mideast that the wars are receding and that al-Qaeda was being
defeated,” Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina 
said Oct. 14 on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” Acknowledging that
“an al-Qaeda-affiliated militia” carried out what he called a
coordinated attack would undercut the administration’s preferred
narrative, he said.  No Link  Republicans may find efforts to link the attack to a
resuscitated al-Qaeda difficult to sustain. U.S. officials who
have reviewed the evidence say the intelligence doesn’t support
that version.  There is no intelligence suggesting that either the
remaining core of al-Qaeda in Pakistan or its loose affiliates
in Yemen and North Africa plotted, financed or directed the
attack, which one of the U.S. officials described as amateurish.  Republican assertions that al-Qaeda had a hand in the
attack rest in part on the ties that Muhammed Jamal abu Ahmad, a
leader of Ansar al-Sharia -- the militia believed to have
mounted the attack -- has to al-Qaeda in Pakistan and to its
affiliates in Yemen and North Africa. However, the al-Qaeda
groups learned of the assault only after one of the attackers
called to boast of it, said the officials. A spokesman for Ansar
al-Sharia has denied the group’s involvement.  ‘Opportunistic’ Attack  The administration has walked away from U.S. Ambassador to
the United Nations  Susan Rice ’s initial description of the
attack to television news shows on Sept. 16 as a “spontaneous”
response to protests in Egypt over an anti-Islamic video clip
that was “hijacked” by extremists.  Instead, two State Department officials told a U.S. House
committee last week, it was an armed attack on the compound.
Eyewitnesses in Benghazi also have said there was no non-violent
demonstration prior to the armed attack.  The most accurate account, based on the evidence so far, is
one provided on Sept. 19 by Matthew Olsen, director of the
National Counterterrorism Center, the officials said. Olsen
called the attack “opportunistic” during a Senate Homeland
Security Committee hearing, adding: “What we don’t have is
specific intelligence that there was significant advance
planning or coordination for this attack.”  The types of weapons used and the level of violence don’t
indicate a well-planned al-Qaeda operation either, according to
the U.S. officials and the physical evidence. Rather than use a
car bomb to breach the compound walls quickly, the attackers
used a rocket-propelled grenade, which one U.S. official said
are as easy to find as couscous in Benghazi.  Bullet Holes  At the compound, a Bloomberg News reporter counted two
bullet holes through the front door and 22 through the back
door, along with a few bullet marks on a wall opposite the
facility. There is evidence of at least five bullets fired by
defenders inside the compound.  Moreover, the attackers failed to get into the building’s
safe room, although a window in the room was unlocked. The
ambassador died of smoke inhalation after the building was set
on fire with  diesel fuel . Looters found his body when they
climbed through the unsecured window after the attack.  That evidence leaves the administration in the awkward
position of publicly describing contingency plans to attack the
North African group, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, with
drones or special forces at the same time that officials say
they have no actionable intelligence the group is responsible
for the Benghazi attack.  Allowed Escape  Comparing the haphazard assault in Benghazi to attacks such
as the two bombings of the U.S. embassy in  Beirut , Lebanon, in
the early 1980s, is a stretch, said one of the U.S. officials.  Before the second Beirut attack in 1984, Iranian-backed
Lebanese terrorists built a mock-up of the unfinished vehicle
barriers protecting the U.S. mission, then practiced driving
through them as fast as possible, the official said. In
Benghazi, the attackers failed even to surround the compound,
allowing U.S. diplomats to escape through the front or back
gates, said the official and Benghazi residents.  The evidence also doesn’t suggest that the Benghazi attack
evolved from a spur-of-the-moment peaceful protest. Political
demonstrations in Libya are almost always preceded by Facebook
postings from participants, and there was no mention of the
compound attack on the social-media site either before or
immediately afterward.  Erroneous Reports  The erroneous reports of a spontaneous protest came in part
from former Libyan deputy interior minister Wanis al-Sharif, who
 said  the demonstration had been peaceful until guards at the
compound started shooting, though he also blamed the violence on
loyalists of fallen Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi . Al-Sharif
was fired a week after the attack.  While intelligence doesn’t support Rice’s description of a
spontaneous, initially peaceful protest, it does indicate that
the attackers were spurred by demonstrations in neighboring
Egypt against the anti-Islamic video. The Libyan extremists
didn’t want to sit out a wave of anti-American protests, said
one U.S. official.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday tried to
defuse criticism that administration officials stuck for several
days with a mistaken depiction of the attack. In the wake of
such a violent incident, “there’s always going to be
confusion” and information about the Benghazi assault has
changed over time, she said in an interview with  CNN .  “I know that we’re very close to an election,” said
Clinton, who was interviewed during a visit to Lima,  Peru . “I
want to avoid some kind of political gotcha.”  Political Firefight  The political firefight over the attack has intensified as
the Nov. 6 election nears. The Romney campaign is accusing Obama
of weakening American interests abroad at the same time he has
failed to boost the economy back home.  During the Oct. 11 vice-presidential debate, Vice President
 Joe Biden  defended the administration’s performance, saying the
White House wasn’t aware of any requests for added security in
Benghazi. A day later, Romney chastised Biden, citing
congressional testimony from State Department officials who said
the post had sought additional protection.  Clinton told CNN yesterday that she accepts responsibility
for security conditions at the Benghazi compound before the
attack and that Obama and Biden shouldn’t shouldn’t be blamed.
“The president and the vice president certainly wouldn’t be
knowledgeable about specific decisions that are made by security
professionals,” she said.  ‘Laudable Gesture’  Graham and two other Republicans on the Senate Armed
Services Committee last night called Clinton’s acceptance of
responsibility a “laudable gesture” while criticizing the
White House for not doing the same.  “The security of Americans serving our nation everywhere
in the world is ultimately the job of the Commander-in-Chief,”
Graham and Senators  John McCain  of Arizona and  Kelly Ayotte  of
 New Hampshire  said in an e-mailed statement.  The father of Chris Stevens said his son’s death shouldn’t
be turned into fodder for the presidential race.  “It would really be abhorrent to make this into a campaign
issue,” Jan Stevens, 77, said in an Oct 13 telephone interview
from his home in Loomis, California, as he prepared for a
memorial service for his son next week.  Still, the administration’s handling of the attack will
come under scrutiny as the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, a
State Department panel and several congressional committees
conduct inquiries into what happened.  Inquiries Planned  California Republican Representative  Darrell Issa , whose
House Oversight Committee held one hearing on the events last
week, said he will lead a congressional delegation to North
Africa after the election to investigate the safety of U.S.
diplomatic facilities.  Senators  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, and
 Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, announced yesterday that
their Homeland Security Committee would conduct a bipartisan
inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the attack.  One question that is likely to arise is whether Stevens
wanted more armed guards and higher walls. He was highly
regarded because he preferred more openness and freer contact
with local people, the U.S. officials said.  “There is an inherent tension for diplomats between doing
their duties well, with everything that entails regarding
contact and exposure in faraway places, and living securely,”
 Paul Pillar , a former U.S. intelligence official, wrote in an
Oct. 1   blog  post on The National Interest website.  The partisan debate is feeding public misunderstanding of
foreign events and the nature of diplomatic and intelligence
work, Pillar said in a telephone interview.  “The seemingly endless public rehashing of the attack in
Benghazi that killed the U.S. ambassador and three other
Americans is not taking a form that serves any useful purpose,”
he wrote in his blog.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  