-- Ex-Eagles Executive Banner Hired to Replace Browns’ Holmgren
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-10-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ex-eagles-executive-banner-hired-by-browns-to-replace-holmgren.html
Cleveland  Browns owner Jimmy Haslam
named former Philadelphia Eagles President Joe Banner as his new
chief executive officer and ousted team President Mike Holmgren
yesterday, hours after approval of his $1 billion purchase of
the team.  Banner joined the Eagles when Jeffrey Lurie bought the team
in 1994 and helped manage Philadelphia to National Football
League playoffs in 11 of his 17 full seasons, second to the
Indianapolis Colts over that time.  He also helped develop salary cap management strategies
that have been copied throughout the league, and with Lurie
hired Andy Reid as coach in 1999. The Eagles went to five
conference championship games during Banner’s tenure, though
they never won a Super Bowl title.  “His track record in Philadelphia is outstanding,” Haslam
said, according to the Browns’ website. “His commitment, work,
drive, passion and intelligence to help make the Browns a winner
is something that we’re very excited about.”  Holmgren, who coached the Green Bay Packers and Seattle
Seahawks to Super Bowls, joined the Browns in January 2010 and
played a role in hiring coach Pat Shurmur.  He will stay with the team through the end of the season
and then retire, Haslam said at a press conference. The new
owner said he won’t make any other personnel changes until at
least the end of the season.  “Mike will work very closely with us over the next three
or four months to ensure that transition goes as well as
possible,” Haslam told the team’s website. “I know that he has
been and still is committed to doing everything he can to help
make the Cleveland Browns a better football team.”  First Win  The Browns got their first victory of the season two days
ago, beating the Cincinnati Bengals 34-24 to move to 1-5.
Cleveland, which finished last season 4-12, has gone to the
playoffs once since returning to the NFL in 1999.  The Akron Beacon Journal reported in September that
Holmgren said he intended to finish his contract, which ran
through 2014 and paid him about $8 million a year.  The front-office shake up came hours after NFL owners
unanimously approved Haslam’s purchase of the Browns from Randy Lerner. The sale will close Oct. 25, according to Walt Disney
Co.’s ESPN.  Haslam made his money with Pilot Flying J truck stops and
has been a minority owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers. He sold
that stake when he bought the Browns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  