-- Ex-State Department Official Charged With Taking Bribe
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-10-16T20:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ex-state-department-official-charged-with-taking-bribe.html
A former U.S. State Department
official and travel author was arrested by the FBI and accused
of taking a $30,000 bribe linked to the renovation of a prison
in  Afghanistan , according to papers unsealed in federal court in
Delaware.  Kenneth Michael Brophy, who supervised Afghan contractors
in renovation of the Pol-i-Charki Prison in Kabul, was charged
with receipt of an illegal gratuity by a public official and
willful receipt by an executive branch employee of a payment for
assisting the contractor, Katherine Arden, a Federal Bureau of
Investigation special agent, said in court papers.  “There is probable cause to believe that Brophy accepted
an illegal $30,000 payment” from the unidentified Afghan firm
in exchange for “lobbying” the Army Corps of Engineers on
behalf of a company contract appeal, Arden wrote.  Brophy, 64, a civil and structural engineer, worked for the
State Department from 2008 to 2010, according to Arden. He was
arrested Oct. 14 after he traveled to  Delaware  to attend a
relative’s wedding, and was released pending trial, according to
court papers. Brophy is the author of the Afghanistan edition of
“A Photo Journal: Seldom Seen Sights.”  Coat Pocket  During an investigation, Brophy told authorities the
alleged cash bribe was actually “slipped” into his coat pocket
and he “did not notice the money” until he returned to his
billet in the U.S. Embassy, Arden wrote.  Brophy claimed his wife in Dubai gave him $50,000 and that
there was about $500,000 in cash and collectible stamps stored
in a relative’s basement in Delaware, the agent said.  Federal agents found $29,000 in cash when they searched his
Kabul quarters, Arden said.  Brophy’s lawyer,  Edmund D. Lyons Jr. , said his client has
spent most of his time outside the U.S. and has homes in
Indonesia and  Maine . Brophy is under house arrest in Delaware
pending a hearing set for Oct. 26.  The case is USA v. Brophy, 12-mj-00171, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  