-- Excluding Air, Sea CO2 From U.K. Budgets Messy, Panel Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-16T11:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/excluding-air-sea-co2-from-u-k-budgets-messy-panel-says-1-.html
Excluding emissions from shipping
and aviation from U.K. government budgets for carbon-dioxide
output would lower the nation’s climate protection ambition,
according to the nation’s Committee on  Climate Change .  “We are trying to keep these very dangerous climate change
probabilities at very low levels,” David Kennedy, chief
executive of the committee, said today at a meeting of the  House
of Commons  Energy and Climate Change Committee.  The U.K. installed a program of  legally binding carbon
budgets  set every five years under the Climate Change Act 2008.
In May 2011, the government accepted the Committee on Climate
Change’s recommendation for the fourth budget of a limit of 1.95
billion metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent over the years
from 2023 to 2027, amounting to an emissions cut of 50 percent
from 1990, according to the committee’s website.  Shipping and aviation may account for 25 percent of the
nation’s 160 million-ton carbon-dioxide budget in 2050, Kennedy
said. Excluding them would amount to “a messy solution.”  The U.K. is considering including aviation and shipping in
its carbon budgets, as nations including the U.S. and  China 
object to the European Union’s inclusion of airlines starting
this year in its carbon market, the world’s largest by traded
volume. Britain has agreed to cut its emissions by 80 percent on
1990 levels by 2050, including from shipping and aviation.  Not Ready  So far, the nation hasn’t included the two industries in
its carbon budgets.  Greg Barker , U.K. minister at the Department
of Energy and Climate Change, told the parliamentary committee
the government was not yet ready to decide whether or when to
include emissions from aviation and shipping into the budgets.  “We will be publishing our report by Christmas,” he said.  Including aviation in the EU carbon market may raise demand
for permits in the program and boost costs for other emitters,
said  Andrew Herdman , board member of the Air Transport Action
Group, the lobby group. “That may not wash with them,” Herdman
told the parliamentary committee today.  It’s unclear whether aviation’s inclusion in the EU carbon
market will remain, Herdman said. “It’s a rather flimsy bridge
to use” when seeking to limit the U.K.’s airline emissions, he
said.  Nations objecting to the inclusion of aviation in the EU
carbon market might justify a delay in including those emissions
in Britain’s budgets, Kennedy said. It should not prevent
inclusion of those emissions in budgets through 2050, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  