-- Fed’s Williams Says Bond-Buying Plan Meant to Be Flexible
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-10-16T02:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/fed-s-williams-says-bond-buying-plan-meant-to-be-flexible.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San
Francisco  President  John Williams  said the central bank’s third
round of asset purchases is meant to be flexible so that
officials can adapt and respond to changes in the economy.  “I should stress that our recently announced purchase
program is intended to be flexible and adjust to changing
circumstances,” Williams said in the text of prepared remarks
given in San Francisco today. “It is explicitly linked to what
happens with the economy.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  last month
began an open-ended quantitative easing program, and for the
first time refrained from specifying how long the program would
last or its total size. Williams was among the first policy
makers to propose such an approach, which contrasted with the
two previous rounds of large-scale asset purchases.  “We said we might even expand our purchases to include
other assets,” Williams told the Financial Women’s Association.
“But, if we find that our policies aren’t doing what we want or
are causing significant economic problems, we will adjust or end
them as appropriate.”  On Sept. 13, the FOMC said it would start buying $40
billion in mortgage bonds per month until the labor market
improves. It added that it expected to keep its benchmark
 interest rate  low through at least mid-2015, compared with an
earlier expectation of late 2014.  ‘Strong Measures’  Williams said the central bank decided to take these “two
strong measures” to keep the economy going, given the high
 unemployment rate  and inflation that has averaged below the
central bank’s 2 percent target.  “It was essential that we at the Fed provide the stimulus
needed to keep our economy moving toward maximum employment and
price stability,” the district bank chief said. He votes on
FOMC policy this year.  If the  U.S. economy  were to significantly deteriorate, the
Fed could further ease policy by buying more of the mortgage
bonds and Treasuries that it’s already purchasing, Williams said
in response to a question from the audience. The central bank
could also explain its policy in a different way, including
specifying a target for gross domestic product, he said.  Despite discussions within the Fed to clarify its outlook
on policy, it’s “easier said than done” to come up with
specific economic indicators that still paint a comprehensive
picture of the economy, he said.  In his speech today, Williams said that the housing market
has rebounded, while  Europe ’s debt crisis and a decline in
 government spending  have weighed on growth. In the long run,
Congress “must get our fiscal house in order” because of
recent expansions in the federal debt, even though policy makers
shouldn’t move too quickly in a way that jeopardizes the
recovery, he said.  U.S. stocks rose today after a government report showed
that retail sales increased more than forecast in September. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.8 percent to 1,440.13 at 4
p.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  