-- Fierce Animals Glow, Glare in Unsettling Exhibition: Art
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/fierce-animals-glow-glare-in-unsettling-exhibition-art.html
Seeing the two sheep suspended from
the ceiling of the  Claire Oliver Gallery  in  New York ’s Chelsea
district stopped me in my tracks.  Especially the larger creature, which glowed with a fierce
beauty I could see from the street.  So I went in and encountered some of the others shaped by
Beth Cavener Stichter.  The American artist works in sugar crystals and more
traditional materials like clay to mold her disconcerting
animals. Toward the back of the gallery, there’s a life-size
clay deer wearing a lace shroud and shot full of arrows.  Alice would not like these angry hares. But many humans do.
Some of the larger works sell for $150,000.  I met with Cavener, 39, at the gallery before she returned
home to a remote part of eastern  Washington .  Tarmy: Where is your studio?  Stichter: Close to Montana and  Idaho . It’s right on the
bitter edge of the middle of nowhere. I live in a tiny, dying
ghost town called Garfield. Less than 300 people live there, and
they’re the kind of people who move there because they didn’t
fit in anywhere else. I pretty much stay on our property line
and work in isolation.  Tarmy: Do you have assistants?  Strange Place  Stichter: Most of the time I work by myself, but in the
summer I do get interns. My husband and I built a little guest
house on our property, because there’s nowhere else that they
can stay. I get people from all over the place, but they quickly
realize, “Wow, this is a strange place,” and then, “Oh my
God, what have I gotten myself into?”  Tarmy: Do you always sculpt animals?  Stichter: If you look at my pieces, they’re all based on
human anatomy rather than animal anatomy. I’m trying to be
sneaky about the sense of empathy that I try to draw out of
people.  Tarmy: Why do animals elicit more empathy than humans?  Stichter: I think it comes from all of those children’s
books, where they try to teach you moral lessons through animals
because to children that’s more palatable.  I think that same thing is true for adults, even though we
believe we’ve outgrown that kind of tendency. You still see
people who are more considerate and human to their pets than
they are to the person sitting next to them in the subway.  Sugar Crystals  Tarmy: How did you start to use sugar crystals in your
sculpture?  Stichter: With every body of my work, there’s always one or
two pieces that are a weird scientific exploration for me. I
spent almost a year just testing -- I did over 50 or 60 tank
tests.  Each tank experiment required three or four hundred pounds
of sugar, boiled with water until it became a saturated
solution. Those crystals are so strong and sharp, if you pick
the sculpture up with your bare hands it will slice your flesh.  Tarmy: You drove all of your sculptures out here yourself.  Stichter: There’s really no other way that I feel
comfortable delivering the work. Also, I can’t afford to ship my
work across the country.  Tarmy: But some of your pieces sell in the six figures.  Stichter: Well they do, finally, but it’s been a slow climb
up. When I first signed up with the Claire Oliver gallery four
years ago, it was right when the economy was tanking. This show
represents a significant bump.  Break Even  It’s not something that I think about much. I invested well
over $70,000 in materials and supplies for this show. My hope
was to break even and we’ve done that.  Tarmy: Have you seen your work in collector’s homes?  Stichter: Oh yes. These pieces are really meant to go into
small residential environments. They’re meant to be
uncomfortably looming in that space. I want it to be a presence
in the room that you can’t ignore. When I’ve seen these pieces
in people’s homes, it really feels like there’s another person
in the room -- you’re kind of twitchy around them.  “Beth Cavener Stichter: Come Undone” continues through
 Oct. 20 at Claire Oliver Gallery, 513 W. 26th St. Information:
+1-212-929-5949;  http://www.claireoliver.com .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on  movies  and  Amanda
Gordon  on New York Scene.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 