-- First Solar Says Industry in Australia Trails U.S. by Four Years
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-10-16T04:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/first-solar-says-industry-in-australia-trails-u-s-by-four-years.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the biggest maker
of thin-film panels, said  Australia  is four years behind the
U.S. in building large solar farms and expects its project with
 General Electric Co. (GE)  to help spur the industry’s expansion.  First Solar is supplying panels to the 10-megawatt
Greenough River project in Western Australia, the nation’s first
large-scale solar plant. The GE- and Verve Energy-owned solar
project, which started this month, may increase capacity to as
much as 40 megawatts, the companies said Oct. 10.  “This is less about the size and more about the fact that
we now have a utility-scale solar project in Australia,” Jack
Curtis, First Solar’s Sydney-based vice president of business
development, said in a phone interview. “The local industry can
now look to this project and see they can be developed, that
they can be executed. It will provide local operational data
that can be used to bring the rest of the industry along.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based company  estimates as much as 3,000
megawatts to 5,000 megawatts of solar photovoltaic plants may be
built in Australia from 2015 to 2020 as the country moves toward
a target of getting 20 percent of its power from renewables by
the end of the decade, Curtis said yesterday.  Australia currently has 1,936 megawatts of solar projects
using photovoltaic panels to convert sunlight into electricity,
including just 19 megawatts at large-scale plants, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. A large-scale solar project is
defined by BNEF as having capacity of more than 1 megawatt.  Missed Deadlines  The Australian government in July started charging
polluters for the carbon they emit to reduce the nation’s
reliance on fossil fuels and encourage wind and solar power. The
country also plans to invest A$10 billion ($10.3 billion) in
Clean Energy Finance Corp. to help the industry.  “First Solar has labeled Australia as one of the more
prospective markets globally, and we would agree with that,”
said Tim Buckley, managing director at Sydney-based Arkx
Investment Management, which owns shares in the U.S. panel
manufacturer. “But progress to date has been limited,” partly
because of uncertainty about government energy policy.  While Australia has the highest average solar radiation per
square meter of any continent, according to the government, some
projects picked to receive solar grants, including a venture led
by  Areva SA (AREVA)  in the state of Queensland, have failed to meet
financing deadlines and sign power-supply agreements.  “If you can’t create a sustainable solar market in
Australia, it’s difficult to see how you can create one in other
markets without strong government intervention,” Curtis said.  Landmark Project  First Solar completed its first 10-megawatt, utility-scale
solar project in the U.S. in December 2008. More than 5,000
megawatts of First Solar modules have now been installed
worldwide, according to the company’s website.  “It’s only by building a 10-megawatt facility can we then
learn what the obstacles are to building a 20-megawatt facility
and a 40- or 50-megawatt project,” Arkx’s Buckley said by
phone. “The First Solar project is a critical landmark.”  First Solar and Sydney-based  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)  in June won
A$129.7 million in government funds to build a 159-megawatt
solar project across two sites in New South Wales. AGL expects
construction to start in mid-2014, with the plants operating by
December 2015, it said in August. The AGL plant will cost A$450
million, Energy Minister Martin Ferguson said in June.  Another First Solar proposal with TRUenergy Holdings Pty,
which lost to the AGL venture in the government’s initial
funding round, is now a candidate for funding from the
Australian Renewable Energy Agency, according to Curtis. The
Australian agency has about A$1.7 billion in renewable energy
funding that hasn’t been awarded, its website shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  