-- Fort Knox, an Impregnable Monument to Security Theater
-- B y   M i c h a e l   O ’ M a l l e y
-- 2012-10-16T17:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/fort-knox-an-impregnable-monument-to-security-theater.html
During the panic of 1792, the
Bank of  North America  tried to stave off a run by having
employees “carry its specie busily to and from the cellar
in order to give a magnified notion of what it had,”
historian Bray Hammond wrote. Bank managers “ostentatiously
brought in deposits of gold and silver that had
unostentatiously been carried out a little while before.”  The show of specie reassured jittery customers, saving
the bank from failure. As a young clerk in  Iowa  during the
panic of 1907, Hammond recalled employing exactly the same
dodge: heaping impressively large sacks of low-value coin
in plain view and ostentatiously counting it to give the
impression of overflowing vaults.  President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  used a similar trick
when he authorized the construction of the U.S. Bullion
Depository at Fort Knox,  Kentucky .  Roosevelt took the U.S. off the domestic gold standard
in 1934. Although the nation remained on the standard in
international exchange, the Gold Reserve Act made it
illegal for private citizens to hold “monetary gold” --
that is, coins or bullion. Banks had to transfer to the
U.S. government any title to gold reserves they held, in
return for dollars. Individuals could still own gold
jewelry and keep their gold dental fillings, but anyone
owning monetary gold had to sell it to the government.  Psychic Compensation  In speeches explaining the change, Roosevelt
paradoxically stressed the importance of gold reserves.“By
making clear that we are establishing permanent metallic
reserves in the possession and ownership of the federal
government,” he told Congress in 1934, “we can organize a
currency system which is both sound and adequate.” But the
U.S. already had “metallic reserves” -- the act had
actually eliminated that gold’s legal function.  Roosevelt turned to  Fort Knox , which had been an Army
base since 1918 and was used in the 1930s primarily as a
training site for mechanized cavalry. Putting the U.S.
Bullion Depository at Fort Knox amounted to a kind of
psychic compensation.  No one at the Treasury Department or the  Federal
Reserve  was asking for a new vault. The Treasury’s gold had
been stored at mints in  San Francisco , Philadelphia and
Denver, and in the assay office in  New York . Lack of space
could have been the reason: The country’s stock of gold
tripled from 1933 to 1936. But it doesn’t take much space
to store gold. John  Maynard Keynes  famously calculated that
all the gold in the world would fit easily in the cargo
hold of an ocean liner. The Federal Reserve banks probably
offered more than adequate physical space, and safety, for
gold deposits. But creating and publicizing a new fortress
offered a kind of “security theater.”  The government made a great show of moving its bullion
to Kentucky after the gold vault was completed in 1936.
“Fifty armored trains to carry Federal gold,” announced the
New York Times. Soldiers and Treasury agents with
submachine guns rode with the gold as it moved by rails
along a secret route. “Dummy” trains decoyed would-be
thieves. Tanks and infantry protected armored transports as
they drove the bricks from railhead to vault.  An Impregnable Fortress  Treasury Department press releases described the
vault’s extraordinary security measures, including electric
fences, a moat, steel-and-concrete walls, a bombproof roof,
poison-gas booby traps, and an emergency flooding system.
The Treasury hinted at other forms of protection too secret
and awful to mention. “We thought Fort Knox would be a safe
place,” Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau answered
cryptically when a reporter asked why he chose Fort Knox.
“You know what I mean -- safe.”  The Treasury kept the actual moving day secret, and it
didn’t divulge where the bullion sent to Fort Knox came
from, or exactly how much was moved. But it took pains to
call attention to the gold’s enormous but unspecified
value. The elaborate and well-publicized precautions
demonstrated unmistakably that the U.S. owned the gold,
that the gold was immensely valuable and that it now sat in
an impregnable fortress in the nation’s heartland.  This impression has persisted over the years, and
given Fort Knox a prominent place in American popular
culture. Magazines and newspapers seized on the vault as a
symbol of security and strength. Several accounts noted
that any potential thieves would have to “first fight their
way across the Appalachians” just to approach the fort.
Bugs Bunny tricked Yosemite Sam into a raid on the vault in
a Warner Bros. cartoon. In 1960, Life magazine published
articles and illustrations describing the fort as equally
resistant to gangsters, tunneling burglars, Russian bombs
and teenage hoodlums. An attack on Fort Knox was the
centerpiece of the 1964 James Bond movie “Goldfinger.” Even
today, Americans often imagine that their currency is in
some way backed by gold stored in Fort Knox.  Roosevelt used the construction of the vault to create
an impression of permanence and solidity that his other
actions undercut: Fort Knox appeared to protect the
nation’s gold precisely at a time when that gold had lost
its “redemptive” function. It was a masterful example of
politics as theater.  (Michael O’Malley is an associate professor of history
at  George Mason University , and the author of “Face Value:
The Entwined Histories of Race and Money.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Michael O’Malley at
 momalle3@gmu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 