-- Foxconn Says Underage Interns Worked at Yantai in China
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-10-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/foxconn-says-it-found-underage-interns-worked-at-china-campus.html
Foxconn Technology Group, the
world’s largest manufacturer of electronics, said it found
interns as young as 14 had worked at a facility in Yantai in
northeastern  China , confirming a report by an advocacy group.  A company investigation found the interns, who ranged in
age from 14 to 16, worked at the campus for about three weeks,
Foxconn said in an e-mailed response to  Bloomberg News 
yesterday. A “small number” of interns sent by schools and
employed at Yantai over the summer were 14 to 16 years of age,
according to a statement Oct. 15 from China Labor Watch.  The Yantai facility has “no association” with any work
Foxconn does for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , it said in another e-mail.  The underage interns add to labor  issues  during the past
three years that include suicides, riots and strikes at Foxconn
facilities in China, where the company employs more than 1
million workers. To improve working conditions, Chairman Terry Gou raised pay and allowed inspections by outside observers.  “Any Foxconn employee found, through our investigation, to
be responsible for these violations will have their employment
immediately terminated,” Foxconn said in the first e-mail. “We
recognize that full responsibility for these violations rests
with our company and we have apologized to each of the students
for our role in this action.”  One of the company’s factories in Zhengzhou, China, lost
two shifts on Oct. 5 after workers became frustrated trying to
prevent scratching on the casings of the Apple’s iPhone 5. A
brawl involving 2,000 workers at a Foxconn plant in northern
China’s Taiyuan last month halted production. The company’s
plants had at least 10 suicides in 2010.  Primary Responsibility  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  brought his company
into the Washington-based Fair Labor Association in January,
leading to inspections of Foxconn’s plants, after the suicides
highlighted conditions at the  supplier .  The schools which sent the underage interns to the Yantai
campus should take primary responsibility, China Labor Watch
said. Foxconn, which sent the interns back to those schools, is
also culpable for not confirming their ages, the group said.  Taipei-based Foxconn has  hired  more than 300,000 people in
inland China since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  