-- French Bagmaker Longchamp Sees Slower China Sales Growth
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-10-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/french-bagmaker-longchamp-sees-slower-china-sales-growth.html
Longchamp SAS, the French handbag
maker that boosted sales 70 percent in  China  last year, sees
growth slowing from that pace in the Asian nation as the economy
expands at the weakest pace in three years.  Closely-held Longchamp, which is known for foldable Le
Pliage nylon tote bags, expects sales in China to rise by
“double-digits” this year and next with growth rates lower
than 2011, Chief Executive Officer Jean Cassegrain said in an
interview in  Hong Kong  yesterday, without providing a specific
estimate.  The Paris-based company joins other global consumer
businesses, including  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , in reporting slower
growth in China, where a slump in exports and a contraction in
 manufacturing  is forcing shoppers to cut back. The bagseller
plans to add four to five shops in China next year, where it
already has 14 stores, Cassegrain said.  “It’s great timing for us to grab the opportunities in
China as some of our competitors may shy away from expanding
when the economy slows down,” the executive said. “We believe
China will continue to grow fast.”  The company plans to start selling its products online in
China next year, he said.  Longchamp’s foldable Le Pliage nylon tote bag that sells
for about HK$900 ($116) in Hong Kong has annual sales of more
than 3 million units globally and was the company’s most popular
item worldwide last year, the executive said. The company has 
sold a total of 20 million the Le Pliage tote bags worldwide
since the product was introduced in 1993.  Longchamp had total global sales of 390 million euros ($507
million) last year, according to Cassegrain.  China’s economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, the weakest pace in three
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  