-- Friedland’s Ivanplats Sells $305 Million in Toronto IP0
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r ,   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-10-16T12:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/friedland-s-ivanplats-sells-305-million-in-toronto-ip0.html
Ivanplats Ltd. , a mining company
founded by billionaire Robert Friedland, raised C$300.8 million
($304.7 million) in its initial public offering in Toronto after
selling shares at the lower end of the marketed range.  Ivanplats sold 63.3 million shares for C$4.75 apiece
yesterday, within its offered range of C$4.50 to C$5.40 each,
according to sales documents. The stock will trade in Toronto
under the ticker IVP.  Ivanplats is the largest Canadian mining IPO since  Tahoe
Resources Inc. (THO)  raised C$348 million in its 2010 share sale. The
company plans to use proceeds from the sale for exploration and
development projects in Africa and to complete the purchase of
the Kipushi copper-and-zinc mine in the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo from companies associated with Dan Gertler, an Israeli
mining investor, according to a Sept. 28  prospectus .  Ivanplats is studying development of the  Kamoa  copper
deposit, also in Congo, and the reopening of the mothballed
Kipushi project. It’s also evaluating the Platreef platinum
discovery in  South Africa .  The sale of Ivanplats shares comes more than five months
after Friedland stepped down as chief executive officer of
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. after losing control of the $6 billion  Oyu
Tolgoi  project in  Mongolia  to  Rio Tinto Group. (RIO)   Bank of Montreal (BMO)  leads a group of bankers managing the IPO
including Morgan Stanley, Macquarie Group Ltd. and Royal Bank of
Canada, according to sales documents. The banks have the option
to sell an additional 15 percent of the offering after the sale
closes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  