-- GE Legal Hire Boasts Obama Tie, Bush White House Service
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-10-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ge-legal-hire-boasts-obama-tie-bush-white-house-service.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  hired as a top
litigator an attorney who worked with Barack Obama at  Harvard
Law School ’s law review and served under former President  George W. Bush  as associate White House counsel.  Bradford Berenson, 47, came from Sidley Austin LLP, where
he was a Washington-based partner focused on litigation and
regulatory issues, GE said yesterday in a statement. He started
at GE yesterday as a senior counsel for litigation and legal
policy and wasn’t available to comment on his new job, said
Jacqueline Baker, a spokesman.  Berenson is a veteran of Republican Party politics who also
frequently praised Obama, a Democrat, for his fairness and calm
disposition before his 2008 election. He joins other former  Bush
administration  officials employed by the world’s largest maker
of  jet engines  and diesel locomotives, including Nancy Dorn,
vice president of corporate government relations.  “Connections can be valuable, and that’s why senior
officials like this are often highly sought after,” said Kent Zimmermann, a Chicago-based legal consultant for Zeughauser
Group. “It’s a revolving door and it speeds up heading into an
election. This is a particularly fast-paced time for firms and
companies that hire senior officials out of government.”  Berenson graduated from Harvard Law School in 1991 after a
stint as an editor during Obama’s tenure running the school’s
law review. The future president “wasn’t the kind who demonized
conservatives and personalized politics,” he said in a 2008
interview with  Bloomberg News . He made similar statements to
news outlets including National Public Radio and the Washington
Post.  Cisneros Investigation  Later Berenson served as a consultant to David Barrett, the
independent counsel appointed in 1995 to investigate allegations
that Henry Cisneros, President  Bill Clinton ’s housing secretary,
lied to cover up payments to a woman with whom he had an affair,
according to a biography on the website of the Federalist
Society, a conservative legal policy and advocacy organization
where he’s a member. Cisneros pleaded guilty in 1999 to a
misdemeanor charge related to the incident. The probe continued
until 2006 and cost $21 million.  Berenson came to the White House in January 2001 and spent
the next two years working under Alberto Gonzales, then Bush’s
top legal adviser, the Federalist Society biography shows.  During that time, Gonzales’s office advised President Bush
that the Geneva Convention’s protections for prisoners of war
didn’t apply to fighters captured in Afghanistan, according to a
November 2008  report  by the Senate Armed Services Committee.
Gonzales’s office also obtained a legal opinion from the  Justice
Department  that provided justification for the torture of
suspected terrorists during that period, the report found.  At Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, Berenson joins Dorn,
who served in the Bush administration as an assistant to Vice
President  Dick Cheney  in 2001-2002 and as deputy director of the
Office of Management and Budget in 2002-2003, and David Nason,
who was assistant Treasury secretary for financial institutions
in 2007-2009 and now is head of global regulatory management and
compliance at  GE Capital .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 