-- German Investor Sentiment Rose in October on ECB Plan
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-10-16T10:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/german-investor-sentiment-rose-in-october-on-ecb-plan.html
German investor confidence gained
for a second month in October as the  European Central Bank ’s
plan to buy  government bonds  fueled speculation that the
sovereign debt crisis can be contained.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index of investor and analyst expectations , which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, climbed
to minus 11.5 from minus 18.2 in September. Economists forecast
an increase to minus 14.9, according to the median of 36
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX share index  has rallied more than
10 percent since ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged on July 26
to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro and unveiled an
unlimited bond-purchase program. While the German economy,
 Europe ’s largest, is also outperforming its euro-area
counterparts, there are signs that the crisis is damping growth.
Factory orders fell more than forecast in August and business
confidence dropped to a 2 1/2 year low in September.  “The improvement was primarily driven by investor relief
at the ECB’s unlimited bond-purchase program,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior European economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“However, it also points to a soft landing for the German
economy. The outlook is more subdued, but we won’t have a
recession.”  Stocks Gain  The euro rose after the report before retreating to trade
little changed at $1.30 at noon in  Frankfurt . European stocks
advanced, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbing 0.4 percent
to 271.92.  ZEW’s gauge of the current economic situation fell to 10
from 12.6 in September.  The government will cut its forecast for growth next year
to 1 percent from 1.6 percent and raise its 2012 estimate to 0.8
percent from 0.7 percent, Bild newspaper reported today, citing
officials. The new forecasts are due tomorrow.  German growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the second quarter
from 0.5 percent in the first as budget cuts and recessions in
at least five euro-area trading partners eroded demand for
exports.  The 17-member euro-area economy, which shrank in the second
quarter, will continue to contract in the third and fourth
quarters and stagnate in the first three months of next year,
the Ifo, Insee and Istat institutes forecast on Oct. 5.  U.K. Inflation  The ECB said last month that euro-area gross domestic
product will drop 0.4 percent this year. Inflation held steady
at 2.6 percent in September, the European Union’s statistics
office said today.  In the U.K., Germany’s fourth-largest export destination,
inflation slowed to 2.2 percent last month, the lowest rate in
almost three years, a separate report showed.  Germany’s  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-biggest
semiconductor maker, on Sept. 25 predicted sales and
profitability will decline in the three months through December
as clients cut spending amid the economic slowdown.  Some German companies are compensating through sales to
faster growing markets.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, said yesterday it
is expanding its lineup to offset weak demand in Europe as it
pursues its goal of becoming the world’s largest automaker by
2018. Growth in  China  and the U.S. helped the company increase
deliveries 9.7 percent to 6.71 million vehicles in the first
nine months of 2012.  Global Slowdown  Even so, global growth is slowing. Federal Reserve data
later today will show U.S. industrial production grew 0.2
percent last month, failing to recoup the ground lost the
previous month when output fell 1.2 percent, according to a
survey of economists.  Australia ’s central bank saw scope to cut borrowing costs
as the cooling global economy threatened to weaken Asia’s growth
and damp the nation’s mining boom, according to the minutes of
an Oct. 2 meeting published today.  “We expect German exports to decline in the months to come
and the economy to contract in the third quarter,” said Katrin
Loehken, an economist at Sal. Oppenheim Group in Cologne. “The
ECB has calmed the markets for now, but for a lasting
improvement  Spain  will have to apply for aid at some point.”  Draghi said on Oct. 4 he stands ready to intervene if
governments request a bailout from Europe’s rescue fund and
agree to conditions. Spain, the country most likely to take up
the offer, is still mulling whether it wants to apply and accept
the conditions attached.  “By saying it will buy unlimited government bonds, the ECB
gave investors a certain degree of security,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “As
long as we can rely on this, I am convinced the situation in the
euro area will further improve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  