-- German Stocks Rise as Investor Sentiment Tops Forecasts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-10-16T15:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/german-stocks-advance-before-investor-sentiment-report.html
German stocks  advanced for a second
day, the first back-to-back gains in more than a month, as
investor confidence exceeded economists’ forecasts.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s biggest
lenders, increased at least 4 percent as a gauge of banks led
gains in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Volkswagen AG (VOW)  rose 1
percent as Exane BNP Paribas boosted its price estimate on the
shares.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  dropped as Deutsche Bank downgraded the
world’s fourth-largest supplier of polysilicon to the microchip
and solar-cell industries.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 1.6 percent to 7,376.27 at the close
of  trading in Frankfurt, the biggest gain since Sept. 6. The
benchmark gauge has  rallied 24 percent  from this year’s low on
June 5 as European Central Bank policy makers approved an
unlimited bond-buying program and the U.S. Federal Reserve
started a third round of asset purchases. The broader HDAX Index
also soared 1.6 percent today.  “Banking and technology stocks have been the strongest
today,” said Raimund Saxinger, a  fund manager  at Frankfurt-
Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees about $22 billion. “With
banks, there has been a continuation of the normalization since
August after the announcement from the ECB put a floor
underneath banks, removing extreme downside risk.”  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index of German investor and analyst expectations ,
which aims to predict economic developments six months in
advance, climbed to minus 11.5 this month from minus 18.2 in
September. Economists forecast an increase to minus 14.9,
according to the median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  Funding Spain  Stocks extended gains after two senior coalition lawmakers
said Germany is open to Spain seeking a precautionary credit
line from Europe’s rescue fund. This signaled a reversal of
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s public position.  The comments by Michael Meister, a deputy caucus leader of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, and
Norbert Barthle, her party’s budget spokesman, indicate a
rolling back of German resistance to a full sovereign bailout
for Spain. Schaeuble cautioned Spain against seeking aid on top
of its bank bailout as recently as last month.  In the U.S., industrial production rose more than forecast
in September, paring the prior month’s slump. Output at
factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.4 percent after a 1.4
percent drop in August that was the biggest since March 2009,
the Fed said today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
85 economists called for production to rise 0.2 percent.  Banks Advance  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank gained 5.1 percent to 34.60
euros and 4.1 percent to 1.56 euros, respectively.  Volkswagen advanced 1 percent to 146.90 euros as Exane
raised its share-price forecast for Europe’s biggest automaker
by 8 percent to 179 euros.  Bayer AG, Germany’s largest drugmaker, added 3.1 percent to
70.36 euros, its highest price in more than twenty years, as
Bank of America Corp. named the stock as one of its preferred
health-care shares.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest engineering company, rose 1.4
percent to 77.44 euros, a second day of gains.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker,
slid 2.1 percent to 76.31 euros as European car sales plunged
the most in almost two years. Registrations dropped 11 percent
to 1.13 million vehicles last month from 1.27 million a year
earlier, the Brussels-based European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association, or ACEA, said today in a statement.  Separately, Finnish tiremaker Nokian Renkaat Oyj forecast
second-half operating profit will fall on weak demand.  Lanxess AG (LXS) , the German chemical maker, slipped 1.1 percent
to 59.92 euros as Kepler Capital Markets cut its recommendation
on the stock to reduce from hold. Kepler forecast a share price
of 55 euros.  Wacker Chemie slipped 1.5 percent to 45.90 euros, its
lowest price since at least 2006, as Deutsche Bank cuts its
recommendation on the stock to sell from hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  