-- Germany Blows Four-Goal Lead in World Cup Qualifier, Spain Ties
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-16T23:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/germany-blows-four-goal-lead-in-world-cup-as-france-ties-spain.html
Germany lost a four-goal lead for
the first time to tie 4-4 with  Sweden  in European qualifying for
soccer’s 2014  World Cup , while Spain drew 1-1 with France after
surrendering a stoppage-time goal.  Rasmus Elm’s goal capped a Swedish comeback last night in
Berlin. It was the only time in its 868 international matches
that three-time world champion Germany blew a four-goal
advantage, according to the German soccer federation.  “I can’t explain this at this moment,” Germany coach
Joachim Loew said in comments on the federation’s website. “We
had everything under control for 60 minutes and dominated the
game. The dressing room is deathly still. Everyone is
speechless.”  Olivier Giroud’s goal gave France a 1-1 draw with world
champion Spain. The Netherlands won 4-1 in Romania and  Russia 
beat Azerbaijan 1-0 to remain as the only two European teams
with perfect qualifying records. England’s match in  Poland  was
postponed because of rain.  The winners of each of the nine European groups qualify for
the World Cup in Brazil, with the best eight runners-up playing
off for the remaining four slots.  Spain looked ready to make it three straight wins after
 Sergio Ramos ’s 25th-minute goal in Madrid. Cesc Fabregas had a
penalty kick stopped by Hugo Lloris later in the first half.  Giroud then struck in the fourth added minute to leave the
teams even at the top of Group I with seven points. Belarus beat
Georgia 2-0 in the other group match.  Germany Stunned  Sweden rallied from a 4-0 deficit with 28 minutes remaining
to stun Germany in a Group C game.  Miroslav Klose  scored twice to move within one of Gerd Muller’s national record of 68 goals and Per Mertesacker and
Mesut Ozil added one each to give the Germans a 4-0 lead after
56 minutes.  Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Mikael Lustig and  Johan Elmander  scored
in a 14-minute span for the Swedes and Elm got the tying goal in
the third minute of stoppage time.  “I have never experienced anything like it,” said Germany
midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger. “We only managed to take a
single point after leading 4-0. That should never happen.”  Germany, which won its first three games, tops the group
with 10 points, three more than Sweden. Ireland beat Faroe
Islands 4-1 and Austria routed Kazakhstan 4-0 to go third and
fourth, respectively.  Maximum Points  Jeremain Lens, Bruno Martins Indi,  Rafael van der Vaart  and
 Robin van Persie  scored a goal each as the Netherlands beat
Romania in a matchup of unbeaten teams in Group D. The Dutch
have the maximum 12 points from four matches, with Romania third
on goal difference behind Hungary, with each on nine points.
Hungary beat Turkey 3-1 and Estonia defeated Andorra 1-0 in the
other Group D matches.  Roman Shirokov scored with a penalty kick in the 84th
minute to give Russia the win in Moscow. The Russians lead Group
F with 12 points, five more than Israel, which beat Luxembourg
3-0, and Portugal, which came from behind to tie 1-1 with
 Northern Ireland  on Helder Postiga’s goal in Porto.  England’s match in Warsaw was called off after rain left
standing water all over the field at the National Stadium, which
has a retractable roof that was open. The match was rescheduled
for today at 5 p.m. local time, 4 p.m. U.K.  “We’re disappointed,” England manager  Roy Hodgson  said in
an interview with ITV. “We prepared well for this tonight and
now we’ll have to do it all over again.”  Montenegro moved into a tie with England at the top of
Group H on seven points by winning 1-0 at Ukraine, while Moldova
won 2-0 at  San Marino .  Italy Clear  Belgium beat Scotland 2-0 and Croatia defeated Wales by the
same score to leave the victors tied atop Group A with 10 points.
Macedonia won its first game, 1-0 over Serbia.  Riccardo Montolivo,  Daniele De Rossi  and  Mario Balotelli 
all scored as Italy beat Denmark 3-1 to go four points ahead in
Group B over Bulgaria, which drew 0-0 in the  Czech Republic .
Switzerland won 2-0 in Iceland to stay three points clear in
Group E ahead of Norway, which defeated Cyprus 3-1. Albania beat
Slovenia 1-0.  Bosnia-Herzegovina and Greece won to stay tied atop Group G
with 10 points. Bosnia-Herzegovina defeated Lithuania 3-0 and
Greece won 1-0 in Slovakia. Latvia beat Liechtenstein 2-0 in the
other group game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  