-- Germany Open to Spanish Precautionary Credit, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-10-16T15:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/germany-open-to-precautionary-credit-for-spain-lawmakers-say.html
Germany is open to  Spain  seeking a
precautionary  credit line  from  Europe ’s rescue fund, two senior
coalition lawmakers said, signaling a reversal of Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s public position.  The comments by Michael Meister, a deputy caucus leader of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, and
 Norbert Barthle , her party’s budget spokesman, indicate a
rolling back of German resistance to a full sovereign bailout
for Spain. Schaeuble cautioned Spain against seeking aid on top
of its bank bailout as recently as last month.  For Spain, where Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government
has said it won’t request aid until the terms are clearer, a
precautionary credit line “would be a possible move,” Barthle
said today in a text message. The 500 billion-euro ($650
billion) permanent rescue fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, which came into force on Oct. 8, “envisages help for
sectors in the economy with limited conditionality.”  The views of German lawmakers are critical because they
would have to ratify any aid request under parliamentary rules.
Spain has cited concern of German rejection for its reluctance
so far to seek bailout funds, a condition for triggering
European Central Bank help to lower borrowing costs.  ‘Tail Risk’  Barthle’s comment is “important insofar as it removes a
tail risk that the entire process would be subject to delay or
ongoing bickering,” Michael Michaelides, an analyst at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in a client note.  German bunds declined and Spanish  bonds  rebounded from
morning losses after the comments. The yield on Spanish 10-year
bonds fell 12 basis points to 5.72 percent at 4:33 p.m. in
Berlin. The euro rose as much as 0.9 percent from yesterday’s
close to $1.3061, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 1.1
percent.  Germany is signaling more willingness to cooperate with its
European Union partners on measures to staunch the debt crisis
before EU leaders meet in Brussels on Oct. 18-19. Merkel stepped
up her praise of Greek reform efforts today after Schaeuble
reaffirmed a commitment to a so-called banking union and one of
his deputies said  Germany  would consider EU proposals to
strengthen the monetary union.  Credit Conditions  “We’d have to look at any application that Spain made,
whether for a precautionary credit or a full program,” Meister
said by phone. “The applicant will have to decide.” The terms
attached would vary based on the nature of the request, he said.
“But one thing is clear: Whatever is requested, it won’t be
without conditions.”  The prospect of Spain requesting a sovereign bailout had
receded this month as Rajoy was deterred by a perceived German
reluctance to endorse any request. Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said Oct. 11 the Spanish government had to
be sure aid would “materialize” before asking for it and that
it would be backed by all European countries.  Schaeuble said in an interview on Sept. 13 that any request
by Spain for outside aid on top of the 100 billion-euro rescue
for its banks would risk more market turmoil. “‘I’m not in the
camp that says ‘take the money,’” he said. Spain “would be
daft” to ask for another bailout if it didn’t need one.  To be sure, Rajoy’s government has a communication problem
even as it commits to “enormous” steps to cut the  budget
deficit  and carry out structural reforms to strengthen the
country’s competitiveness, Meister said.  “My impression is that the Spanish government is going to
extreme lengths in terms of consolidation and extreme lengths on
structural reforms -- but up to this point have done a very good
job of hiding it from the broader public,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  