-- German Bunds Fall as Spain’s Bonds Rise on Credit Line Prospects
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-16T15:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/german-bonds-decline-for-a-second-day-before-confidence-report.html
Germany ’s bonds fell, pushing 10-
year yields to the highest level in three weeks, after two
lawmakers said the nation was open to Spain seeking a
precautionary  credit line  from  Europe ’s rescue fund.  Spanish bonds advanced as the comments by Michael Meister,
a deputy caucus leader of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democratic bloc, and  Norbert Barthle , the party’s budget
spokesman, signaled a reversal of Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s public position. Italian securities also gained,
with 10-year yields dropping to the lowest in almost seven
months. European Union leaders are scheduled to gather for a
summit in Brussels on Oct. 18-19.  “The market seems pleased by the German openness to a
bailout for Spain,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior
strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The precautionary
credit line will probably have less conditions than a full
bailout and it will be easier for Spain to sell it internally.
German yields will lose a part of their flight-to-quality
premium.”  Germany’s 10-year bund yield climbed seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 1.55 percent at 4:18 p.m.  London  time
after touching 1.56 percent, the highest level since Sept. 26.
The 1.5 percent security due September 2022 dropped 0.67, or
6.70 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,302) face amount, to 99.58.  Belgium’s 10-year yields rose four basis points to 2.38
percent, snapping a nine-day drop. The rate earlier fell to
2.322 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg started collecting the
data in 1993.  Rajoy’s Request  For Spain, where Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government
has said it won’t request aid until the terms are clearer, a
precautionary credit line “would be a possible move,” Barthle
said today in a text message. The 500 billion-euro permanent
rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism, which came into
force on Oct. 8, “envisages help for sectors in the economy
with limited conditionality.”  Should Spain receive such aid, it would be a positive for
financial markets, said Thomas Kressin, senior vice-president
and head of European foreign exchange at Pacific Investment
Management Company.  “The market reaction with regards to Spain would be much
more favorable now with regards to a precautionary credit
line,” Kressin told delegates at the Bloomberg FX12 Summit in
London. “ Spain  would still have open-market access. That would
be a market-friendly outcome.”  Nordea’s From forecasts 10-year bund yields will end the
year at 1.75 percent.  Spanish Sale  Spanish 10-year yields declined two basis points to 5.80
percent, while rates on two-year notes dropped six basis points
to 3.14 percent. Italian 10-year yields slid as much as nine
basis points to 4.89 percent, the least since March 20.  Spain sold 4.86 billion euros of 12- and 18-month bills at
an auction today, more than the maximum target of 4.5 billion
euros. Belgium,  Greece  and the European Financial Stability
Facility also sold bills, while the European Union’s temporary
bailout fund sold 5.9 billion euros of five-year notes via
banks.  Bunds were also pushed lower after the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research in Mannheim said its index of
investor and analyst expectations, which aims to predict
economic developments six months in advance, climbed to minus
11.5 from minus 18.2 in September. Economists had forecast an
increase to minus 14.9, according to the median of 36 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Progress Possible  “It all appears to the market that the macro economy is
not as bad as feared,” said Niels From, chief analyst at Nordea
Bank AB in Copenhagen. “There might be some progress with
respect to Spain, and so some progress with respect to the
 European debt crisis , so all this might put bunds slightly under
pressure.”  Nordea’s From forecasts 10-year bund yields will end the
year at 1.75 percent.  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by Germany and  France , also perceived as
haven assets, according to measures of 10-year or equivalent-
maturity debt, the spread between two-year and 10-year
securities and credit-default swaps.  The rate on Finland’s 10-year securities climbed six basis
points to 1.79 percent.  German bonds returned 3.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities rose 1.8 percent and Belgian debt earned 14 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  