-- Giants Even MLB Playoff With Cardinals; Yankees Face Tigers
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-16T14:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/giants-beat-cardinals-to-even-mlb-playoff-series-at-1-game-each.html
The San Francisco Giants finally won
a game at home in the playoffs, defeating the  St. Louis 
Cardinals 7-1 to even their National League Championship Series
at one game apiece.  The Giants lost the first two games of their NL Division
Series against the Reds at home before sweeping three games in
Cincinnati to advance. They lost the opening game of the NL
Championship Series 6-4 to the Cardinals in San Francisco before
breaking their home losing skid last night.  “This was a big game,” Giants manager Bruce Bochy said in
a news conference. “We lost two in the last series and that’s
the last thing we wanted to do was go to St. Louis down two
games.”  Game 3 of the best-of-seven Major League Baseball playoff
series is set for tomorrow at Busch Stadium in St. Louis. In the
American League, the  Detroit Tigers  have a 2-0 lead and their
best pitcher on the mound as they host the  New York  Yankees
tonight in Game 3.  The four teams remaining in the postseason all ranked among
the upper third of the 30 MLB clubs in season-opening payrolls,
according to USA Today’s annual survey. The Yankees were first
at $198 million, with the Tigers fifth at $132 million. The
Giants were eighth at $118 million, followed by the Cardinals at
ninth with a $110 million payroll on opening day.  Tigers’ Favorites  The Tigers entered today as the even-money favorites to win
the  World Series , according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book,
meaning a winning $100 bet on Detroit would yield a $100 profit.
The Cardinals had odds of 13-5, followed by the Giants at 18-5
and the Yankees at 12-1.  San Francisco’s  Angel Pagan  led off the first inning with a
home run and the Giants added four runs in the fourth on a two-
run single by Marco Scutaro and two St. Louis errors. Ryan Theriot had a two-run single in the eighth.  Ryan Vogelsong allowed one run on four hits in seven
innings to get the victory for San Francisco.  “He set a good tempo and kept our guys off balance,” St.
Louis manager Mike Matheny said in a news conference. “Hitting
is timing, and pitching is breaking up hitters’ timing.”  Vogelsong, 35, doubled leading off the sixth inning to
become the first Giants pitcher with a double in a postseason
game since Jack Bentley in the 1923 World Series.  “It was probably more luck than skill,” Vogelsong told
reporters. “He threw it in my swing path, I think, that’s all I
can say about that. But it’s pretty cool to get into the record
books there.”  Beltran Doubles  Carlos Beltran , who finished the 2011 season with the
Giants before moving to St. Louis as a free agent, hit two
doubles to bring his batting average in the 2012 playoffs
to .429.  The Cardinals got a run-scoring double by starting pitcher
 Chris Carpenter  in the second inning. Carpenter took the loss,
allowing five runs in four innings.  Carpenter now is 5-for-15 at the plate over the past two
postseasons. By comparison, the Yankees’  Alex Rodriguez  is 5-
for-41 during that same span.  The Yankees are mired in a batting slump and will be facing
 Justin Verlander , the 2011 American League Most Valuable Player
and Cy Young Award winner as the league’s best pitcher.
Verlander, 29, has allowed one run in 16 innings while winning
both his starts in this year’s playoffs.  New York is missing  Derek Jeter , 38, its leading hitter
during the regular season, who broke his left ankle in the first
game of the series against Detroit. The Yankees have scored in
one of 21 innings in two losses so far to the Tigers.  The Yankees’ postseason batting average is .205, with
Rodriguez,  Curtis Granderson  and  Nick Swisher  hitting a
combined .133 with 34 strikeouts in 75 at-bats.  Robinson Cano ,
who hit .615 (24-for-39) over the final nine games of the
regular season, is hitless in his past 26 at-bats, the longest
such streak in a single postseason in MLB history.  “It is a challenge for our pitchers,” said  Phil Hughes ,
the Yankees’ Game 3 starter. “We’ll have to do a really good
job and have the confidence that we will score at least a few
runs, and hopefully a bunch, and turn this thing around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  