-- Gildan Gains by Challenging Buffett’s Fruit of the Loom
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-10-16T21:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/gildan-challenges-buffett-s-fruit-of-the-looms.html
Gildan Activewear Inc.’s (GIL)  drive to
take market share from  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s (BRK/B)  Fruit of the
Loom and  Hanesbrands Inc. (HBI)  has made it the best performing North
American underwear stock this year.  Gildan, the biggest supplier of blank tops to makers of
printed clothing such as T-shirts, has soared almost 70 percent
this year, the most among 23 North American apparel, footwear
and accessories makers with market values of more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares are
trading at 36 times earnings as investors back the company’s
move into the retail market for socks, underwear and
undershirts.  “Why this year will be a major breakthrough for us is
we’ve taken our low-cost manufacturing and enhanced it with
quality features at the same time as giving the retailers better
margins than Fruit or Hanes,” Glenn Chamandy, chief executive
officer, said last week by phone from  Montreal , where the
company is based. “That’s how you win shelf space.”  Gildan won 70 percent of the North American wholesale
screenprint market with a shorter supply chain based in Central
America instead of  China  and steady investment in manufacturing,
the company said in a presentation last month. A new $100
million factory in Honduras will begin production by the end of
the year that will be $20 million cheaper to run annually and
increase production 50 percent by the end of 2013, said Sophie
Argiriou, Gildan spokeswoman.  Gold Toe  “Gildan’s got a better manufacturing and supply chain,”
said Andrew Burns, an analyst with  D.A. Davidson & Co.  in Lake
Oswego,  Oregon . “So they can actually go in and offer a lower
price point and capture greater margin than the smaller
competitors they’ll be taking share from.”  Gildan shares rose 3.3 percent to C$33.53 at the close in
Toronto today, the highest since July 13, 2011, for a market
value of C$4.1 billion ($4.2 billion). Apparel makers have
outperformed the 21 percent  gain  in the S&P 500 Consumer
Discretionary Index this year through yesterday, as cotton
prices declined since March.  Baltimore, Maryland-based  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  was second in
the peer group behind Gildan with a 52 percent rise, and
Hanesbrands, based in Winston Salem, North Carolina, was third
with a 46 percent gain. Fruit of the Loom, based in Bowling
Green,  Kentucky , is a unit of Berkshire Hathaway, run by
billionaire  Warren Buffett .  Brand Loyalty  Gildan’s Chamandy said underwear is one of the hardest
consumer markets to break into because people are often loyal to
their brands. He said aggressive pricing will overcome this.  In an Oct. 3 investor presentation, one of Gildan’s
competitors, Hanes, cited data from market research firm NPD
Group which identified 62 percent of men’s underwear consumers
as brand loyalists. This is one reason Gildan will find it
difficult to win away customers, said Hanes spokesman Matt Hall
by phone from Winston Salem.  “We are the dominant underwear brand and consumers are
very loyal to our brand,” he said. Hall said Hanes estimates it
has 45 percent to 50 percent of the market among mass retailers.  John Shivel, a spokesman for Fruit of the Loom, said in an
e-mailed statement the company accepts “the fact that
competitors will continue to challenge us.”  Gildan’s retail push is being helped by its purchase of
Newton, North Carolina-based sock supplier Gold Toe Moretz
Holdings Corp. for $350 million in 2011, which gave it
relationships with major retailers across the U.S. After the
Gold Toe acquisition  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Target Corp. (TGT) ,  J.C.
Penney Co. Inc. (JCP)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  are all distributors. The
company also acquired contracts to make socks for New Balance
Athletic Shoe Inc. and Under Armour Inc..  Cross Sell  “They’re going to use that brand name and the retail
relationships to leverage their Gildan products and to cross-
sell as well,” said Martin Landry, an analyst with GMP
Securities LP in Montreal. “So that’s going to bring some
opportunities.”  To develop its own label, Gildan is increasing its
marketing effort, Chamandy said. It hired  New York  ad agency
Devito/Verdi to create a brand strategy and has sponsored ESPN’s
coverage of college basketball and Triple-A baseball.  Little Experience  Marketing to consumers is one area in which Gildan has
relatively little experience and it’s the key ingredient to
making sure the company’s retail play is a success, said Landry.
“When you’re going into retail you need a marketing plan and
the marketing budget was quite limited up to now for their
product at retail,” he said.  The U.S. wholesale screenprint market is worth about $4
billion, compared with combined retail sales of $7 billion at
Hanes and Fruit of the Loom, which Gildan is targeting, Chamandy
said.  That makes retail a considerable growth opportunity,  said
Scott Rattee, an analyst at Stonecap Securities Inc. “I’d
certainly say there’s room to run on the company,” he said by
phone from Toronto.  Hanesbrands had  sales  of $4.64 billion in 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Berkshire, which had 2011  sales 
of $143.7 billion, does not break out Fruit of the Loom
separately.  Branded Sales  Russell Brands LLC, an affiliate of Fruit of the Loom,
filed a lawsuit against Gildan alleging trademark infringement
and unfair competition on Oct. 12, Gildan said in a statement
today. Gildan said it mistakenly shipped Russell product bearing
the Gildan brand to a retailer. Gildan values the product at
about $100,000 and said the amount was “not material.” The
company said it is conducting an internal review to determine
how the shipment occurred and is taking the matter seriously.  John Shivel, the Fruit of the Loom spokesman, did not
immediately return a phone call and an e-mail seeking comment.  Gildan-branded clothes will climb to half its retail sales
by the end of this year, from 25 percent in 2011, Chamandy said,
according to the transcript of a conference call with analysts
Sept. 3. Gildan, which began breaking out its retail business in
January, has reported a profit in the segment in the last three
quarters.  Total  sales  at the company rose 13 percent to $600 million
in the third quarter ended July 1 from a year earlier as profit
fell 11 percent to $78.6 million, or 64 cents a share.  Factory Upgrade  Gildan will invest $1 billion over the next five years to
upgrade or expand its 15 plants and maintain the low-cost
manufacturing its sees as its main advantage over its
competition, said Chamandy. He said the oldest plant it operates
is eight years old, and once the new facility in  Honduras  is at
full capacity that will be shut down for an upgrade.  “They have the most modern footprint by a very, very wide
margin and that is a function of their consistent investment and
reinvestment and best in class facilities,” said Kenric Tyghe,
an analyst with Raymond James Securities by phone from Toronto.
“And that really has been the advantage.”  Chamandy said it was investment in manufacturing that
allowed Gildan to win 70 percent of the wholesale market from
Fruit of the Loom and Hanes, and continued investment will help
the company do the same in retail.  “We don’t really view them as competitors,” he said.
“They’re just renting the shelf-space we’re trying to get.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  