-- Gillard Surplus Amid BHP Slump Cuts Bond Risk: Australia Credit
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-10-17T02:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/gillard-surplus-amid-bhp-slump-cuts-bond-risk-australia-credit.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s determination to carry out record spending cuts even
as a mining boom falters is winning over credit markets.  The gap between the cost of contracts to insure Australian
debt and U.S. Treasuries shrank 3.5 basis points this month to
21.6 basis points yesterday, set for a second-straight monthly
drop. Credit-default swaps for the South Pacific nation, which
gauge bond risk perceptions, cost 15 basis points more than for
the U.S. on Oct. 4, the smallest difference since August 2011.  Gillard, slammed by opposition leader  Tony Abbott  for
endangering growth with taxes on mining and carbon emissions,
plans to return the budget to surplus even as BHP Billiton Ltd.
delays projects on sliding commodity prices. She’s trying to
recover from the worst popularity ratings in almost 20 years to
win elections in 2013.  Australia ’s fiscal discipline is luring
Daiwa Investments Ltd. and Pacific Investment Management Co. to
the nation’s bonds as they pull back from Treasuries.  “Australia has a very good budget situation and a firm AAA
rating,” said Kei Katayama, who buys U.S. and Australian debt
in  Tokyo  for Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which manages the
equivalent of $63.1 billion. “That’s positive for the currency
and the bonds, and makes it easier to invest.”  Favoring Aussie Bonds  Daiwa SB holds more Australian dollar-denominated assets
than the percentage in the benchmarks it uses to gauge
performance, and less U.S. assets than indicated, Katayama said.  Buyers of U.S. Treasuries should avoid 30-year securities
as the  Federal Reserve ’s monetary stimulus risks stoking
increases in asset prices, Tomoya Masanao, head of  portfolio
management  for  Japan  at Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest
bond fund, told a conference in Tokyo on Oct 10.  Pimco, which oversees $1.82 trillion in assets worldwide,
is favoring Australian 5- and 10-year government notes,
according to  Scott Mather , head of global portfolio management
at the  Newport Beach , California-based company. The Australian
dollar’s resilience may spur the  Reserve Bank  of Australia to
cut its benchmark rate to a record 2 percent over time, Mather
said in remarks reported in the Wall Street Journal.  CDS Dropping  Australian five-year sovereign credit-default swaps have
fallen 27 basis points this year to 56 basis points as of
yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. The cost for similar-maturity contracts on U.S.
notes declined 14 basis points in the same period to 35. The
Markit iTraxx Australia index of corporate CDS was little
changed at 137.8 basis points as of 12:39 p.m. in Sydney,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  The South Pacific nation’s underlying cash surplus will be
at A$1.54 billion ($1.6 billion) this fiscal year, Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  said when he presented the budget in May. This will
lead net bond sales to drop to A$9 billion in the 12 months
ending June 30 from A$44 billion the prior fiscal year,
according to official data.  The expected scarcity in supply has prompted overseas
buyers to acquire a near-record 78.1 percent of outstanding
government debt, according to central bank data. Demand at debt
auctions since the start of July has climbed to average 4.05
times the notes offered, heading for the strongest level since
the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2007, according to official
data.  Demand at today’s sale of April 2023 securities was the
strongest for a benchmark 10-year bond since at least 2009, when
the government started ramping up borrowings as it boosted
spending to counter the impact of the global financial crisis
that occurred after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.
Investors bid for 5.02 times the A$500 million of the 5.5
percent notes auctioned, official figures show.  Biggest Drop  Ten-year yields were at 3.14 percent as of 12:44 p.m. in
Sydney and have fallen 133 basis points in the past year, the
biggest drop among 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg
outside of Ireland,  Portugal  and  Greece  -- who have all accepted
international bailouts -- and  Belgium . The notes offer almost
double the average yield for top-rated peers.  Australian sovereign securities returned 6.3 percent this
year, set for a third annual gain and the strongest performance
among the 11 markets that retain AAA scores from all three major
ratings companies. That compares with a 1.9 percent advance in
Treasuries, the least since they lost 3.8 percent in 2009,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 11 it may join
 Standard & Poor’s  in downgrading the U.S.’s credit rating unless
Congress next year reduces debt relative to gross domestic
product during budget negotiations.  Currency Strength  Investor appetite for Australia’s bonds has also helped
drive the local dollar’s 46 percent climb over the past four
years, the biggest surge among more than 150 currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The Australian dollar has remained above parity
with the greenback for all but 28 days this year.  The so-called Aussie bought $1.0314 as of 12:49 p.m. in
Sydney and has risen 7.6 percent from its 2012 trough of 95.82
U.S. cents reached on June 1.  Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  decreased the overnight
cash rate target by a quarter-percentage point to 3.25 percent
on Oct. 2. Minutes of that meeting released yesterday showed
officials concerned over mining companies paring investment.  BHP, the world’s biggest miner, has delayed projects
estimated at $68 billion by Deutsche Bank AG after sliding
commodity prices led to a 35 percent slump in profit during the
12 months ended June 30.  Bearish Commodities  “Australia has a very sound fiscal situation, but that’s
already priced into the market,” said Park Sungjin, head of
asset management in  Seoul  at Meritz Securities Co., which
oversees the equivalent of $46.5 billion in bonds. “If
commodities continue to be bearish, the CDS level won’t fall.
There’s not much more room for spreads to tighten.”  Park has been selling Australian CDS for several months and
is pausing after recent price declines. By Dec. 31, benchmark
may resume its decline to 50 as a recovery in the global economy
supports Australia’s credit standing, he said.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 68 percent chance the RBA will reduce its key rate to 2.75
percent by February, which would be the least in the central
bank’s 53-year history. “On monetary policy, we have
ammunition,” as inflation is OK, Stevens said Oct. 12 in Tokyo.  Australia’s benchmark borrowing cost is the highest among
advanced economies and compares with a record-low 0.75 percent
rate for the euro area and near-zero rates in the U.S. and
Japan. Room for the RBA to bolster the economy through rate cuts
may allow the Gillard government to end four years of deficits.  Ending Deficits  Australia’s  budget shortfall  was A$43.7 billion in the
fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, equal to 3 percent of gross
domestic product, budget papers show.  Gillard has been promoting her government’s economic
credentials to boost the  Labor Party ’s electoral chances. Her
minority government’s hold on power has been threatened by sex
and embezzlement scandals involving politicians it relied on to
pass legislation.  Her approval rating fell to 23 percent in September, 2011,
the lowest since 1993 in surveys conducted by Newspoll for the
Australian newspaper, and stood at 36 percent this month. The
government trails Abbott’s Liberal-National Party coalition by 8
percentage points, according to the latest Newspoll.  Australia’s deficit last fiscal year compares with
 shortfalls  in the U.S. exceeding $1 trillion in each of the past
four years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap was
equivalent to  8.6 percent  of output in the world’s biggest
economy for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2011.  “Australia is in a comparatively strong fiscal position
because of the government balance sheet,” said Ben Byrne, a
credit markets analyst in Sydney at Citigroup Inc. “In
addition, the higher  interest rates  provide the country with
monetary policy flexibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  