-- GKN Says Softening Automotive Demand to Affect Fourth Quarter
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-16T07:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/gkn-says-softening-automotive-demand-to-affect-fourth-quarter.html
GKN Plc (GKN) , the British maker of car
drive shafts, said fourth-quarter profit will be impacted by
weakening demand in some European automotive and industrial
markets.  “Macroeconomic conditions have deteriorated in recent
weeks and some softening in order books is now evident,”
Redditch-based GKN said today. “The fourth quarter is
anticipated to show the usual seasonal improvement, although the
softening markets are expected to have some impact.”  Suppliers of components and materials to  Europe ’s car
industry are feeling the pinch as an economic slowdown dents
purchases. For GKN, the wane in demand is partly being offset by
a rebound in the U.S. and growth in Asia, as well as a “solid”
aerospace market, it said. The company this month completed the
purchase of Volvo Aerospace to increase its exposure to the
civil aviation market.  Third-quarter pretax profit of 99 million pounds ($160
million) was little changed from a year-earlier result that was
adjusted for a one-time charge. GKN reported an 8.4 percent
increase in sales to 1.6 billion pounds.  GKN  shares  dropped 3.8 percent to 203 pence at the open of
trading in London.  “The group’s global footprint, with its exposure to the
strong markets of North America and  China , as well as civil
aerospace, allowed us to offset weaker European markets,” Chief
Executive Officer Nigel Stein said in a statement.  The company’s automotive Driveline unit reported an 8.7
percent drop in quarterly trading profit, as sales rose 15
percent to 773 million pounds. By contrast, aerospace earnings
advanced 8 percent to 42 million pounds.  Restructuring and other costs at Volvo Aerospace will
result in a 15 million-pound loss at the unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  