-- GM Says Output of Volt-Like Cadillac to Start in 2013
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-10-16T20:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/gm-says-output-of-volt-like-cadillac-to-start-in-2013.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said it will
begin production of the Cadillac ELR, a two-door, plug-in hybrid
that uses Chevrolet Volt-like technology, late next year.  The company will invest $35 million in its Detroit-
Hamtramck Assembly plant to build the new model,  Mark Reuss ,
president of GM North America, said in a speech in Detroit. The
factory already builds the Volt. Cadillac is GM’s luxury brand.  GM’s second plug-in hybrid follows the introduction of the
Volt in 2010. The Volt, which has a similar version sold under
GM’s Opel and Holden brands overseas, can travel more than 30
miles (48 kilometers) on electric power before a gasoline engine
engages. The automaker has marketed the Volt as a show case of
fuel-saving technology.  “We led the way with the Volt and next we’re going to lead
electrification into the luxury segment with the Cadillac ELR,”
Reuss said today at a conference in Detroit.  The ELR will be the production version of the Cadillac
Converj prototype shown at the North American International Auto
Show in  Detroit  in 2009.  The ELR joins the ATS and XTS in the expanding Cadillac
lineup. GM wants to double the 2010 U.S. sales of Cadillac
within two years. The company sold 146,925 Cadillac cars and
sport-utility vehicles that year. GM last week named Robert Ferguson to the new position of vice president of global
Cadillac.  Volt’s Inventory  GM planned to resume production of the Volt at its Detroit-
Hamtramck assembly plant yesterday after being idled for four
weeks, Cristi Landy, Volt marketing director, said Oct. 10 in a
telephone interview.  The return of production comes as Volt inventories fall to
low levels, after high fuel prices and discounted leases spurred
demand, she said. Disruptions at  California  refineries since
August pushed unleaded gasoline in the biggest U.S. auto market
to  $4.61 a gallon  yesterday, according to AAA. The U.S. average
was $3.77.  “We’re expecting to sell pretty deep into our California
supply -- deeper than we would ever want to,” she said. “By
the end of the month, it’s going to be pretty tight out there.”  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson’s original goal for the
Volt this year was 60,000 deliveries globally, of which 45,000
would be sold in the U.S. Akerson backed away from that goal in
June, saying sales would probably total 35,000 to 40,000.  ‘Really Working’  GM rose 1.3 percent to $24.79 at the close in  New York .  In August, the company said the Volt factory needed to be
idled to match supply with demand and to prepare for the
production of the Chevrolet Impala sedan, which will also be
assembled as the same plant.  As deliveries of the Volt increase, more people are getting
exposure to the car and the company’s marketing message of  fuel
efficiency , further helping sales, Landy said.  The Volt has been helped by a version that can take
advantage of California’s high-occupancy lanes, she said.
Battery-only and plug-in hybrids that meet strict California
emissions rules qualify for a sticker that permits solo drivers
to use the car pool lanes.  “All of those things together are really working in our
favor,” Landy said. “I don’t think you could attribute it just
to the gas-price spike. I think we’ve got a great product that
meets needs of people, that’s getting a lot more exposure due to
growing sales that happens to use very, very little gas.”  The company is also offering Volt lease deals starting at
$299 a month, she said.  The automaker may also name a global leader for its
Chevrolet brand, similar to the global Cadillac post, GM’s Reuss
told reporters after his speech.  “It would follow logic that we would have one,” Reuss
said. “I can’t confirm whether we will or won’t because we’re
taking baby steps on this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  