-- Gold Fields Sets Oct. 18 Ultimatum for Miners to End Strikes
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-10-16T15:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/gold-fields-sets-oct-18-ultimatum-for-miners-to-end-strikes.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , having lost more
than 65,000 ounces of gold production due to strikes at its
South African operations, said it will dismiss miners who fail
to return to work by Oct. 18 at its KDC West and Beatrix plants.  “The company has exhausted all reasonable alternatives,”
Chief Executive Officer  Nick Holland  said on a conference call
today from Johannesburg, where the company is based.  About 15,000 workers are still on strike at the two
operations. At KDC East, the company applied for a court
injunction today to declare a stoppage by about 8,500 illegal.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-largest producer,
Harmony Gold Mining Co. have also been hit by stoppages as
workers demand higher pay increases than those labor unions
secured.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  fired 12,000 on Oct. 5.  Lawlessness and violence have increased, Holland told
analysts and reporters on the call. Strikers invaded and
ransacked a police station in Westonaria over the weekend and
late yesterday a driver of a company vehicle was stabbed and his
vehicle set alight, the company said in a statement. Security
personnel attending to the scene were fired on with live
ammunition, he said.  Labor unions last week rejected an offer by Gold Fields,
AngloGold and Harmony to raise pay by an average 3 percent, in
addition to increases of 7.5 percent to 10 percent already
awarded this year.  Implement Offer  Gold Fields said the offer will still be valid if workers
return by 2 p.m. local time on Oct. 18, according to Holland.  “If there were to be a return to normality by a specified
date if and when such a date is set by us,” then AngloGold will
also implement the offer, the company said today in an e-mailed
response to a query. AngloGold has had all of its South African
mines idled by strikes since at last Sept. 25, costing the
company about 90,000 ounces of lost production so far.  Gold Fields has lost about 1.2 billion rand ($137 million)
of revenue to date because of strikes, Holland said on the call.
While some miners started returning to work at Beatrix mine
today, it’s too early to say whether the strike there has ended,
he said.  Gold traded at $1,745.73 an ounce as of 3:31 p.m. in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  