-- Goldman Sachs’s O’Neill Sees Bank of BRICS Gathering Momentum
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-10-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/goldman-sachs-s-o-neill-sees-brics-bank-gathering-momentum-1-.html
Leaders from the world’s biggest
 emerging markets  are moving closer toward establishing a
development bank of their own, according to Goldman Sachs Asset
Management Chairman Jim O’Neill.
     The so-called BRICS nations of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,
China and South Africa have spent the year considering an
Indian proposal for a multilateral bank that would be
exclusively funded by those nations and finance projects in
them.  While the Chinese have been “scratching their head”
about whether to support it, they may decide to if rich nations
continue to prove slow in backing a shift in voting power
toward emerging economies at the International Monetary Fund,
O’Neill told  Tom Keene  at the Bloomberg Link FX Summit in London
yesterday.  “The Chinese could jump ship,” said O’Neill, who devised
the BRIC term a decade ago.  The U.S. has so far failed to ratify a 2010 agreement that
would give more strength to emerging markets at the IMF and make
China the third most powerful member. Negotiations over a 2014
shift in voting rights are already subject to disagreement over
how to calculate the reshuffle.  O’Neill said China is shifting to a better “quality” of
growth from a previous focus on “quantity,” and its economy
will now expand between 6 percent and 8 percent.  “China are telling us they’re happy to have less growth
going forward,” said O’Neill, who added he expected more reform
to the nation’s economy and financial system.  Growth Slowdown  China  will report this week that economic growth slowed to
7.4 percent in the third quarter, according to the median
estimate of a Bloomberg News survey of economists. That would be
the weakest annual pace in three years.  Turning to the euro area, O’Neill said equities in the
region remain “very, very” cheap. He argued that European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi sidelined the Bundesbank by
persuading German Chancellor Angela Merkel to back the bond-
buying program opposed by the country’s central bank chief, Jens Weidmann.  That “reduced the Bundesbank to a protest group,” O’Neill
said. “Nobody has ignored the Bundesbank like that since the
Berlin Wall fell.”  O’Neill said he still expects the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to end the year at about 1500 and is confident lawmakers
will strike a deal to avert the so-called fiscal cliff of $607
billion in federal spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to
take effect in January unless the U.S. Congress acts. The index
was at 1454.55 yesterday in New York.  O’Neill, a former chief currency economist at Goldman
Sachs, said he sees the Australian dollar falling below $1.  “I think the Aussie’s days above parity are numbered,” he
said. “I’d be in favor of the euro over the Aussie.”  The Australian currency was 0.2 percent higher yesterday at
$1.0269 as of 5:52 p.m.  London  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  