-- Google May Face Fines in EU Unless It Fixes Privacy Issues
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-16T14:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/google-may-face-fines-in-eu-unless-it-fixes-privacy-issues-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  was urged by European
Union regulators to fix flaws in its privacy policy or face
possible fines after the company’s responses to a probe were
deemed to be “incomplete” and “unsatisfactory.”  Data-protection watchdogs called on Google “to upgrade its
privacy policy practices,” said  France ’s National Commission
for Computing and Civil Liberties, or CNIL, which led the probe
for EU authorities.  Google has up to four months to bring its program into
compliance before it could face “a sanctions phase,” Isabelle
Falque-Pierrotin, CNIL’s chairwoman  said  in Paris today. CNIL
could impose fines itself, and she said it’s “probable” that
others in  Europe  could also pursue Google if it doesn’t change.  Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine,
faces privacy investigations by authorities around the world as
it debuts new services and steps up competition with  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  for users and advertisers. Google changed its system this
year to create a uniform set of policies for more than 60
products, unleashing criticism from regulators and consumer
advocates concerned it isn’t protecting data it collects.  Google is “confident that our privacy notices respect
European law,”  Peter Fleischer , Google’s global privacy
counsel, said in an e-mailed statement. “Our new privacy policy
demonstrates our long-standing commitment to protecting our
users’ information and creating great products.”  “Absence of Limits”  “It is not possible to ascertain from the analysis that
Google respects the key data protection principles of purpose
limitation, data quality, data minimization, proportionality and
right to object,” CNIL said today. “The privacy policy
suggests the absence of any limit concerning the scope of the
collection and the potential uses of the personal data.”  Today’s warning follows a  letter  sent by EU data-protection
watchdogs to Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  urging
the company modify its practices, saying it “empowers itself to
collect vast amounts of personal data about  Internet users ”
without demonstrating that this “collection was
proportionate.”  Google, in insisting it does comply with EU rules, “may be
willing to simply pay any such fines to keep from having to
unravel the policy,” said  Greg Sterling , an analyst at Opus
Research in  San Francisco . “It all depends on what the
penalties are or will be.”  Sanction Powers  CNIL imposed its heaviest fine to date -- 100,000 euros
($130,000) -- against  Mountain View , California-based Google
last year for breaches related to its Street View mapping
service. Not all of the authorities have sanction powers.
Regulators in the U.K., Ireland and  Austria , which is one that
can’t fine violators, said they will first see how Google reacts
to the letter before considering any other actions.  Beyond Europe, privacy watchdogs in  Canada  and the Asia-
Pacific region share CNIL’s views, the French agency said.  “Google, which makes billions of euros in ad revenue per
quarter, can afford to pay a significant one-time fine or
penalty as the price of its privacy policy,” Sterling said.
“Anything lower than many millions of euros will not be
meaningful to the company.”  For now Google is cooperating, CNIL’s Falque-Pierrotin said
in an interview on Bloomberg TV’s “City Central” today.  Practical Approach  CNIL will work with Google “to see what would be the
practical transformation or changes in the policy and in the
practices of Google in order for the company to become
compliant,” she said. EU regulators “don’t want to prevent
this company from any innovation, new services, but they also
want to say to this company that there is a huge European market
and consumers are worried about Google’s practices.”  The investigation “confirms our concerns that Google’s
privacy policy sits on the wrong side of EU data protection
rules,” said EU consumer advocate  BEUC  Director Monique Goyens.
“This is a healthy shift towards restoring consumer control
over personal data.”  EU Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  proposed changing
the bloc’s 17-year-old data-protection rules and how they’re
administered to toughen protections and make things simpler for
companies, putting them under one regulator rather than
potentially facing multiple inquiries on the same subject, as
Google faced on Street View.  In the meantime, agencies are striving to coordinate
actions to speak with one voice and minimize redundant efforts.
CNIL’s work conducting one investigation into a Europe-wide
question on Google and the letter signed by 27 European data
protection authorities marks the first time this happened.  “CNIL, all the authorities” from the Article 29 group
“and data protection authorities from other regions of the
world expect Google to take effective and public measures to
comply quickly and commit itself to the implementation of these
recommendations,” the French authority said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  