-- IBM Revenue Falls Short With Weaker Euro, Hardware Sales
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-10-16T22:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ibm-revenue-falls-short-with-weaker-euro-hardware-sales.html
  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the biggest computer-services company, fell as much as
3.8 percent in extended trading after reporting third-quarter
revenue that fell short of estimates as clients delayed orders.  The  shares  dropped 3.5 percent to $203.72 at 6:48 p.m. in
New York after trading as low as $203. The stock, which rose 1
percent to $211 at the close, has gained 15 percent this year.  Revenue dropped 5.4 percent to $24.7 billion, Armonk, New
York-based IBM said in a statement after the markets closed.
That missed the $25.4 billion average analyst estimate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding some
items rose 5 percent to $4.2 billion, or $3.62 a share. Analysts
on average predicted $3.61.  IBM cited an economic slowdown, especially in North
America, that caused software deals to be pushed back and kept
customers from signing up for business technology services
packages. Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty, in her first
year on the job, is working to combat weak economic growth by
expanding in emerging markets and shifting to higher-profit
software and services, like data analysis and cloud computing.  “The actual macro environment must be weaker than we
thought,” said Josh Olson, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co.
in Des Peres,  Missouri . With biggest competitor  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  restructuring, “you’d think there would be opportunity
there for some gains. The revenue was disappointing.”  Software Slowdown  Net income was little changed at $3.82 billion, or $3.33 a
share. The quarter was especially weak in North America in the
final month of the quarter, Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said on a call with investors.  “It was really a falloff that we saw in our GBS business,
number one, and in our software business, number two,”
Loughridge said, referring to Global Business Services. He
attributed the software slowdown to a handful of deals that
didn’t take place. “We thought we had those through the end of
the quarter,” he said.  IBM said sales were hurt by the divestiture of the
company’s point-of-sale business to  Toshiba Tec Corp. (6588) , the
Japanese maker of scanners and bar-code machines, during the
quarter. The unit generated $1.15 billion in revenue last year.
IBM also was ordered to pay an extra $160 million in retirement-
related expenses in a ruling by the High Court in  London ,
according to an Oct. 12 regulatory filing.  Currency Impact  The U.S. dollar was 13 percent stronger than the euro on
average during the third quarter than a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That reduced the value of  sales 
from  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa , which were down 9
percent to $7.2 billion. Currency fluctuations hurt total sales
by $1 billion, IBM said.  IBM is betting on four areas to add $20 billion in
incremental revenue by 2015 as it shifts away from less-
profitable hardware. The areas include cloud computing, for
businesses to store data remotely on IBM servers; analytics
software, for businesses to make decisions based on data
analysis; “smarter planet,” for monitoring and improving
infrastructure like traffic and water systems; and  emerging
markets , where the company plans to generate 30 percent of its
revenue by 2015.  Even in its shrinking hardware business, IBM is designing
solutions for new corporate needs. The company updated its
PureSystems storage and networking technology with products that
focus on business analytics. A new zEnterprise mainframe
computer works better with cloud software and storage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  