-- Icahn Loses Bid to Restore Lawsuit Over Bond Offering
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-16T22:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/icahn-loses-bid-to-restore-lawsuit-over-bond-offering.html
Carl Icahn  lost an appeals court
effort to restore a lawsuit in which the billionaire investor
sought at least $100 million from defendants including Geoffrey P. Raynor, a  Texas  hedge-fund manager.  The suit was dismissed in June 2011 by Justice Eileen Bransten of New York State Supreme Court. Her decision was
affirmed today by a state appeals court.  Icahn claimed in the 2010 suit that Raynor, his R2
Investments LDC and others interfered with a $2 billion bond
offering by Icahn Enterprises LP and other Icahn companies. The
case included claims of tortious interference with a contract,
libel and abuse of process.  “Icahn has thrown frivolous lawsuits and filings at us
each step of the way in a blatant attempt to derail our
legitimate claims against him,” Scott McCarty, a partner at
Raynor’s Q Investments in Fort Worth, Texas, said in a
statement. “He has lost each of these lawsuits while each of
our lawsuits against him has been upheld. It is a shame that he
continues to waste valuable court time and resources on these
baseless endeavors.”  Icahn Enterprises  is reviewing today’s decision and
declined immediate further comment, general counsel Keith Schaitkin said in an e-mail.  Formed Partnership  Raynor and Icahn formed a partnership in 2001 to acquire
debt securities issued by the auto-parts supplier  Federal-Mogul
Corp. (FDML) , which was reorganizing in bankruptcy at the time,
according to Bransten’s decision. After a dispute over the right
to purchase some Federal-Mogul stock, Raynor made a securities
filing in January 2010 disclosing a suit begun the same day by
Raynor-affiliated Nineteen Eighty-Nine LLC seeking to impose a
“constructive trust” on the shares, Bransten said.  Icahn said the timing of the regulatory filing and suit
lowered demand for the bond offering. He sued Raynor, R2,
Nineteen Eighty-Nine and five other defendants.  The appellate ruling published today said the filing was
required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and was
“kicked into gear” by the commencement of the offering.  Icahn claimed the Raynor defendants “abused the legal
process by filing the 2010 lawsuit with malicious intent,”
Justice Luis A. Gonzalez wrote for the appellate panel. “Such a
claim cannot stand,” he wrote.  ‘Better Advised’  The appeals court also affirmed a January 2011 ruling by
Bransten denying a motion to dismiss two remaining breach-of-
contract claims in a Nineteen Eighty-Nine suit against Icahn,
saying the securities filing was made because of the litigation.  “The filing of the Schedule 13D amendment was incidental
to the lawsuit, and thus protected, even if, as the Icahn
plaintiffs argue, the 13D was only a glorified press release
meant to frighten away investors, and even if the Raynor
defendants would have been ‘better advised to have refrained,’”
Gonzalez wrote.  The cases are Icahn v. Raynor, 150040/2010, and Nineteen
Eighty-Nine LLC v.  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP) , 600056/2010, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 