-- ICE Inks Markit Deal to Base Futures on Credit-Swap Indexes
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-10-16T18:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ice-obtains-markit-deal-to-base-futures-on-credit-swap-indexes.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) 
obtained the right to link futures contracts to credit-default
swap indexes owned by Markit Group Ltd., the largest creator of
the derivative instruments in the $25 trillion market.  The gauges, to reference London-based Markit’s North
American and European corporate credit swap measures, are
expected to be available in the first quarter, Atlanta-based
Intercontinental said in a statement today. Other details of the
futures contracts, such as the exact Markit indexes to be
referenced or the terms of the deal, weren’t disclosed.  Brookly McLaughlin, an Intercontinental spokeswoman,
declined to comment on whether the Markit license is exclusive
to the company.  “The expansion of the CDS market to futures provides
credit-market participants with additional tools for managing
credit risk exposure,” David Goone, chief strategic officer of
Intercontinental, said in the statement. Intercontinental owns
the world’s two largest clearinghouses for credit swaps, in New
York and  London .  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed in 2010 to overhaul financial-
market regulation, is moving most credit swaps into
clearinghouses. The contracts will also trade on electronic
systems after the unregulated transactions contributed to and
complicated efforts to resolve the credit crisis. Futures on
credit swaps would open the market to small hedge funds and
other investors who couldn’t afford to participate or didn’t
want to take the risk.  Largest Banks  Currently, credit-index bets are made through privately
negotiated swaps that trade directly between dealers and their
customers and not on exchanges.  In 2007, the world’s largest banks that buy and sell
credit-default swaps resisted efforts by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and
Eurex AG to offer credit swaps-like futures. That was before the
September 2008 failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., one of
the biggest swaps dealers.  Two years ago, Deutsche Bank AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were said to be talking to exchanges
including CME Group about creating futures contracts on credit
swaps indexes, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  The banking group, which also included  Barclays Plc (BARC) , was
coordinating with Markit to potentially offer exchange-traded
futures linked to the company’s indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 