-- Michelin Gives Three Stars to 12 Eateries in West Japan
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-10-16T09:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/michelin-awards-maximum-stars-to-12-restaurants-in-west-japan.html
Michelin awarded three stars to 12
restaurants in western  Japan , dropping from 15 last year, when
the Asian nation amassed a total of 32 top-rated establishments.  Another 51 venues garnered two stars, with 24 in Kyoto, 14
in  Osaka , 10 in Kobe and three in Nara, plus one ryokan, or inn,
in Kyoto. A total of 210 restaurants and three ryokans gained a
single star, Michelin said today in an e-mailed release.  Tsuruya in Kyoto and Hajime in Osaka dropped to two stars.
Another three-star last time was Mizai, in Kyoto, which has now
closed at its original location.  Last year, Japan was the leader in top-rated
establishments.  France , home of Michelin, garnered 26. The 2013
volume for  Tokyo  is scheduled for release in coming weeks. The
cycle of guides ends with the French volume in February.  Chef Yoshihiro Murata, who has opened Chrysan restaurant in
London, holds onto three stars at Kikunoi Honten, in Kyoto.  Along with traditional and contemporary Japanese cuisine,
the guide covers soba, kushiage, teppanyaki, sushi, yakitori,
izakaya, unagi, tempura, fugu, sukiyaki, oden, obanzai, shojin,
yuba, beef specialties and chicken specialties, Michelin said.  Establishments that won a first star include: Hoshinoya inn
and restaurants Agiyao, Igarashi, Kyotenjin Noguchi, Motoi,
Mutsunoya and Saraku in Kyoto; Chi-Fu, Iroha, Iwaki, Nunoya,
Ryoriya Nakajima and Sui in Osaka; Agura and Shiko in Kobe.  Tokyo First  The Tokyo guide was first published in 2008 and western
Japan was added two years later. Michelin Guide Kyoto Osaka Kobe
Nara 2013 (Japanese version) goes on sale in Japan on Oct. 19.  Michelin & Cie (ML) , the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
produced its first guide in 1900. It was distributed free of
charge until 1920 and intended for chauffeurs. The volume
contained practical information, including street maps and tips
on repairing tires. The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand,
France.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts and
 Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 