-- Picasso, Monet Paintings Stolen From Rotterdam Museum
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2012-10-16T16:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/thieves-steal-several-paintings-from-rotterdam-s-kunsthal-museum.html
Thieves stole seven paintings,
including works by Pablo Picasso and Claude Monet, from the
Kunsthal museum in the Dutch city of Rotterdam earlier today,
police said.  “Preliminary findings show the burglary was well-
prepared,” the Rotterdam-Rijnmond police district said in a
statement on its  website . It said the theft took place at about
3 a.m. local time. Detectives are talking to possible witnesses
and scrutinizing camera images, the police said.  The paintings were part of an exhibition called “Avant-
Gardes,” which opened on Oct. 7 and comprised more than 150
pieces from the private Triton Foundation collection. The stolen
works include Picasso’s “Tete d’Arlequin,” Monet’s “Waterloo
Bridge,  London ” and “Charing Cross Bridge, London,” and
Lucian Freud’s “Woman with Eyes Closed.”  “An alarm had gone off, after which a security company
hired by the Kunsthal went to the museum and concluded that a
burglary had taken place and works had been stolen,” Roland
Ekkers, a spokesman for the Rotterdam-Rijnmond police district,
said by telephone. Ekkers declined to comment on the value of
the stolen paintings.  Matisse, Gauguin  The Kunsthal museum, founded in 1992 in a building designed
by the Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas, doesn’t have its own
collection. The stolen paintings also included Henri Matisse’s
“la Liseuse en Blanc et Jaune,” Paul Gauguin’s “Femme devant
une fenetre ouverte, dite la Fiancee,” and Meyer de Haan’s
“Autoportrait.”  The theft in Rotterdam follows an incident in Paris in May
2010, when five paintings together worth about 100 million euros
($130 million), also including works by Picasso and Matisse,
were stolen from the Musee d’Art Moderne in Paris.  The Kunsthal will be closed to the public today and won’t
comment until further notice because of the investigation,
according to a website  statement . Mariette Maaskant, a
spokeswoman for the museum, didn’t immediately return a call to
her mobile phone.  Artists whose works are also currently on display at the
Kunsthal include Vincent van Gogh and Salvador Dali, according
to its  website .  The Triton Foundation collection was started by Willem
Cordia and consists of about 250 paintings, drawings and
sculptures by artists from the period 1860 to 1970, according to
Dutch news agency ANP. Cordia, a former supervisory board
chairman at Smit Internationale NV, died in 2011.  “This act has struck people in the world of art like a
bomb,” Emily Ansenk, the museum director, said at a news
conference. The museum uses state-of-the-art cameras without 
security guards, Ansenk was cited as saying on the RTV 
Rijnmond website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 