-- Ikos Can’t Search Ex-Employees Computers, Judge Rules
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-10-16T13:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ikos-can-t-search-ex-employees-computers-judge-rules.html
Ikos Asset Management Ltd.
affiliates lost a bid for a court order to search the computers
of former employees Sam Gover and Peter Ho for confidential
information and software it says was taken from the hedge fund.  Judge Timothy King in London rejected an application made
by Ikos Cif Ltd. and Phaestos Ltd. in a written decision today,
saying it was “in truth an unjustified fishing expedition” to
find evidence of wrongdoing.  Gover and Ho are involved in separate lawsuits against Ikos
claiming they are owed 6 million pounds ($9.7 million) in unpaid
bonuses. Ikos is also suing them for the return of 12 million
pounds in bonus payments because they didn’t comply with their
duties, King said in the ruling.  Ikos, which uses computer algorithms to spot profitable
trades in  futures markets , has been beset by lawsuits and spying
allegations for more than two years. Its founder Elena Ambrosiadou and her estranged husband and former business
partner, Martin Coward, have filed more than 40 lawsuits against
each other in at least four countries.  Gover and Ho now run Altiq LLP, a research-driven hedge
fund that competes with Ikos, according to the ruling. Ikos
claimed in its lawsuit that the men took information about the
fund’s profits and bonus payments and may have used its
software. There is no evidence the pair misused any information,
King said.  Jonathan Chamberlain , the lawyer representing Gover and Ho,
declined to comment in an e-mail. Ikos’s lawyer, Alan Watts,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  