-- Hilary Mantel Becomes Repeat Winner of $81,000 Man Booker
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-10-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/hilary-mantel-wins-81-000-man-booker-for-bring-up-the-bodies-.html
Hilary Mantel won the Man  Booker
Prize  last night with “Bring Up the Bodies,” the second
installment in her Thomas Cromwell trilogy, which began with
2009’s winner, “Wolf Hall.”  She’s the first woman and first British author to be given
the award twice, and the first to win for two books in a row.  “You’re only as good as your last paragraph, and I haven’t
even written one of those today,” Mantel said at a press
conference after the award ceremony.  Mantel overcame competition from the bookies’ favorite,
Will Self’s “Umbrella,” and four other finalists to claim the
U.K.’s most prestigious  literary award . The prize, which comes
with 50,000 pounds ($81,000), was announced at a black-tie
dinner in London’s medieval Guildhall.  Mantel had initially intended to chronicle the life of
Cromwell,  Henry VIII ’s self-made fixer-in-chief, in just two
volumes. After the success of “Wolf Hall,” she decided to make
it three.  The judges praised Mantel for bringing to life a crucial
chapter in English history as if for the first time, using
modern language to convey in full its foreignness.  “This is a very remarkable piece of prose,” said the
chairman of the judging panel, Peter Stothard, editor of the
Times Literary Supplement. Mantel “uses her art, her power of
prose, to create moral ambiguity and the real uncertainty of
political life. You can see as much Don Corleone in this as D.H.
Lawrence.”  Anne Boleyn  “ Bring Up the Bodies ” (Fourth Estate/Holt) resumes
Cromwell’s story in 1535. The king is now married to  Anne
Boleyn , thanks largely to Cromwell’s machinations, yet there is
still no male heir to the throne.  As the royal eye begins to rove again and rumors of Anne’s
infidelities grow noisier, it becomes apparent that she must be
gotten rid of. As her creator, Cromwell himself is in a
precarious position at court, and he must summon all his
Machiavellian guile to ensure her swift downfall.  More intense in focus than its predecessor, it entrenches
Mantel’s Cromwell as one of literature’s most memorable
characters.  Mantel said at the press conference that she plans to call
the final installment in the trilogy “The Mirror and the
Light.” She can’t tell how far along with it she is.  Collage Books  “Between the two Bookers I’ve had misadventures,” she
said, explaining that she lost most of 2010 to illness and wrote
“Bring Up the Bodies” very quickly.  “My method in writing is not sequential,” she said. “I
make up books like a collage. I have files and files of material
but it’s always difficult to say, ‘I’m up to Chapter 3,’ because
that’s not the way it presents itself.”  Runners-up for the prize included Self’s experimental
“ Umbrella ” (Bloomsbury/Grove), in which a psychiatrist uses a
potent drug to awaken a feminist who has been catatonic for
decades; and Tan Twan Eng’s “ The Garden of Evening Mists ”
(Myrmidon/Weinstein), a complex novel rooted in 1950s Malaya,
where horticulture offers balm for war’s deepest wounds.  The other finalists were Deborah Levy’s “ Swimming Home ”
(Faber/And Other Stories/Bloomsbury USA), the tale of a troubled
fan who invades a famous poet’s family vacation; Alison Moore’s
“ The Lighthouse ” (Salt Publishing), a first novel about a man
whose walking tour of  Germany  takes a terrifying turn; and Jeet
Thayil’s “ Narcopolis ” (Faber/Penguin), another debut, this one
a tale of addiction set in a Bombay opium den.  Now in its 44th year, the Man Booker promises an almost
certain increase in sales. Each of the six finalists, including
the winner, receives 2,500 pounds ($4,000) and a leather-bound
edition of his or her own book.  The contest is designed to celebrate the best novel written
in English by a citizen of the British Commonwealth or the
Republic of Ireland and published this year. Established in 1969
by food wholesaler Booker Plc, the prize has been sponsored
since 2002 by  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest publicly traded
hedge-fund manager.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music and  Martin
Gayford  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in  London  at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 