-- Military Personnel Campaign Funds Favor Obama Over Romney
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-10-16T20:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/military-personnel-campaign-funds-favor-obama-over-romney.html
President  Barack Obama  has received
almost twice as much in campaign contributions from U.S.
military and Defense Department personnel as his Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney , despite Romney’s promises to boost
defense spending and his criticism of military cuts set to take
place in January.  Obama has received $536,414 from such donors, compared with
Romney’s $287,435, according to research by the nonpartisan
Center for Responsive Politics in  Washington . The group’s study,
which includes data through August, looked at donations from
individuals who listed their employment as the Defense
Department or one of the branches of the military.  Defense Department personnel led the list, giving $176,121
to Obama and $71,043 to Romney. Army personnel came in next with
$165,646 for Obama and $87,218 for Romney.  Obama’s advantage probably comes in part because some of
the personnel are political appointees of his administration,
said Peter Feaver, a political science professor at  Duke
University  in Durham, North Carolina, who has studied military
personnel and their impact on elections.  “One party owns the executive branch right now, so the
impact could be potentially quite large,” he said. Obama may
also be winning a broader battle for support in an election that
has seen both candidates “assiduously” court the military, he
said.  “It appears that he does have a small but energetic
supporter base in the military,” Feaver said.  Romney’s Promises  The pro-Obama tilt comes even though Romney promises to
boost defense spending to 4 percent of gross domestic product
and to build 15 new Navy ships per year. He also is attacking
Obama over $500 billion in across-the-board cuts to military
programs over 10 years that begin January 2 unless a budget
impasse with Congress is resolved in time.  Earlier in the election cycle, military personnel donations
were overwhelmingly tilted toward Republican hopeful  Ron Paul ,
who called for less government and opposed the wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan , until Obama began to overtake him in March, the
Center for Responsive Politics found.  In the 2008 election cycle, the center found that Senator
John McCain of  Arizona , the Republican presidential nominee,
took in slightly more in donations from military and Defense
Department personnel, collecting $461,350 to Obama’s $450,950
through August of that year.  Defense issues have taken on added importance in the
presidential election this year, in part because Virginia -- the
state most heavily reliant on defense dollars -- is a swing
state that can go either way in presidential elections. An Oct.
12-14 American Research Group  poll  of 750 likely  Virginia  voters
showed Romney barely ahead in the state, 48 percent to 47
percent. That’s well within the poll’s margin of error of plus
or minus 4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  