-- Milk Seen Surging 15% on Drought-Feed Costs Before Demand Slows
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-16T14:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/milk-seen-surging-15-on-drought-feed-costs-before-demand-slows.html
Retail-milk prices will rise as much
as 15 percent by the first quarter of 2013 after the worst U.S.
drought since 1956 sent livestock-feed costs to a record,
according to Dairy Management Inc., an industry group.  “Since the drought started, the milk price has gone up
quite a bit,” Dairy Management Chief Executive Officer  Tom
Gallagher  said yesterday during an interview in  Chicago .
“Prices are going to go up worldwide.”  The drought led to the biggest U.S. drop in corn production
in 17 years, sending the price of the main feed ingredient for
dairies to an all-time high on Aug. 10 of $8.49 a bushel. Prices
are up 47 percent since mid-June, forcing some California
dairies into bankruptcy, while others cut their herds and output
to limit losses. Milk futures in Chicago touched $21.26 per 100
pounds on Oct. 3, a 13-month high.  “When you get to $25 milk, if that happens, the effect on
the retail price is enormous,” Gallagher said. Consumers paid
on average $3.469 a gallon in September, U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics data show.  Milk futures through yesterday were up 36 percent since
mid-June on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and may advance to a
record $25 by June, according to  Shawn Hackett , the president of
 Boynton Beach , Florida-based Hackett Financial Advisers Inc.,
who in March correctly forecast prices would rally.  Dairy Management , a marketer based in Rosemont,  Illinois ,
receives 15 cents on every 100 pounds of milk produced in the
U.S. to promote dairy products domestically and overseas. The
organization includes the American Dairy Association, National
Dairy Council and U.S. Dairy Export Council.  Demand Slowdown  After the price increases expected early next year, further
gains may slow because producers probably will boost output and
consumption will drop, Gallagher said. For every 10 percent
increase in cost at the grocery store, consumption falls by
about 4 percent, he said.  Low-income families in the U.S. and people in developing
nations will be hardest hit, Gallagher said. The U.S. exports
about 14 percent of dairy products, with  Mexico  being the
largest buyer, he said. Retail-food prices are forecast by the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  to rise 2.5 percent to 3.5
percent this year. Globally,  food costs  have gained in two of
the past three months, United Nations data show.  “We know that it will really hurt sales,” Gallagher said.
“Food insecurity, particularly in the poorer countries, that’s
a big deal. There’s a fair amount of supply worldwide, but
you’re still going to have people hurt in different countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net , or
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  