-- Indian Stocks Decline to Four-Week Low Amid Valuation Con
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-10-16T12:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/indian-stocks-decline-to-three-week-low-amid-valuation-co.html
India ’s benchmark stock index fell
to a four-week low, the worst performer in  Asia , amid concern
the recent rally has made equity  valuations  expensive.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, slid 0.7 percent
at 18,577.70, the lowest close since Sept. 20.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) 
retreated 2.6 percent after sales at its Jaguar Land Rover unit
dropped in September, the first fall in 14 months, as a slowing
global economy cooled demand for  luxury vehicles .  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the largest company by value, slid 1.3 percent
after profit declined for a fourth straight quarter.  The Sensex has increased 20 percent this year as offshore
funds investors added to their holdings of local shares amid a
burst of measures aimed at reviving an economy growing at near
its slowest pace in three years. The measure is valued at 14.8
times  estimated earnings , compared with 11.5 times for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors are cautious as valuations look stretched,”
Kishor Ostwal, managing director of equities research provider
CNI Research (India) Ltd., said by telephone from Mumbai. “The
market may consolidate around the current level. Investors are
watching corporate earnings. If profit growth picks up, there
could be a further rally.”  One out of three Sensex companies which reported earnings
for the September quarter have missed analyst estimates. The
season started Oct. 12 with  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , the second-largest
software exporter, paring its sales and earnings forecast.  Earnings Scorecard  Net income  at Reliance, which operates the world’s largest
refining complex, fell 5.7 percent to 53.8 billion rupees in the
September quarter, the company said after markets closed
yesterday. Profit still matched the median estimate of 53.7
billion rupees in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 analysts. The
stock fell 1.3 percent to 812.45 rupees.  Earnings for 40 percent of the 30 Sensex companies missed
estimates in the June quarter, compared with 30 percent in the
three months ended March and 47 percent three months earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata Motors slid 2.6 percent to 262.3 rupees after sales at
its Jaguar Land Rover unit fell 4.3 percent in September, the
first drop in 14 months, as a slowing global economy sapped
demand for luxury vehicles.  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) ,
the biggest mortgage lender, rose 0.5 percent to 744.2 rupees.  India’s economic growth will quicken to 6 percent in 2013,
after weakening to a decade-low this year, helped by improving
global markets and a boost to confidence from the recent policy
overhaul, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a report on
Oct. 9.  Interest rates  should remain unchanged until consumer
prices ease, the lender said.  Monetary Policy  Wholesale inflation rose 7.81 percent last month, compared
with 7.55 percent in August, government data showed yesterday.
India’s central bank has refrained from joining nations such as
 Brazil  and  South Korea  in extending rate cuts, saying inflation
exceeds a comfort level of about 5 percent. At the same time,
the country’s finance officials are seeking lower funding costs
to back an policy revamp that included a cut in fuel subsidies
last month to pare a fiscal deficit.  The  Reserve Bank , which last month left borrowing costs
unchanged for a third meeting after reducing rates in April,
will review  monetary policy  on Oct. 30.  “India remains one of the very few countries where the
rate-cut cycle has only just begun,” Sunil Singhania, head of
equities at Reliance Capital Asset Management Ltd., India’s
second-biggest mutual fund with $17 billion in assets, told
Bloomberg TV India today. “We’ve had 13 rate increases, only
one rate cut. It can take two or three years but the fact is
that these 13 increases be followed by at least seven to 10 rate
cuts. There are challenges and capex cycle will take some time
to revive but the building blocks are starting to get in place.
We need interest rates to come off.”  Borrowing costs may fall at least 100 basis points in the
next 12 months, Singhania said.  The S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. dropped 0.7 percent to 5,648. Its October futures
settled at 5,649.75. The BSE-200 Index and BSE Mid-Cap Index
each lost 0.7 percent. The National Stock Exchange of India and
the BSE traded 756 million shares yesterday, 17 percent lower
than the 12-month daily average of 908 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  