-- India Plans End of Some Airport Fees to Lower Cost of Traveling
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-10-16T16:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/india-plans-end-of-some-airport-fees-to-lower-cost-of-traveling.html
India  plans to abolish some airport
fees at Delhi and  Mumbai  as the nation’s Civil Aviation Ministry
seeks to lower costs for airlines and boost demand for travel.  Delhi International Airport Ltd. (GMRI)  and Mumbai International
Airport Ltd. have been asked to provide additional equity to
meet any funding shortfall following the proposed abolition of
some fees, according to a statement from the ministry. State-
owned Airports Authority of India, which holds a 26 percent
stake in both the airports, will also inject additional capital.  The ministry’s move to end the airport development fee at
Delhi and Mumbai follows abolition of a similar levy at
facilities in the southern Indian city of Chennai and the
eastern city of Kolkata this month. Delhi airport raised user
charges fourfold starting May 15, prompting budget carrier
 SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  to cut plans to increase flights from the city.  The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority, the tariff
regulator, allowed Delhi airport to collect a 200 rupee airport
development fee from each outbound domestic traveler. This was
in addition to 462.80 rupees, or a fixed $9.14, development fee
from each departing domestic passenger on trips of more than 500
kilometers (210 miles) and 391.60 rupees from each arriving
local passenger on trips of similar distance.  The charges in Delhi would boost airlines’ operating costs
by $400 million, according to the  International Air Transport
Association . The increase in Delhi airport charges would affect
 travel demand  by as much as 7 percent, IATA Director General
 Tony Tyler  said in New Delhi on July 25.  Proposal Request  “IATA welcomes the announcement by the Ministry of Civil
Aviation abolishing the airport development fee at Mumbai and
Delhi airports from 1 Jan. 2013,” Albert Tjoeng, assistant
director for corporate communications at the organization, said
in a statement today. “The intervention by the ministry is a
significant step towards reducing the cost for passengers at
Delhi and Mumbai.”  Mumbai airport collects 100 rupees as an airport
development fee from each domestic passenger and 600 rupees from
each outbound international traveler, according to the ministry.  GMR Group-controlled Delhi airport, issued a statement
saying it would respond to today’s proposal. Vaibhav Tiwari, a
spokesman at GVK Power & Infrastructure-controlled Mumbai
airport, declined to comment.  Mumbai airport  may face a funding shortfall of 42 billion
rupees if the fee is abolished from Jan. 1, and Delhi may face a
deficit of 11.8 billion rupees, according to the statement from
the ministry. The operators have been asked to submit a proposal
on equity infusion to the tariff regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  