-- U.S. Industrial Production Rises in Stabilization Sign
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-10-16T21:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/industrial-production-in-u-s-climbs-in-sign-of-stabilization.html
American manufacturers churned out
more appliances, clothing and construction supplies in
September, indicating a mainstay of the early part of the
economic expansion is regaining its footing.  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 0.4 percent,
beating the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
after a 1.4 percent drop in August that was the biggest since
March 2009, according to data from the Federal Reserve issued
today in  Washington . Other reports showed there was little
inflation outside of fuel costs and homebuilder confidence
climbed to a six-year high.  The biggest back-to-back gain in retail sales in almost two
years points to a pickup in consumer spending that may help
offset a pullback in business investment. At the same time, a
global slowdown that is hurting exports represents a hurdle for
manufacturing.  “The economy is regaining momentum it appeared to have
lost in the spring,” said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at
PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh who correctly
forecast the production gain. “I don’t think manufacturing is
down for the count.”  Shares climbed as corporate earnings topped estimates. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1 percent to 1,454.92 at the
close in New York. Treasury securities fell, sending the yield
on the benchmark 10-year note up to 1.72 percent from 1.66
percent late yesterday.  German Confidence  Overseas, German investor confidence climbed in October for
a second month and minutes of the Reserve Bank of  Australia ’s
last meeting showed the central bank saw scope to cut borrowing
costs further.  The cost of living in the U.S. rose in September for a
second month, reflecting a jump in energy expenses that failed
to trickle through to other goods and services, a report today
from the Labor Department also showed.  The consumer-price index increased 0.6 percent for a second
month. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a 0.5
percent advance. The so-called core measure, which excludes more
volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.1 percent, less than
projected.  Companies such as Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and Safeway Inc.
are among those saying price increases are difficult to achieve
as 12.1 million Americans remain unemployed and rising fuel
bills eat into workers’ paychecks. The lack of pricing power is
one reason the Fed eased policy further to focus on jump-
starting employment.  Little Risk  “There isn’t any meaningful risk of short-term core
inflation,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, who correctly
forecast the gain in core prices. “When it comes to everyday
goods and services, the lack of demand just isn’t going to push
prices higher.”  The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 85 economists
called for production to rise 0.2 percent. Projections ranged
from a drop of 1 percent to an increase of 0.7 percent.  Industrial output grew 8.1 percent in the first 12 months
of the recovery than began in June 2009, and expanded 2.8
percent in the year to September.  Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of total
production, climbed 0.2 percent last month after falling 0.9
percent in August, today’s Fed report showed. Factories account
for about 12 percent of the economy.  The Fed report showed the output of consumer goods was
little changed last month as a slowdown in auto assemblies was
offset by pickups in the manufacturing of appliances and
clothing.  Consumer Spending  Retail sales climbed 1.1 percent in September following a
1.2 percent increase the prior month, the best back-to-back
showing since late 2010, according to Commerce Department
figures yesterday. Twelve of 13 categories showed an improvement
in demand, including auto dealers and electronics stores.  Production of motor vehicles and parts decreased 2.5
percent after a 5.1 percent drop a month earlier, according to
today’s Fed data. The decrease is at odds with gains in sales
and may indicate automakers will boost output in the last three
months of the year.  Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.9 million annual pace in
September, the most since March 2008, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group. Chrysler Group LLC and General Motors Co.
reported gains.  ‘Positive Signs’  “We continue to be encouraged by positive signs from the
housing sector, lower jobless claims, higher consumer sentiment
and higher consumer spending,” Kurt McNeil, GM’s vice president
of U.S. sales, said on an Oct. 2 conference call. “The stiffest
headwinds are uncertainty, some of which is related to the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  and concerns about the pace of
growth here at home.”  Excluding autos and parts, manufacturing production climbed
0.4 percent after decreasing 0.6 percent in August.  The report is in line with other figures released earlier
this month. The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
rose to 51.5 in September from 49.6 the prior month, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said on Oct. 1. It was the first reading
greater than 50, signaling expansion, since May.  Mining production, which includes oil drilling, increased
0.9 percent in September after falling 1.6 percent the prior
month, according to today’s Fed report. Utility output advanced
1.5 percent after a 4.3 percent drop in August.  Production Gains  The figures also showed output of business equipment
rebounded 0.8 percent last month after falling 0.9 percent in
August. Machinery output climbed 0.4 percent after falling 0.6
percent, and construction supplies gained 1.3 percent.  Housing is one part of the economy that is showing more
pronounced gains. Homebuilder confidence climbed in October for
a sixth straight month, adding to signs the real-estate market
is healing, another report showed today.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
builder sentiment  index  increased to 41 this month, the highest
since June 2006, from 40 in September. Nonetheless, readings
lower than 50 mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  A report tomorrow may show builders began work on 770,000
homes in September, the most since October 2008, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  