-- LinkedIn Redesigns Site to Boost Interaction, Advertising
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-10-16T20:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/linkedin-redesigns-site-to-boost-interaction-advertising.html
LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the biggest
professional-networking website, revamped its tools and services
for users, adding features that make it easier for them to track
each other, find connections and share content.  The latest  changes  follow an upgrade to LinkedIn’s home
page in July to highlight the activities of a member’s
professional connections, including articles read and work
profile changes.  Chief Executive Officer Jeff Weiner has lured 175 million
users and increased revenue from hiring services, which generate
nearly twice the  sales  compared with advertising. The first
among social-media companies to hold initial share sales since
early 2011, LinkedIn has done a better job than consumer-focused
peers  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  at wringing sales from a
growing user base.  More activity means more targeted advertising and richer
profiles, Deep Nishar, senior vice president for products and
user experience, said in an interview.  “We want brands to have conversations with their target
customers,” Nishar said.  Businesses will be able to use company pages to gather
insight on their customers and then market to them, he said.
Some 175,000 new profiles are created each day and nearly a
third of visits are via mobile, the company said.  Among the newer features are the ability to change
information directly on a profile page, enhanced visual tools to
discover what others are sharing and communicate within a
professional network.  Shares of Mountain View, California-based LinkedIn rose
less than 1 percent to $111.18 at the close in New York, and are
up 76 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  