-- Intel’s Profit Forecast Misses Estimates Amid PC Slump
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-10-17T01:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/intel-fourth-quarter-sales-forecast-beats-analysts-s-estimates.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, forecast fourth-quarter profit margins that
missed analysts’ estimates as a slump in demand for personal
computers eroded profitability.  Gross margin, the only profit yardstick Intel forecasts,
will be about 57 percent, the Santa Clara, California-based
company said in a statement. That’s less than the 61.4 percent
average estimate, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue in the current period will be $13.1 billion to $14.1
billion, compared with an average projection of $13.7 billion.  Intel’s profit is being crimped by expenses to slow factory
output and combat rising stockpiles of unsold chips. Corporate
customers are showing “caution” in placing orders and
consumers in developed markets are cutting back on purchases of
personal computers, Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith  said  in
a statement. Amid an economic slump, the PC market will suffer
its first annual decline in more than a decade.  “Intel’s outlook confirms fears that the PC slowdown is
likely to continue,” said  Bill Kreher , an analyst at Edward
Jones & Co. “The gross margin is well below our view.”  Shares declined 3.4 percent in late trading, after gaining
2.9 percent to $22.35 at the close in New York. The stock has
declined 7.8 percent this year.  Third-quarter net income was $2.97 billion, or 58 cents a
share, compared with $3.47 billion, or 65 cents, a year earlier.
Sales fell to $13.5 billion. Analysts had projected profit of 49
cents a share on sales of $13.2 billion.  Inventory Rises  Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after deducting
production costs, was 63.3 percent, more than the 62 percent
estimate. As customers curbed orders, inventory rose to $5.32
billion, from $4.9 billion in the previous quarter, Intel said.  “The question is how long will it take for them to burn
off inventory,” said Patrick Wang, a New York-based analyst at
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)   Intel’s announcement kicks off two weeks of earnings
reports from the largest U.S. technology companies. Because its
chips power more than 80 percent of the world’s PCs,  investors 
view Intel’s earnings as a broad indicator of demand for
desktop, server and laptop computers.  The total  PC market  will contract by 1.2 percent to 348.7
million units this year, according to IHS iSuppli. That’s the
first annual decline since 2001, the market research said
earlier this month.  Intel’s biggest customers are PC makers  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , according to a Bloomberg  supply-chain analysis .  Windows 8  Consumers in  China , who mainly buy laptops, have joined
their counterparts in the U.S. and Western Europe in holding off
on computer purchases, Intel Chief Executive Officer Paul Otellini said. That, and a corporate market that’s gone
“relatively flat,” means the PC market growing at less than
half its normal pace at this time of year, he said.  Intel’s data center group, whose sales of server chips to
customers such as Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. had offset
weakening laptop and desktop demand, ended its run of growth.
The unit’s revenue fell 5.4 percent to $2.65 billion in the
third quarter from the preceding three months as companies cut
back on spending.  The PC industry is relying on the release this month of a
new version of Microsoft Corp.’s flagship Windows operating
system -- including a version that works on tablets -- to help
it combat Apple Inc., maker of the iPad.  Running Risks  Otellini said it’s too soon to say how much of the slump is
due to the economy, a pause in buying ahead of the debut of
Windows 8 or consumers opting for tablets and phones rather than
PCs. All three trends hurt performance last quarter, he said.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the second-largest maker of
processors for PCs, last week slashed its third-quarter sales
forecast, citing weak demand across all product lines in a
challenging economic environment. AMD plans to cut as much as 20
percent of its workforce, a person familiar with the matter said
last week.  Even if the economy improves and demand rebounds, Intel
risks being left out, because it hasn’t yet convinced phone and
tablet makers that they need its chips, said  Cody Acree , an
analyst at Williams Financial Group in  Dallas .  “The problem is in the intermediate and longer term,”
Acree said. “Intel runs the risk of having so much invested in
the current paradigm that they miss the next.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  