-- International Demand for U.S. Assets Rises on Europe
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-10-16T17:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/international-demand-for-u-s-assets-rises-on-european-crisis.html
International purchases of U.S.
 financial assets  rose in August as investors sought shelter from
the debt crisis in  Europe , boosted by purchases from  France , the
U.K. and  China .  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$90 billion during the month, up from net purchases of $67.2
billion in July, the Treasury Department said today in
Washington.  Economists surveyed  by Bloomberg projected net
buying of $48 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate.  “This report underscores the healthy demand for U.S.
Treasury assets globally as the European uncertainty continues
to weigh on investors’ sentiment,”  Millan Mulraine , senior U.S.
strategist for TD Securities in  New York , said after the report
was released.  U.S. assets have maintained their attraction as European
leaders struggle to resolve differences on renewed aid for
 Greece  and as  Spain  holds out on tapping a bailout. The
 International Monetary Fund ’s decision this month to cut its
forecast for world economic growth to 3.3 percent this year and
3.6 percent for 2013 may further increase the lure of U.S.
assets as a safe-haven investment.  Short Term  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners bought a net $91.4 billion in August, compared with
net purchases of $74 billion the previous month.  Estimates of foreign purchases of long-term U.S. assets in
August ranged from net buying of $40 billion to $75 billion,
according to five economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the
report.  China remained the biggest foreign owner of  U.S. Treasuries 
in August after its holdings rose $4.3 billion to $1.15
trillion, according to the Treasury.  Hong Kong , counted
separately from China, raised its holdings of Treasuries by $2.9
billion to $139.6 billion.  France increased its holdings of Treasuries by 6.4 percent
to $68.1 billion, and the U.K. raised its holdings by 9.4
percent to $153.6.  Switzerland’s holdings of Treasuries rose to $202.2 billion
from $190.1 billion, while Ireland rose 4.5 percent to $92.2
billion.  EU Leaders  European Union leaders convene for an Oct. 18-19 summit in
Brussels after a weekend in which international finance chiefs
expressed some optimism that a firewall is in place to contain
the euro’s turmoil and urged further action to quell the main
threat to global growth.  Treasuries declined a second day as  Germany  signaled it may
be open to a bailout of Spain, boosting speculation the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis is being contained and reducing refuge
demand for  U.S. government debt . The benchmark 10-year yield
climbed five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.71
percent at 12:08 p.m. today in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices.  U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers last month increased
accommodation to boost an economy that central bankers said
still faces “significant downside risks.” Fed officials
announced a third round of asset purchases, agreeing to buy $40
billion of mortgage-backed bonds each month. They also extended
the horizon for record-low  interest rates  through at least the
middle of 2015.  Sharp Rise  “The sharp rise in demand from the U.K. and the Caribbean
-- good proxies for hedge fund buying -- does suggest some
positioning ahead of the Fed’s QE3 announcement,” said Mulraine
of TD Securities.  The U.S. budget shortfall registered $1.09 trillion in
fiscal 2012, down from $1.3 trillion in 2011, according to
Treasury Department data issued Oct. 12 in  Washington .  Congress is pushing the country closer to the “fiscal
cliff” -- the $607 billion of automatic spending reductions and
tax increases that will be triggered unless a government
compromise is reached this year.  At the same time the world’s largest economy shows signs of
improvement as unemployment last month dropped to the lowest
level since January 2009.  The Treasury Department’s data capture international
purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt
and securities issued by U.S. agencies.  The Treasury said in February it was shifting from a
transaction-based survey to a custodial survey to keep track of
foreigners’ holdings. As a result, month-to-month comparisons
are not valid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  