-- Investor Group May Build Hotel on Times Square Site
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-16T23:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/investor-group-may-build-hotel-on-times-square-site.html
A partnership including real estate
investors Steven Witkoff and Michael Ashner bought 701 Seventh
Ave. in Times Square, one of New York’s most popular tourist
areas, and is considering a high-rise hotel for the site.  The venture, which also includes the Miami-based cigarette
company  Vector Group Ltd. (VGR) , acquired the property on the
northeast corner of the avenue and West 47th Street, the
companies said today in a statement. The price wasn’t disclosed.
The group intends to replace the existing two buildings, which
total 120,000 square feet (11,000 square meters), with “new
retail, signage and other best uses,” they said.  Barry Sternlicht ’s  Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD)  and Starwood Capital
Group provided $475 million of debt to the partners, the two
companies said in a separate statement.  The replacement “will be one of the first new buildings --
as opposed to a renovation of an existing building -- in the
Times Square submarket,” Witkoff said in the statement. “There
are also immediate opportunities to modernize the site’s signage
and monetize its air rights.”  The partnership is led by New Valley LLC, which is owned by
Vector, according to the statement. Ashner’s  Winthrop Realty
Trust (FUR)  is also part of the purchasing group, the companies said.
The investors are considering a redevelopment that would include
“a potential 30-story hotel,” Vector Chief Executive Officer
Howard Lorber said in the statement.  One of the buildings on the site was completed in 1909,
according to the website of Emporis, a property-information
service. Pictures on the site show a building covered with signs
advertising Broadway shows including “Wicked,” “Jersey Boys”
and “The Phantom of the Opera.”  The debt agreement for the purchase includes the right to
part of the equity, according to the statement from Starwood
Property and Starwood Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  