-- Irish State Pushes Banks to Forgive Home Debt as Arrears Mount
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-10-16T11:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/irish-state-pushes-banks-to-forgive-home-debt-as-arrears-mount.html
Ireland’s banks need to forgive some
unsustainable housing debt,  John Moran , the most senior official
in the  Finance Ministry  said, as the nation’s central bank
pressured lenders to act as arrears spiral.  Ireland needs “to see solutions that involve much more
dramatic write-off of debt in respect of households that are
really in non-sustainable situations and have an inability to
pay,” Moran said in a speech to bankers in Dublin today.  Some 30 percent of Irish home loans by value are in arrears
or have been modified, the central bank said today. The
government has pledged or injected 64 billion euros ($83
billion) into its banking system and nationalized five of its
six biggest domestic lenders.  “The economic milk spilt in poor lending, the losses
already incurred, have not even begun to be cleaned up,” Fiona
Muldoon, the central bank’s head of supervision, said in a
speech at the same event. “This is the stuff of denial.”  Ireland’s economy has shrunk around 15 percent since 2008,
 house prices  have fallen by half and unemployment has more than
tripled to 14.7 percent, as the ending of a property boom was
amplified by the global financial crisis.  Progress in addressing arrears in the buy-to-let sector has
been “even slower” than in the residential sector, Muldoon
said today. By value, some 41 percent of buy-to-let loans are in
arrears or have been restructured, according to e-mailed slides
accompanying her speech.  In all, some 167,000 home loans with a value of 35 billion
euros were in arrears at the end of June, according to the
central bank. A further 51,000 loans with a value of 9 billion
euros have been restructured and are not in arrears.  “I see too much lip service to ‘progress’ and ‘meaningful
resolution’ and not enough to ‘reality,’” Muldoon said. “I see
way too many ‘extend and pretends’ masking as solutions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  