-- IRPC Plans $1 Billion Plant Expansion and Land Development
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-10-16T03:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/irpc-plans-1-billion-plant-expansion-and-land-development-1-.html
IRPC Pcl (IRPC) , Thailand’s fourth-biggest
petrochemical company, plans to spend $1 billion to expand
capacity and develop land for industrial use amid a push to
double earnings in the next three years.  A new petrochemical plant, which will begin operating in
2015, will boost propylene production by about 80 percent,
President Atikom Terbsiri said in an interview at his office
yesterday. The company will also begin selling about 988 acres
of land in Rayong province for manufacturers in 2013, he said.  IRPC joins affiliate  PTT Global Chemical Pcl (PTTGC)  and rival  Siam
Cement Pcl (SCC)  in expanding production of petrochemical products as
rising sales of automobiles, home appliances and electronics in
Thailand and elsewhere in the region increase demand for plastic
products. New factory and land sales will help double earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a measure
of  cash flow  known as Ebitda, in 2015 from about $300 million a
year, according to Atikom.  “Increased production of premium petrochemical products
will strengthen the company’s competitiveness and profit
margins,” Atikom said. “Industrial land development also
allows the company to boost earnings growth even as the business
is new and challenging.”  The shares have gained 1.5 percent this year, trailing a 26
percent advance in the benchmark  SET Index. (SET)  The stock has 10
buy, eight hold, and five sell  ratings , with an average price
target of 4.29 baht, according to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts.  Solar, Wind Power  IRPC, controlled by  PTT Pcl (PTT) , operates its own refinery with
a capacity of 215,000 barrels per day, according to the
company’s  website . The company reported a  net loss  of 4.06
billion baht ($132 million) in the second quarter ended June 30,
compared with profit of 2.34 billion baht a year earlier, as
declining oil and petrochemical product prices cut inventory
values, according to a company statement on July 27.  “IRPC’s focus on premium products will only help its
earnings to some extent because economic slowdown in Europe and
China has significantly depressed petrochemical prices,”
Songklod Wongchai, an analyst at  Finansia Syrus Securities Pcl (FSS) ,
said by phone today. “Property development business is an
encouraging trend because the company carries vast areas of
undeveloped land on its books.”  IRPC has about 3,500 acres of land in Rayong and southern
Songkhla province that the company aims to develop into earnings
sources, said Atikom. The company is studying the possibility of
setting up solar and wind  power plants  on its land in Songkhla
province, 950 kilometers (595 miles) south of Bangkok, he said.  The company will also spend $250 million to build power
plants with total generating capacity of 180 megawatts in Rayong
province, 185 kilometers east of Bangkok. The plants will sell
electricity to the state utility, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  