-- Isis Falls on Concerns Over Abnormal Growths With Kynamro
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-16T20:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/isis-falls-on-concerns-over-abnormal-growths-with-kynamro.html
Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS)  fell the
most in 4 1/2 years after U.S. regulators raised concerns about
abnormal growths, some harmful, linked to the company’s drug for
a rare genetic disease.  Isis, which is a partner with Paris-based Sanofi on the
medicine,  declined  22 percent to $10.27 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day drop since April 2008. The
Carlsbad, California-based company had risen 82 percent in the
year through yesterday.  In clinical trials, the growths, or neoplasms, developed in
3.1 percent of patients treated with the drug Kynamro and 0.9
percent of patients who took a placebo, Food and Drug
Administration staff said in a  report  released today before an
Oct. 18 meeting of agency advisers. The interpretation of the
data is limited by a small sample size and a short treatment
time, the staff said. The injection, Isis’s lead product
candidate, helps lower LDL, or bad, cholesterol in patients who
have very high levels, FDA staff said today.  “This imbalance in neoplasms will need to be assessed
further in on-going and future studies and post-marketing (if
approved),” FDA staff wrote.  The malignancies are a “new concern” and the reason for
weakness in the shares,  Eric Schmidt , an analyst with Cowen &
Co. said in an e-mail.  The FDA is scheduled to make a final decision on the drug
by the end of January.  Nine of the 23 growths in patients treated with Kynamro
were malignant, according to the report. One of the two growths
in the patients treated with placebo were harmful. There were a
total of 749 patients who took the drug and 221 on placebo.  Liver Cells  Kynamro, also known chemically as mipomersen, targets a
disease known as homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia that
causes abnormalities in liver cells responsible for clearing
LDL, or low density lipoprotein, particles from the blood. The
disease can lead to heart attack or death at an early age,
according to the National Institutes of Health.  The FDA staff also said it is concerned about the
treatment’s effect on the liver and that the harm can be
mitigated with a risk plan that targets patients.  A risk plan would “support appropriate use of mipomersen,
allowing it to be approved for use in the targeted patient
population, a patient population with life threatening illness
and limited therapeutic options,” staff wrote.  FDA staff yesterday said a plan to manage the risk of a
similar drug from  Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AEGR)  supports its
approval in adults with the genetic disease. The agency is
scheduled to decide on the treatment, lomitapide, by the end of
December.  LDL Reduction  Isis says its drug reduced LDL cholesterol by 25 percent in
patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia in two
late-stage trials, compared with 3.3 percent for those on
placebo. In four late-stage trials, 8 percent of patients
treated with Kynamro experienced elevated levels of an enzyme
that indicates liver damage.  People with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia can
have cholesterol levels two to four times higher than normal and
don’t respond to standard cholesterol-lowering drugs such as
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor. Isis and partner Paris-based Sanofi,
 France ’s largest drugmaker, may draw $480 million in worldwide
sales, Schmidt said. He has a neutral rating on Isis and owns
Aegerion stock in a personal account.  Isis in a 2008 agreement with  Sanofi (SAN)  will get 30 percent to
50 percent of Kynamro profits based on drug sales. Isis may
 generate  $183 million in U.S. sales in 2016 from Kynamro,
according to the average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  