-- Islamic Scholars, ICE Futures Switch, RBS: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-16T12:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/islamic-scholars-ice-futures-switch-rbs-suspension-compliance.html
After at least five years of delays,
 Islamic finance  experts in Saudi Arabia and Malaysia are
renewing efforts to create common regulations for scholars.  Malaysia’s  International Shariah Research Academy for
Islamic Finance  is working with its Middle Eastern counterpart
on guidelines that will address the number of boards on which
scholars can sit to reduce conflicts of interest, according to
Executive Director Mohamad Akram Laldin in Kuala Lumpur. An
institution will also be established to provide global
accreditation, said Akram, who helped set up a  body  last year to
oversee advisers’ activities in the Southeast Asian nation.  The industry needs such measures to boost confidence and
improve transparency, Abas A. Jalil, Kuala Lumpur-based chief
executive officer of  Amanah Capital Group Ltd. , said in an
interview Oct. 14. Discussions have faltered in the past because
of Persian Gulf experts’ more stringent interpretations of
Shariah law, which could still hinder progress, he said.  In most countries there’s no limit to the number of
entities to which a scholar can advise on Shariah compliance,
Akram at Malaysia’s academy, said in an Oct. 10 interview. To
avoid conflict of interest in the Southeast Asian nation, the
central bank doesn’t allow Islamic experts to sit on more than
one board involved in the same  business .  The new rules being worked on in conjunction with the
 Islamic Research & Training Institute  in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia,
will also determine if religious scholars can own shares in
companies they advise and govern the disclosure of information
relating to products they help structure, Akram said.  The $1.3 trillion global Islamic finance industry is seeing
annual average growth rates of 15 percent, Malaysia’s Securities
Commission said in a June 27 statement. The proposed regulations
from the two academies come as sales of Shariah-compliant debt,
which pays returns on assets to comply with Islam’s ban on
interest, climbed to a record in the six-member Gulf Cooperation
Council, which includes Saudi Arabia.  For more, click here.  Japan Considers Cutting Loan Size Limits, Nikkei Says  Japan’s Financial Services Agency proposes cutting the
financial group loan limit to 25 percent of equity capital from
the current 40 percent, Nikkei newspaper reported, citing an
unidentified FSA official.  Banks can now lend 25 percent as a single entity, and 40
percent as a financial group, Nikkei said. The rule would apply
the 25 percent limit to groups, according to Nikkei. The legal
provisions would be revised in 2013.  The Basel Committee is preparing new regulations for larger
loans. The International Monetary Fund urged Japan to revise the
rules, Nikkei said.  Compliance Action  ICE Switches More Than 900 Swaps to Futures on Dodd-Frank Rules  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , the second-largest U.S.
futures market, has converted more than 900 over-the-counter
energy contracts to regulated futures in response to rules meant
to prevent another financial crisis.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission guidelines that
went into effect Oct. 12 require firms holding $8 billion of
bilateral derivatives to register as swaps dealers and meet new
performance standards. The CFTC  granted  a reprieve to the  CME
Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s largest future exchange, on
Oct. 12 by saying the trading of its swaps won’t be counted
toward the dealer minimum until Dec. 31.  The  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act  in 2010 gave the CFTC, which regulates futures contracts,
jurisdiction over the swaps markets with the aim of increasing
transparency.  Commodity futures are traded on exchanges that follow rules
imposed by the CFTC, while swaps are negotiated directly between
counterparties and until now lacked many of the same
restrictions, including limits on the number of contracts one
trader could hold.  Swaps and futures are used by speculators and hedgers to
place bets on oil, natural gas and power prices. Swap dealers
will face capital, collateral, record-keeping and business
conduct standards under Dodd-Frank. The rules force traders to
report over-the-counter transactions to regulators and process
them through third-party clearinghouses.  Atlanta-based ICE, which owns the largest European energy
market, has converted all  cleared energy contracts  starting Oct.
14.  For more, click here.  Polish Regulator to Lift Loan Cap for Individuals to Help Growth  Poland’s financial markets regulator plans to lift a debt-
to-income limit on loans to individual clients as it eases rules
to help boost credit growth.  Banks meeting criteria for Tier 1 capital ratio and
solvency ratio will be allowed to apply simplified rules when
making consumer loans, the head of the regulator said yesterday.
The watchdog will no longer cap clients’ payments at 50 percent
of monthly income.  The regulator is seeking to ease the rules starting in 2013
after cash loans, lending for cars and home appliances and debt
on credit cards fell 3.5 percent to 125.9 billion zloty ($40
billion) in July from the end of last year. It will also seek to
soften regulations for mortgages.  Banks controlling more than 90 percent of Polish banking
assets fulfill the regulator’s criteria for simplified lending,
Wojciech Kwasniak, the deputy head of the regulator said
yesterday.  Societe Generale Ordered to Suspend Some Operations in Japan  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s Japan trust-banking unit was ordered
to suspend some operations after the country’s financial
regulator found its pension-money management business had
breached rules.  The regulator ordered Societe Generale Private Banking
Japan to suspend new trust-banking business at its corporate
client division for three months from Oct. 23 until Jan. 22, the
Financial Services Agency said in a statement in Tokyo today.
The French bank was also ordered to review its corporate
governance framework and strengthen internal controls.  The unit failed to conduct proper due diligence on asset
management firms it invested money with on behalf of a local
pension fund, according to the statement. The unit has already
taken corrective action and is working with the FSA to finalize
a business improvement plan in response to the regulator’s
findings, Societe Generale’s local unit in a statement on
statement on its website.  Colombian Tax Changes Would Lure Foreign Investors, Suarez Says  Colombian tax legislation presented to lawmakers this month
aims to cut the yields on peso bonds by luring foreign investors
to the local debt market, Public Credit Director Maria Fernanda
Suarez said.  By cutting the tax rate and simplifying “almost impossible
to understand” rules, Colombia hopes to cut the spreads between
the local peso bonds, known as TES, and peso-linked bonds sold
abroad, called Global TES, Suarez said Oct. 14 in an interview
in Tokyo, where she was attending  annual meetings of the
International Monetary Fund.  The legislation would allow the government to levy a tax of
either 12.5 percent or 25 percent on TES and corporate debt
compared with the current 33 percent, Suarez said.  Speculation that Colombia plans to issue Samurai bonds this
year is unfounded, Suarez said, reiterating that the government
won’t sell any more debt this year. The country will probably
return to international credit markets in the first half of 2013
and will conduct either one or two international debt sales next
year, Suarez said.  Watson, Actavis Agree to Sell Drug Rights in Accord With FTC  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , maker of the generic version
of Lipitor cholesterol pills, agreed to sell rights to 18 drugs
to win approval from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission for its
purchase of Actavis Inc.  Watson and Actavis will sell the rights to Sandoz
International GmbH and Par Pharmaceuticals Inc. and give up
manufacturing and marketing rights to three other medicines to
resolve competition concerns, the FTC said in a statement
yesterday.  Watson, based in Parsippany, New Jersey, said on April 25
that it was buying closely held Actavis for 4.25 billion euros
($5.5 billion) to create the third-largest global generic-drug
maker. Revenue for 2012 was anticipated at $8 billion, the
company said. According to the FTC’s administrative complaint,
the acquisition would have hurt competition in 21 generic-drug
markets.  FTC commissioners voted 5-0 in favor of the complaint and
proposed settlement order, the agency said.  Courts  Gupta Admirers Gates, Annan Urge Mercy as Insider Sentence Nears  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman  Bill Gates  and former United
Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan were among supporters of
ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  who urged mercy
at his sentencing next week for his part in the biggest hedge
fund insider trading scheme in U.S. history.  Gupta is to be sentenced Oct. 24 for leaking stock tips to
Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who masterminded
the conspiracy. In letters to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan, Gates, Annan and at least 200 others wrote on behalf
of Gupta, who faces as many as 20 years in prison on the most
serious of the four counts of which he was convicted.  Gupta is the most prominent of the 69 people convicted
since a nationwide insider trading crackdown by U.S. prosecutors
and the FBI began in 2009. Besides his tenure at New York-based
Goldman Sachs, Gupta served as managing partner of McKinsey &
Co. from 1994 to 2003 and on the boards of  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,
the Rockefeller Foundation and the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation.  Gupta, 63, was found guilty in June of three counts of
securities fraud and one count of conspiracy, following a four-
week federal jury trial. Gupta left Goldman Sachs’s board in
2010.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Banks Sued by U.S. Homeowners Over Rigging of Libor Benchmark  U.S. homeowners filed a lawsuit against 12 banks, including
 Barclays Bank Plc (BARC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , claiming that
manipulation of the benchmark Libor lending rate made their
mortgage repayments more expensive.  Traders at banks in Europe and North America such as UBS
AG,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
“unjustly enriched themselves” by manipulating the rate,
according to the complaint. That allowed them to increase the
payments by homeowners on adjustable rate loans, boosting
profit, according to the lawsuit.  Libor, or the London interbank offered rate, is the
benchmark for more than $300 trillion of securities and loans.
The rate is calculated from a daily poll carried out by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association, a
London-based lobby group. Lenders are asked to estimate how much
it would cost to borrow from each other for different periods
and in different currencies.  The other banks being sued in the U.S. District Court in
New York are Citigroup Inc., Rabobank International Holdings BV, 
Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) , HSBC Holdings Plc, Lloyds Banking Group
Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and Royal Bank of Canada, according to the
filing.  The plaintiffs asked for class-action status, a jury trial,
cash compensation and an order permanently blocking the banks
from rigging Libor.  It is the first lawsuit filed by homeowners, the Financial
Times reported earlier today without saying where it got the
information. The five lead plaintiffs include Annie Bell Adams,
a pensioner whose home was repossessed, the FT reported.  The case is Adams v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 12-cv-07461,
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Wheatley Says U.K. Regulator to Study Consumer Behavior  Martin Wheatley, a managing director at the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority, spoke at an event in London about
the new Financial Conduct Authority, of which he will be chief
executive officer. He discussed FSA’s plans to study consumer
behavior and adapt its rules accordingly.  For the video, click here and for more, click here.  Levitt Says There Is Little Chance Banks Will Be Capped  Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
 Arthur Levitt , who is a senior adviser to the  Carlyle Group (CG) ,
said capping the size of banks is neither practical nor
politically feasible.  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Basel III Rules May Go Easier on Smaller Banks, OCC’s Curry Says  Smaller U.S. banks may get longer transition periods and
so-called grandfather clauses to help ease them into compliance
with proposed Basel III capital rules, Comptroller of the
Currency  Thomas Curry  said yesterday.  “We will be thinking broadly about ways to reduce
regulatory burden,” he said in  remarks  prepared for delivery at
an  American Bankers Association  convention in San Diego.  U.S. regulators in June proposed a tighter capital regime
to bring lenders into compliance with rules based on an
international agreement drawn up by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision in 2010. Curry said the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency will take another look at how so-
called “accumulated other comprehensive income” is treated for
smaller banks, because the proposal would be “expensive and
difficult to manage” for them.  Comings and Goings  RBS Said to Suspend European Rates Trading Head in Libor Probe  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  suspended its head of
rates trading for Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, the first
senior manager to be put on leave as part of the lender’s probe
into allegations of Libor-rigging, two people with knowledge of
the move said.  Jezri Mohideen was suspended on Oct. 12 after Bloomberg
News reported he instructed colleagues to lower the British
lender’s submission to the London interbank offered rate in
2007, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private. Mohideen, who didn’t respond to e-mail
and telephone messages today, has previously denied he pressured
anyone to submit false rates.  The suspension is a sign the bank’s two-year-old
investigation into its role in the Libor-rigging scandal is
widening. Edinburgh-based RBS fired four traders last year for
attempted rate rigging. The bank also suspended three more, two
of whom have since been reinstated.  RBS, the biggest publicly owned bank in the U.K., is one of
at least a dozen firms being investigated over allegations they
colluded to influence Libor and other rates so they could profit
from derivatives bets or to appear healthier than they were.  Mohideen, who joined RBS in 2006, denied he pressured
colleagues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 