-- Missing Roy Lichtenstein Painting Returned After 42 Years
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-10-16T21:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/missing-lichtenstein-painting-returned-to-owners-after-42-years.html
A $4 million  Roy Lichtenstein 
painting that disappeared 42 years ago when it was sent out for
cleaning was returned to its owner in  Manhattan .  The painting was returned to Barbara Bertozzi Castelli, the
widow of art dealer Leo Castelli, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and the FBI said today at a press conference.  The 1961 painting “Electric Cord” was purchased by
Castelli in the early 1960s for about $750 and displayed in the
 Leo Castelli Gallery  in Manhattan, according to a statement by
Bharara’s office. In January 1970, the painting disappeared
after it was sent to art restorer Daniel Goldreyer, according to
the statement.  In July, Manhattan art dealer James Goodman was approached
about whether he was interested in buying the painting, a black-
and-white oil-on-canvas, Goodman said in a telephone interview
today. The sellers e-mailed him a photo of “Electric Cord” and
said the work was located at Hayes Storage in Manhattan.  “As soon as I saw the image, I knew what it was,” Goodman
said. The  Lichtenstein Foundation , a nonprofit group dedicated
to the artist’s legacy, published an image of the painting on
its holiday greeting card in 2006 and asked for help in finding
the painting.  ‘Good Memory’  The foundation used the image on the card because of its
continuing work since 1999 in cataloguing all of the artist’s
work, said Jack Cowart, executive director of the foundation.  “It was motivated by scholarship,” Cowart said in a phone
interview. “We are not in the loss-retrieval business. We are
not sleuthing around trying to discover a missing
Lichtenstein.”  Goodman said he remembered the card. “For an old guy, I
have a very good memory,” he said.  Goodman said he alerted the foundation and a representative
accompanied him to the storage facility to view the work.  “I did my Good Samaritan thing,” said Goodman.  The U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation discovered that
the storage facility had received the painting from the Quinta
Galeria art gallery in Bogota,  Colombia , which had it on
consignment from Goldreyer’s widow, Sally Goldreyer, authorities
said.  Goldreyer told authorities that when her husband died in
2009, she and others cleaned out the lockers of his company’s
employees, including one named Ben Dolinsky, according to the
statement.  Refunded Deposit  She said the contents of Dolinsky’s locker were boxed and
given to a friend, who, three years later, asked her to sell the
painting for him, according to the statement. She offered to
sell it to the Quinta gallery but refunded the gallery’s deposit
when she saw a missing notice for the painting posted on the
Internet, authorities said.  On Oct. 9, Goldreyer and Bharara’s office “entered into a
stipulation” in which Goldreyer relinquished all rights, title
and interest to “Electric Cord” and return it to Castelli,
authorities said.  Bertozzi Castelli said she may hang the painting in her
home.  ‘Really Beautiful’  “Thank you for everything you did,” she said to
authorities today at the press conference. “It’s the first time
I have seen it in my life. I came to the U.S. in 1993. I got
married to Leo in 1995. And the painting was missing since 1970.
I actually can tell you that Leo spoke on several occasions to
me about this painting. He was saying it was a really beautiful
painting.”  Lichtenstein, who was born in 1923, died in 1997. He had
his first solo show at Leo Castelli Gallery in 1962.  “We are delighted to have played a role in securing the
return” of the painting, Bharara said in the statement.
“Returning stolen art and artifacts is an important mission of
this office, and it is always gratifying when we are
successful.”  Authorities value “Electric Cord,’ which measures 28-by-18
inches, at $4 million. Lucy Mitchell-Innes, director of
 Mitchell-Innes & Nash  gallery in  New York , which has mounted
four solo Lichtenstein exhibitions in the past decade, said she
values the painting between $2.5 million and $3 million.  “Electric Cord” was painted during the first year
Lichtenstein began using Ben-Day dots, a style in which small
dots are either closely spaced, far apart or overlapping. The
style would become his trademark.  “At that stage he was doing them by hand,” Mitchell-Innes
said. “He also painted a vase with flowers, Christmas ornaments
and an ice cream cone. The images came out of magazines and
newsprint and they all referenced abstraction.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 