-- Liverpool, Spurs Want Chelsea’s Sturridge, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-10-16T09:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/liverpool-spurs-want-chelsea-s-sturridge-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Sturridge Move  Liverpool and Tottenham want to sign Chelsea’s Daniel Sturridge, who is prepared to leave the Blues to further his
England career,  the Daily Mirror said.   The 23-year-old striker has struggled to get playing time
under new coach Roberto di Matteo and wants to move so he can
get a place in the national team for the 2014 World Cup, the
newspaper said.  Chelsea may sell Sturridge to help fund a bid for Radamel
Falcao, who has a 46 million pound ($74 million) buyout clause
at Atletico  Madrid , the Mirror said.  Arsenal Poaching  Arsenal is set to sign Brazilian striker Leandro Damiao, a
long-term target of Tottenham,  the Daily Star said .  Arsene Wenger is targeting the 23-year-old to strengthen
his attack as Gervinho will be missing in January because of the
African Cup of Nations, the newspaper said. Spurs have tried to
sign Damiao during each of the last three transfer windows, the
Star said.  Suarez Criticism  Arsenal defender  Laurent Koscielny  said Liverpool striker
Luis Suarez is a “cheat” who goes down too easily to try to
win penalties,  the Sun reported.   Suarez pulls at defenders and then falls over with a slight
touch, according to the Frenchman, who said Suarez attempted to
win a penalty during the Gunners’ September match at Anfield,
the newspaper said.  Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers has defended Suarez,
saying referees have dismissed obvious fouls on the player while
giving less convincing penalties to other teams, the Sun said.  Smalling Returns  Manchester United defender Chris Smalling will be available
for next weekend’s game against Stoke after recovering from a
foot injury,  the Daily Express said.   The 22-year-old may play in his first match of the season,
giving United coach Alex Ferguson more options. The manager has
relied on Rio Ferdinand and Jonny Evans in defense because of
injuries to Smalling and Nemanja Vidic, the newspaper said.  Carroll Slight  Poland F.A. President Zbigniew Boniek, who led the national
team to the 1982 World Cup semifinals, said his 8-year-old
grandson is a better player than England striker Andy Carroll,
 the Sun said.   Poland takes on England tonight at home and Boniek said
Matteo, his grandson, “moves better on the pitch than Andy
Carroll and he has better coordination,” the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  