-- TiVo Says It’s Owed Billions From Google Over Patents
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-10-16T19:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/tivo-says-it-s-owed-billions-from-google-over-patents.html
TiVo Inc. said it may be entitled to
billions of dollars in damages should it win its patent-
infringement lawsuit against  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility
unit over digital-video recording technology.  “Motorola’s massive production of infringing DVRs dwarfs
the numbers of accused products at issue in TiVo’s previous
cases,” TiVo said in a filing yesterday in federal court in
Marshall,  Texas . “TiVo’s damages claim is likely to run into
the billions of dollars.”  TiVo disclosed the figure in a request to consolidate the
case against Motorola Mobility with one involving  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO)  to address pre-trial issues, saying it would speed the
process and conserve resources. The companies make set-top boxes
for  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , which is a defendant in both cases.
TiVo said it also will seek an order to force Motorola Mobility
to stop selling products that infringe TiVo patents.  In an Oct. 9 filing, Motorola Mobility said TiVo waited too
long to make its request, since the judge had already split the
case to have the claims against Motorola Mobility and Cisco
handled separately. The Motorola Mobility case is further along
than the Cisco one, it said.  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , said it
also has its own patent-infringement claims against TiVo that
are unrelated to Cisco. The company said it would seek to have
TiVo give up patent-licensing revenue it claims was “wrongfully
derived from Motorola’s inventions.”  Sale Impact  Alviso, California-based TiVo is basing its damages
estimate in part on previous patent settlements including the
$600 million it received from Dish Network Corp., more than $215
million from AT&T Inc. and more than $250 million from Verizon
Communications Inc.  Mountain View , California-based Google, which bought
Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion in May, is seeking to sell
the unit that supplies cable television providers with set-top
boxes and other equipment. The TiVo litigation could make that
difficult, said Kevin Stadtler, principal of Stadtler Capital
Management LLC in  Fort Worth , Texas, who owns TiVo shares and is
projecting they will rise.  “It is highly improbable Google can sell the set-top box
division without settling with TiVo considering the threat of an
injunction and a potential claim like this,” he said.  The cases are Motorola Mobility Inc. v.  TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , 11cv53;
and TiVo Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc., 12cv311, both U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District in Texas (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  