-- Japanese Stock Futures Gain on Spain Bailout Optimism
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-10-16T23:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/japanese-stock-futures-gain-on-spain-bailout-optimism.html
Japanese stock futures and
Australian equities rose as two German lawmakers suggested they
may reverse their resistance to a bailout for Spain and after
U.S. companies reported better-than-estimated profits.  American Depositary Receipts of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker
that gets 80 percent of its sales outside Japan, climbed 1.4
percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company,
gained 1.4 percent in Sydney after reporting first-quarter iron-
ore production in line with estimates and as metals prices
advanced.  News Corp. (NWS)  rose 1 percent in Sydney as Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  said shareholders
rejected a proposal to split the top two roles at the company.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,780 in Chicago yesterday, up from 8,710 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,770 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained
0.9 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.8 percent in
Wellington.  “There seems to be a lot of jawboning ahead of an
inevitable bailout for Spain,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps
manage $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.
“Germany is being more accommodative of any such package and
that should be taken as a positive, removing some of the
systemic risk.”  Germany is open to Spain seeking a precautionary credit
line from Europe’s rescue fund, two senior coalition lawmakers
said. The comments by Michael Meister, a deputy caucus leader of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, and
Norbert Barthle, her party’s budget spokesman, signal a reversal
of Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble’s position that Germany
is opposed to a full sovereign bailout for Spain.  Credit Rating  Spain retained its investment-grade credit rating from
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a reduction in the risk
of losing market access.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.1
percent today. The S&P 500 surged 1 percent yesterday, its
biggest gain in a month, as a report showed industrial
production rose more than forecast last month and corporate
earnings topped estimates. Johnson & Johnson and Mattel Inc.
advanced after reporting earnings, while Citigroup Inc. climbed
as  Vikram Pandit  stepped down as chief executive officer.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index rebounded 12 percent through
yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as stimulus measures in
Europe, the U.S., Japan and China boosted market sentiment amid
a global economic slowdown and Europe’s debt crisis. The Asian
benchmark traded at 12.9 times  estimated earnings  on average,
compared with 13.9 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.2
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Chinese equities in the U.S. climbed for a fifth day on
prospects slowing inflation will allow policy makers to take
further steps to stimulate the economy. The  Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese companies in  New York 
climbed 0.7 percent to 95.39, the highest close since May 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  