-- JSW Steel Seeks to Raise $1 Billion in Overseas Loans
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-10-16T11:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/jsw-steel-seeks-to-raise-1-billion-in-overseas-loans-1-.html
JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ,  India ’s third-
biggest producer, plans to raise $1 billion in overseas loans to
cut interest costs and boost profit amid falling prices.  The funds will be used to pay rupee debt of  JSW Ispat Steel
Ltd. (JSWI)  after absorbing the unit, which the parent company acquired
almost two years ago, Group Chief Financial Officer Seshagiri Rao said in an interview. JSW Ispat, which has a debt of 70
billion rupees ($1.3 billion), pays about 11 percent interest,
while JSW Steel pays 7 percent, he said.  “JSW Ispat remains a positive story for us and with
reduced costs, it should show a turnaround,” Rao said by phone
from  Mumbai , where JSW Steel is based. “We are seeking the
 Reserve Bank  of India’s approval to raise foreign loans.”  Curbs on  iron ore  mining and high interest costs have
hindered JSW Steel’s effort to turn around the unit. Slowing
demand and a decline in steel prices are prompting mills to try
and cut borrowing costs and use lower-grade raw material.
India’s steel demand is forecast to grow 5.5 percent this year
and 5 percent next year, according to  Worldsteel .  “The benefit from an overseas loan will depend on the
rupee -- if it depreciates after the loan, the gains of lower
rates may be limited,” said Prasad Baji, an analyst at
Edelweiss Financial Services in Mumbai.  Shares Fall  The rupee, which depreciated 15.8 percent in 2011, has
gained 0.2 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  JSW Steel  shares  declined 2.4 percent to 747.10 rupees in
Mumbai today. The stock has gained 47 percent this year,
compared with a 20 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index. (SENSEX)   The company cut prices by as much as 1,000 rupees a ton
this month, Rao had said on Oct. 10 in New Delhi.  JSW Ispat returned to profit in the three months ended June
30, after posting losses for four straight quarters. Earnings in
the three months ended June 30 were boosted by a tax writeback.  JSW Steel, controlled by billionaire Sajjan Jindal, plans
to absorb JSW Ispat in a stock exchange to share freight, energy
and raw material costs. The unit runs a 3.3 million metric ton
mill in the western state of Maharashtra. The combined company
will have a capacity of 14.3 million tons a year, making it the
biggest Indian steelmaker after Tata Steel Ltd.  JSW Steel, which is running its biggest plant -- in the
southern state of Karnataka -- at 80 percent capacity, aims to
get all its iron ore and half its coking coal from its own mines,
Rao said. The company currently buys all its raw material from
outside.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  