-- KBC Raises 350 Million Euros Selling Own Shares at 4.7% Discount
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-10-16T09:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/kbc-raises-350-million-euros-selling-own-shares-at-4-7-discount.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) , the  best-performing 
bank stock in  Europe  this year, raised 350 million euros ($455
million) selling existing shares as it prepares to repay a
second portion of state aid received.  KBC sold almost 18.2 million own shares held in a private
placement at 19.25 euros apiece, the Brussels-based bank and
insurer said today in a statement. That’s a 4.7 percent discount
to yesterday’s closing price. The sale, which was agreed with
the European Commission, will dilute earnings per share by 5.3
percent.  The Belgian bank and insurer, which received 7 billion
euros of taxpayer funds, has until the end of this year to repay
a remaining 3 billion euros of federal government aid before the
penalty rate increases to 20 percent from 15 percent. KBC, which
has sold more than  20 entities  since 2009 to rebuild capital,
has seen its market value double since the start of the year.  “This creates basically additional capacity to repay more
federal state aid,”  Albert Ploegh , an analyst at ING Groep NV
in Amsterdam, wrote in a note published before the pricing was
announced. “During a recent sell-side meeting, management
seemed less outspoken on its ability to repay in full the
remaining 3 billion euros by year-end.”  The sale freed up 385 million euros in capital, boosting
KBC’s solvency by about 0.3 percentage point, the company said.  “It remains our ambition to pay back a substantial part of
state aid to the federal government before the end of this
year,” Chief Executive Officer Johan Thijs said in the
statement.  KBC acquired most of the shares that were sold today at an
average price of 93.12 euros apiece, as part of a 3 billion-euro
 share buyback  program that was halted after 17 months in May
2008.  KBC shares were suspended from trading in Brussels today
pending the results of the placement, which was announced
yesterday after the close of market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  