-- Kenya’s Lake Turkana Wind Project Delayed Again by Lending Talks
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-10-16T12:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/kenya-s-lake-turkana-wind-project-delayed-again-by-lending-talks.html
Kenya ’s  Lake Turkana Wind Power Ltd. 
said financing talks will again delay the start of construction
of a 611 million-euro ($795 million) wind farm, billed as sub-
Saharan Africa’s largest.  The groundbreaking for the project, which will add 300
megawatts or about a fifth of Kenya’s present generating
capacity to the national grid, will take “maybe another three
or four months,” Chairman Carlo van Wageningen told reporters
today in Nairobi. It had been scheduled for April, he said.  “We are now waiting for the financial close that we are
negotiating with our lenders,” he said. The African Development
Bank, the lead lender, and co-arrangers  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) 
and  NedBank Group Ltd. (NED) , are in talks with the  European
Investment Bank  and the development banks of France, Germany and
the Netherlands, he said.  The Lake Turkana project is part of Kenya’s drive to invest
in road, ports and energy infrastructure to produce sustainable
double-digit growth by 2030. The continent needs to spend at
least $93 billion annually until 2020 to address the lack of
roads, ports and power plants, according to the AfDB.  Kenya Power Ltd. (KPLL) , the East African nation’s monopoly power
distributor, has agreed to buy 300 megawatts of electricity over
two decades from the project in the nation’s remote and arid
northwest.  Financing for the Lake Turkana project was expected to have
been completed by October 2011. The lead lenders are negotiating
with France’s Proparco investment agency, Nederlandse
Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden NV, the
Dutch development lender known as FMO, and Germany’s Deutsche
Investitions und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH, a unit of
Germany’s state-owned KfW Group, van Waginengen said.  The project will comprise 365  wind turbines , each with a
capacity of 850 kilowatts, to be installed on 40,000 acres,
according to the company’s website. Lake Turkana Wind Power
leased 150,000 acres of land in an area with a capacity to
produce 2,000 megawatts of wind power annually, van Wageningen
said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  