-- NCAA Moves Championships From New Jersey Due to Gambling Law
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-16T19:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ncaa-moves-championships-from-n-j-due-to-sports-gambling-law.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  will relocate five championships from New Jersey
after the state  adopted regulations  for sports wagering at
racetracks and Atlantic City casinos.  NCAA rules prohibit holding any championship session in a
state with legal wagering that’s based on single-game betting
involving a point spread or money line.  While sports gambling is still prohibited in New Jersey by
a 1992 federal law, the state has filed a lawsuit challenging
the ban. Yesterday’s action by the state’s Division of Gaming
Enforcement will allow casinos and racetracks to apply for
licenses to provide sports wagering starting Jan. 9, 2013, with
the applications costing $50,000.  “The law in New Jersey requires that we no longer host
championships in the state,”  Mark Lewis , NCAA executive vice
president of championships and alliances, said in a  statement .
“We will work hard in the days ahead to find new suitable host
locations which will allow the student-athletes to have the best
possible competitive experience.”  Among the NCAA events that will be moved out of New Jersey
from 2013 are regionals for the Division I men’s and women’s
swimming and diving championships in Piscataway, and early-round
games for the Division I women’s basketball championship in
Trenton.  “The NCAA wants to penalize New Jersey for responsibly
legalizing what occurs illegally every day in every state and
often with the participation of organized crime,”  Michael
Drewniak , a spokesman for New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
said in an e-mail. "But the NCAA looks the other way for that?
Ludicrous and hypocritical.’’  Legal Dispute  Next year’s Division III men’s volleyball championship will
also be relocated from Hoboken, as will the 2013 Division II and
III women’s lacrosse championships in Montclair.  “Maintaining the integrity of sports and protecting
student-athlete well-being are at the bedrock of the NCAA’s
mission,” Lewis said.  The NCAA and four major professional sports -- the  National
Football League ,  Major League Baseball , the  National Hockey
League  and  National Basketball Association  -- in August sued New
Jersey officials in federal court seeking to stop the state from
implementing sports wagering. The suit is ongoing.  New Jersey Governor Chris Christie in January signed a law
to permit sports gambling at the state’s racetracks and casinos,
and has said the federal government doesn’t have the right to
decide that only certain states can have sports wagering. A 1992
U.S. law bans betting in all but four states: Nevada, Delaware,
Montana and Oregon.  “It’s worth noting that the law the governor signed
prohibits wagering on college games being played in NJ or any
college game involving a NJ college team, regardless of where
played,” Drewniak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  