-- Nets Make NBA Debut in Brooklyn With Exhibition Win Over Wizards
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-16T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/nets-make-nba-debut-in-brooklyn-with-exhibition-win-over-wizards.html
The Nets made their  Brooklyn  debut
with a 98-88 exhibition victory against the Washington Wizards.  It was the National Basketball Association team’s first
game at its new home in New York after 35 years in New Jersey.  Brook Lopez had 18 points and 11 rebounds last night to
lead the Nets to the win at the Barclays Center, the arena
that’s part of a $4.9 billion, 22-acre project next to
Brooklyn’s main public transportation hub.  “It was absolutely fantastic,” Lopez said in a televised
interview. “I couldn’t help but smile a lot of the time. The
fans brought so much energy, the arena was alive the whole time
and they made it fun for us to be out there playing.”  The Nets, who are coming off five straight losing seasons,
acquired six-time All-Star guard Joe Johnson during the
offseason and brought back point guard Deron Williams, a three-
time All-Star.  Johnson scored 14 points last night while Williams had 11
points and nine assists. Nets forward Andray Blatche added 16
points off the bench against his former team.  The distinctive herringbone-patterned court at the Barclays
Center showcased the team’s new black and white color scheme on
the lanes and baselines, while the center-court logo features a
“B” inside a basketball surrounded by the words “Brooklyn New
York.” The changes made by Nets ownership, led by Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , are part of an effort to distance
the organization from the team that lost almost 500 games more
than it won while based in New Jersey.  NBA Commissioner David Stern said last month at the
Bloomberg Sports Business Summit that the Nets might become one
of the league’s five highest-revenue teams in their first season
in the Barclays Center, citing the franchise’s sponsorship and
season-ticket sales.  The Nets open their regular-season schedule on Nov. 1 at
home against the New York Knicks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  