-- News Corp. Says CEO-Chairman Split Rejected as Board Elected
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-10-16T20:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/news-corp-says-ceo-chairman-split-rejected-as-board-elected-1-.html
News Corp. (NWS)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  said shareholders rejected a
proposal to split the top two roles at the company, based on a
preliminary count of votes.  Shareholders also rejected a proposal to eliminate the
company’s dual stock capital structure, Murdoch, 81, said today
at the annual shareholder meeting in Los Angeles. Nominees to
the board, including Murdoch’s sons Lachlan and James, received
majority approval, he said.  Investors have re-mounted a campaign to separate the
chairman and CEO roles, both held by Murdoch, to increase
accountability. The efforts were unsuccessful at last year’s
meeting and stem from Murdoch’s handling of a phone-hacking
scandal that erupted at the company’s U.K. newspapers last year.  “This reform is absolutely necessary,” said  Julie Tanner ,
assistant director of socially responsible investing at
Christian Brothers Investment Services, which backs the split.
“The lack of internal controls at the company has had real and
lasting repercussions. It has resulted in shuttering a
newspaper, criminal investigations, the canceled BSkyB
acquisition, eroded public trust, and it has tarnished the
company’s reputation.”  News Corp. (NWSA) , based in New York, is embroiled in multiple
police investigations for hacking into mobile phones and
computers, as well as bribing public officials. U.K. authorities
also are considering whether to bring corporate charges against
News Corp.’s board for the alleged crimes.  60 Arrests  At least 60 people have been arrested since police began
the probes last year. The company was forced to call off its
acquisition of British Sky Broadcasting Plc.  News Corp. Class A shares gained 1.7 percent to $24.77 at
the close in  New York . The  nonvoting stock  has advanced 39
percent this year.  The board opposed the split of the top roles, as well as
elimination of the dual classes of stock. The  Class B shares 
give Murdoch a 38 percent voting stake in the company.  “Mandating a separation of the positions of chairman and
CEO would weaken the company’s current leadership structure,”
News Corp.’s board said in a Sept. 4 filing. “The proposal
would deprive the board of the valuable flexibility to exercise
its business judgment in selecting the individual best suited to
serve as chairman in the future.”  Christian Brothers, which invests about $4 billion for
largely Catholic institutions, has been a vocal opponent of
Murdoch’s governance.  Tanner filed the proposal to separate the chairmanship and
CEO positions earlier this year, garnering the support of at
least 18 investor groups holding a total of more than 13.5
million of the nonvoting shares. News Corp. has a market value
of $59 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  