-- News Corp.’s Murdoch Faces Renewed Calls to Split Top Posts
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-10-16T09:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/news-corp-s-murdoch-faces-renewed-calls-to-split-top-positions.html
News Corp. (NWS)  Chief Executive Officer
 Rupert Murdoch , still coping with a phone-hacking scandal that
erupted at the company’s U.K. papers last year, faces renewed
calls from shareholders today to step down as chairman.  Investors have mounted a campaign to separate the chairman
and CEO roles -- both held by Murdoch -- to increase
accountability. They’re pushing shareholders to vote for the
proposal at today’s annual meeting at Fox Studios in  Los
Angeles .  While efforts to split the two jobs were unsuccessful at
last year’s meeting and aren’t limited to  News Corp. (NWSA) , Murdoch’s
handling of the scandal gives fresh ammunition to proponents
such as Christian Brothers Investment Services Inc.  “An independent voice is needed, and Rupert is certainly
not independent,” said  Julie Tanner , director of socially
responsible investing for New York-based Christian Brothers
Investment Services Inc., a backer of the proposal.  News Corp., based in  New York , is embroiled in multiple
police investigations for hacking into mobile phones and
computers, as well as bribing public officials. U.K. authorities
also are considering whether to bring corporate charges against
News Corp.’s board for the alleged crimes. At least 60 people
have been arrested since police began the probes last year.  News Corp.  gained  1 percent to $24.36 yesterday in New York
trading. The shares have risen 37 percent this year. Nathaniel Brown, a spokesman for News Corp., declined to comment on the
proposal.  ‘Pretty Peaceful’  In an Oct. 11  post  on Twitter, Murdoch said he was busy
preparing for today’s meeting. “Signs pretty peaceful, but any
shareholders with complaints should take profits and sell!” he
said.  “Mandating a separation of the positions of chairman and
CEO would weaken the company’s current leadership structure,”
News Corp.’s board said in a Sept. 4 filing. “The proposal
would deprive the board of the valuable flexibility to exercise
its business judgment in selecting the individual best suited to
serve as chairman in the future.”  Christian Brothers, which invests about $4 billion for
largely Catholic institutions, has been a vocal opponent of
Murdoch’s governance. Tanner filed  the proposal  to separate the
chairmanship and CEO positions earlier this year, garnering  the
support  of at least 18 investor groups holding a total of more
than 13.5 million in Class A shares. News Corp. has a market
value of $58 billion.  Calpers Support  “There’s been a lack of responsiveness by the board to
this scandal,” she said. “The company is at risk where a
scandal like this could happen again without having very clear
and strong oversight.”  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the biggest
U.S. pension fund, said on its  website  it voted to split the
chairman and CEO positions. The fund holds less than 1 percent
of Class B shares.  Bloomberg News  and its parent Bloomberg LP compete with
News Corp. in providing financial news and information.  It will be difficult to get a majority in any vote to
unseat Murdoch because of his control over voting shares. News
Corp.’s stock is split into two classes, with  Class B shares 
given one vote per share and Class A shares holding no voting
power. That underscores the need for an independent chairman,
backers of the proposal say.  No Conflicts  Shareholder-advisory firms such as  Glass Lewis  & Co. have
endorsed the measure, and it’s won support from some investors
who are otherwise happy with Murdoch’s leadership.  Donald Yacktman , president of Yacktman Asset Management Co., said that
while he has no major conflicts with Murdoch, he plans to vote
for the proposal.  “I can live with it either way,” said Yacktman, who isn’t
affiliated with the groups behind the proposal. His Austin,
Texas-based firm, which oversees $17 billion in assets, is the
fourth-largest  holder  of News Corp.’s Class A shares with a 5
percent stake.  Glass Lewis also has recommended against electing five of
the 14 directors nominated by the company, including Murdoch’s
sons James and Lachlan. James, who is the deputy chief operating
officer of the company, is being considered to run the U.S.
television business as the company prepares to spin off its
publishing assets, people with knowledge of the situation said
last month.  Voting Control  Institutional Shareholder Services, which advises more than
1,700 investors on corporate-governance issues, also favors the
proposal to split the chairman and CEO positions. At the same
time, the firm endorsed the full slate of board directors put
forth by the company, a reversal from last year when it opposed
13 of the 15 directors, including the Murdochs.  Murdoch’s 40 percent stake in News Corp.’s Class B voting
shares makes it difficult to enact board changes that differ
from his wishes.  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , a friend of the
Murdoch family, owns an additional 7 percent of voting shares.  Even so, that tight control can be an asset when it’s used
on behalf of all investors, said Lawrence Haverty, a  fund
manager  at  Gamco Investors Inc. (GBL)   “Murdoch has acted assiduously in the shareholders’
interests,” Haverty said. Rye, New York-based Gamco oversees
$36.7 billion in assets, including about 5 million of News
Corp.’s Class A shares and 159,000 Class B shares.  While outcry over the hacking scandal may have hurt the
reputation of the company, the legal fallout has been limited to
the U.K. so far, he said.  Brooks Payment  Rebekah Brooks, the former head of News Corp.’s U.K.
newspaper operations, was given a payout package worth about 7
million pounds ($11.3 million) after stepping down amid the
phone-hacking scandal, according to a person familiar with the
matter. The package included legal fees, cash and a chauffeur-
driven car, the person said, declining to be identified because
the payment is not public.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News
Corp.’s News International unit, declined to comment.  Brooks, who stepped down in July 2011, and 13 other people
will face the first criminal trial next year over their roles in
the phone-hacking scandal. Brooks was among executives charged
with either conspiring to intercept the voice mail of
celebrities, lawmakers and crime victims, or conspiring to cover
up the practice as the police probe intensified last year.  BSkyB Dropped  Scrutiny over journalism practices at the company’s U.K.
newspapers prompted Murdoch to drop a bid to buy out the
remaining shares of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  Instead
the company bought back more of its shares, helping lift the
stock price. The plan to break up the company into entertainment
and publishing pieces is another boon, Haverty said.  News Corp.’s  TV units , including Fox News and FX, account
for more than 74 percent of annual operating profit. The split
will let the company demonstrate more of the value from its
cable networks, Haverty said.  News Corp. has nominated two new board directors for
approval at the meeting: former U.S. Labor Secretary Elaine Chao
and ex-Colombian President  Alvaro Uribe . The nominees will
replace Andrew Knight and  John Thornton , who plan to step down
as directors following the event.  Close allies of Uribe have been accused by prosecutors of
ordering illegal wiretaps against political opponents,
journalists who covered the administration and Supreme Court
justices who were probing pro-government lawmakers’ alleged ties
to paramilitary groups. While Uribe has never been charged with
illegal wiretapping while in power, he’s defended his allies
amid calls by the opposition for a broader probe.  Brown, the News Corp. spokesman, declined to comment on
Uribe’s administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  