-- NHL Offers 50-50 Revenue Split With 82 Games to End Lockout
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-10-16T19:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/nhl-offers-50-50-revenue-split-with-82-games-as-lockout-goes-on.html
The  National Hockey League  offered a
50-50 revenue split with players as part of a proposed
collective bargaining agreement that would end a lockout and
enable all 82 regular-season games to be played.  The proposal would have the season start Nov. 2, three
weeks later than had been scheduled.  “We very much want to preserve a full 82-game season and
in that light we made a proposal, an offer really,”
Commissioner Gary Bettman said on the league’s website. “It is
our best shot at preserving an 82-game regular season and
playoffs.”  Bettman discussed the proposal following an hour-long
meeting at the NHL Players’ Association offices in Toronto.  Don Fehr, executive director of the union, said he needs to
review the proposal further before responding.  “I’ve been looking for a way to get these negotiations
jump-started and if this does it, that would be great,” Fehr
told reporters in Toronto. “We’ll see. It’s always good to get
another proposal and I hope after we digest it, we’ll think its
a place from which we can go forward.”  Fehr said there was no timetable for when the two sides
will hold discussions again.  “I suspect it will be sooner rather than later,” he said.  The offer is contingent upon a full season being played,
Bettman said. The league said it isn’t asking for salary
rollbacks from the players, and that the 50-50 split would
involve hockey related revenue. The players received 57 percent
of such revenue under the contract that expired on Sept. 15.  “We’re focused on getting the season started on Nov. 2,”
Bettman said. “That’s what this offer was about.”  Owners and players are arguing about how to split revenue
and other issues including salary arbitration and the length of
unrestricted free agency.  The league locked out players on Sept. 16, the day after
the collective bargaining agreement expired.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  