-- Nude Model Meets Blond Sprouting Wings in Hamilton Show: Review
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-10-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/nude-model-meets-blond-sprouting-wings-in-hamilton-show-review.html
Richard Hamilton, who died last year
at the age of 89, was known as a witty and cerebral precursor of
British pop art.  Even the title of the  London   National Gallery  exhibition of
his final pictures, “Late Works,” is a black joke. Hamilton
may have guessed he would be a late artist by the time the
exhibition opened).  Admittedly, in late years his work became not cool but
heated and politically engaged. Nonetheless, it’s unexpected to
find him turning in these “Late Works” to that venerable theme
in western art, the nude.  Not all feature naked young women, but most include an
unclothed blond or brunette taking the viewer on a sort of
naturist tour through highlights of art history.  For example, “FlorVence” (2004-5) presents an unclothed
blond stepping out of a monastic cell in the friary of San
Marco, Florence (erstwhile residence of the 15th-century hellfire
preacher Savonarola). On the wall beside her are graffiti-style
sketches of the Stations of the Cross.  “The Passage of the Angel to the Virgin”(2007) finds the
same blond, sprouting wings, blurred with movement and equally
undressed, playing the part of the angel of the annunciation;
the Madonna is a nude brunette.  Fra Angelico  The entire image is quotation of a 15th century altarpiece
in the manner of Fra Angelico, the painter/monk who frescoed the
cells in San Marco.  Hamilton was a great admirer of Marcel Duchamp, to whose
work he also tips his hat here. “Descending Nude” (2006) is a
clever inversion of Duchamp’s “Nude Descending a Staircase”
(1912).  The original depicts one nude in a sequence of different
positions as she walks down the steps. Hamilton’s picture
consists of three walking downstairs, and another surveying the
scene in a mirror.  He referred to all these works as “paintings,” but in
fact they often consist of photographic imagery, edited and
collaged on a computer screen, which was then sometimes painted
over in oils.  Appropriately then, his last unfinished work presents three
great painters contemplating a photographic nude. It took its
theme from “Le Chef-d’oeuvre inconnu,” (The Unknown
Masterpiece), a short story by Honore de Balzac about the
ultimate failure of an elderly painter.  Convincing Nude  Balzac’s artist Frenhofer spends decades attempting to
paint a nude so convincing that looking at it would be like
being in the presence of a real woman.  When younger painters come to visit him, all they see is
“a mass of strange lines forming a wall of paint” from which
one female foot can be glimpsed emerging.  In “Le Chef-d’oeuvre inconnu” (2011), Hamilton collaged
self-portraits by three great masters of the nude -- Titian,
Poussin and Courbet -- into a studio setting.  In the foreground reclines a naked woman, actually taken
from a 19th-century photograph. Titian and Courbet seem to be
discussing her, looking slightly anxious. They could well be
debating the eternal and insoluble problem of how to capture a
living, breathing 3D world on a two-dimensional sheet of canvas
or paper.  I wouldn’t say that Hamilton’s work, like Frenhofer’s, was
a failure. It’s far too intelligent for that. Nonetheless, to my
mind, there’s often an ingredient missing, which was --
ironically given the amount of flesh on display -- a sensuous
feeling of reality.  To see the way a great painter of the past could create
poetry in surfaces and color even while presenting a grimly
funereal theme, pop into Room I, where Poussin’s “Extreme
Unction” (1638-40) is on show as part of a public appeal to buy
it for the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge.  “Richard Hamilton: The Late Works” is at the National
Gallery, London, until Jan. 13, 2013. Information:
 http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk  or call +44-20-7747-2423.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Ryan
Sutton  on  New York  dining and  Hephzibah Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 