-- Obama’s $5 Billion Slow to Charge Electric Car Purchases
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-10-16T20:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/obama-s-5-billion-slow-to-charge-electric-car-purchases.html
President  Barack Obama  has put $5
billion in taxpayer money behind his goal of having 1 million
electric cars on U.S. roads by 2015. The Republican presidential
ticket says it’s money wasted on “losers.”  Whether the technology itself is a loser or consumers are
merely slow to adapt to new things, car buyers so far haven’t
embraced  electric vehicles  in numbers close to Obama’s goal.
Electric-vehicle sales since 2011 totaled fewer than 50,000
through September, just 5 percent of the president’s target.  “The reality is: that business model isn’t there yet,”
said  Brett Smith , co-director of manufacturing, engineering and
technology at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor,
Michigan. “It isn’t there yet for volume. It isn’t there yet
for reaching the mass consumer. And it probably isn’t going to
be there for a while.”  Obama’s $5 billion invested in electric cars includes loans
and grants to car and battery producers, spending on charging
stations and $7,500 tax credits to car buyers. Recipients of
loans and grants include Nissan Motor Co., which got a $1.4
billion loan to build the Leaf and its battery pack in the U.S,;
Fisker Automotive Inc., which Ryan criticized in last week’s
vice presidential debate for building its first model in
Finland; Tesla Motors Corp. and  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE) , the battery
maker that filed for Chapter 11  bankruptcy protection  today.  Nascent Technologies  Electric vehicles aren’t the first nascent technology the
U.S. government has financed. Others have eventually spawned a
mass market.  Obama’s $5 billion investment in electric cars -- part of
$90 billion spent by his administration on green energy --
compares with about $4 billion from his 2009 stimulus plan that
went to increase the use and availability of high-speed  Internet
service .  That money has paid to deploy or improve 72,152 miles of
network lines, according to a September report by the National
Telecommunications & Information Administration, the Commerce
Department arm that administers the program.  “Government investment in high-risk, high-reward
technologies is critical,” said Matthew Stepp, a senior clean
energy policy analyst at the Information Technology and
Innovation Foundation in Washington who wrote a  report  about
electric-vehicle battery investment released last week.  “The last century of breakthrough technology development
has shown this to be true,” he said. “But with any
breakthrough idea, it sometimes takes a while to develop new
technologies and make it to market.”  Volt, Leaf  As recently as June,  General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson forecast as many as 40,000 sales of the
plug-in Chevrolet Volt this year, lowering his previous goal of
as many as 60,000. The automaker delivered 7,671 Volts in 2011
and 7,997 in its first 13 months of sales.  Through September, Detroit-based GM had sold 16,348 Volts
this year, according to Autodata Corp. After inventories swelled
to 84 days’ supply in July, GM in August said it would halt Volt
production for four weeks this month and last month. The days
supply for Volts fell to 49 in September, compared with an
industry average of 59 days, according to TrueCar.com.  Nissan CEO  Carlos Ghosn  in 2009 said Obama’s goal was, if
anything, too modest. Sales of Nissan’s Leaf, the only mass-
market electric car sold in the U.S. that doesn’t have a backup
gasoline engine, have fallen 28 percent this year through
September compared with last year, its first full year of sales.  ‘Can’t Fail’  The Leaf’s hurdles include its price and consumer
complaints that its battery range is less than the 73 miles per
charge the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency says it
averages, said Alan Baum, principal of auto-industry researcher
Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield, Michigan.  “This can’t fail,” Baum said. “Is it going to sell
100,000 next Thursday? Of course not. But they’ve put a lot into
this, and they need this to be successful.”  Leaf drivers operate their cars for one-quarter to one-
third of the cost of a comparable car with an internal-
combustion engine, said David Reuter, a Nissan spokesman. The
savings depend on where someone lives and what their utility
rates are.  “We really do look at this as a long-term strategy, long-
term commitment, so we’re not as focused on where we’ve come
from as where we can go in the future,” he said.  Volt owners fill up their gas tanks every 900 miles or
every month and a half, on average, said Michelle Malcho, a GM
spokeswoman.  Cost Barriers  The Leaf sells for a $36,050 base price, the plug-in Toyota
Motor Corp. Prius costs at least $32,000,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Focus
EV starts at $39,200 and the Volt starts at $39,145. Buyers of
each qualify for a $7,500 U.S. tax credit.  Those prices are higher than for comparable non-electric
models and on par with entry-level luxury sedans such as
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s 328i,  Jesse Toprak , vice president
of market intelligence at TrueCar.com, said. Fisker’s electric-
powered Karma costs more than $100,000, while Tesla’s least-
expensive model costs $57,400. Fisker is based in Anaheim,
California. Tesla is based in Palo Alto, California.  Charging Stations  Battery costs account for the difference between plug-ins
and conventional cars. The Energy Department’s investments have
cut the cost of a battery with a 100-mile range by about half,
to $17,000, and the cost will fall to $10,000 by 2015, Dan Leistikow, a department spokesman, said in a blog post today.  “As costs come down even further, the market for hybrids
and electric vehicles -- which has nearly doubled in the U.S.
since last year -- will grow even further,” he wrote.  The post followed A123’s filing today for bankruptcy
protection. A123 received a $249.1 million Energy Department
grant in 2009 to build a U.S. factory and made the defective
battery packs that led a recall of the Karma. A123 fell 74
percent to 6 cents a share today after the filing.  Electric car drivers also need places to recharge their
vehicles; without access to them, pure electrics won’t run and
plug-in hybrids have to burn gasoline. As of Sept. 30, according
to the Energy Department, there were 13,659 electric charging
 stations  in the U.S., a country of 3.8 million square miles.  “I don’t think the technology is scary or causes people to
hold back,” said John O’Dell, senior green car editor for auto
researcher Edmunds.com. “The price of the technology does, and
the inadequacies of the technology do.”  Car Fires  Fisker has recalled the Karma three times, with one
stemming from a fire, and GM struggled last year to sustain
interest in the Volt after a vehicle crash-tested by U.S.
regulators caught fire.  GM improved protection of the battery packs and U.S. safety
officials, while finding electric cars were no more fire-prone
than conventional models, convened a forum on battery safety in
May.  “If you have a technology that doesn’t quite meet
expectations or has a connotation of something negative happen
to it, even if it is like the Volt fire and probably not the
fault of the vehicle, it can damage perception and the
acceptance of the vehicle,” CAR’s Smith said. He cited GM’s
introduction of “horrible”  diesel engines  in the 1970s that
“set diesel technology back decades.”  When the Volt was introduced in 2010, GM required each
Chevrolet dealer to keep one on their lots for promotional
purposes, said  Michael Martin , a Manassas, Virginia, dealer
who’s on the board of the  National Automobile Dealers
Association .  ‘Little Pricey’  Martin, who sold 14 Volts last year, said they sometimes
attract buyers who end up purchasing lower-priced small cars.  “We’ve had good interest in the car,” he said.
“Obviously it’s a little pricey when you start looking at
comparable gas-powered products, especially in the Chevrolet
line.”  GM and Nissan, based in Yokohama, Japan, now offer deals so
attractive that some people can drive plug-in cars for what
they’d save in gasoline each month, Truecar’s Toprak said. The
Leaf can be leased for $199 a month, according to
 LeaseTrader.com .  The economics are particularly favorable in California,
where regular gasoline yesterday cost an average of $4.61 a
gallon, according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring
organization.  California Sales  Toprak commutes 17 miles a day each way in  Los Angeles . He
tested a Volt for a month, charging it at free stations near his
office. He estimates that charging it at his home would have
cost about $1 a day, compared with the $300 he spends on
gasoline in an average month.  “If I can lease a Volt for up to $270 a month, that’s
essentially a free car for me,” Toprak said in an interview.  Nearly a fifth of plug-in sales have been in California,
which has set a goal of having sales of zero-emission vehicles
account for more than 15 percent of the state’s new-car
purchases by 2025.  Volt sales are improving in key markets, GM’s Malcho said
in an e-mail.  “We are starting to move away from the early tech adopter
to more mainstream consideration in markets like California,
Michigan, Illinois and Florida,” she said.  Green Alternatives  Sales might rise if automakers produced a plug-in small
sport-utility vehicle rather than small and midsized cars,
O’Dell said.  This year, new plug-ins on the market include Toyota’s
Prius, Ford’s Focus and Honda Motor Co.’s Fit, which counts 32
sales this year. Toyota, the biggest maker of hybrid autos,
plans to produce an electric RAV4 sport-utility vehicle costing
more than twice as much as the gasoline version. Toyota in May
said it plans to deliver 2,600 of the $49,800 SUVs over the next
three years.  Not all automakers are counting on the technology’s
acceptance in time. Chrysler Group LLC in September announced it
was suspending tests of plug-in hybrid trucks and looking for
new battery technology after some powerplants overheated. Honda
and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  have invested more in fuel-cell vehicles.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , based in Wolfsburg, Germany, is focusing on
improving its gasoline and diesel engines and on natural-gas
cars,  Jonathan Browning , its top U.S. executive, said last week.  “I don’t believe it’s the place of government to choose
between those technologies,” Browning said in a speech in
Washington. “As opposed to having a singular focus on electric
vehicles and electrification, there are all these other
technologies out there.”  Plug-In Skeptics  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has called
Obama’s support of electric vehicles “crony capitalism” and
his running mate,  Paul Ryan , has called for all green-energy
subsidies to be eliminated.  Green energy was a topic in the first presidential debate
Oct. 3 in Denver. The candidates square off again tonight at
Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y.  “Even with a $7,500 tax break per electric vehicle, the
president will come nowhere near his goal of putting one million
EVs on the road,” Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Romney’s
campaign, said in an e-mail. “The vehicles will remain
uncompetitive unless gas prices approach $10 per gallon, which
of course is what the president’s secretary of energy wants gas
to cost.”  Six Years  Increasing sales of advanced-technology vehicles including
electric cars show the administration’s strategy is working,
 Clark Stevens , a White House spokesman, said.  “The goal of the administration’s support of advanced
vehicles is to foster a domestic industry that develops and
manufactures these advanced technologies here in America, and
more importantly the jobs that come with them,” Stevens said in
an e-mail.  Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk  of Tesla, which along
with Fisker was called a loser by Romney during the first
presidential debate, says while Obama may have been premature
with his 1 million goal by 2015, it won’t take much longer.  “I don’t think it’s likely to be a million in three years,
but I do think perhaps we’ll see a million in six to eight
years,” Musk said Sept. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  