-- Loblaw to Cut 700 Administrative Jobs, Take Charge
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-10-16T15:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/loblaw-to-cut-700-administrative-jobs-take-charge.html
Loblaw Cos. (L) ,  Canada ’s largest
grocery chain by market value, will cut 700 jobs and take a C$60
million ($60.8 million) charge as it seeks to reduce costs after
projecting declining annual profit.  The cuts, mostly in management and administrative
positions, will take effect today and be completed in three
weeks, the Brampton, Ontario-based company said in a statement.
The charge will be recorded in the fourth quarter.  “We’re managing costs where it makes sense by reducing
administrative expense,” Loblaw President Vicente Trius said in
the statement. “We will continue to invest in driving the
business forward by devoting more resources to enhance the
customer proposition.”  Loblaw is upgrading its supply chain’s technology and
infrastructure in search of savings, and the job cuts are likely
tied to the new system, Kenric Tyghe, an analyst with  Raymond
James Securities (RJF) , said by telephone from Toronto.  “With their new systems capabilities, certain HR
requirements are now redundant and hence the job cuts,” he
said. “There was a lot of stuff they had to do to run the
business and that required a lot more heads than they will
require running the business going forward.”  Tyghe, who rates the shares outperform, the equivalent of a
buy, said he viewed the move positively.  Loblaw  rose  2.4 percent to C$34.70 at 11:25 a.m. in Toronto
and earlier climbed as much as 2.7 percent for the biggest
intraday gain since July 3. The shares  declined  12 percent this
year through yesterday.  Loblaw in July reported second-quarter profit fell 19
percent to C$159 million, or 56 cents a share, amid higher labor
and transportation costs, while sales rose 1.3 percent to C$7.38
billion and same-store sales grew 0.2 percent.  Chairman Galen G. Weston said in the report the company
continued to expect full-year net earnings would fall from last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  