-- MoFo & Skadden on Softbank, Akin Gump: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-16T15:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/mofo-skadden-on-softbank-akin-gump-business-of-law.html
Morrison & Foerster LLP  represents
 Softbank Corp. (9984) , which agreed to buy a stake of about 70 percent
in  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  for $20.1 billion as Japan’s third-
biggest mobile-phone operator seeks growth overseas amid a
declining local market. Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP
served as lead counsel to Sprint.  Morrison & Foerster Tokyo managing partner Ken Siegel and
San Francisco partner and co-chairman of global mergers and
acquisitions practice Robert Townsend led the deal team for
Softbank. Other corporate M&A partners include Andrew Winden,
Ivan Smallwood, Dale Caldwell, David Lipkin, Jackie Liu and
Brandon Parris. Antitrust partners Jeff Jaeckel and David Meyer
also worked on the deal. Additional partners include Nicholas Spiliotes, committee on foreign investment; Bernie Pistillo and
Eric Roose, tax; Michael Frank, executive compensation; and
Kathryn I. Johnstone and Peter Dopsch, financial transactions.  Skadden partners included Thomas Kennedy, Jeremy London,
Yossi Vebman, Stephanie Teicher,  Steven Sunshine , Regina Olshan,
Dean Schulman, Ivan Schlager, Toni Cook Bush and Matthew Hendrickson.  Softbank’s legal advisers also included Mori Hamada &
Matsumoto as Japanese counsel, Dow Lohnes PLLC as regulatory
counsel, Potter Anderson Corroon LLP as Delaware counsel, and
Foulston & Siefkin LLP as Kansas counsel.  For Sprint,  Lawler, Metzger, Keeney and Logan  served as
regulatory counsel, and Polsinelli Shughart PC served as Kansas
counsel.  Softbank will pay $12.1 billion to Sprint shareholders and
the deal includes $8 billion of new capital, according to a
statement yesterday. The deal would be the biggest publicly
announced outbound acquisition by a Japanese company since at
least 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Entering the U.S. allows billionaire Masayoshi Son,
Softbank’s president, to participate in a market that’s still
growing in contrast to Japan, where handset shipments tumbled 27
percent during the past five years. Sprint can fund a faster
expansion of its 4G wireless network, pay down debt or make more
acquisitions aimed at challenging bigger competitors  Verizon
Wireless (VZ)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   Softbank is creating U.S. holding entities to make the
acquisition. About 55 percent of Sprint shares will get $7.30 in
cash, and the rest will convert into 30 percent of a newly
capitalized company, which will include the $8 billion cash
infusion, Sprint said in a presentation to investors. Softbank
will also receive a warrant to purchase 55 million additional
Sprint shares at an exercise price of $5.25 a share.  The deal will be funded by cash on hand and bridge
financing. Softbank had $9.5 billion in cash and near cash items
at the end of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company hired  Mizuho Corporate Bank , Sumitomo Mitsui Banking,
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Deutsche Bank’s Tokyo branch as
lead arrangers. Citigroup Inc., Rothschild and UBS AG advised
Sprint.  For more, click here.  Ecolab to Buy Champion for $2.2 Billion to Boost Energy Unit  Fulbright & Jaworski LLP is advising  Ecolab Inc. (ECL) , which
agreed to buy Champion Technologies Inc. for about $2.2 billion
in cash and stock to complement last year’s purchase of Nalco
Holding Co. and grab a larger share of the oilfield-chemicals
business. Vinson & Elkins LLP mergers and acquisitions partner
 Chris Collins  led the deal for Permian Mud Service Inc., parent
company of Champion Technologies.  Stikeman Elliott LLP is acting as Canadian counsel to
Champion Technologies. Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP is Canadian
counsel to Ecolab.  Fulbright’s partners included Gene Lewis, Efren Acosta and
Heather Corken, corporate; and Jack Allender, tax.  Additional V&E partners included  John Lynch  and Jim Meyer,
tax, David D’Alessandro, Tax-EBEC; Neil Imus, antitrust; and
Larry Nettles, environmental.  Stikeman’s legal team included Paul Collins, Michael Kilby
and Michael Laskey.  Ecolab will pay approximately $1.7 billion in cash and
issue about 8 million shares of common stock, the  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based company said today in a statement.  Closely held Champion is based in Houston and is controlled
by the descendants of the late Willard M. Johnson, who first
bought a stake in Champion in 1959. It competes against some of
the largest oilfield-services companies, including Schlumberger
Ltd., Halliburton Co. and Baker Hughes Inc., making ingredients
that are pumped underground to clean wells and boost production.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Akin Gump Elects Kim Koopersmith as New Chairman of firm  After 20 years at the helm of  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP, R. Bruce McLean is handing over the reins to a new
firm chairman, Kim Koopersmith.  Koopersmith, a New York litigation partner who is currently
the U.S. managing partner, will take over the role in March
2013. She will have offices in both New York and Washington.
Among her clients is Wal-Mart Stores Inc., where she has served
as a relationship partner.  McLean will remain with the firm as senior executive
partner. When he began managing the firm, Akin Gump was a
regional firm with two offices outside  Texas . The firm now has
850 attorneys in 17 offices in the U.S.,  Europe , the Middle East
and  Asia .  “Over the last two decades, Akin Gump has achieved
tremendous success across many areas: strategically expanding
our global footprint, enhancing the high levels of service we
provide and focusing on the numerous qualities that make Akin
Gump such an exceptional place to work,” Koopersmith said in a
statement. “It is exciting to have the opportunity to partner
with my colleagues from across the firm to build on these
outstanding achievements.”  As U.S. managing partner, Koopersmith has overseen the
operations of Akin Gump, including financial oversight, client
service, recruitment and professional development, the firm
said. She has also headed the partner compensation committee and
the partnership admissions committee. She has been involved in
Akin Gump’s diversity efforts and in programs to attract and
retain talent.  Walkers Appoints Ingrid Pierce as Global Managing Partner  Financial law firm  Walkers  announce that Ingrid Pierce has
been appointed as global managing partner of the firm.  Pierce joined Walkers in 2002 after a career as a barrister
in London. She represents major financial institutions and
leading global investment fund managers in all aspects of
investment funds. She was made a partner of the firm in 2007 and
is the Head of Walkers’s  Cayman Islands  Investment Funds Group.  Pierce replaces Diarmad Murray as Walkers’ global managing
partner. He will remain with the firm as part of the global
Management Committee. Pierce will also continue in her role as
the leader of Walkers’ Cayman Islands Investment Funds Group and
remain involved in transactional work.  “I would like to pay tribute to Diarmad’s outstanding
contribution in this position,” Pierce said in a statement.
“We will continue to build on our strengths in Europe, Asia,
the Caribbean and across the Americas to deliver premium service
to our clients.”  The firm’s Irish office has grown nearly 30 lawyers in the
two years since it opened and the firm has been active in
 Singapore , where Walkers established a presence in Feb. 2009,
the firm said.  “I look forward to assisting with the transition to a new
generation of leadership in the firm in the months to come,”
Murray said in a statement.  Walkers has eight offices in the British Virgin Islands,
Cayman Islands, Dubai, Dublin,  Hong Kong ,  Jersey , London and
Singapore.  News  Dewey Partners’ Committee Appeals Settlement Approval  The Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP official committee for former
partners isn’t going down without a fight.  The back-and-forth between Dewey and the committee began on
Oct. 9 when a bankruptcy judge approved a $71.5 million
settlement with about 440 former partners. The partners’
committee opposed approval of the settlement, saying there
should be an examiner appointed instead to investigate the bona
fides of the compromise.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in New York disagreed,
saying the committee hadn’t “contributed in a productive way to
this bankruptcy case.” Picking up where the judge left off,
Dewey filed papers the next day, Oct. 10, asking the judge to
disband the committee.  The following day, Oct. 11, the partners’ committee filed
an appeal from approval of the settlement. Glenn will hold a
hearing on Nov. 1 to decide if the committee should be
disbanded.  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.  There was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Law Firm Partner Average Compensation Up 6% at Large Firms  Times may be tough at many of the nation’s largest law
firms, but you wouldn’t know it from looking at partner
paychecks.  Average partner compensation at America’s largest law firms
is up more than 6 percent since 2010, to $681,000, according to
a recent survey of more than 2,000 partners nationwide by the
legal consulting firm Major, Lindsey & Africa. But the survey
found a growing disparity between the pay of equity partners and
nonequity partners.  Equity partner compensation rose 11 percent to $896,000.
Compensation for nonequity partners stayed unchanged over the
past two years at $335,000.  Silicon Valley partners took home the most, averaging $1.2
million. New York partners were close behind at a little over $1
million. Philadelphia lawyers earned the least at $478,000.  Nationwide the gap between what men and women earn is
growing. Male partners earned $734,000, up 8 percent since 2010.
Female partners averaged $497,000, down 3 percent.  Moves  McDermott Hires Wealth Management Partner in London  McDermott Will & Emery LLP’s London office announced that
Astrid Owen joined as a partner in the firm’s private client
practice group, based in London. Previously she was a partner at
Withers, the firm said.  Owen has years of experience in cross-border planning for
large families and institutions. She has experience handling
international trust, tax and wealth transfer matters on an
international scale.  McDermott has a team of more than 60 lawyers and 20 non-
lawyer professionals working on wealth planning around the
globe. McDermott has more than 1,100 lawyers, with 18 offices in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Morrison & Foerster Adds Partner David Bresnick in London  Corporate lawyer David Bresnick will join Morrison &
Foerster LLP’s London office as a partner. He joins from CMS
Cameron McKenna LLP’s London office, where he headed the firm’s
private-equity group and led the corporate telecoms, media and
technology group, MoFo said in a statement.  Bresnick represents technology and telecom companies in
mergers and acquisitions, corporate finance, private equity
investments and related matters.  His hiring continues the firm’s expansion of its private
equity, mergers and acquisitions and cross-border transactional
capabilities.  MoFo has more than 1,000 lawyers in 15 offices in the U.S.,
Asia and Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 