-- Oil Rises in New York on Spanish Bailout Optimism
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-10-16T22:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/oil-fluctuates-in-n-y-u-s-cost-of-living-spain-credit.html
Oil advanced in New York after two
German lawmakers said the country is open to Spain seeking a
precautionary credit line from  Europe ’s rescue fund.  Futures rose 0.3 percent as officials in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic coalition indicated an easing of
German resistance to a Spanish bailout and Merkel praised
 Greece ’s reform. Crude fell earlier on projections that U.S.
supplies climbed last week. Brent oil’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark grade, reached a one-year high.  “Bailouts are good for commodities,” said Phil Flynn,
senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago .
“It appears that the Germans are coming around to giving
additional help to both Spain and Greece. Any help for those
countries will boost the risk-on trade and send oil higher.”  Crude oil for November delivery increased 24 cents to
$92.09 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Oct. 9. Prices are down 6.8 percent this year.  Prices were little changed after the industry-funded
American Petroleum Institute reported oil inventories gained 3.7
million barrels last week to 369.3 million. Oil was up 21 cents
at $92.06 a barrel at 4:33 p.m. in electronic trading. It was at
$92.13 before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent oil for November settlement dropped 73 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $115.07 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract expires today. The December
futures slipped 40 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $114.  Buzzard Field  The European benchmark touched a $24.28 premium to the New
York-traded WTI, the widest since Oct. 17, 2011. The settlement
spread was $22.98, down from $23.95 at the close of trading
yesterday. Brent decreased as exports of North Seas Forties
crude in November will increase to 19 cargoes as the restart of
the Buzzard oil field in the North Sea was delayed.  “The Brent market has been inflated by declining North Sea
production and hiccups in that production, like the problems
with Buzzard,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at
Jefferies Bache Ltd. in  London . “The price of WTI is also being
distorted by the huge increase in U.S. domestic oil
production.”  Germany  is signaling more willingness to cooperate with its
European Union partners on measures to staunch the debt crisis
before EU leaders meet in Brussels on Oct. 18-19.  A precautionary credit line for Spain “would be a possible
move,” Norbert Barthle, the Christian Democratic Party’s budget
spokesman, said today in a text message.  Greek Reforms  Merkel stepped up her praise of Greek reform efforts today
after Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble reaffirmed a
commitment to a so-called banking union and one of his deputies
said Germany would consider EU proposals to strengthen the
monetary union.  Equities and the euro gained on speculation about the
credit line for Spain. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and the
Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 1 percent. The euro
climbed as much as 0.9 percent to $1.3061. A stronger euro and
weaker U.S. currency bolster the appeal of dollar-denominated
raw materials as an investment.  An Energy Department report will show that U.S. crude oil
inventories rose  1.5 million barrels  last week, according to the
median of nine analyst responses in a Bloomberg survey. The
department is scheduled to release its weekly report at 10:30
a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  Crude Output  U.S. crude  production  increased 1.2 percent to 6.6 million
barrels a day in the week ended Oct. 5, the most since May 1995,
last week’s report from the department showed.  “The market is struggling to find any kind of clear-cut
direction,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Ample supplies in
the U.S. are a major headwind.”  Brent oil has been inflated by concern that shipments from
the Middle East will be disrupted because of Iran’s nuclear
program and conflict in  Syria . The European Union tightened
sanctions on Iran in a bid to persuade Tehran to permit more
scrutiny of its nuclear program. The EU also tightened sanctions
against the regime of Syria’s President Bashar al-Assad.  Israel ’s parliament, the Knesset, passed a law today by a
vote of 100-0 that dissolves the government and sets new
elections for Jan. 22. Tensions with Iran are also growing in
the midst of concern about the nature of the Islamic Republic’s
atomic work.  “The Knesset vote is probably reducing some of the
geopolitical premium in the price,” said Michael Lynch,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “The upcoming election reduces the likelihood of
an Israeli attack on  Iran  at least until the vote talks place.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 472,435
contracts as of 4:34 p.m. Volume totaled 616,178 contracts
yesterday, 17 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.58 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  