-- Oil Greases Return for Junk Banks to Ruble Bonds: Russia Credit
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-10-16T07:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/oil-greases-return-for-junk-banks-to-ruble-bonds-russia-credit.html
OAO AK Bars (AKBR) , a Russian bank rated
four levels below investment grade, is selling ruble bonds for
the first time in four years as lenders in the oil-rich
Tatarstan region seek to lure investors chasing higher yields.  AK Bars plans to issue 5 billion rubles ($161 million) of
three-year notes on Oct. 18, it said in an Oct. 11 filing. The
yield on the lender’s 10-year dollar bonds sold in July sank
nine basis points to 6.77 percent on Oct. 12, narrowing the
premium investors demand to hold the debt over emerging-market
peers to 214 basis points from an Oct. 1 record of 407 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes .  Russian companies are rushing to sell debt spurred by the
country’s main export oil blend trading above $100 since July
and U.S. and European bond-buying programs.  OAO Tatfondbank (TATF) , a
Tatar bank that’s two levels below AK Bars at B3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, finished taking bids for 2 billion rubles of
bonds last week.  “The ruble market is experiencing a true awakening,”
Maxim Korovin, a Moscow-based analyst at VTB Capital, said by
phone on Oct. 11. “We’re seeing that many issuers with lower
credit ratings are seizing their chance.”  AK Bars plans to use proceeds to develop loans to major
corporate customers and attract new clients, Aidar
Mukhametzyanov, director of investment business, said in an e-
mailed response to questions yesterday. The bank is returning to
ruble bonds because of the “good market situation,” he said.  Tatfondbank, which set the coupon at 13 percent on 2
billion rubles of three-year bonds, plans to direct funds toward
its strategy up to 2013, particularly increasing lending to
small and medium-sized business, the bank’s press service said
in e-mailed comments.  Oil Price  Urals crude ,  Russia ’s chief export earner, has averaged
$110.76 a barrel this year compared with $109.47 last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. OAO Tatneft, the
dominant  oil company  in the Tatar region of 3.79 million people,
increased output 0.5 percent in August to 530,000 barrels a day,
data from the Russian Energy Ministry’s CDU-TEK unit show.  The ruble rose 0.5 percent to 30.9485 per dollar by 11:12
a.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide
to expectations of currency movements, showed the ruble at
31.4150 per dollar in three months.  Bank Bonds  OAO Gazprombank (GZPR) , Russia’s third-largest lender, started
accepting bids for 10 billion rubles of bonds yesterday after
selling 30 billion rubles of three-year notes last week. The
local units of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Societe Generale SA are
also among lenders considering issuing in the Russian currency.  While Tatfondbank successfully closed the book on bids for
its notes, the yield is the highest on record, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Most demand is for higher-rated banks,
according to Alexey Korolenko, who helps manage 108 billion
rubles of assets including Tatfondbank bonds at Uralsib
Financial Corp. in Moscow.  “We’re seeing a lot of ruble issuance,” he said by phone
on Oct. 12. “In such a positive market, we’re more interested
in higher-quality companies. Such high-yield issuances bring a
high day-to-day return but the upside in price is barely
visible.”  Russia is rated Baa1 by Moody’s, the third-lowest
investment-grade ranking. Russia’s sovereign dollar bond due in
April 2020 climbed, lowering the yield four basis points to
2.516 percent. The yield on domestically traded notes due in
June 2017 fell four basis points to 7.11 percent. The yield on
Russia’s international ruble bond due in March 2018 was little
changed at 6.41 percent.  Cost Protection  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose one basis point to
141 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
swaps cost 16 basis points less than contracts for  Turkey , which
is rated three levels lower at Ba1 by Moody’s. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries slid one basis point to 183,
according to JPMorgan EMBI Global indexes. The difference
compares with 152 for debt of similarly-rated  Mexico  and 145 for
 Brazil , which is rated one step lower at Baa2 by Moody’s.  Banks will be the main buyers of the debt, according to
Konstantin Artemov, who helps oversee about $180 million in
Russian bonds at Raiffeisen Capital in Moscow. Issuers are
taking the opportunity to sell while the window for ruble bond
issuance is open, he said.  “The mood in the markets is very good right now, we’re
seeing a boom in ruble issuance,” he said by phone on Oct. 12.
“Right now is a great time to issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  