-- Oil Trades Near One-Week High on Bailout Optimism, U.S. Economy
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-10-17T12:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/oil-gains-a-second-day-on-spain-bailout-optimism-u-s-economy.html
Oil traded near the highest level in
a week in  New York  on signs Germany may ease its resistance to a
Spanish bailout and after industrial production rose more than
forecast in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures were little changed after rising as much as 0.7
percent today. Two German lawmakers said the country is open to
Spain seeking a precautionary  credit line . Output at U.S.
factories, mines and utilities rose 0.4 percent in September,
twice as much as the median forecast of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News , data from the Federal Reserve in Washington
showed yesterday.  “All the measures taken to show some progress in the
European debt crisis should improve sentiment for commodities
and for crude as well,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at
Raiffeisen Bank International AG in Vienna, who predicts Brent
crude will trade at about $114 a barrel at the end of the year.  Crude for November delivery was at $92.53 a barrel, up 44
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:44 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday rose 24 cents
to $92.09, the highest settlement since Oct. 9. Prices are down
6.4 percent this year.  Brent for December settlement slipped 33 cents to $113.67 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe. November futures
expired yesterday. The front-month European benchmark grade’s
 premium  to the corresponding West Texas Intermediate contract
was at $20.76 a barrel. It settled at $23.95 on Oct. 15, the
widest gap since reaching a record on Oct. 14, 2011.  U.S. Stockpiles  The comments in Germany by Michael Meister, a deputy caucus
leader of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic
coalition, and  Norbert Barthle , a budget spokesman for her
party, may signal a reversal of Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s public position. Schaeuble cautioned Spain against
seeking aid on top of its bank bailout as recently as last
month.  The European Union accounted for 16 percent of the world’s
oil consumption last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy. The U.S. used 21 percent.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose 3.7 million barrels last week,
data from the  American Petroleum Institute  showed yesterday.
They are forecast to climb 1.5 million barrels, according to the
median estimate of nine analysts in a Bloomberg survey before an
Energy Department report today.  Gasoline inventories fell 1.2 million barrels, the API data
showed. They are projected to rise  500,000 barrels  in the
government report. Distillate supplies, a category that includes
diesel and heating oil, gained 1.8 million barrels, according to
the API, compared with an estimated decline of 1.5 million in
the survey.  Technical Resistance  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Oil’s advance in New York may stall along its middle
Bollinger Band around $93.11 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Last week’s climb halted near this
indicator, signaling technical resistance, where sell orders
tend to be clustered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  