-- Holder Seeks to Dismiss House’s ‘Fast and Furious’ Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-10-16T19:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/holder-seeks-to-dismiss-house-s-fast-and-furious-suit.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
asked a court to throw out a lawsuit by a  House of
Representatives  committee seeking to enforce subpoenas in its
probe of the  Justice Department ’s effort to track the flow of
illegal weapons to Mexican drug cartels.  Holder said that under the U.S. Constitution’s separation
of powers, conflict over the “Operation Fast and Furious”
program should be resolved between the political branches,
according to his filing yesterday in federal court in
 Washington .  The committee isn’t pursuing documents concerning how the
executive branch executed the laws at issue, according to the
filing. Instead, it seeks documents created after the operation
ended, including “deliberative communications” among Justice
Department officials about how to respond to congressional and
media inquiries.  The suit “now asks this court to enter the fray and decide
whether the committee’s remaining interest in pursuing the so-
called ‘obstruction component’ of its investigation outweighs
the executive’s interest in protecting its internal
deliberations,” according to the filing.  The lawsuit, filed by the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee in August, stems from an investigation
initiated by the committee in February into so-called gun
walking, which allowed illegal gun purchases in the U.S. in an
effort to link the weapons to Mexican gangs. Holder, citing
executive privilege, has refused to give lawmakers some material
they want.  Incorrect Information  The House, controlled by Republicans, is seeking documents
describing internal Justice Department discussions about a
February 2011 letter to lawmakers that Holder later said
mistakenly contained incorrect information. The letter said the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, which
conducted the Fast and Furious operation, hadn’t “knowingly
allowed” the tactics in the law enforcement operation to be
employed.  The Justice Department says it has provided more than 7,600
pages of documents in the case.  The committee cited Holder for contempt of Congress in
June. President  Barack Obama  has asserted executive privilege
over the documents and declined to turn them over.  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who is chairman of
the committee, said in an e-mailed statement today that the
Obama administration and the federal government are
“perpetuating a cover-up,” and advancing arguments rejected by
federal courts that “our court system does not have
jurisdiction to ensure accountability.”  The case is Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
v. Holder, 1:12-cv-01332, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  