-- Ontario’s McGuinty Steps Down Amid Budget Impasse
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ontario-s-mcguinty-steps-down-amid-budget-impasse.html
Dalton McGuinty said yesterday he is
stepping down as Ontario premier amid controversy over canceled
power plants and an inability to implement budget cuts in his
minority government.  McGuinty, after nine years as premier of  Canada ’s most
populous province and 16 years as Liberal leader, said he chose
to resign in order to allow his party to renew itself and to
spend more time with his family.  “It’s time for renewal, it’s time for the next Liberal
premier,” McGuinty, 57, told lawmakers from his party
yesterday.  A Forum Research  poll  released last month found the
Liberals had the support of 20 percent of voters, compared with
37 percent for the Progressive Conservatives and 35 percent for
the New Democratic Party.  McGuinty’s resignation comes as opposition lawmakers accuse
his government of hiding the costs related to cancellation of
two power plant projects, and refuse to support a public sector
wage freeze to curb the province’s deficit.  Finance Minister Dwight Duncan  released  a budget update
yesterday that forecast the deficit would be C$14.4 billion
($14.7 billion) in the fiscal year that began April 1, more than
C$400 million less than forecast earlier in the year. Duncan
said the government remained on track to eliminate the deficit
by 2017.  Ontario’s credit rating was downgraded by Moody’s Investors
Service on April 26 to Aa2 from Aa1 and the outlook revised to
stable from negative amid concern about stalling growth.  Policy Thrust  “Most likely whoever steps in next will keep the primary
thrust of policy in place,” Douglas Porter, deputy chief
economist at BMO Capital Markets, said in an e-mail. “Of
course, the bigger issue is who wins the next election.”.  McGuinty yesterday said the government has “reached an
impasse on a very important matter of public policy,” referring
to the lack of support for his budget measures. He will ask the
lieutenant governor to suspend the legislature and would remain
premier until his party chooses a replacement.  Nelson Wiseman, a University of Toronto associate professor
of political science, said the resignation gives the Liberals
the best chance to keep power and prevent opposition parties
from bringing down his government at a time when his popularity
has sagged.  “You have a minority government so the timing of the next
election isn’t in the hands of the government,” Wiseman said.  Before last year’s election campaign, the government called
off the construction of two natural-gas power stations  after
local residents had opposed the sites.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , based
in Calgary, will build one near Kingston, Ontario instead of
Oakville, near Toronto.  Censure Motion  Energy Minister Chris Bentley has been facing a censure
motion from the opposition after they accused him of hiding
documents that show the decisions caused the projects’ cost to
soar.  In elections last October, the Liberal Party fell one seat
short of the 54 needed to form a majority and needed opposition
help to govern.  McGuinty was forced to make concessions to the New
Democratic Party to pass his budget in June, agreeing to a new
tax on people earning more than C$500,000 a year in exchange for
cuts to help combat the province’s budget gap.  He has failed to find backing for efforts to freeze
government wages, in a move that has led to bitter
confrontations with the province’s public sector unions.  McGuinty’s party will convene a leadership convention “at
the earliest opportunity,” Yasir Naqvi, president of the
Liberal Party, said in a statement. The party’s executive will
meet today to determine the timing and rules of the leadership
campaign, the party said.  The move to suspend or “prorogue” the legislature, will
also suspend committee hearings into the power plant decisions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  