-- Ontario Borrowing Costs Up on McGuinty: Toronto Mover
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-16T22:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ontario-borrowing-costs-up-on-mcguinty-toronto-mover-correct-.html
(Corrects currency of bond in second paragraph.)  Ontario’s borrowing costs climbed
after premier Dalton McGuinty’s resignation cast doubt on plans
by  Canada ’s largest province to balance its books by 2017.  Ontario’s $1.25 billion of 1.65 percent notes due September
2019 rose five basis points to 1.65 percent today, according to
Bloomberg composite prices, after McGuinty stepped down
yesterday after 16 years as leader of the Liberal party,
suspending legislature effective today. The price fell to face
value from a closing price of $100.31 yesterday.  “McGuinty resigning is a sign more than anything that he’s
given up and he thinks the Ontario fiscal situation is so bad
that he can’t turn it around,” Aaron Fennell, a futures
specialist at the  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s ScotiaMcLeod unit in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “It’s him acknowledging
that the deficit problem has gotten out of control.”  McGuinty’s resignation comes amid pressure from opposition
parties over the cancellation of two power plant projects west
of Toronto. Opposition groups say the plants will cost about
three times more than estimated. Before last year’s election
campaign, the government called off the construction of the
power stations after local residents opposed the sites.  Energy Minister Chris Bentley is facing a censure motion
from the opposition after they accused him of hiding documents
that show the cancellation caused the projects’ cost to soar.  ‘Fiscal Situation’  Moody’s Investors Service is keeping its medium-term
outlook for Ontario, analyst Jennifer Wong said in a phone
interview. The firm cut the province’s rating to Aa2, its third-
highest, from Aa1 in April and revised the outlook to stable
from negative. The downgrade brought Moody’s assessment closer
to Standard & Poor’s, which rates Ontario AA-, its fourth-lowest
level.  “We’ll have to see what changes there may or may not be in
terms of their fiscal plan to assess what impact his resignation
has on the province’s fiscal situation,” Wong said.  Ontario revised its deficit projection yesterday for the
current fiscal year to C$14.4 billion, or C$400 million lower
than estimated in the 2012 budget, a government  report  said.  With assistance from Cecile Gutscher in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  