-- Montana Ruling on Unlimited Campaign Contributions Blocke
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-10-16T22:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/montana-ruling-on-unlimited-campaign-contributions-blocke.html
A judge’s ruling that lifted
 Montana ’s campaign-contribution caps and allowed unlimited
donations was put on indefinite hold by a U.S. appeals court,
three weeks before the Nov. 6 general election.  Montana Attorney General Steve Bullock, a Democrat, won a
bid to delay the Oct. 3 ruling by a federal judge who concluded
that Montana’s contribution limits were unconstitutional under
the First Amendment. The  U.S. Court of Appeals  based in San
Francisco temporarily blocked the ruling on Oct. 9.  “Absentee voting has already begun in Montana and the
general election is imminent,” Justice Jay Bybee, who was
nominated to the federal bench by Republican President  George W.
Bush , wrote in a unanimous three-judge ruling. “Allowing the
permanent injunction to remain in place before a merits panel of
this court can ultimately rule on the constitutionality of the
Montana contribution limit statute could throw a previously
stable system into chaos.”  American Tradition Partnership, a Washington-based lobbying
organization, and other groups had sued to overturn the limits.
They won a ruling by U.S. District Judge Charles Lovell on Oct.
3 that the cap violates free speech rights.  The federal appeals court temporarily put the rule on hold
six days later. Some groups already had begun accepting above-
limit donations while others hadn’t, Judy Beck, a spokeswoman
for Bullock, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Important Victory’  The ruling “is an important victory for all Montanans,”
Bullock said in an e-mail. “The court has allowed us to
maintain our citizen democracy, rather than putting our
elections up for auction to the highest bidder.”  Donny Ferguson, a spokesman for American Tradition
Partnership, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the ruling.  In Montana, individual contributions to candidates are
limited to $630 on the gubernatorial ticket, $310 to candidates
for statewide office and $160 for candidates of other offices,
the group said on its website.  The case is Lair v. Bullock, 12-35809, U.S. Court for the
Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  