-- Ontario Liberal Premier Dalton McGuinty Steps Down
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-10-16T01:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ontario-premier-dalton-mcguinty-steps-down.html
 Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty
plans to step down after 16 years as leader of the Liberal Party
and nine years governing  Canada ’s most populous province,
according to a statement from the party today.  McGuinty’s party will convene a leadership convention “at
the earliest opportunity,” Yasir Naqvi, president of the
Liberal Party, said in the statement. The party’s executive will
meet tomorrow to determine the timing and rules of the
leadership campaign, the party said in the statement.  “It’s time for renewal,” McGuinty, 57, said at a party
meeting broadcast by Toronto’s CP24. “It’s time for the next
Liberal Premier.”  McGuinty said he would remain premier until a replacement
is named and he asked Ontario’s lieutenant governor to
“prorogue” or suspend the legislature to break the
“heightened rancor.”  The surprise resignation comes a year after McGuinty won
his third election in a row and formed a minority government.
The party fell one seat short of the 54 needed to form a
majority and needed opposition help to govern.  McGuinty was forced to make concessions to the New
Democratic Party to pass his budget in June, agreeing to a new
tax on people earning more than C$500,000 ($509,891) a year in
exchange for cuts to help combat the province’s C$13 billion
budget gap. Fighting the deficit has led to bitter
confrontations with the province’s public sector unions.  Power Plants  McGuinty’s resignation comes amid pressure from opposition
parties over the cancellation of two power plant projects west
of Toronto. Before last year’s election campaign, the government
called off the construction of the power stations after local
residents had opposed the sites.  Energy Minister Chris Bentley has been facing a censure
motion from the opposition after they accused him of hiding
documents that show the cancellation caused the projects’ cost
to soar.  “We got it wrong,” McGuinty said about the canceled
plants at a press conference in Toronto tonight broadcast by the
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. “We listened to those
communities and we made a decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  