-- More May Be at Risk as U.S. Meningitis Outbreak Widens
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/more-may-be-at-risk-as-u-s-meningitis-outbreak-widens.html
More drugs from the pharmacy at the
center of a meningitis outbreak may be contaminated, putting
additional people at risk of contracting the deadly infection,
U.S. regulators said.  Any drug meant to be injected that was manufactured by New
England Compounding Center may be tainted, the Food and Drug
Administration said yesterday on its  website . The agency doesn’t
know how many people may have received potentially tainted
shots, Sarah Clark-Lynn, a spokeswoman for the FDA, said in an
e-mail. The agency is working with the Framingham,
Massachusetts-based pharmacy to gather more information about
product distribution, she said.  The fungal meningitis outbreak that began with a steroid
used for back pain has led to  214 infections  in 15 U.S. states,
killing 15 people, the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention said. A second steroid to treat inflammation
manufactured by the pharmacy has been linked to another
potential meningitis infection, FDA said. Two transplant
patients have also experienced fungal infections after being
given a drug from the pharmacy meant to induce cardiac muscle
paralysis during open-heart surgery, the agency said.  “Patients who received these products should be alerted to
the potential risk of infection,” the FDA said today on its
website. “The sterility of any injectable drugs, including
ophthalmic drugs that are injectable or used in conjunction with
eye surgery, and cardioplegic solutions produced by NECC are of
significant concern.”  Two Drugs  The steroid for back pain linked to the original meningitis
outbreak is methylprednisolone acetate. The second steroid is
triamcinolone acetonide. Patients received the medication
through an epidural injection  There haven’t been any cases of infections reported in
connection with ophthalmic drugs, the FDA said.  NECC recalled all of its products Oct. 6. The company also
has ceased operations.  The states where infections have occurred are:  Florida ,
 Idaho , Illinois,  Indiana ,  Maryland , Michigan,  Minnesota , New
Hampshire, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania,
 Tennessee , Texas and Virginia. About 14,000 who received
methylprednisolone acetate may be at risk for meningitis. The
fungal meningitis associated with the outbreak isn’t contagious,
CDC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  