-- Morocco King Heads to Gulf as Nation Faces Budget Crunch
-- B y   A i d a   A l a m i
-- 2012-10-16T10:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/morocco-king-heads-to-gulf-as-nation-faces-budget-crunch.html
Morocco ’s King Mohamed VI begins a
tour of Gulf Arab states today, as the north African nation
struggles with a financing crunch and what the IMF projects may
be its second-biggest budget deficit in at least six years.  The monarch will begin his four-nation tour with a stop in
Saudi Arabia, followed by Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and
 Kuwait , the royal Cabinet said in a statement. The trip comes a
year after Morocco signed an accord with the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council that provides $5 billion in funding over
five years for development projects, according to the statement.  Morocco avoided the mass protests that swept through other
countries in the region during the Arab Spring, largely by
implementing constitutional changes and holding elections last
November. Still, the nation faces growing problems after a
drought hit its harvest and amid concerns about the economic
fallout from the euro-region crisis.  Europe  is Morocco’s biggest
export market and the source of almost two-thirds of tourists.  “Moroccan authorities are finding it more challenging to
reduce the vulnerabilities created by the twin deficits in the
context of a difficult external environment while maintaining
Morocco’s traditional political and social stability,” ratings
agency Standard & Poor’s said on Oct. 11 as it revised its
outlook for the country’s debt to negative from stable.  Reserve Ratio  Last week, the Rabat-based central bank cut the required
reserve ratio for banks by 200 basis points, or 2 percentage
points, to 4 percent because of the “scope and sustained nature
of liquidity shortage in the money market and taking into
consideration the outlook for liquidity factors.”  Morocco’s economy expanded 2.3 percent in the second
quarter, its slowest pace since 2007, as the drought curtailed
agricultural production, according to the state-run High
Commission of Planning.  The International Monetary Fund, which in August granted
the kingdom a $6.2 billion credit line, projects the country
will run a budget deficit of about 5 percent of gross domestic
product this year. The Arab Monetary Fund granted Morocco 1.64
billion dirhams ($190 million) in financing last month to help
with its balance of payments and to support trade with other
Arab nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aida Alami in Casablanca at 
 aalami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net  