-- Osama bin Laden Driver Hamdan Wins Appeals Court Reversal
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-10-16T17:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/osama-bin-laden-driver-hamdan-wins-appeals-court-reversal.html
Osama bin Laden’s former driver had
his conviction by a military tribunal thrown out as a U.S.
appeals court found he was wrongly charged for committing acts
that weren’t crimes at the time.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  vacated the 2008
conviction of Salim Hamdan by the military tribunal at a U.S.
Navy base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, saying that the Military
Commissions Act of 2006 didn’t authorize retroactive prosecution
of acts that hadn’t been classified as war crimes.  “At the time, the international law of war did not
proscribe material support for terrorism as a war crime,”
Circuit Judge Brett Kavanaugh wrote for the three-judge panel in
in today’s opinion. “Hamdan was not charged with aiding and
abetting terrorism or some other similar war crime.”  Hamdan, who was captured during the U.S. invasion of
Afghanistan in November 2001 and sent to Guantanamo two months
later, was the first terror suspect found guilty at a U.S.
military war-crimes trial after the Sept. 11 attacks. He was
convicted of providing “material support for terrorism” for
serving as bin Laden’s driver in  Afghanistan .  al-Qaeda Operative  A jury of six military officers cleared Hamdan of
conspiring with bin Laden and other top al-Qaeda operatives to
carry out the Sept. 11 attacks, the 1998 bombings of the U.S.
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, and the 2000 attack on the USS
Cole in Yemen.  Hamdan was also cleared of charges he transported SA-7
surface-to-air missiles in Afghanistan to attack U.S. forces.  Hamden’s appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court led to the 2006
ruling that invalidated military tribunals ordered by President
George W. Bush and forced Congress to enact legislation
reconstituting the commissions.  While the new statute added material support for terrorism
as a new war crime, it didn’t provide for new crimes to be
prosecuted retroactively, the court said. Because of that
omission, the judges said they didn’t have to address the
Constitutional issues raised by criminalizing Hamdan’s conduct
after the fact.  Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman, said the
government is reviewing the opinion. Joseph McMillan, a lawyer
with Seattle-based Perkins Coie, who argued the case on Hamdan’s
behalf, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and a phone call
seeking comment on the decision.  Yemen Return  Hamdan, who was sentenced to 5 1/2 years in prison, was
released in Yemen by the U.S. military in 2009. The three
judges, all appointed by Republican presidents, ruled that under
Supreme Court precedent Hamdan was entitled to pursue appeals to
throw out the conviction regardless of his release.  The United Nations has criticized the commissions, where
the jury is made up of military officers, and in 2007 urged
then-President Bush to close the detention center and ensure
just treatment for detainees.  The U.S. Navy has maintained a base at Guantanamo since
1898. The land was leased under a 1903 treaty with Cuba that the
government of Fidel Castro called invalid.  A week of preliminary hearings opened today before a
military commission at Guantanamo for the accused mastermind of
the Sept. 11 attacks, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, and four others.  The proceedings are aimed at defining the rules of a trial
for the defendants, who are accused of plotting the attacks that
used hijacked passenger planes to destroy the World Trade Center
in  Manhattan  and damage the Pentagon, killing almost 3,000
people.  The case is Hamdan v. U.S., 11-1257, U.S. Court of Appeals,
District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 