-- Lower Bank Profit Margins Seen With Fed’s Help: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/lower-bank-profit-margins-seen-with-fed-s-help-chart-of-the-day.html
Falling bond yields and the  Federal
Reserve ’s purchases of mortgage-backed securities may lead to
more strain on banks’ profitability in the next few quarters,
according to David A. George, a Robert W. Baird & Co. analyst.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, banks’ net interest
margins have generally contracted for more than two years. The
chart, based on data compiled by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., shows the gaps in percentage points between the average
interest earned on loans and investments and the average rate
paid to depositors.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s third-quarter results showed the
average yield on its securities holdings fell 18 basis points
from the second quarter, George wrote yesterday in a report. At
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the drop was steeper: 27 basis points. Each
basis point equals 0.01 percentage point.  “Unfortunately, this headwind should accelerate” in the
fourth quarter, the St. Louis-based analyst wrote. Refinancing
rates for home loans have dropped as the Fed begins purchasing
$40 billion of mortgage-backed bonds a month. The decline has
resulted in faster payoffs on the mortgages underlying the
securities, he wrote.  Profits may also suffer as banks shift toward loans from
securities and compete more intensely to draw borrowers, George
wrote. He added that lenders may retain more of their mortgages,
which would reduce fee income from selling the loans.  Net interest margins peaked in 2010’s first quarter and
narrowed in eight of the next nine quarters. Margins at banks
with more than $10 billion in assets have dwindled more than the
average for all federally insured institutions, as the chart
shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  