-- Pakistan Rates, Deposit Payouts Hurt Lenders, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2012-10-16T10:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/pakistan-rates-deposit-payouts-hurt-lenders-deutsche-bank-says.html
Pakistani banks’ profit growth may
slow this year after the central bank cut interest rates to the
lowest in almost five years and increased the minimum deposit
payout, Deutsche Bank AG’s local chief said.  “The banking sector has taken cuts since 2011,” Faizan Mitha, Deutsche Bank’s managing director, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The issue this time is the minimum rate
of 6 percent that banks need to pay on savings deposits.”  The central bank’s deposit rate increase may reduce the
banking industry’s profits by as much as 20 billion rupees ($210
million) this year, Mitha said.  Pakistan  has cut the benchmark
lending rate twice since August, targeting economic growth of
4.3 percent in the year ending June 30, even as power blackouts
and war on the country’s boarders stifle investment.       The
central bank increased the minimum rate lenders must pay on
savings deposits to 6 percent from 5 percent in May. Profit
growth may be 10 percentage points lower solely because of this
measure although net income will be better than last year, Mitha
said.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan lowered its benchmark  interest
rate  for a second time on Oct. 5 to 10 percent from 10.5 percent
after reducing it by 1.5 percentage points in August.  ‘Lucrative Banking’  Savings accounts represent about 40 percent of the
country’s 6.3 trillion rupees in  bank deposits , according to
Raza Jafri, head of research at AKD Securities Ltd.  Banks’ profits expanded 27 percent in the six months ended
June 30, according to a Sept. 10 report by Invest Capital
Markets Ltd. in Karachi. Lending to private companies rose 2.6
percent in August to 2.9 trillion rupees from a year ago,
according to central bank data.  “With all the negative sound bites and all the challenges,
Pakistan is still a lucrative banking market and returns are
quite good,” Mitha said.  Banks’ profit growth may slow over the next three years as
political strife weighs on companies’ appetite to borrow and
invest, Mohsin Ali Nathani, chief executive officer of  Standard
Chartered Bank Pakistan Ltd. (SCBPL) , said in an interview on Aug. 7.
Local lenders’ earnings may expand 10 percent on average, he
said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  