-- Palm May Drop to Three-Year Low as Demand Slows, Mistry Says
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-10-16T10:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/palm-may-drop-to-three-year-low-as-demand-slows-mistry-says-1-.html
Palm, the most-used cooking oil, is
set to decline to a three-year low in the next six weeks as
reserves climb and crude oil drops amid a global slowdown, said
 Dorab Mistry , director at Godrej International Ltd. Prices fell.  Futures in Malaysia, the global benchmark, may decline to
2,200 ringgit ($719) a metric ton, the lowest level for a most-
active contract since November 2009, Mistry told a conference
today. He correctly forecast a slump in July. Inventories in
Malaysia, the second-largest producer, will reach or exceed a
record 3 million tons on Jan. 1, he said, restating a prediction.  Palm oil, used in foods and biofuels, has tumbled since the
end of August as import demand slowed in  China  and the European
Union while reserves surged to a record. Tax changes announced
by Malaysia last week won’t clear record stockpiles, according
to Mistry, who’s worked in the industry for 35 years. The
government should immediately abolish all export quotas and
taxes to boost competitiveness and spur higher demand, he said.  “With zero export duty, palm exports will expand,” Mistry
said in  Kuala Lumpur . “Prices must enable energy demand to kick
in and for vast tonnages to be shipped out. In the New Year, we
could look at higher prices.”  The contract for January delivery, which has the largest
volume and open interest, dropped 0.2 percent to end at 2,466
ringgit a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange after
overturning a gain of as much as 2.1 percent. Most-active
futures, which have declined 23 percent this year, touched a
three-year low of 2,230 ringgit on Oct. 3.  Food Costs  Lower prices will help to cut global food costs while
hurting profits and revenues at growers such as  Kuala Lumpur
Kepong Bhd. (KLK)  The  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization’s World Food  Price Index  advanced 1.4 percent last
month, taking gains this year to 2.4 percent.  An export push by companies in Malaysia and  Indonesia  led
to “full pipelines in all destination markets,” including
 India , he said. “Ask any export shipper in Malaysia and he will
confirm the turnaround time for vessels has swelled.”  Malaysia’s  reserves  advanced to an all-time high of 2.48
million tons in September after record monthly  output  of 2
million tons, according to data from the nation’s palm oil board.
The surge in stockpiles was caused by the strong output, flat
consumption, and “collapsing” biodiesel demand, Mistry said.  Tax Changes  The Malaysian government will cut the export duty on crude
 palm oil , or CPO, and abolish a duty-free shipment quota from
2013, Plantation Industries and Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok said on Oct. 12. The new rates will range from 4.5
percent to 8.5 percent, rising as prices climb from 2,250
ringgit a ton to 3,600 ringgit. The existing levy is 23 percent.  Indonesia, the largest producer, reduced taxes last year to
boost exports of processed oil, increasing competition for
refiners in Malaysia. When prices of crude and refined palm oil
and olein drop below $750 a ton, no export duty is imposed.  “Malaysia had no alternative but to emulate Indonesia and
create a similar export-tax structure,” said Mistry. “For the
long term it is exactly the right response to the situation that
was created by the new Indonesian export-tax regime.”  When palm oil drops to 2,200 ringgit, or $749 a ton for
cargoes delivered in Rotterdam, the commodity will be
competitive for use in biodiesel and energy demand will return,
reducing stockpiles within three months, he said.  World consumption of vegetable oils for biodiesel declined
in year ended Sept. 30 as crude-oil prices fell, said Mistry.
There are no prospects for growth in European Union biofuel
mandates, he said.  ‘Meaningless’  Mistry said any proposal by  Malaysia  and Indonesia to try
to halt the price fall through managing production together
wouldn’t work. “Any talk of cooperation between Malaysia and
Indonesia on long-term curtailment of plantations is
meaningless,” he said. “It will not happen.”  Malaysia may produce 18 million to 18.2 million tons this
year, while Indonesian output will probably exceed 27.5 million
tons, said Mistry. There would be a so-called extended double
peak in output in Indonesia this month and next, he forecast.  “The cure for low prices is low prices,” according to
Mistry, who said he was citing a proverb. “A level of 2,200
ringgit for a couple of months is not an oppressive level. Each
and every CPO producer will make a decent profit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  