-- Pearson Buys EmbanetCompass for $650 Million in Education Push
-- B y   S i m o n   T h i e l
-- 2012-10-16T15:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/pearson-buys-embanetcompass-for-650-million-in-education-push.html
Pearson Plc (PSON)  agreed to buy
EmbanetCompass, a provider of online learning services to North
American colleges and universities, for $650 million in cash to
expand its education business.  Pearson, which gets most of its revenue from education
services in the U.S., is buying the company from an investor
group led by Technology Crossover Ventures and Knowledge
Universe, the London-based company said in a statement today.  Pearson, the publisher of the  Financial Times  newspaper and
owner of the Penguin book publisher, has been expanding its
education business to counter stagnating sales of print
products.  EmbanetCompass  provides services such as learning
program design and development, marketing and student
recruitment, faculty training and support, data-driven student
retention and learning analytics as well as counseling, tutoring
and mentoring of students.  “Institutional services are one of the fastest growing
areas of the U.S. higher education market,” Pearson said. “Out
of 6,700 degree-granting institutions in the U.S., approximately
175 institutions engage third-party vendors to power online
programs.”  The company said the acquisition will boost adjusted
earnings per share and generate a return on invested capital
above Pearson’s weighted average cost of capital from 2014.
EmbanetCompass is predicted to have sales of about $130 million
in 2012, Pearson said.  Pearson already offers online education services in the
U.S. through partnerships with institutions such as  Arizona 
State University, California State University Online and the
community college systems in  West Virginia , Kentucky,  Tennessee ,
 Iowa  and  Colorado .  The company this month said Chief Executive Officer
Marjorie Scardino will step down after 16 years to be replaced
by the head of its international education business, spurring
speculation the company may sell the Financial Times newspaper.  John Fallon will replace Scardino starting January 2013.
The Financial Times Group accounted for 7 percent of sales at
Pearson last year, while education made up 75 percent, and 18
percent came from Penguin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  