-- Philippine Peso Rises to Four-Year High as Remittances Quicken
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-10-16T09:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/philippine-peso-advances-toward-a-four-year-high-on-remittances.html
The Philippine peso rose to a four-
year high on speculation investors will buy the nation’s assets
after money sent home by overseas workers increased at the
fastest pace in nine months.  International funds bought $1.9 billion more local shares
than they sold this year through yesterday, according to stock
exchange data. Remittances, which account for about 10 percent
of the country’s gross domestic product, climbed 7.6 percent in
August, central bank data showed yesterday.  “We continue to see dollar inflows from remittances and
growing interest from foreigners in equities and local money
markets,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading at  Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  in  Manila . “The market is still
guarded on emerging-market prospects because of global growth
concerns.”  The peso advanced 0.3 percent to 41.333 per dollar in
Manila, the strongest level since April 1, 2008, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. It strengthened 6 percent this year, the
second-best performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-active currencies
excluding the yen.  One-month implied volatility for the peso, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at 5.3
percent. The Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index advanced
0.3 percent, a third day of gains.  The yield on the government’s 5.75 percent bonds due August
2037 slipped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.16
percent, according to noon fixing prices from Tradition
Financial Services.  The government plans to issue new securities due in seven
to 25 years in exchange for shorter-dated bonds after it
completes an offering of notes targeted at individuals, Deputy
Treasurer Eduardo Mendiola said on Oct. 9. It has so far
received more than 500 billion pesos ($12 billion) in bids for
the 25-year notes on sale until Oct. 22, Mendiola said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  