-- EU Carbon Link Presents Political, Price Risks for Australians
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-17T08:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/politics-price-challenge-australia-eu-carbon-links-lawyer-says.html
Australia handed control of its
carbon price to a partner with more ambitious climate targets
when it agreed to link with the European Union market, according
to a partner at  Baker & McKenzie  LLP.  “Australia’s price will be influenced by the market where
the reduction target is the highest in the world,” Martijn Wilder of Baker & McKenzie, the Sydney law firm, said in an Oct.
10 interview. “If EU prices go much higher, say 30 euros, then
the Australian government will be placed under a lot of pressure
by industry to revisit the linking arrangements.”  Benchmark European Union carbon prices have plunged 74
percent since reaching a record high of 31 euros ($40) a metric
ton on April 21, 2006. The European Commission in Brussels has
proposed temporarily curbing supply of allowances sold at
auctions starting next year to help deal with a supply glut.
Australia announced on Aug. 28 it would allow its emitters to
buy EU permits to comply with a cap-and-trade system scheduled
to begin on July 1, 2015.  Linking the two markets “changes everything,” Hugh
Bromley, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in Sydney,
said in an Oct. 10 report. Australian emitters will buy fewer
international offsets under the  United Nations ’ Clean
Development Mechanism, more domestic offsets under the country’s
Carbon Farming Initiative, and more EU allowances following the
link-up, he said.  ‘Significant Change’  “This is a significant change that will fundamentally
shift the economics of the Australian market,” Bromley said in
the report. New Energy Finance forecasts that the price of
carbon permits in Australia may rise to about A$26 by 2020, up
from A$20 in the first year of cap and trade.  While EU permits are likely be the main driver, Australian
emitters are likely to “bank” permits over the next several
years, and prices there may trail those in  Europe  through 2020,
he said.  Even with delayed supply, EU permits will only reach 8.50
euros a ton in 2013 and 9 euros on average in the eight years
through 2020, according to an Oct. 11 forecast by  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst in  London  for Barclays Plc. EU carbon for
December rose as much as 4 percent to 8.32 euros today on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  The bloc is also seeking more permanent fixes to its glut,
which could boost its prices further, Wilder said, citing
analysts.  Linking to Europe gives Australian emitters access to
futures so they can hedge carbon-price risks should they want to,
the Australian Department of Climate Change and Energy
Efficiency said Oct. 12 in an e-mailed response to questions.
The linkage enhances “the long-term carbon price signal for
businesses, irrespective of whether or not businesses hedge
future carbon price risk in advance.”  Climate Targets  The department didn’t immediately comment on what it would
do should EU prices surge.  Australia  has committed to reduce carbon pollution by 5
percent from 2000 levels by 2020 irrespective of what other
countries do, and by as much as 25 percent depending on the
scale of global action. The EU has pledged to cut emissions by
at least 20 percent in the two decades through 2020 and as much
as 30 percent.  Under the linking plan announced in August, Australia will
allow its emitters to use international allowances including EU
permits and UN Certified Emission Reductions for as much as half
of their compliance needs, tightening the specific limit on UN
offsets to 12.5 percent from 50 percent.  Floor Scrapped  The nation agreed to scrap a floor price of A$15 ($15.24) a
metric ton that was set to take effect in 2015. EU carbon for
2015 traded today at 9.20 euros, or A$11.63, reducing costs for
Australian emitters compared with the disbanded floor.  The two regions will start a partial link of their carbon
markets by July 2015, allowing Australian companies to purchase
EU allowances immediately for future compliance. Negotiations
for the permanent two-way link would start once the commission
gets a mandate to begin discussions on it from  member states ,
the department known as DCCEE said.  “We are handing over control of the carbon tax, which in
effect will determine Australia’s electricity prices, to Europe,
which will have no interest in the flow on impact to Australian
businesses and families,” said  Greg Hunt , climate spokesman for
Australia’s opposition Liberal party.  The leader of that party,  Tony Abbott , has pledged to end
what he says is a “toxic tax” that will raise prices in
Australia and eliminate jobs as mines are forced to close or
relocate, should he win office at elections to be held next year.  The regulatory uncertainty in Australia and Europe helps
explain why carbon trading is off to a slow start in Australia,
said Baker & McKenzie’s Wilder.  “Three years is a long time away,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  