-- Prague Plans First Eurobond in Decade as Czech Risks Decline
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-10-16T14:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/prague-plans-first-eurobond-in-decade-as-czech-risks-decline-1-.html
Prague  will tap the international
 bond market  for the first time in a decade as steps to curb the
government’s budget deficit bolster perceptions of the country’s
creditworthiness.  The Czech capital will offer as much as 200 million euros
($260 million) of debt in the first quarter after picking the
sale’s managers before the end of this year, said Vladan Kubec,
the head of strategy at the city hall’s budget department.
Prague is rated A1 at Moody’s Investors Service rates, its
fifth-highest grade level and the same as Czech sovereign debt.
The yield on the country’s 2022 Eurobonds were little changed at
a two-week low of 2.83 percent.  Economic stimulus efforts in Europe and the U.S. and lower
yields on top-rated  government bonds  are driving investors to
riskier debt with higher returns. The  Czech Republic  raised 750
million euros two weeks ago in a reopening of 10-year notes
after austerity measures and better European sentiment helped
cut the yield to a record 2.51 percent in the third quarter.  “The yield developments in the euro market are favorable
to this planned offering,” Kubec said in a telephone interview
today. Proceeds from the sale will be used to finance road
repairs and the expansion of the  subway system , he said.  The cost of insuring Czech debt with credit-default swaps
fell to a 16-month low of 79 basis points today.  Deficit Pledge  Prime Minister Petr Necas on Oct. 14 pledged to continue
deficit cuts even as a defeat in regional elections this past
weekend threatened to weaken his leadership. Necas seeks higher
taxes to help cut the deficit below the European Union’s limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product next year for the first
time since 2008.  Czech bonds have the highest credit ratings in central and
eastern  Europe , on par with Estonia, and are the cheapest to
insure with default swaps. The contracts, which decline as
perceptions of creditworthiness improve, pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Prague last sold foreign-currency bonds in 2003 in the
amount of 170 million euros, which will mature in March next
year, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  