-- Traders Reject Romney’s U.S.-Spain Comparison: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/traders-reject-romney-s-u-s-spain-comparison-bgov-barometer.html
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  says he sees similarities between  government spending  in
the U.S. and  Spain . To investors in each country’s sovereign
debt, there’s no comparison.  The BGOV Barometer shows it costs almost 10 times as much
to insure Spanish  government bonds  against default as it does
U.S. Treasuries.  While Romney says government spending in the U.S. is about
the same as Spain’s as a share of gross domestic product, the
barometer shows U.S. expenditures have a long way to go to match
Spain’s percentage, according to official figures. What’s more,
almost a third of government spending in the U.S. is at the
state and local level, beyond the control of Congress and the
president.  “Spain now spends 42 percent of their total economy on
government,” Romney said Oct. 3 during the first presidential
debate in Denver. “We’re now spending 42 percent of our economy
on government.”  “I don’t want to go down the path to Spain,” said Romney,
who meets Obama today for the second debate starting at 9:30
p.m. in Hempstead,  New York .  Outlays by government at all levels accounted for 43.6
percent of Spain’s GDP in 2011, according to Eurostat, the
European Union’s statistics agency. That compares with 35.4
percent in the U.S., Office of Management and Budget figures
show, with federal spending making up 24.1 percent of GDP and
state and local government expenditures accounting for 11.3
percent.  Significant Differences  “This aggregate data masks some significant differences,”
Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the Washington-based
Peterson Institute for International Economics, said in a
telephone interview. “The  United States  is just a much, much
bigger country. That tends to mean a relatively large share of
government spending in the United States is at the state and
local level. Government spending in Spain means a lot more than
it does in the United States.”  Trading in credit default swaps shows the contrast between
investors’ perceptions of risk in the government debt of the two
countries, as Spanish officials consider whether to request aid
from  Europe ’s permanent rescue fund. It costs about $354,000 to
insure $10 million of Spanish government debt against default
for 5 years, compared with about $37,600 to insure a like amount
of  U.S. debt , swaps trading shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at   krizzo5@bloomberg.net  