-- Rand Gains for First Day in Three on Spanish Bailout Optimism
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-10-16T14:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/rand-gains-for-first-day-in-three-as-commodities-stocks-rally.html
The rand advanced for the first time
in three days as stocks and commodities rose after two German
officials indicated a rolling back of resistance to a full
sovereign bailout, raising investor appetite for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency gained as much as 1 percent, and
traded 0.7 percent stronger to 8.7306 per dollar at 4:20 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the best performance among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
dropped five basis points to 6.73 percent, the lowest in more
than a week.  Michael Meister and  Norbert Barthle , officials within
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, said the
country is open to  Spain  seeking a precautionary  credit line .
The euro strengthened and stocks and commodities rallied.  “The euro has been making good progress, and the rand has
benefitted from that,” William van Rijn, a currency trader at
Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by phone. Prospects of
a bailout for Spain supported the currency, he added.  The rand often moves in tandem with the euro, with a
statistical correlation of 0.7 over the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A value of 1 would mean they moved
in lock step.  Reports today showed German confidence rose for a second
month and U.S. factory output topped analysts’ estimates after
the Commerce Department posted better-than-projected retail
sales.  Metals Climb  Copper rebounded from a one-month low after Freeport-
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., the biggest publicly-traded copper
producer, said consumption in  China  is being sustained. Metals
and other commodities account for 45 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to government data.  “Global developments have turned more positive,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“Commodities are taking direction from the broad rally in risky
assets.”  Emerging-market stocks  gained, with the benchmark index
rising to the highest level in more than a week. South Africa’s
main stock  gauge  rose for a second day to a record.  The rand’s one-month implied volatility against the dollar
declined 20 basis points to 16.85 percent, indicating that
options traders see swings in the currency narrowing over coming
weeks. The extra yield investors demand to hold South African
dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries narrowed 11 basis
points to 176, compared with an eight-point drop to 279 for the
average of emerging-market debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  