-- RBA Saw Rate-Cut Scope as Asia Slowdown Weakens Mining: Economy
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-10-16T03:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/rba-saw-rate-cut-scope-mining-boom-peak-nears-minutes-show-1-.html
Australia ’s central bank saw scope
to cut borrowing costs as the slowing global economy threatened
to weaken Asia’s growth and cool the nation’s mining boom,
according to the minutes of an Oct. 2 meeting.  “Growth in east Asia, including  China , had slowed a little
further,” according to the minutes released today in Sydney of
the board’s decision to lower interest rates after three
straight meetings on hold. “The gradual slowing of Chinese
economic growth had been accompanied by declining exports to
 Europe  for some time and, more recently, falls in exports to the
United States and Japan.”  Australia’s economy is succumbing to a slowdown in world
growth that the International Monetary Fund predicted a week ago
would decelerate to the weakest pace since the 2009 recession.
As the faltering outlook sustains the case for monetary easing
from the U.S. to  Japan , investors are pricing in an 82 percent
chance of another 0.25-point cut in the Reserve Bank’s key rate
to 3 percent in November, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Probably the best thing for Australia now is for the RBA
to cut rates further,” said Dominic Bryant, an economist at BNP
Paribas in Hong Kong, citing weakening global demand for
minerals as China’s growth slows. “That would help bring down
the currency, help other parts of the economy.”  The Reserve Bank indicated today that a main engine of the
nation’s growth -- the mining industry -- wasn’t looking as
strong as previously projected.  Accommodative Stance  “There was an increased likelihood of growth over the
coming year being somewhat weaker than earlier forecast,”
according to the minutes. “The board judged that it was
appropriate for the stance of monetary policy to be a little
more accommodative.”  The RBA saw signs that the pace of global growth had
“edged down,” the minutes showed. With this month’s 0.25
percentage-point reduction taking the benchmark to 3.25 percent,
Governor Glenn Stevens has lowered the overnight cash rate
target five times in the past year to help extend the economy’s
21-year run without a recession.  “The board had observed that the effects of earlier
reductions in the cash rate were still working through the
domestic economy, and that the outlook for inflation was
consistent with” the 2 percent to 3 percent target range over
the next one to two years, the minutes showed.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, New Zealand’s annual
inflation slowed to the weakest pace in more than 12 years last
quarter as a stronger currency made imported goods cheaper,
giving the central bank scope to maintain record-low interest
rates.  U.K. Inflation  Asian stocks advanced, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
rising 0.7 percent at 12:44 p.m. in  Tokyo .  In Europe, U.K. consumer prices probably gained 2.2 percent
in September from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of a
report today. German investor confidence probably rose for a
second month in October, according to another survey.  U.S inflation probably eased to 0.5 percent in September
from the previous period, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Federal Reserve data may
show industrial production grew 0.2 percent last month, a
separate survey showed.  The Australian dollar traded at $1.0262, from $1.0257 just
before the minutes. It earlier rose as much as 0.2 percent to
$1.0269.  Job Gains  The Australian government’s report on third-quarter
consumer prices is scheduled to be released Oct. 24, and the
minutes showed the RBA board viewed inflation as benign.
“Members concluded that the current assessment of the inflation
outlook provided scope to adjust policy in response to the
softer growth outlook,” the minutes showed.  The number of people  employed  rose by 14,500 last month,
the biggest increase since May, after a revised 9,100 drop the
prior month, the statistics bureau said last week. The jobless
rate climbed to 5.4 percent from 5.1 percent in August, as more
workers sought employment.  “Labor-market conditions appeared to have eased in recent
months,” the minutes showed. “In addition, mining employment
had recorded a modest decline in recent months for the first
time since the middle of 2009.”  The local currency has dropped 1.2 percent this month as a
slowdown in China’s economy and Europe’s fiscal crisis weigh on
global growth. The Aussie has averaged $1.0290 in the past two
years, compared with 73 U.S. cents in the prior decade.  Strong Aussie  “Members noted that the Australian dollar remained high by
historical standards, notwithstanding the fall in commodity
prices and weaker global and domestic outlook,” today’s minutes
showed.  Australia’s economy grew about 4 percent in the first half
of 2012 from a year earlier on the strength of resource-industry
investment and consumer spending. Still, weaker commodity prices
and an elevated currency prompted mining companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. to put off
projects and cut jobs in the past two months.  “The recent volatility in iron ore and coal prices had
also affected the outlook for mining investment over the next
year or two,” the minutes showed. “Mining companies had become
increasingly reluctant to commit to new investment projects that
had been under active consideration and, in some cases, had
delayed spending on committed projects and closed some older,
higher-cost mines earlier than had been expected.”  Australia’s economic growth will slow to 3 percent next
year from an estimated 3.3 percent expansion this year, the
International Monetary Fund predicted last week.  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year and 3.6
percent next year, the IMF said in its Oct. 9 predictions,
compared with July estimates of 3.5 percent in 2012 and 3.9
percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  