-- Treasuries Hold Drop Before Inflation, Manufacturing Data
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-10-16T11:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/treasuries-show-inflation-expectations-are-above-average.html
Treasuries fell for a second day
before government reports that economists said will show U.S.
consumer prices rose for a second month in September and
industrial production increased.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices, widened to 2.48 percentage
points, above the average of 2.17 percentage points since
October 2002. A Labor Department report this month showed the
unemployment rate unexpectedly fell in September. The Commerce
Department announces housing data tomorrow.  “Jobs and housing data are the drivers which will
hopefully lead to a pick up in inflation in time,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European rates strategy at Societe Generale SA
in Paris. “The best bet for Treasuries is that they will stay
in a trading range until there is clarification on policy”
after the U.S. Presidential election.  The benchmark 10-year yield climbed two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.69 percent at 7:07 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
security due in August 2022 fell 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 15/32. The yield has climbed from a record low
1.38 percent set on July 25.  Consumer prices rose 0.5 percent last month after
increasing 0.6 percent in August, according to the median
forecast of 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Labor Department data at 8:30 a.m. New York time. A central bank
report at 9:15 a.m. will show U.S. manufacturing expanded 0.2
percent in September, following a 1.2 percent decline in August,
a separate Bloomberg survey showed.  Higher Yields  “Slow growth will lead to a slow pickup in inflation but
it’s not worrisome at the moment,” said Kei Katayama, who buys
U.S. government debt in  Tokyo  for Daiwa SB Investments Ltd.,
which manages the equivalent of $63.1 billion. Treasury “yields
should go up slowly but steadily.”  The U.S. unemployment rate fell to 7.8 percent last month,
the lowest since President  Barack Obama  took office in January
2009, the Labor Department said Oct. 5. Housing starts increased
2.7 percent to an annual rate of 770,000 in September, according
to a Bloomberg survey before the report tomorrow.  Bond Buying  Fed Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker said
yesterday the central bank’s decision last month to undertake a
third round of bond buying will probably give the economy just a
little boost because the inflation rate may rise.  “The benefits of that action are likely to be small,
because it’s unlikely to improve growth without also causing an
unwelcome increase in inflation,” Lacker said in a speech in
Roanoke, Virginia.  Fed Bank of New York President William C. Dudley downplayed
the risk.  While some observers have said the Fed’s balance sheet
expansion “could ultimately prove inflationary,” those fears
“are misplaced” because the central bank can keep price
increases in check by paying interest on excess reserves, he
said yesterday in a speech in New York.  Raising the interest rate the Fed pays on excess reserves
is a way policy makers can encourage banks to keep money with
the monetary authority instead of funneling it into loans.  The Treasury is scheduled to issue its August report on
overseas ownership of U.S. debt at 9 a.m. New York time today.
Foreign investors hold $5.35 trillion of Treasuries, or about
half the U.S. publicly traded debt, government data show.  Fed Buying  The Federal Reserve plans to buy as much as $5.5 billion of
Treasuries due from November 2020 to August 2022 today as part
of its plan to lower borrowing costs, according to the Fed Bank
of New York’s  website .  China is poised to lose its place as the U.S.’s biggest
creditor for the first time since the height of the financial
crisis, blunting one of  Mitt Romney ’s favored attacks in the
U.S. presidential campaign.  Chinese holdings of Treasuries fell 0.2 percent this year
through July to $1.15 trillion, the latest government data show.
 Japan , a stronger ally of the U.S., raised its stake by 5.6
percent to $1.12 trillion, on pace to top the list of foreign
creditors by November.  While Romney promises to label China a currency manipulator
if he wins the election and says Obama has been too lenient in
trade disputes, foreign demand is a reason Treasury  yields 
remain close to record lows, reducing the cost of credit for the
government, companies and individuals. Whoever wins Nov. 6 will
depend on both nations to finance a budget  deficit  that
surpassed $1 trillion for a fourth year in fiscal 2012.  “We would still have a great need for overseas money,”
Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate strategy in New York at
Deutsche Bank AG, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed, said Oct. 11. “Whatever deficit we’re running, we’re
going to supply a lot of Treasuries and someone’s going to buy
them, and if it’s not  China  it will be someone else.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  