-- Treasury Yields Increase Most in Week on Spain Bailout Optimism
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-16T21:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/treasuries-remain-lower-as-cost-of-living-rose-in-september.html
Treasuries declined, pushing up
yields on 10-year notes the most in more than a week, as Germany
signaled it may be open to a bailout of  Spain , reducing the
haven appeal of U.S. government debt.  Yields extended gains after a report showed the cost of
living in the U.S. climbed for a second month in September. The
 difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-maturity
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations
for consumer prices, widened to 2.47 percentage points, above
the average of 2.17 percentage points since October 2002.  “Folks are a little bit more excited about the prospects
for recovery in  Europe ,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income
trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for
institutional investors. “Yields are having something of a
yield rally.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  climbed six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 1.72 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield gained the
most since Oct. 5 and has climbed from a record low 1.38 percent
on July 25. The 1.625 percent security due in August 2022 fell
1/2, or $5 face value, to 99 5/32.  The 10-year term premium, a model created by economists at
the  Federal Reserve  that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation, was negative 0.86 percent, the
least expensive since Sept. 20. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value. The average for the past 10 years is 0.44 percent.
The all-time low was negative 1.02 percent on July 24.  Market Stress  A measure of stress in U.S. credit markets, which falls
when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and rises
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities ,
reached the lowest level in 19 years.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread narrowed to as
low as 8.75 basis points in New York, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, the least on an intra-day basis since Sept. 27,
1993.  Treasury yields moved higher amid a report Germany is open
to Spain seeking a precautionary  credit line  from Europe’s
rescue fund, two senior coalition lawmakers said, signaling a
reversal of Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s public
position.  The comments by Michael Meister, a deputy caucus leader of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, and
 Norbert Barthle , her party’s budget spokesman, indicate a
rolling back of German resistance to a full sovereign bailout
for Spain. Schaeuble cautioned Spain against seeking aid on top
of its bank bailout as recently as last month.  Treasury Bulls  “It shows that Germany is more open to reaching into their
own pockets to help out the peripheral countries in Europe,”
said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “We have to see what the details are -
- it’s difficult for Europe to come out of this crisis without
 Germany  using some of their own money to correct it.”  Amid the positive news in Europe, investors in Treasuries
remained bullish in the week ending yesterday, betting prices of
the securities will rise as they cut short positions, according
to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The  proportion  of net longs was 16 percentage points, up
from six percentage points from the previous week, according to
the survey. The percentage of outright longs rose to 25 percent,
from 21 percent, while outright shorts dropped to 9 percent from
15 percent. Neutrals rose to 66 percent from 64 percent.  Economic Indicators  The Fed purchased $4.743 billion of Treasuries due from
November 2020 to August 2022 today as part of its Operation
Twist program to lower borrowing costs and boosts the economy,
according to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website .  The consumer-price index increased 0.6 percent for a second
month, the Labor Department reported today in  Washington .
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a 0.5 percent
advance. The so-called core measure, which excludes more
volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.1 percent, less than
projected.  Another report showed output at factories, mines and
utilities rose 0.4 percent after a 1.4 percent decline in August
that was the biggest since March 2009, the Fed said in
Washington. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 85
economists called for production to rise 0.2 percent.
Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of the total, climbed
0.2 percent.  Volatility, Volume  “I don’t think you can get excited about the manufacturing
sector,” said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in New
York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that
trade Treasuries with the Fed. “We are still coming off low
levels from August.”  Volatility remains below historic levels amid continued Fed
purchases. Volatility reached 64.8 basis points at 4:41 p.m. in
New York, below this year’s average of 72.5 basis points. Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures price
swings based on options, touched 57.5 basis points on Sept. 19,
the least since May 7. The average over the past decade is 102.1
basis points.  Treasury  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest inter-
dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , rose to $256 billion,
from $178 billion yesterday. It has averaged $242 billion in
2012. It touched a high this year of $464 billion in September.  The U.S. will sell $7 billion in 30-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities on Oct. 18. At the previous auction of the
debt on June 21, the U.S. sold $7 billion of the securities at a
record low yield of 0.520 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  