-- REC Slumps as Weak Solar Prices Extend Run of Losses: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-10-16T08:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/rec-quarterly-profit-will-miss-estimates-as-solar-prices-weaken.html
Renewable Energy Corp. (REC) , the
Norwegian solar maker grappling with excess capacity and falling
demand, slumped to a record in Oslo after saying third-quarter
results will miss analyst estimates.  Shares in the Sandvika-based company, which has posted a
net loss for each of the previous six quarters, fell as much as
18 percent to 1.190 kroner, the lowest since the stock was first
sold in 2006. It was the biggest loser on the Oslo Stock
Exchange’s All-Share Index. More than 21 million shares were
traded so far today, compared with an average daily total of
11.6 million in the past six months.  REC said it expects to report  revenue  from continuing
operations of 1.5 billion kroner ($263.5 million) and a loss
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of about 185
million kroner. The company had been expected to report Ebitda
of 97.7 million kroner on sales of 1.64 billion kroner,
according to the average of  10 analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  REC, like European peers  Solarworld AG (SWV)  and Q-Cells SE, is
under pressure from Chinese competitors that expanded just as
demand slowed, causing solar-wafer and cell prices to plummet.
Cuts in renewable-energy subsidies in France, Italy and  Germany 
have also reduced sales for the Norwegian manufacturer.  “Very challenging market conditions led to a quarterly
sequential reduction in both sales volumes and selling prices”
at REC’s solar and silicon units, the company said today in a
statement.  Even Worse  The guidance is “even worse than feared” and “could fuel
speculation” about a possible closure of REC’s operations in
 Singapore , Eirik Vegem Dahle, an analyst at Pareto Securities
ASA, said in an e-mail. “In addition, debt maturities in 2014
are starting to look difficult on current earnings levels.”  REC, which had net debt of 1.9 billion kroner at the end of
the third quarter, has sought to bolster its finances by curbing
costs and reducing capacity to adapt to falling demand. In July,
it raised 1.3 billion kroner through a share offer even as
convertible bondholders rejected proposed changes to the terms
of their agreements.  “On the positive side, net debt is slightly lower than
expected,” Pareto said. “Before markets show some signs of
improving, we would not be an owner of REC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo on  at
 streloar1@blomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  