-- Reinhart, Rogoff Say Romney Advisers Understate Crisis Severity
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-10-16T15:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/reinhart-rogoff-say-romney-advisers-understate-crisis-severity.html
The slow U.S. economic recovery is
characteristic of recessions caused by financial crises,
according to Harvard University economists Carmen Reinhart and
Kenneth Rogoff, who disputed analyses by advisers to  Mitt Romney 
who say the recent American experience is different.  “The aftermath of the most recent U.S. financial crisis
has been quite typical of systemic financial crises around the
globe in the postwar era,” Reinhart and Rogoff wrote in a
Bloomberg View column. “If one really wants to focus just on
U.S. systemic financial crises, then the recent recovery looks
positively brisk.”  The severity of the crisis is a subject of debate among
economists during this year’s presidential election campaign.
President  Barack Obama , explaining persistent  unemployment  and
slow growth, says he inherited an economy in a tailspin. Romney
and his advisers blame Obama’s economic policies.  Romney told  CNN  in an interview last week that “it’s
pretty clear that the economy is not growing at the rate it
should be under the president.” The first point Obama made at
the candidates’ Oct. 3 debate in Denver was that “four years
ago we went through the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.”  In an opinion article published Aug. 15 in the  Washington 
Post, Romney advisers Glenn Hubbard and Kevin Hassett said
Obama’s “excuse” that recoveries after financial crises are
always slow is inaccurate because “economists who have looked
at U.S. recoveries after financial crises have generally found
that the recoveries have not been slow.”  Taylor Blog  Another Romney adviser, Stanford University Professor John Taylor, wrote in his blog Oct. 11 that data going back more than
a century show that growth has been strong after several U.S.
financial crises.  Reinhart and Rogoff, authors of the 2009 book “This Time
is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,” compared the
latest recovery to four similar episodes in U.S. history: the
crises of 1873, 1893 and 1907, as well as the Great Depression.  Five years after the onset of the subprime crisis in 2007,
per capita gross domestic product remains below its initial
level and unemployment is close to 8 percent, the two economists
wrote in yesterday’s article.  “Rather than the V-shaped recovery that is typical of most
postwar recessions, growth has been slow and halting,” the
economists wrote. “This disappointing performance shouldn’t be
surprising.”  After the panic of 1907, real per-capita GDP didn’t return
to its 1906 level until six years later, according to Reinhart
and Rogoff. The unemployment rate climbed to 8 percent in 1908
from 1.7 percent in 1906, and it didn’t return to the pre-crisis
low until 1918.  2012 Study  In their article, Reinhart and Rogoff said the Romney
advisers’ conclusions were at least partly based on a  2012 study 
by Michael Bordo, a professor of economics at Rutgers University
in New Brunswick, New Jersey, and Joseph Haubrich, an economist
with the Federal Reserve Bank of  Cleveland . Bordo and Haubrich
found that recessions associated with financial crises are
generally followed by rapid recoveries.  Hubbard, in an e-mail today, said he didn’t understand
Reinhart and Rogoff’s criticism of his article with Hassett,
“as our main point was that the Obama administration cannot, ex
post, appeal to Reinhart-Rogoff, as the administration has (each
year) forecast a sharp recovery just around the corner.”  Asked to comment on the Reinhart-Rogoff article, Taylor
referred to his  blog . Hassett said he had nothing to add because
the debate is between the Harvard economists and Bordo and
Haubrich.  Defining Recovery  Bordo said the main difference between his research with
Haubrich and that of Reinhart and Rogoff lies in the definition
of a recovery.  Reinhart and Rogoff focus on real per capita GDP from the
peak preceding the crisis to the point in the recovery when the
earlier peak is reached, Bordo said in an e-mail today. “We
look at what is called the bounce-back, the pace of recovery
from the trough of the business cycle.”  Hubbard is dean of Columbia University’s business school
and Taylor served as Treasury undersecretary for international
affairs in the administration of George W. Bush. Hassett is
director of economic policy studies at the American Enterprise
Institute in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  