-- Roche Still Seeks Sequencing Expansion After Illumina
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-10-16T15:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/roche-third-quarter-revenue-advances-15-as-dollar-strengthens.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  still wants to
expand in gene sequencing after this year’s failed effort to buy
 Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  and is looking at potential deals, Chief Executive
Officer Severin Schwan said.  Illumina fell the most in a year yesterday as investors
doubted Roche would renew its interest in buying the world’s
biggest maker of DNA sequencing equipment. Illumina declined 6
percent to $48.07 at the close in  New York , the biggest drop
since Oct. 7, 2011. The San Diego-based company’s shares have
gained 58 percent this year.  “Sequencing is certainly one of the business areas we are
looking to invest in,” Schwan said on a conference call with
reporters today after Roche announced a 15 percent increase in
 third-quarter sales  that beat analyst estimates. “We are
looking for a variety of options to build this business both
internally and externally.” He declined to comment on “market
rumors” of a new Illumina bid.  Buying Illumina would help Roche, the world’s largest maker
of cancer medicines, better tailor drugs to patients. Machines
made by Illumina can provide a full transcript of a person’s
DNA, information used to diagnose rare disease, identify the
risk for a genetic condition, or match cancer treatments to
patients’ tumors.  Hostile Bid  Illumina fought off a $6.7 billion hostile takeover bid
from Basel, Switzerland-based Roche. Illumina Chief Executive
Officer  Jay Flatley  called the $51-a-share offer “woefully
inadequate,” in an interview last month.  The Times of  London  reported Oct. 1 that Roche might
consider another bid at $60 a share, without citing sources for
the information.  Speculation about a deal with Roche leaked in December, and
Roche formally made its interest known a month later by publicly
offering $44.50 a share, after it said Illumina was “unwilling
to participate in substantive discussions.” After the Swiss
drugmaker increased the offer in March, investors voted down its
attempt to gain control of Illumina’s board at an April 18
shareholder meeting.  Flatley said in a Sept. 17 interview with Bloomberg that
the public offer from Roche stopped Illumina’s board from
discussing what price would be acceptable.  Dollar Boost  Roche’s sales last quarter got a boost from gains in the
dollar and the yen against the Swiss franc. Sales climbed to
11.3 billion francs ($12 billion), the drugmaker said in a
statement. Analysts predicted 11.2 billion francs, the average
of 10  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares rose 0.4 percent to 184.60 francs in Zurich.
Roche shares have returned 21 percent this year including
reinvested dividends,  compared with  an 18 percent return for the
 Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   The franc’s weakness and new products such as the breast-
cancer drug Perjeta are boosting Roche’s revenue, offsetting the
effect of price reductions in western  Europe . Currency shifts
added about 11 percentage points to sales growth for Roche,
Europe’s second-biggest drugmaker by sales after crosstown rival
 Novartis AG. (NOVN)   Roche, which doesn’t release quarterly earnings, repeated
the forecast it issued in February, saying it expects core
earnings per share to increase by a high-single-digit percentage
excluding currency shifts. Sales should grow this year in the
low-to mid-single-digit range at constant exchange rates for the
company and the pharmaceutical division, the company said. Roche
also expects diagnostic sales to outpace the market.  The dollar gained 30 percent against the franc from the
Swiss currency’s peak on Aug. 9, 2011, through the end of the
third quarter, and 17 percent against the euro. The  Swiss
National Bank  established a franc ceiling at 1.20 per euro in
September 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  