-- Rolling Stones’ Youth Recaptured in Footage From 1965
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/rolling-stones-youth-recaptured-in-footage-from-1965.html
A new  documentary  celebrating the
the  Rolling Stones ’ 50th anniversary offers a rare, intimate
look at the group at the start of its career, during a 1965 tour
of Ireland.  “Charlie Is My Darling -- Ireland 1965” shows a 22-year-
old  Mick Jagger , now 69, singing the band’s newest hit,
“Satisfaction,” before crowds of screaming teens. In it, the
members express doubts about their longevity as a band.  “One’s brought up to think that pop music is a very
ephemeral thing and it lasts for nothing,” Jagger tells an
interviewer. “So and when we first made a record and it got in
the charts we thought, well it’s good. We’ll probably be around
for a year or maybe a year and a half, and then it’s all going
to be over.”  The film will play for one night only on Oct. 24 at
Graumann’s Chinese theater in Hollywood, move to a handful of
other cities and become part of satellite provider  DirecTV (DTV) ’s
“Something to Talk About” documentary series. A Blu-ray disc
goes on sale Nov. 6.  Running 65 minutes, “Charlie” was never intended as a
movie. Documentary filmmaker Peter Whitehead was hired to
capture the Stones’ weekend in Dublin and Belfast to get the
band used to being in front of a camera. Then-manager Andrew
Loog Oldham, inspired by the commercial success of the Beatles’
“A Hard Day’s Night,” thought the exercise might prepare the
band for a feature film.  “It was never supposed to come out,” Robin Klein, the
documentary’s producer, said in an interview. “All of these
groups were making movies so Andrew decided to take them to
Ireland and just do a test shot.”  Scouring Vaults  The archival footage is making its way to fans as the
Stones prepare for a handful of concerts and a broader
documentary is released. Yesterday, the band announced four live
dates in Britain and the U.S. “Crossfire Hurricane,” a longer
film covering the Stones’ five-decade career, makes its debut at
the London Film Festival on Oct. 18.  Ahead of the Blu-ray release, “Charlie Is My Darling”
will play at theaters in  New York , Washington,  Dallas ,  Seattle 
and Bellingham, Washington, Scottsdale,  Arizona , and Santa
Monica, California. The show airs on DirecTV on Nov. 10.  Much of the footage has never been seen. Director Mick
Gochanour scoured vaults in England for bits of Whitehead’s
footage to create a cohesive narrative of the band’s weekend in
Belfast and Dublin. The material includes the first performance
of “Satisfaction” filmed live, Klein said.  Watts’ Skills  Fans also will see Jagger and Richards writing “Sittin’ on
a Fence,” and Charlie Watts ruminating over whether he is
really a good drummer. Three of the Stones featured in the film
are still playing, including Jagger. Watts is now 71, his place
among rock’s great drummers affirmed, and guitarist  Keith Richards  is 68. Bassist Bill Wyman left the band in 1992.
Guitarist  Brian Jones  drowned in 1969.  The near-simultaneous theatrical, television and home-video
release is being used increasingly for smaller productions to
capitalize on publicity for the film and generate sales through
various outlets.  The film will continue to be shown at festivals in order to
generate a wider theatrical release, according to the production
company,  Abkco Films .  “The way it was shot and restored, the best way to see it
is that way,” said Alisa Coleman, senior vice president at
Abkco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  