-- Romney Win Would Allow Fiscal Cliff Delay, Rubio Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-10-16T18:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/romney-win-would-allow-fiscal-cliff-delay-rubio-says.html
A  Mitt Romney  win on Nov. 6 would
convince U.S. markets that the new Republican president should
get “a couple of extra months” to strike a  deficit-reduction 
deal, Florida Senator Marco Rubio said today.  Speaking at a Bloomberg View breakfast in New York, Rubio
said the year-end deadline to avert $607 billion in spending
cuts and tax increases set to begin Jan. 1 may prove less
important if the Republican nominee defeats President  Barack Obama .  “If President Obama loses, I think it’s a 50-50 chance
that nothing happens because the markets may say, ‘We’ve got a
new president coming so, you know, we’ll give you guys a couple
of extra months to work this thing out,’” said Rubio, 41.
“Markets will give you a couple of months to get President
Romney on the ground to work on it.”  If Congress doesn’t act by the end of this year, automatic
spending cuts, known as sequestration, will begin to take effect
and tax cuts initially enacted in 2001 and 2003 will expire -- a
scenario known as the “fiscal cliff.”  “While Jan. 1 technically is the day the fiscal cliff
kicks in,” Rubio said, the spending cuts and tax increases will
be phased throughout 2013 and beyond.  Negotiating Position  Should Obama win a second term, his opening negotiating
position probably will be to offer to forgo the sequestration
cuts in exchange for allowing the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts to
expire for top earners, Rubio said. Obama and congressional
Democrats have pressed to let those tax cuts expire for
individuals with annual incomes more than $200,000 and families
with annual incomes greater than $250,000.  “If the president wins, then we’ve got a real scenario on
our hands here in terms of avoiding the  short-term problem  and
then -- how do you pivot from that to get to a long-term
solution,” Rubio said.  Rubio, who spoke ahead of the second presidential debate at
9 p.m. today at Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York, said
he supports a long-term deficit-reduction plan that would
simplify the  tax code  and lower rates. He declined to say which
deductions he would support eliminating to cover the cost of
rate reductions and defended Romney’s refusal to do the same.  “Their approach is right: You outline the sketches of what
your principles are, and then you allow the political process to
negotiate what those deductions are,” he said. “There will be
a very healthy debate about whether things like the charitable
deduction, the health insurance premium, the home-interest
deduction should be part of the deal.”  ‘Good Lobbying’  Rubio said he saw value in keeping all three of those
deductions. Still, he said there are “tax exemptions on the
books that are the product of good lobbying, not the product of
good policy.”  The first-term senator said there was “no doubt” that
there would be “a full-scale effort” to repeal Obama’s
signature 2010 health-care law if Republicans win the White
House and the Senate and retain control of the House.  In an interview with Bloomberg Television today, Rubio
predicted that Obama will “perform better” in tonight’s town-
hall-style debate than he did in the first presidential matchup
in Denver on Oct. 3. Democrats and Republicans widely panned
Obama’s first debate performance.  “This is a format that he’s good at, he showed that in
2008,” Rubio said. “The problem isn’t going to be his
performance. His problem is his record is still the same one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  New York  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  