-- Rosneft Seen Leading Race for TNK as BP Calls for Offers: Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2012-10-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/rosneft-seen-leading-race-for-tnk-as-bp-calls-for-offers-energy.html
OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , Russia’s state oil
company, is the leading contender to buy  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 50 percent
stake in TNK-BP as the U.K. explorer looks to exit the venture
that’s provided $19 billion in dividends since 2003.  BP has asked for bids by 9 a.m. London time tomorrow, a
person with knowledge of the matter said, declining to be named
because it’s confidential. Rosneft, which has raised $15 billion
in loans to finance an offer, is the frontrunner because it’s
backed by the Russian government, said two other people familiar
with the process.  BP put its stake in Russia’s third-largest producer up for
sale in June and was required to negotiate in good faith until
today with its current partners, four billionaires represented
by the AAR group. Only Rosneft and AAR have said they’re
considering a bid and there’s no guarantee the process will lead
to a sale.  “We don’t think AAR has the capacity to make a bid”
that’s competitive, said Peter Hutton, an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in London. “While there’s nothing that says a deal
would have to be done right on the heels of the negotiation
period, they’re free to do it now and any time within a week
would make sense.”  A Rosneft tie-up may bring BP opportunities to drill in
Russia’s Arctic region as production from TNK-BP’s aging fields
in Siberia starts to decline. BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley, a former head of TNK-BP, has said he’s still committed
to Russia as he revamps the company’s global business after the
2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  Process Continues  “The sales process continues,” said  Toby Odone , a
spokesman for London-based BP. “When we have news, we’ll
announce it.”  Officials at Moscow-based Rosneft and AAR declined to
comment.  Rosneft would have to tell the government, which owns 75
percent of the company, before committing to an acquisition,
Energy Minister Alexander Novak said yesterday. His ministry
hasn’t yet seen any proposals.  The purchase of half of TNK-BP would make Rosneft the
world’s largest publicly traded crude oil producer.  BP’s attempt to sell its stake comes a year after AAR
rejected a $32 billion offer for its half from BP and Rosneft.
That offer came after AAR blocked a share swap and Arctic
drilling alliance between BP and Rosneft.  BP is likely to get between $25 billion and $30 billion for
its stake, with about $15 billion in cash and $10 billion in
shares of Rosneft, Hutton said. Rosneft has worked with non-
Russian banks to finance an offer and has reduced the interest
it has offered to pay on the $15 billion loan agreement after
banks oversubscribed on the deal, people with knowledge of the
terms said.  Openly Clashed  BP and AAR openly clashed several times during their
partnership. In 2008, Dudley was forced to resign as head of the
venture and leave Russia after months of battling between the
shareholders over strategy. Mikhail Fridman, one of the
billionaires, quit as CEO of TNK-BP this year, saying the
relationship with BP had run its course.  TNK-BP hasn’t paid dividends on any 2012 income because it
has lacked a full board since December.  “Either AAR buys the share or continues its operations
with a new shareholder,” Vagit Alekperov, the CEO of Lukoil,
Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, said in an interview in
 London  yesterday. “There is no other way and that’s why AAR
shareholders should be more flexible in this situation.”  AAR has said it will make a bid for BP’s half. The
billionaires have also sent BP notice of their intention to sell
or list the stake in London trading if Rosneft’s offer trumps
its own.  Rosneft Discussions  “I don’t think there’s any prospect for BP agreeing to
sell any of their stake to AAR,” Colin Smith, head of energy
research at VTB Capital in London, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s clear that BP feels the relationship with AAR
has broken down irretrievably. While there have been discussions
about Rosneft making a bid, BP has always been careful to point
out that no outcome can be assured.”  Fridman and BP’s other billionaire partners in TNK last
year blocked a $7.8 billion share swap and exploration pact with
Rosneft in court, saying BP was required to pursue all
opportunities in  Russia  exclusively through TNK-BP.  Russian President Vladimir Putin is inviting foreign
producers into Russia to help keep the country’s oil output at a
post-Soviet high of 10 million barrels a day. Rosneft, which is
75 percent owned by the government, is the country’s biggest
producer. BP held 1.25 percent of Rosneft after buying about $1
billion of shares in its 2006 initial public offering.  An expanded Rosneft including half of TNK-BP would increase
crude oil output to 3.29 million barrels a day, according to
figures given by both companies. That would surpass PetroChina
Co. which had 2.43 million barrels a day of output in April, the
most among the world’s publicly traded energy companies,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  