-- True Religion Owners Seen Praying for Deal Erasing Loss
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-10-17T15:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/true-religion-owners-seen-praying-for-deal-erasing-loss.html
True Religion Apparel Inc. (TRLG) , the
maker of designer jeans worn by celebrities from Megan Fox to
 Angelina Jolie , stands to recover the 39 percent it cost
shareholders this year by selling itself.  As True Religion evaluates options, including a sale,
Citigroup Inc. says the retailer could draw as much as $35 a
share in a takeover, 34 percent more than yesterday’s close and
42 cents above the stock’s level at the end of 2011. That would
be a boon for investors after the company’s valuation relative
to profit fell to a two-year low. The maker of $300 jeans has
received interest from private-equity firms and other apparel
companies, a person familiar with the matter said last week.  “It’s both an attractive LBO candidate and strategic
acquisition candidate,” Jason Ronovech, an  Albany ,  New York- 
based  money manager  for Paradigm Capital Management Inc., which
oversees about $2 billion including True Religion shares, said
in a telephone interview. “The stock this year had
underperformed. Fashion in denim is a finicky type of end market
to be in. But it’s a very strong brand. The balance sheet is
very liquid.”  As analysts project a slowdown in sales growth after
revenue rose four times more than the peer average since 2007,
True Religion may be bought by Warnaco Group Inc. or another
apparel company with the strength to rejuvenate the business,
Citigroup said. True Religion also has no debt and almost twice
as much cash versus equity as similar-sized U.S. clothing
companies and specialty apparel retailers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Even after last week’s 24 percent gain,
the company trades at 5.6 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, less than 83 percent of the
group, the data show.  Embellishing Jeans  True Religion was founded a decade ago by Chief Executive
Officer Jeffrey Lubell, who began  embellishing  jeans as a teen
growing up in  New York . The company said on Oct. 10 that it
formed a special committee to consider options after receiving
interest from third parties about a possible transaction.  A spokeswoman for Vernon, California-based True Religion
declined to comment beyond last week’s statement.  The company has a small overseas presence and little online
retail activity, and a buyer with those capabilities would help,
said the person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
named because the talks aren’t public.  While True Religion shares surged the most in more than
three years on Oct. 10, the stock closed at $26.10 yesterday.
That’s  lower  than this year’s peak of $37.29 from February and
the end-of-December level of $34.58. The company, which has a
market value of $673 million, had rallied three straight years
before declining in 2012.  Slowing Growth  Today, True Religion shares rose 3 cents to $26.13 at 10:58
a.m. in New York.  True Religion’s revenue increased 142 percent from 2007
through last year, versus the average increase of about 34
percent for U.S. clothing companies and specialty apparel chains
with market capitalizations larger than $100 million, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Now, growth is slowing as True
Religion loses female customers because it maintained higher
prices than rivals such as  VF Corp. (VFC) ’s 7 For All Mankind label.  “Investors had once believed that $300 jeans were here to
stay,” Jeff Burchell, a Toronto-based money manager at Aston
Hill Financial Inc., which manages about C$6 billion ($6.1
billion), said in a phone interview. “But the whole premium
denim fad has sort of faded a bit. True Religion was known for
very recognizable, flashy designs. The trend went against them
and they haven’t really recovered from that.”  Worst Pace  Sales at True Religion will climb at the slowest annual
pace ever in 2012 and 2013, expanding about 8 percent in both
years, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Profitability has also dwindled. True Religion  earned  less than
18 cents in operating profit on each dollar of sales last year
for the worst margin since 2003, when it posted a loss, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The deceleration in True Religion’s business is weighing on
the company’s shares, which had surged 178 percent from 2008
through 2011. They’re down 25 percent in 2012, and on Aug. 2,
the company’s enterprise value was 4.08 times True Religion’s
Ebitda, the lowest multiple since August 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The decline has left True Religion vulnerable to an
acquisition, according to Dorothy Lakner, a New York-based
analyst at Caris & Co.  Brand Restoration  “The stock had gotten to a point at which maybe both
private-equity and strategic buyers became interested, much more
so than they would have been when the stock was almost twice as
high,” Lakner said in a phone interview. “Just from that
perspective, all of a sudden it becomes much more attractive as
a takeover candidate.”  Warnaco (WRC)  and other strategic buyers may see an opportunity
to restore the brand in the U.S. and boost its allure
internationally, said Susan Anderson, a New York-based analyst
at Citigroup.  Warnaco licenses the  Calvin Klein  Jeans brand from  PVH
Corp. (PVH) , which bought Calvin Klein’s company from the designer in
2003. True Religion could now fill a hole for Warnaco after PVH
said in March that it will reacquire the Calvin Klein Europe
license, Anderson said.  Deborah Abraham, a spokeswoman for New York-based Warnaco,
said the company doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked
whether it’s interested in acquiring True Religion.  Baby Phat  True Religion may also be a logical target for closely held
 Kellwood Co. , a Chesterfield, Missouri-based company that
designs and markets a collection of apparel brands such as Baby
Phat and XOXO, because it doesn’t have a premium denim line,
Anderson said. Kellwood is currently owned by  Boca Raton ,
Florida-based private-equity firm Sun Capital Partners Inc.,
which took it private in 2008.  Erin Haggerty, a spokeswoman for Kellwood, didn’t return a
phone call or e-mail seeking comment. Chuck Dianis, a spokesman
for Sun Capital who works at Stanton Public Relations &
Marketing, said the firm declined to comment on whether it is
interested in buying True Religion or has approached the company
about a deal.  True Religion’s balance sheet also likely appeals to
private-equity firms, Caris’s Lakner said. Cash and short-term
investments amount to $6.22 a share, or 24 percent of the
company’s market capitalization. That proportion is almost twice
the industry average of 13 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. True Religion also has no long-term debt.  Managing Stores  “Most companies that are in retail generate a lot of cash,
and usually more than they need,” Lakner said. “That’s
certainly the case here.”  The biggest challenge True Religion faces should it seek a
buyer may be finding a company that wants to both manage the
brand and run the stores, said Aston Hill’s Burchell. Companies
that manage portfolios of clothing lines typically market and
distribute the products to department stores and other shops,
rather than operate retail outlets themselves, he said. True
Religion operates  139 stores .  “You’re not just buying the True Religion brand; you’re
buying the stores, too,” Burchell said. “If it’s going to be
taken out, it’s going to be a very unique buyer, which limits
the list of people that would potentially bid. I just don’t see
it.”  The last takeover of a publicly traded premium denim
company was VF’s $775 million acquisition of 7 For All Mankind
in 2007. Citigroup’s Anderson said that valued the jeans maker
at about 9 times Ebitda.  Ebitda Multiple  True Religion won’t fetch a multiple that high because VF
closed its transaction when “the premium denim market was a lot
more attractive,” she said.  Still, a buyer could pay 6 to 7 times her estimate for True
Religion’s Ebitda during the next 12 months, which implies a
price of $32 to $35 a share, Anderson said. In the last four
years, acquirers of U.S. apparel chains have paid a median of
8.4 times trailing 12-month Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Lazard Capital Markets LLC analyst Diana Katz estimates a
takeover price up to almost $37 using valuation multiples from
other retail deals, she wrote in a note to clients Oct. 10.
Paradigm Capital’s Ronovech and Caris’s Lakner said that a fair
takeover offer would be in the $30 range.  “It has been cheap for awhile,” Citigroup’s Anderson
said. “A lot of investors have wanted to like it, including me,
but it has been tough because of their issues,” the analyst
added. “With obviously no debt and all this cash, a buyer could
come in and lever it up, turn it around and continue to drive
the business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  