-- Russian Business Climate, Corruption Hold Back Rating, S&P Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-10-16T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/russian-business-climate-corruption-hold-back-rating-s-p-says.html
Russia  needs a better business
climate to bolster economic growth and win an upgrade of its
investment-grade  credit rating , according to  Standard & Poor’s .  The government must deal with “structural impediments” to
growth by fighting corruption, scaling back the state’s role in
the economy and improving the judiciary, while moving away from
the spending increases President  Vladimir Putin  has counted on
for popularity, Kai Stukenbrock, S&P’s head of sovereign ratings
for the  Commonwealth of Independent States  and the  Middle East ,
said in an interview.  Tackling graft “could help the growth potential and also
the resilience of the economy,” he said today in Moscow. “The
question is whether the government will be able to change their
mode of operation and curtail expenditure growth.”  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, is trying to
reduce its dependence on the oil and gas revenue that accounted
for half its income last year. Putin wants to boost investment
to 25 percent of gross domestic product by 2015 from 21 percent
last year by improving the country’s ranking in the  World Bank ’s
annual  Ease of Doing Business  survey to 20th from 120th.  While “ambitious,” that target may help focus the
government and reduce state interference in the affairs of
businesses and investors, according to Stukenbrock.  ‘Align Policy’  “It’s good to have goals and targets and to say ‘we want
to move up,’” he said. “It would help to align policy a bit in
a certain direction.”  Russia is rated BBB at S&P, the second-lowest investment
grade and level with Bulgaria and Lithuania. The rating, which
has a stable outlook, remains vulnerable to a sustained drop in
crude prices, according to Stukenbrock.  Oil prices lingering at $80 a barrel could result in a one-
step downgrade for Russia, while a prolonged run of $60 crude
may trigger a three-step cut to a BB junk rating, he said.  Urals crude , Russia’s main export blend, has advanced 7.9
percent this year to $114.01 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s averaged almost $111 in 2012.  Crude and oil products account for half of Russian goods
exports, a figure that rises to 80 percent when gas and metals
are included, according to S&P. A $10 drop in average  oil prices 
can widen Russia’s budget gap by 1.4 percent of GDP.  The government is targeting an A rating, citing a lower
debt load than in many higher-rated countries, according to the
 Finance Ministry ’s medium-term debt strategy.  While the sensitivity of the budget and the economy to oil
hasn’t changed “dramatically,” there are signs Russia is
making steps toward sheltering itself from energy-price shocks,
Stukenbrock said, citing the central bank’s move toward a more
flexible ruble exchange rate and World Trade Organization entry.  The Finance Ministry is taking a lot of “smallish steps”
toward improving Russia’s fiscal outlook, including proposing a
“relatively conservative” budget for next year, introducing
caps on spending, opening the  debt market  to foreign investors,
and borrowing more than needed to replenish the  Reserve Fund ,
according to Stukenbrock.  “Taken all together, I think there’s a lot of sensible
policy coming from that side at the moment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  