-- Russia’s Retail Growth Probably Eased as Inflation Quickened
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-10-17T08:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/russia-retail-sales-growth-probably-eased-as-inflation-quickened.html
Russian  retail sales  probably rose
at the slowest pace in 20 months in September, while investment
growth decelerated for a sixth month as inflation gathered pace.  Receipts at Russian merchants advanced 4.2 percent from a
year earlier, the weakest since January 2011 and less than
August’s 4.3 percent increase, according to the median forecast
of 17 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Business  spending  to
boost capacity grew 2.1 percent, down from 2.3 percent the
previous month, a second survey showed. The Moscow-based Federal
Statistics Service will publish the data this week.  Russia, where household spending accounts for half of gross
domestic product, is facing a slowing economy as rising prices
erode spending power. The central bank last month unexpectedly
increased  interest rates , signaling that concerns over inflation
outweighed the dangers of an economic slowdown.  “Accelerating inflation is eating into growth in nominal
incomes and wages,”  Alexander Morozov , chief economist for
Russia at HSBC Holdings Plc in Moscow, said yesterday by
telephone. “Retail lending peaked and is growing more slowly.
That has only just started and will be a factor for the next 12
months.”  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 Russian stocks added 0.1 percent to
1,457.63 as of 12:05 p.m in Moscow. The ruble strengthened for a
second day against the dollar, appreciating 0.4 percent to
30.79.  Lending Slowdown  Loans to households grew 2.5 percent from the previous
month in September, the slowest since March. Domestic
consumption is supported by lending and improvements in the
labor market, according to Bank Rossii.  Real wages  increased 7.3 percent from a year earlier, down
from 7.8 percent the previous month, according to the median
estimate of 14 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Disposable
incomes also grew more slowly, rising 5.4 percent compared with
7.2 percent, another survey showed.  Consumer prices advanced 6.6 percent in September,
breaching the top of the central bank’s 5 percent to 6 percent
target range for this year after bad harvests from the U.S. to
 Russia  drove up food costs and delayed utility-price increases
year took effect.  Slower lending growth is already hurting car sales for
September, Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist at VTB Capital in
Moscow, said by phone. Russian car and light vehicle sales
advanced 10 percent from a year earlier in September, matching
the  weakest pace  since growth resumed in 2010, the Association
of European Businesses in Russia said Oct. 8.  Labor Outlook  “The economic slowdown still hasn’t affected unemployment,
but the rate may reach 5.8 percent by the end of the year,”
Maria Pomelnikova, an analyst at ZAO Raiffeisenbank in Moscow,
said by telephone.  The rate may have risen to 5.3 percent last month from 5.2
percent in August, according to the median estimate of 13
economists polled by Bloomberg.  Investment may have slowed in September as general economic
uncertainty and higher borrowing costs discouraged spending by
companies, Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, said by phone. State preparations for
last month’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in
Vladivostok, a major source of  government investment  this year,
has also ended, contributing to the slowdown, according to
Raiffeisenbank’s Pomelnikova.  “There is still government investment, but its growth
isn’t enough to break the negative trend.” Osakovskiy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  