-- S&P Cuts Santander, BBVA Ratings on Spain Downgrade
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-16T16:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/s-p-cuts-santander-bbva-ratings-after-spain-sovereign-downgrade.html
Standard & Poor’s  cut its credit
ratings on  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s largest lenders. The shares surged on
speculation the country is edging toward a bailout.  Santander’s long-term counterparty credit rating was
lowered two levels to BBB with a negative outlook, from A-, and
BBVA’s rating was cut to BBB- from BBB+, S&P said in a statement
today. The firm also cut the ratings of nine other banks and
placed six on creditwatch negative.  Last week’s reduction of Spain’s sovereign debt rating to
BBB-/A-3 also affected the assessment of lenders ranked higher
than the country and those whose ratings assumed government
support, S&P said. Germany is open to Spain seeking a
precautionary credit line from Europe’s rescue fund, said
Michael Meister, a deputy caucus leader of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, and  Norbert Barthle , her
party’s budget spokesman, signaling a reversal of Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s position.  Santander rose 4.3 percent to 6.06 euros at 5:30 p.m. in
Madrid, the biggest gain since Sept. 6. BBVA advanced 6 percent
to 6.31 euros.  Bankinter SA (BKT)  jumped 7.4 percent to 3.12 euros.  Credit Profiles  S&P will continue reviewing the sovereign downgrade’s
implications, and plans to conclude the process next month,
according to the statement.  “For Santander and BBVA, we don’t anticipate that we would
lower” the banks’ stand-alone credit profiles by more than two
levels, if at all, after the review, S&P said. “The possibility
that our long-term ratings on these banks would be affected is
therefore remote.”  Spain’s debt rating was cut to one level above junk by S&P,
which cited euro-region peers’ backtracking on a pledge to sever
the link between the sovereign and its banks as it considers a
second bailout. The downgrade came after the government
announced a fifth austerity package in less than a year and
published details about stress tests of its banks.  “There’s an anticipation that Spain will resort to a
bailout and there will be a decline in yields as a result -- the
market is trying to price that in,” Carlos Joaquim Peixoto, a
banking analyst at  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  in Oporto, Portugal, said in a
telephone interview. “The bank downgrades were fully expected
after the sovereign downgrade.”  Deficit Target  Creditworthiness concerns have grown since the government
requested as much as 100 billion euros ($130 billion) in
European Union aid in June to shore up its lenders and amid
signals that the deficit target is in jeopardy. S&P said the
government’s action will probably be constrained by a lack of
predictability on euro-zone governments’ policies.  Recent statements on the European Stability Mechanism’s
involvement in bank recapitalizations put into question the
mutualization of loans to Spanish banks among euro-region
nations, it said. That possibility had been a key factor in
S&P’s decision to affirm Spain’s ratings on Aug. 1.  Other banks downgraded by S&P included  CaixaBank SA (CABK) , cut to
BBB- with a negative outlook from BBB, and  Banco Popular Espanol
SA (POP) , reduced to BB from BB+.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  