-- Safran Says Purchase of UTC Unit Cuts Need for Decade of R&D
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-16T13:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/safran-says-purchase-of-utc-unit-obviates-need-for-decade-of-r-d.html
Safran SA (SAF) , the French maker of
aerospace components and jet engines, said its 310 million-euro
($400 million) acquisition of a power systems unit from  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  eliminates the need for a decade of research
and development efforts in the field.  “If we were to go it alone, we would have to spend
considerable amounts on research and development and even then
we would not have the credibility on our own,” Safran Chief
Financial Officer Ross McInnes said on a call with analysts.  The in-house costs would have reached as much as 200
million euros over a decade, McInnes said. Safran is paying cash
for Goodrich  Electric Power (015760)  Systems and expects the deal to
close by early 2013, the Paris-based company said. Antitrust
regulators forced United Technologies to sell the unit after it
took over the parent company.  Safran turned to Goodrich Electric after a failed takeover
approach for French aircraft systems maker  Zodiac Aerospace (ZC)  two
years ago. It’s betting that electrical systems will become
increasingly important in commercial aircraft as  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
Airbus SAS look to build lighter, more fuel efficient planes.
Safran is unlikely to renew interest in Zodiac,  Morgan Stanley
analyst Rupinder Vig said.  “The trend towards more electrical aircraft is a long term
irreversible industry evolution which opens up new opportunities
for our industry,” Safran Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Herteman said in a statement.  GEPS is expected to generate more than $200 million in
revenue this year. The Pitstone Green, England-based company
employs around 560 people, including staff at its Twinsburg,
Ohio facility. The unit is delivering low-single digit
margins,and McInnes said a management plan should boost
profitability over the next few years.  Safran rose as much as 2.4 percent and was trading up 2
percent at 30.29 euros at 2:47 p.m. in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  