-- Santander CEO’s Criminal Record Stands After Pardon, Judges Say
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-16T13:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/santander-ceo-s-criminal-record-stands-after-pardon-judges-say.html
Spain’s Supreme Court said  Banco
Santander (SAN)  SA Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz’s criminal
record would stand after he received a pardon.  The judges said that the “act of reprieve” by former
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero last year didn’t
remove Saenz’s criminal record, the court said in a ruling
published in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The court was
asked by a political group to rule that Zapatero and former
Justice Minister Francisco Caamano had been guilty of
dereliction of duty in granting the pardon.  The legal proceedings involving Saenz had cast a shadow
over the executive and  Spain’s biggest bank  as he tried to steer
it through the country’s property crash. According to a 1995
Royal decree, “professional virtue” is a prerequisite for
those working in the banking industry and can be lost by anyone
with a criminal record.  An official in Santander’s media department said in a phone
interview that neither the bank nor Saenz had any immediate
comment on the court ruling.  The case involving Saenz related to lawsuit stemming from
his tenure as chairman of Banco Espanol de Credito SA, which is
now a retail banking unit of Santander.  Banesto, as the lender is known, sued a group of
businessmen, to recover loans in 1994. The defendants
successfully filed counter-complaints of false accusation, which
the judge decided to investigate and Saenz was held responsible
because he approved the filing of the initial lawsuit.  In March of last year, the Supreme Court upheld the
conviction, handing him a three-month jail term and a suspension
from banking for the same period. Zapatero issued the partial
pardon in November last year by commuting the penalties to the
maximum fine allowed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  