-- Scaramucci to Raise Hedge-Fund Bets in Asia With SALT
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-10-17T02:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/scaramucci-to-raise-asia-hedge-fund-bets-as-salt-comes-to-region.html
SkyBridge Capital LLC , the $6.7
billion fund of hedge funds that organizes the biggest industry
event in the U.S., plans to increase investments in Asia as it
kicks off its first conference in the region.  SkyBridge will seek to boost allocations to Asia-based
managers to about 30 percent of total capital over the next
decade, from about $250 million now, said Managing Partner
Anthony Scaramucci. The Series G flagship fund, which has put
money with Metacapital Management LP and Marathon Asset
Management LP, is up 15.8 percent this year through Sept. 30,
according to a letter to investors. That compares with the 2.8
percent advance by the Eurekahedge Fund of Funds Index.  “The future of global growth resides here in Asia,”
Scaramucci, 48, said in an interview in Singapore ahead of the
 SkyBridge Alternatives Conference , known as SALT, starting
today. “We like being early and we like going first. We’re here
to establish bigger, broader relationships.”  The SALT event, being held at the Marina Bay Sands resort
and casino, will host speakers including politicians Al Gore and
Tony Blair, managers from Paulson & Co. and Man Group Plc, as
well as former junk-bond king Michael Milken. It comes as Asian
hedge funds struggle to expand assets amid  Europe ’s debt crisis
and China’s economic slowdown.  “There is no doubt that asset raising is hard and probably
the biggest challenge right now, and this is only made harder by
the fact that most investments are coming from American or
European investors,” said Mark Wightman, global head of
alternatives strategy in Singapore at SunGard, a provider of
trading, risk and accounting systems for financial firms.  Size Matters  Investors globally directed almost 80 percent of new
capital to hedge funds overseeing more than $5 billion in the 15
months to March, according to Chicago-based  Hedge Fund Research
Inc . More than 60 percent of the about 1,300 Asian hedge funds
tracked by Singapore-based Eurekahedge Pte oversaw $50 million
or less.  More than 1,000 people from 36 countries are expected to
attend the three-day conference, according to Scaramucci, known
in the industry as “the Mooch.” SkyBridge has been holding the
SALT conference since 2009 in Las Vegas. An event in the desert
city in May attracted 2,200 people from 22 countries around the
world, he said.  “The interest in attendance is suggestive of what we’ve
been talking about now for three years, our whole purpose for
having moved out and having a significant presence in Asia,”
said Adam Levinson, the chief executive officer at Fortress
Investment Group ( Singapore ) Pte, the local arm of the New York-
based hedge fund and private-equity firm.  Performance Pickup  Levinson moved to Singapore from New York in January 2011
to lead Fortress’s Asia-specific macro-trading activities.  “There are managers out here who are compelling and are
involved in markets in ways that differ meaningfully from the
bulk of the hedge funds,” Levinson said.  The event coincides with a pickup in performance by Asian
managers last month. The Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index
returned 2.4 percent in September, the best performer among five
regional indexes, based on preliminary figures. The index has
returned 3.9 percent this year through September compared with
the 4.3 percent advance by the global industry gauge.  “Hedge funds will be better allocations for Asian
investors,” Mark Okada, co-founder and chief investment officer
of Highland Capital Management LP said in a Bloomberg Television
interview at the conference today. “There certainly is a
growing Asian hedge-fund community that has unique alpha
opportunities.” Alpha refers to the excess return funds earn
over performance benchmarks such as a stock index.  ‘A Renaissance’  Before starting SkyBridge in 2005, Scaramucci co-founded
Oscar Capital Management, which he sold to Neuberger Berman LLC
in 2001. He had previously worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
private wealth management.  Scaramucci, who said in July he is seeking to raise as much
as $500 million for an Asia-focused fund, is looking to open an
office in Singapore as early as April. The company is also
planning expansion in  China , he said without elaborating.  His fund of hedge funds, which researches individual
offerings to spread investors’ money across a variety of
holdings, benefited this year from investments in U.S.
residential mortgages, distressed credit and late-cycle
equities, such as companies coming out of bankruptcy, Scaramucci
said.  “The world is suffering temporarily from the aftermath of
the global financial crisis, but, like with every cycle, we are
going to hit a dramatic cycle up period for the world and I
think a lot of the growth will be driven out of this region,”
Scaramucci said. “In three years, I’d like to be sitting here
in this lobby and we’re talking about a renaissance in the
hedge-fund community in Asia based on better growth prospects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  