-- Scene Last Night: Schwarzman, Effron, Kahane, Lapham
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-10-16T18:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/scene-last-night-schwarzman-effron-dine-with-rembrandt.html
Steve Schwarzman , chief executive
officer and chairman of the Blackstone Group, last night dined
on lamb and barley risotto in the West Gallery of the Frick
Collection, facing a self-portrait by Rembrandt.  Next to him was the Frick’s head of education, Rika
Burnham; his wife, Christine, sat across the table, with the
director of the museum, Ian Wardropper, and deputy director
Colin Bailey, enjoying from afar a harbor scene by J.M.W.
Turner.  The occasion was the museum’s annual Autumn Dinner, and
most of the 250 guests, including Blair Effron of Centerview
Partners LLC and Jean-Marie Eveillard of First Eagle Investment
Management LLC, had prime views. Those in the Oval Room dined
amid Whistlers, others were with El Grecos in the East Gallery.
The evening, with tickets ranging from $2,500 to $10,000 each,
raised $1,050,000 for the museum.  The event honored Henry Arnhold, 91, who followed his
parents in collecting Meissen produced by the Royal Porcelain
Manufactory in Dresden,  Germany . During the cocktail hour, he
strolled the Portico Gallery, where 65 objects from his
collection are on view, such as a pair of bird-cage vases from
the collection of the king of  Italy .  “I enjoy it every time I see it,” Arnhold said, right
after Judy Dimon, wife of  Jamie Dimon , planted a kiss on his
cheek. “You can argue I’m unhappy because I don’t have it at
home, but here it is so beautifully exhibited, I get pleasure.
And now that it can be seen, it will benefit not only the
Meissen factory but also will be good for Dresden, where I was
born.”  Leaving Met  Wardropper in a brief address to guests recalled that when
he was at the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art as chairman of the
department of European sculpture and decorative arts, trustees
prodded him about obtaining Arnhold’s trove.  “Imagine my astonishment when a much smaller museum down
the street opened the Portico Gallery to display his
collection,” Wardropper said, crediting his predecessor, Anne Poulet, for the feat. “I had no choice but to follow the
Arnhold collection down the street.”  The dinner took place at tables covered in gold cloth.
Pears, persimmons and sliced-open papayas full of black seeds
rested on fuchsia velvet runners along with arrangements of pink
and orange dahlias and fall foliage, evoking still lifes. Guest
J. Tomilson Hill of Blackstone Group particularly appreciated
the Italian Renaissance bronzes on display.  “Where else but the Frick can you have dinner surrounded
by artistic grandeur and beauty?” Arnhold said.  ‘February House’  Composer Gabriel Kahane gathered a few inhabitants of
“February House” around a grand piano to celebrate the new
cast album of his musical, set in 1940s  Brooklyn .  Kahane and company sang several songs from the show, among
them “Wanderlust,” a quartet that included Stanley Bahorek as
the composer Benjamin Britten, Ken Barnett as the singer Peter
Pears, Stephanie Hayes as the journalist Erika Mann and Kristen
Sieh as the writer Carson McCullers.  Period drinks and food (Spam!) fueled the party at the
Central Park West house of Bloomberg Muse executive editor
Manuela Hoelterhoff.  Lapham’s Quarterly  Downtown at  Joe’s Pub , Lapham’s Quarterly hosted a
politics-themed show of readings and song.  No peace, no sex was the message of the fed up women in
“Lysistrata,” read by Ari Graynor, Katherine Waterston and
Emily Young.  Justin Levine  performed the Phil Ochs ditty “Love
Me, I’m a Liberal,” with the audience singing along. And  Oliver
Platt  read from H.L. Mencken’s “The Politician,” noting that
the truth gives voters a headache.  Oskar Eustis , artistic director of the  Public Theater , was
clear on who he’s voting for. “If Obama doesn’t win, I’m going
to kill myself,” Eustis said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Philip Boroff on  theater  and
Jeffrey Burke on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 