-- Schaeuble Risks U.K. Ire With EU Treaty Change Push for Euro
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-10-16T13:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/schaeuble-risks-u-k-ire-with-eu-treaty-change-push-for-euro.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he wants legal changes to European Union treaties
as early as next year to strengthen the euro area’s ability to
enforce budgetary discipline, threatening to stoke tensions with
the U.K. and  France .  Schaeuble said the proposals, which he discussed with
 Chancellor Angela Merkel , would give the EU’s monetary affairs
commissioner powers to reject national budgets and keep European
Parliament lawmakers from non-euro states such as the U.K. from
blocking decisions that only affect the euro region.  “We must take bigger steps toward fiscal union now,”
Schaeuble told reporters today on his return flight from a
meeting of finance chiefs in  Asia . “We could be ready by
December to call a convention” to prepare the treaty changes.  Three years after the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis
erupted in  Greece , Schaeuble is stepping up efforts to shift
powers away from national governments toward the EU while giving
the EU’s parliament more democratic legitimacy.  Clash Risks  That risks a clash with Prime Minister  David Cameron , who
has pledged to renegotiate Britain’s relationship with the EU in
a range of policy areas. Home Secretary Theresa May said
yesterday that Britain wants to opt out of more than 130 EU
policing and justice powers.  Schaeuble’s plan is also silent on common debt issuance as
sought by Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy  in a proposal made
public today in  Madrid . Spain’s blueprint calls for a European
Budget Authority to issue two-year bills in the mid-term, and
then mid-term and long-term debt as it acquires more powers to
supervise the execution of fiscal goals.  Countries would gradually join the fiscal union as they
comply with a list of economic and fiscal criteria, including
limited risk premiums, according to the document. In the last
stage, fiscal policy would be completely transferred to the euro
zone level.  EU Summit  European leaders meeting in Brussels on Oct. 18-19 will
scrutinize a report by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  on long-
term steps to strengthen the monetary union. Schaeuble said his
plan on moving toward fiscal union was discussed for about two
hours at a meeting of European finance ministers in  Luxembourg 
last week.  Under his proposal, the EU’s monetary affairs commissioner
would get far-reaching powers including the right to reject
national budgets once they’re drafted and while they’re executed
if they violate stability rules, without having to seek the
consensus of fellow commissioners.  In the European Parliament, lawmakers from the U.K. and
other countries outside the currency would be barred from voting
on euro-region matters and topics related to the so-called
Schengen area of liberalized travel within Europe would only be
dealt with by parliamentarians from Schengen countries, he said.  “We have to include the parliament more right from the
start,” Schaeuble said. “We want to go further” on deepening
European integration, he said.  Asked whether Merkel backs his proposals, Schaeuble said
that while “the chancellor and the finance minister are always
on the same page,” Merkel is “slightly more cautious than I
and that’s why she’s also a bit more successful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  