-- Sept. 11 Defendants Press for Right to Waterboarding Talk
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-17T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/sept-11-defendants-press-for-right-to-waterboarding-talk.html
Lawyers for Khalid Sheikh Mohammed
and four other accused plotters of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks asked a military judge to reject secrecy rules they said
would prevent public disclosure of details about
“waterboarding” and other CIA interrogation techniques the
defendants experienced.  “You cannot classify an observation and experience of the
accused, particularly when it was imposed on them against their
will,” David Nevin, Mohammed’s chief counsel, said yesterday,
the second day of preliminary hearings at the U.S. naval station
in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  With a trial of the Sept. 11 defendants before a military
judge and jury still a year or more away, lawyers for the five
men have filed a barrage of motions seeking to define or expand
the legal rights they will be afforded as they attempt to air
grievances about their treatment in captivity.  Defense lawyers for the five men said the government’s
proposed protective order governing the handling of classified
information is too broad and would prevent them from effectively
representing their clients.  Joanna Baltes, a prosecuting attorney, said the proposed
protective order is almost identical to one often used in
federal courts. She said the government wants the order approved
to guard against “potential disclosures that could be harmful
to national security.”  Army Colonel James Pohl, the military judge, recessed the
hearing day without ruling on the issue.  The consideration of how to handle sensitive information in
the biggest terrorism case in U.S. history coincided with a
ruling questioning the credibility of military tribunals.  Case Overturned  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington yesterday threw out
the 2008 conviction of Osama bin Laden’s former driver after
finding he was wrongly tried under a law that didn’t exist at
the time of the alleged crime.  Salim Hamdan, who was captured in Afghanistan in November
2001 and sent to Guantanamo Bay two months later, was the first
terrorism suspect found guilty at a U.S. military  war-crimes 
trial since the Sept. 11 attacks.  The appeals court said the Military Commissions Act of 2006
didn’t cover retroactive prosecution of acts that weren’t
prohibited as war crimes.  A lawyer for Mohammed, Captain Jason Wright, said in a
statement that the appeals court “emphasized that
constitutional principles can, and must, reach to Guantanamo
Bay.” He said the court’s analysis may affect the case against
the accused Sept. 11 conspirators.  Mohammed, who has said he was the mastermind of those
attacks, was held by the Central Intelligence Agency until 2006,
before being sent to Guantanamo. The CIA has acknowledged he was
one of three al-Qaeda operatives who were waterboarded. He
underwent the procedure, which simulates drowning, 183 times,
according to government documents.  News Organizations  Under President  Barack Obama ’s administration, the U.S. has
since banned the practice, which critics such as  Human Rights
Watch  call a form of torture. Members of former President  George W. Bush ’s administration, led by Vice President  Dick Cheney ,
have continued to champion waterboarding as an appropriate
technique they say can extract urgent information from
terrorists.  Opposition to the prosecution’s proposed secrecy rule was
voiced in court yesterday by David Schulz, an attorney
representing 14 news organizations, including  Bloomberg News ,
the  New York  Times, the Wall Street Journal and the  Associated
Press .  “Nothing is likely to shape the public perception of the
fairness of these proceedings more than the way the court
handles this proposed protective order,” said Schulz, who said
the order is too broad and makes it too easy for the court to
hold closed-door sessions.  “We don’t have secret trials in this country,” he said.  ‘Covers Everything’  While defense lawyers said they wouldn’t reveal sensitive
information, they also said the government’s definition of what
is classified was too sweeping.  Navy Commander Kevin Bogucki, an attorney for defendant
Ramzi bin al Shibh, said the proposed rule against disclosure
“basically covers everything that happened from the time the
accused comes into U.S. custody.”  On LeBron James  Bogucki said it took government officials two months to
approve the release of a simple note from Osama bin Laden’s
former translator about basketball star  LeBron James , who opted
to leave the  Cleveland Cavaliers  for the  Miami Heat  in 2010. The
note, previously made public, said, “LeBron James is a very bad
man. He should apologize to the city of  Cleveland ,” Bogucki
said.  “Everything that came out of his mouth was presumptively
classified,” Bogucki said. “It imposes an unjustifiable burden
upon defense counsel.”  Pohl said he views the proposed protective order as
applying only to the pretrial discovery phase of the case. “I
don’t see it as the end of the inquiry” on whether information
can be disclosed in open court during trial, he said.  Mohammed scoffed at the military commission that will try
his case before skipping yesterday’s hearing and winning the
right to wear a Mujahadeen’s camouflage uniform whenever he does
appear.  “I don’t think there’s any justice in this court,”
Mohammed, his long beard dyed a reddish hue, said through a
translator before the military tribunal. It was his first public
comment since a hearing in 2008, when he said he wished to be
found guilty and martyred.  Mohammed and two co-defendants chose to forfeit their right
to attend yesterday’s hearing by signing a written waiver under
a process approved by Pohl. The two other defendants attended
the session.  Defining Rules  The long-delayed week of hearings, initially scheduled for
June, is aimed at defining the rules of a trial for Mohammed and
the four others accused of plotting the attacks that used
hijacked passenger planes to kill almost 3,000 people at the
World Trade Center in  Manhattan  and the Pentagon near  Washington 
and third that crashed in a field in  Pennsylvania .  All five men appeared attentive and cooperative as they
answered the judge’s questions, with two of them speaking in
English and others relying on an interpreter.  The demeanor marked a change from their arraignment on
terrorism charges on May 5, when what was expected to be a
simple proceeding turned into a 13-hour session with outbursts
from defendants and interruptions as they sought to pray. One
defendant was wheeled into the courtroom for the arraignment in
May in restraints after the judge said he had refused to attend
voluntarily.  Camouflage Outfits  Pohl said two days ago he would give the five men an option
each day this week as to whether to attend that day’s hearing.  “The accused can, prior to assembly, choose voluntarily
not to attend a session” as long as “he understands his right
to be present and what his actions may or may not mean,” Pohl
said. He stopped short of making the ruling permanent, saying he
hadn’t decided whether to revisit the issue when a jury is
convened.  The judge settled a dispute over what the defendants may
wear in court. Wright, the lawyer for Mohammed, said his client
wants to be able to wear a military-style camouflage uniform,
similar to what he wore as a member of the Mujahadeen in
 Afghanistan  during Soviet occupation.  Marine Major Joshua Kirk, a prosecuting attorney, said
camouflage poses a threat to “good order and safety” and
clothing shouldn’t be used “as a vehicle for propaganda.”  Pohl said he would permit camouflage outfits as long as
they aren’t part of any U.S. military uniform.  Wearing Turbans  The defendants so far have appeared in court wearing
traditional Pakistani-style long shirts and vests with turbans.  Defense lawyers haven’t disclosed whether or how they will
challenge the evidence of their clients’ involvement in the
Sept. 11 attacks. In public to date, much of the defense
strategy rests on exposing the interrogation techniques used on
the men after they were captured as well as the conditions of
their continued detention at the base at Guantanamo Bay.  James Harrington, an attorney for Ramzi bin al Shibh, who
is accused of helping finance the hijackers who committed the
attacks, referred to his client’s years in captivity as he
argued for the right not to attend hearings.  Harrington said the defendants may believe, “I don’t want
anything to do with the court. I don’t recognize the
jurisdiction of the court. I don’t want to be subjected to this
procedure that transports me here, brings up memories, it brings
up emotions of what happened to me.”  Several family members of Sept. 11 victims who attended the
hearing could be heard gasping at that statement.  The defendants are charged with conspiring to finance,
train and direct the 19 hijackers who seized the planes. The
charges include terrorism, hijacking aircraft, conspiracy,
murder in violation of the law of war and attacking civilians.
The men could face the death penalty if convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
Judiciary (Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  