-- Serbian Investors Group Urges Government to Allow Land Sales
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-10-16T15:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/serbian-investors-group-urges-government-to-allow-land-sales.html
Serbia  should let foreigners buy
arable land to increase food production and encourage companies
from abroad to borrow in dinars, an  association  of leading
foreign investors said.  With the country mired in its second recession in three
years, the government should reduce bureaucracy and corruption,
and improve the rule of law to encourage competition and attract
investment, the Belgrade-based Foreign Investors Council said in
its 10th annual report, released today.  “The government should take all necessary actions to
increase activity on the capital market in Serbia, including
motivating foreign investors to issue dinar-denominated bonds
and initiating Serbia’s first big initial public offerings,”
said the group of 130 investors who employ 6 percent of the
Balkan nation’s workforce and contribute almost 17 percent to
its gross domestic product.  The government has said it wants investment to spark growth
in the economy, which the central bank forecasts will contract
1.5 percent this year as Europe’s debt crisis crimps demand
abroad for Serbian goods. Farming output, which accounts for two
percentage points of GDP, will drop 22 percent, central bank
Vice Governor Veselin Pjescic said Oct 10.  The organization, known as FIC and whose members include
 BASF SE (BAS) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ,  L’Oreal (OR) ,  Henkel AG
& Co KGaA (HEN3)  and  Lafarge SA (LG) , has told Serbian authorities they need
to speed up issuing of construction permits and make the labor
market more flexible.  Serbia should give private investors a bigger role in
developing roads and railways, while reducing tolls on existing
highways to attract transit, the FIC said. Investors are
interested in buying municipal bonds, which debuted in Serbia
last year, as a form of financing infrastructure projects, it
said.  The group also called for better protection of copyrights
in the Balkan country and resolving property issues related to
Communist-era confiscations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  