-- Shenkman Gives $2 Million for UConn Basketball Practice Center
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-10-16T15:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/shenkman-gives-2-million-for-uconn-basketball-practice-center.html
Mark Shenkman, founder of  Shenkman
Capital Management Inc.  in  New York , and his wife, Rosalind,
donated $2 million to help build a men’s and women’s basketball
 practice facility  at the  University of Connecticut .  The school in Storrs, Connecticut, has raised $24 million
of the $32 million needed to build the practice center next to
 Gampel Pavilion , and will finance the rest. The 24-month project
will begin as soon as possible, the school said in a release.
Shenkman previously donated $2.5 million to the sports program
and has endowed a classroom and the e-Commerce chair for the
business school.  The practice center is being built as the Huskies men’s
program changes to a new coaching staff after the retirement of
 Jim Calhoun , who guided the team to three national championships,
four semifinal appearances and seven Big East Conference titles
in 26 seasons.  “This gift represents an investment in the future of UConn
basketball,” Shenkman said in a press release. “The completion
of this basketball practice facility will certainly perpetuate
UConn’s preeminent position as one of America’s college
basketball capitals.”  Calhoun retired in September and was replaced by former
UConn team captain and 13-season National Basketball Association
veteran  Kevin Ollie , who joined the staff two years ago as an
assistant.  The practice facility will be shared by a women’s
basketball team that has seven national championships, 13
semifinal appearances and four perfect seasons in  Geno
Auriemma’s  27 years as coach.  UConn Graduate  Shenkman, who received a bachelor’s degree in political
science from  Connecticut  in 1965, is chairman of the UConn
Foundation board and previously gave $2.5 million to name the
athletic training and student recreational facility on the
Connecticut campus.  He was elected to the UConn School of Business Hall of Fame
in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  