-- Sierra Leone Seeks to Boost Cocoa Production to Pre-War Rates
-- B y   S i l a s   G b a n d i a
-- 2012-10-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/sierra-leone-seeks-to-boost-cocoa-production-to-pre-war-rates.html
Sierra Leone  wants to boost cocoa
production to more than 25,000 metric tons, the level reached
before the country’s civil war, within the next five years and
better the quality of beans with programs to plant trees and
train farmers in the West African nation.  A working group on cocoa, set up in late 2010, includes
non-governmental organizations and state agencies that are
trying to increase the harvest of the chocolate ingredient, John
Kamara, assistant director of tree crops in the agriculture,
forestry and food security ministry, said in an interview on
Oct. 8 in Freetown, the capital.  The “war affected the cocoa industry badly and the
objective of the working group is to improve on production and
other value-added components for the benefit of the farmers and
the state,” he said.  Sierra Leone’s economy is forecast to expand 21 percent
this year, the fastest pace in sub-Saharan  Africa , after the
start of iron-ore exports and improved agricultural output,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . The growth comes
as the country recovers from a decade-long civil war fought
mainly between Revolutionary United Front rebels and government
forces that ended in 2002.  In the first half of 2012, cocoa exports declined 20
percent to 9,250 tons from a year earlier, Joseph Pessima of the
 research department  in the Bank of Sierra Leone, said in an
interview, without giving a reason for the drop. In 2011,
shipments were 18,000 tons, he said.  Export Volumes  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit
GmbH, the German development agency known as GIZ, and Bonn-based
aid agency Welthungerhilfe are part of the cocoa group and are
providing training for about 10,000 farmers, Christiane
Hornikel, youth employment adviser with GIZ’s Employment
Promotion Programme, said in an interview in Freetown on Oct. 9.
GIZ spends as much as 400,000 euros ($518,000) annually on the
cocoa industry, she said.  “There is a lot of tree-planting going on,” she said.
“In the next few years, when these trees are fully grown, we
can see that export volumes would go up.”  Improvements in fermentation and drying techniques have
boosted the quality of the beans, Hornikel said.  “Some years ago, Sierra Leone was really famous for its
bad-quality cocoa,” she said. “It was just going into
cosmetics, cream or soap and it wasn’t used for chocolate or any
cocoa powder.”  Agriculture accounts for 46 percent of Sierra Leone’s
economy and about 70 percent of the population are involved in
agriculture, according to the Bank of Sierra Leone. Cocoa prices
are set by the government’s Commodity Market Monitoring Unit,
with the rate for the 2012-13 season fixed at 5,772 leones
($1.33) a kilogram (2.2 pounds), according to a statement from
the agency.  “We have been able to improve on quality, that is why the
farmers are now enjoying very good prices for their products,”
Mabinty Daramy, deputy minister of trade and industry, said by
phone on Oct. 8.  Growers in  Ivory Coast , the world’s top cocoa producer,
will earn 1,000  CFA francs  ($1.97) for a kilogram of beans this
season while farmers in neighboring  Ghana , the second-biggest
producer, will earn 3.39 cedis ($1.80) a kilogram.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silas Gbandia in Freetown via Accra at 
 sgbandia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  