-- Silicon Beach Draws Tech Startups to L.A. as Rents Jump
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-10-16T14:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/silicon-beach-draws-startups-moving-to-l-a-as-office-rents-jump.html
Josh Paynespent seven years in San
Francisco, where a technology boom has pushed office rents to
the highest level in a decade. He headed south to Los Angeles’s
Venice area when starting his Internet firm,  StackSocial Inc.   Payne and his 10 employees moved in August into a Frank Gehry-designed loft with three-story-high windows that overlook
the Pacific Ocean and the boardwalk’s parade of characters, such
as the roller-skating electric-guitar player Harry Perry.
StackSocial cut its costs by sharing the 3,000-square-foot (280-
square-meter) space and its $9,000-a-month rent with another
startup, Lettuce LLC, which produces order-management software.  “There’s no way that we would have landed this type of
location for this money in San Francisco and the Bay area,”
said Payne, founder and chief executive officer of StackSocial,
a one-year-old company that operates an online marketplace for
software and gadgets. “It is difficult to get really cool,
creative office space companies like ours are looking for at
prices that are affordable.”  Office space is getting more expensive in  Venice , part of a
3-mile (5-kilometer) stretch of oceanfront communities known as
Silicon Beach because of its popularity with technology
companies. Rents are climbing faster than in the wider Los
Angeles region as startups pour into the area and compete for a
tightening supply of real estate. The surge in demand is
attracting developers, who are renovating old and abandoned
buildings in hopes of appealing to more and larger companies.  Tightening Vacancy  In the market that includes Silicon Beach, the vacancy rate
for office buildings 5,000 square feet or larger was 12.9
percent in the second quarter, down from a post-recession high
of 13.6 percent at the end of 2010, according to brokerage Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. The average monthly asking rent during that
period rose 6.4 percent to $3.32 a square foot in the area,
which encompasses Venice, Culver City, the Olympic Corridor,
Marina del Rey, Santa Monica and parts of West Los Angeles.  For all of Los Angeles County, the second-quarter vacancy
rate was 20 percent, the highest in Jones Lang records dating to
1996. Rents climbed 2.1 percent from the end of 2010 to $2.47 a
square foot. Office buildings in Silicon Beach often range from
one to four stories, while other Los Angeles business centers,
such as downtown and Century City, are dominated by high-rises
averaging about 25 floors.  ‘Completely Robust’  “Whether it’s Silicon Alley in New York, Silicon Hills in
Austin, Silicon Beach in L.A. or Silicon Valley in the Bay area,
it’s the tech sector that’s driving office demand,” said John
Sikaitis, a Washington-based senior vice president at Jones
Lang. “In most of these areas, the office market is completely
robust and often far ahead of the rest of the recovery of the
larger region.”  While Silicon Beach is much smaller than technology
communities in Silicon Valley and San Francisco, the area is
home to a rising number of Los Angeles’s more than 600 tech
startups, according to a  map  by Represent LA, a website that
promotes the companies.  StackSocial, which raised $800,000 from March to May from
venture capitalists including Tim Draper and Paige Craig,
competed with at least a half-dozen other small companies for
its space, said Payne, 32.  Zambezi , an advertising agency that developed campaigns for
such companies as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Comcast Corp., chose Venice
because of its concentration of startups, access to
entertainment-industry collaborators and the outdoor lifestyle,
said Chris Raih, a co-founder of the six-year-old company.  Morning Surfers  “We oftentimes run, literally and figuratively, into other
talented people” in the neighborhood’s hip stores and coffee
shops, said Raih, 35. “That’s inspiring and a great chance to
consult, formally or informally. And the beach is an
inspiration. We have many employees who surf in the morning.”  Zambezi’s 50 employees moved a year ago from smaller
offices a few blocks away to an 11,000-square-foot space near
Abbot Kinney Boulevard, one of the district’s main commercial
streets. The property includes decks and patios, showers and a
garage that’s used to store bikes, surfboards and other sports
equipment.  While Raih declined to disclose what the company pays in
rent, he said it was “easily” 20 percent more than what a
similar space would cost farther inland.  “We are willing to pay a premium to be in this area,” he
said.  Google Offices  It’s not just small companies that are setting up shop in
Silicon Beach.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the largest Internet
search engine, opened its first office in the area 11 months
ago. The company, based in Silicon Valley’s Mountain View, took
100,000 square feet near Rose Avenue in Venice in the Gehry-
designed property known as the Binoculars Building, after the
massive sculpture that functions as its entrance.  The beach area’s success while greater Los Angeles
languishes is a reflection of the spotty commercial real estate
recovery across the U.S., which is regional and often industry-
driven, according to Jones Lang’s Sikaitis.  Silicon Valley, home to such large technology tenants as
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , has seen the office vacancy rate
drop to about 19 percent in the second quarter from 24 percent
in the last three months of 2010, Jones Lang data show. Monthly
rents climbed 3.7 percent to an average of $2.68 a square foot
during the period.  In San Francisco, rents have surged to the highest since
the first quarter of 2001, near the height of the dot-com boom.
Office rents averaged $4.06 a square foot in the second quarter,
up 35 percent from the end of 2010, according to Jones Lang.  New York  New York, where financial companies have cut jobs, fell to
second behind technology-heavy San Francisco for the tightest
U.S. office market in the third quarter, according to an Oct. 2
report by brokerage Cushman & Wakefield Inc. It was the first
time since 2000 that  Manhattan  had a larger share of empty
office space than the California city, which had a vacancy rate
of 9.1 percent at the end of September.  The tightest area in New York is midtown south, also known
as Silicon Alley because of its concentration of technology
companies. Its vacancy rate was 6.6 percent in the third
quarter, according to Cushman.  In Los Angeles, the influx of “30- and 40-something-year-
olds with money” working at the many startups has also buoyed
retail properties near the beach, said Suzy Frank, founder of
Venice-based  Abbot Kinney Real Estate . In the past two years,
retail rents on Abbot Kinney Boulevard have more than tripled to
$10 a square foot, she said.  “Vacancies for anything, retail or office, in this area
are at an all-time low,” said Frank, who has lived and worked
in the region for 25 years. “There’s a waiting list for
anything becoming available.”  Old Landmarks  At least six developers are planning office projects in
Silicon Beach, seeking to capitalize on the surge in demand,
according to Jones Lang. Some are working to revamp former
factories, post offices and run-down landmarks to appeal to
larger technology companies that they hope will continue to
migrate to the area, according to Carl Muhlstein, a Los Angeles-
based managing director at the brokerage.  Construction of new buildings has been scarce, in part
because of the area’s lengthy permit-approval process, which
requires developers to report the potential environmental impact
of their projects, Muhlstein said. More offices may be built
because renovation possibilities are starting to run low, he
said.  `Edgy' Construction'  “There are very few offices left to repurpose,” he said.
“That’s going to force new edgy construction. Not your father’s
Oldsmobile-type office.”  Worthe Real Estate Group , based in Santa Monica, and San
Francisco-based Shorenstein Properties LLC teamed to renovate a
380,000-square-foot former mail-distribution center on almost 20
acres (8 hectares) in the Los Angeles neighborhood of Playa
Vista, where Internet and media companies such as  Digital Domain
Media Group Inc. (DDMGQ) , YouTube Inc. and FoxSports.com have offices,
according to Jones Lang LaSalle.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s TMZ division agreed in August to be the
first tenant in the development, called  the Reserve . The
celebrity-gossip website took 34,000 square feet, according to
Hayley English Blockley, a senior vice president at Jones Lang
LaSalle, the leasing agent.  Rents, not including utilities and other expenses, start at
$2.75 a square foot in the building, which will open Dec. 31,
according to English Blockley. An average of two potential
tenants a week have toured the property, about twice that at
similar projects outside Silicon Beach, she said.  More Attractive  “It’s a submarket in transition that is becoming more and
more attractive,” said Charlie Malet, chief investment officer
at Shorenstein. “Demand is not evenly spread across L.A. County
-- or for that matter, across the U.S. For that reason,
developers today are very targeted as to where they get
active.”  Other developers working in the area include Los Angeles-
based Ratkovich Co., which renovated 10 buildings totaling about
453,000 square feet in Playa Vista. Tenants in the project --
called Spruce Goose after Howard Hughes’s legendary plane, which
was built at the site -- include marketing agencies 72andSunny
and Earthbound Media Group, according to Jones Lang.  A sustained recovery in Silicon Beach may be at risk if the
small startups that are fueling the area’s growth struggle to
stay alive, said Steven Heller, an attorney at Santa Monica-
based  Gilchrist & Rutter Professional Corp.  The law firm has
brokered several leases in the area for companies including
Ascent Media Group, Beats Electronics LLC and TrueCar Inc.  No `Goliath'  “Silicon Valley grew under the power of a handful of huge
companies -- Apple, Google, Facebook, etc.,” Heller said.
“There is no Goliath here, only embryonic companies with
promise and excitement. None are ‘huge’ yet and may never be.”  There’s also potential for an “opposite problem: too much
success,” he said. “If this submarket continues to have
success luring tenants, then naturally, rents will continue to
go up. Young startup companies are not in the position to pay
premium rents, so they will naturally seek cheaper rents
elsewhere.”  Amplify , a so-called startup accelerator based in Venice,
offers young companies a way to reduce the cost of office space
near the beach. About 30 members are renting space in Amplify’s
headquarters for monthly fees starting at $520 for a work
station and $1,320 for an office. In addition, six startups are
participating in a program in which Amplify contributes about
$50,000 in seed money in exchange for an 8 percent equity stake,
according to Jeff Solomon, a partner at the company.  Graffiti Art   Amplify pays $3 a square foot for its building, covered
with graffiti art and once home to a “hodgepodge” of tenants
including a bong shop and video store, said Solomon, 38.  A few blocks away, StackSocial, which got its start with
funding from Amplify, relishes its hip and perpetually sunny
spot on the oceanfront. Payne said he’s glad his company is in
Venice instead of Northern California.  “When my San Francisco friends saw I was moving from the
Bay area to L.A., they were questioning what I was doing,”
Payne said. “I love both areas, but it’s great for us being
here. And let’s face it, Silicon Beach weather is a huge plus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  