-- Slower Growth in Health Costs Saves U.S. Billions
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-10-16T22:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/slower-growth-in-health-costs-saves-u-s-billions.html
The U.S. continues to experience a
very marked slowdown in the growth of health-care costs, despite
some widely misinterpreted new reports. And a growing body of
evidence suggests the deceleration is driven by more than a
temporarily weak economy -- which is good news for the  federal
budget  and for workers.  National health expenditures rose just 3.8 percent from
August 2011 to August 2012, according to an Oct. 11  report  from
the  Altarum Institute . And Medicare spending increased by only
3.2 percent in the fiscal year ending in September 2012,
 according to  the  Congressional Budget Office .  These are remarkably low growth rates. Consider that over
the past four decades Medicare spending increased by more than
10 percent a year.  Nevertheless, last month, many commentators falsely
declared the end of the slowdown -- largely exaggerating the
findings of a  report  issued by the Health Care Cost Institute.
That report showed expenses for those with employer-sponsored
insurance rose 3.8 percent in 2010 and 4.6 percent in 2011.  This modest change was initially described as a “surge.”
Yet by historical standards even 4.6 percent growth is very low
-- and one shouldn’t make too much of a 0.8 percentage-point
change from one year to the next. What’s more, employer-
sponsored insurance is only one component of total health
spending.  The Altarum figures, which cover total national-health
expenditures, also showed a modest acceleration in 2011 -- but
then the pace slowed again. “Our data indicate that the 2011
acceleration was not sustained,” the report notes. “Spending
growth declined in the latter half of 2011 and dropped even
further in the most recent months.”  So long live the slowdown!  Future Spending  There is good reason to think that lower growth will
persist even after the economy turns around. For instance, costs
have decelerated more for Medicare than for employer-sponsored
insurance, suggesting that the shift isn’t entirely caused by
the slow economy.  And a new survey conducted by the Health Management Academy
of industry leaders indicates some reasons why growth rates
might remain low. The academy asked chief executives of health-
care systems two key questions: What share of your revenue in
2020 will be derived from payment schemes other than fee-for-
service? And what share of clinical decisions made in 2020 will
be supported by software programs? The average responses were 62
percent and 95 percent, respectively.  In other words, health-system leaders are anticipating two
significant shifts over the next eight years: away from fee-for-
service payments and toward clinical-decision support. Both of
these changes promise to improve value and slow cost growth.  How much difference can slowing health-cost inflation make?
Consider some recent calculations from two Harvard University
economics professors, David M. Cutler and Jeffrey B. Liebman.
They examined changes in the national health-care spending
projections published by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services.  In January 2009, the centers projected that expenditures
would reach 19.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2017. This
year, the projection for 2017 is down to 18.4 percent of GDP.
That difference amounts to a whopping $280 billion. In other
words, relative to the projections issued three years earlier,
today’s forecasts suggest health savings of $3,500 per family of
four by 2017.  Over the past few decades, middle-class workers have
struggled as their incomes have stagnated in the face of
globalization and technological change. If labor compensation
hadn’t fallen so much as a share of national income, American
workers would be enjoying about $750 billion more in take-home
pay. Yet  estimates suggest  we are currently spending about that
much each year on health-care costs that don’t improve health
outcomes -- and this unnecessarily depresses take-home pay.  There isn’t much that policy makers can do to restore the
$750 billion in lower labor compensation. But there is plenty
 they can do  to get rid of waste in health care, which would fill
in much of the gap in take-home pay. That is why we should be
doing everything we can to perpetuate the slowdown in health-
care costs.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors calculate what  Europe must do to
save its currency ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Marco Rubio ; Clive Crook
on how governments can  improve the world economic outlook ; Cass
R. Sunstein on the hypocrisy of  originalist  justices;  Virginia
Postrel  on the  economics of kidney transplants ;  Steven Greenhut 
on  tax collusion in California .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  