-- Social Security Beneficiaries to Receive 1.7% Increase
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-10-16T16:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/social-security-beneficiaries-in-u-s-to-receive-1-7-increase.html
More than 56 million Social Security
beneficiaries will get a 1.7 percent cost-of-living adjustment
for 2013, one of the smallest increases since the government
began providing automatic annual adjustments for inflation.  The increase, announced today, will translate into an
additional $21 per month for retired workers, according to the
Social Security Administration, and bring average monthly
benefits to $1,261. It will cost the government $14.3 billion in
2013.  The government began providing the automatic adjustments in
1975 so recipients don’t fall behind as prices rise. For 2012,
beneficiaries received a 3.6 percent boost. The adjustment is
based on the increase in a measure of the consumer price index.  “Amid rising costs for food, utilities and health care and
continued economic uncertainty, the COLA helps millions of older
Americans maintain their standard of living, keeping many out of
poverty,” said Nancy LeaMond, executive vice president at  AARP ,
a Washington-based organization that advocates on issues
affecting older Americans.  The program provides assistance to 39 million retired
workers and their dependents, 11 million disabled Americans and
6 million survivors of deceased workers.  Paying More  About 8 million beneficiaries of the Supplemental Security
Income program, which provides cash assistance to the disabled,
blind and aged poor, will receive the same 1.7 percent increase
beginning Dec. 31, the Social Security Administration said.
Monthly benefits will grow to $710 from the current $698.  Almost 10 million Americans will pay more in Social
Security payroll taxes in 2013 because the maximum amount of
income subject to the levies will be adjusted upward to $113,700
from $110,100, the agency said.  Lawmakers searching for ways to reduce the budget deficit
have considered reducing the annual benefit increases in part
because many economists say the gauge that’s used to measure
inflation overstates the rise in prices. That would mean the
government is paying too much in cost-of-living adjustments.  The idea, part of the deficit plan offered by former
Senator Alan Simpson and Bill Clinton’s one-time chief of staff
Erskine Bowles, is opposed by advocacy groups for the elderly as
well as many lawmakers. They say the yardstick that’s now used
already understates the price increases faced by seniors because
they spend a larger-than-average share of their budgets on
medical care.  “It would be a shock to millions of seniors and disabled
veterans to learn that some in  Washington  think their current
COLAs are too generous,” Senator Bernie Sanders, a Vermont
independent, said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  