-- Softbank Has First Gain in Nine Days on Sprint Buy: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-10-16T01:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/softbank-has-first-gain-in-nine-days-on-sprint-buy-tokyo-mover.html
Softbank Corp. (9984)  gained in Tokyo for
the first time in nine trading days after announcing a deal to
buy  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  for $20.1 billion to expand into the
U.S. mobile-phone services market.  Japan ’s third-largest mobile phone carrier  jumped  as much
as 10 percent to 2,496 yen and changed hands at 2,481 yen as of
10:15 a.m.  The purchase of a 70 percent stake in Sprint will create a
combined entity of 96 million users and the world’s third-
biggest mobile-phone company by revenue, Softbank’s billionaire
President Masayoshi Son said yesterday. The deal enables Son to
seek growth outside of Japan, where handset shipments have
declined 27 percent in the past five years.  “It was positive that Son spoke in his own words about the
outline and rationale for the investment plan,” said Hitoshi Hayakawa, a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst in  Tokyo . “Softbank
has accumulated expertise in wireless business, and there could
be synergies if Softbank can import advanced services offered in
the U.S. to other markets such as Japan.”  Softbank will pay $12.1 billion to Sprint shareholders and
the deal includes $8 billion of new capital, according to a
statement distributed in Tokyo yesterday.  Softbank is creating U.S. holding entities to make the
acquisition. About 55 percent of Sprint shares will get $7.30 in
cash, and the rest will convert into 30 percent of a newly
capitalized company, which will include the $8 billion cash
infusion, Sprint said in a presentation to investors. Softbank
will also receive a warrant to purchase 55 million additional
Sprint shares at an exercise price of $5.25 per share.  The deal will be funded by cash on hand and bridge
financing, and the company won’t sell new shares, Son said
yesterday. Softbank had $9.5 billion in cash and near cash items
at the end of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The comments on the share sale “cleared concerns over
dilution and negative impacts on the company’s financial
strength,” Shinji Moriyuki, an analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities
in Tokyo, wrote in a report yesterday, reiterating his
outperform rating for the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  