-- Softbank’s Son Seeks to Skirt Cross-Border Failure History
-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-10-17T10:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/softbank-s-son-seeks-to-skirt-history-of-cross-border-failures.html
Softbank Corp. (9984)  President Masayoshi
Son is betting $20 billion he can add value by buying control of
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  in the biggest Japanese purchase of a
foreign company. There’s 26 trillion yen ($330 billion) that
says he can’t.  That’s the net amount of market value lost within 12 months
after deal announcements in the 10 biggest overseas purchases by
Japanese companies from 2000 to a year ago. Eight of the
companies saw market value erode while two posted gains.  “The track record is terrible,” said  Stephen Givens , a
Tokyo-based lawyer specializing in M&A and corporate governance.  The Sprint deal brings announced overseas acquisitions this
year to $96 billion, exceeding the total for all of 2011, as the
yen near a postwar high and a stagnating domestic economy make
markets outside Japan more attractive. Acquisitions abroad have
failed as buyers paid too much and lack management resources,
both of which apply to the Sprint deal, Givens said.  “It’s not an easy path to go,” Son told reporters in
Tokyo on Oct. 15 after the agreement to buy the Sprint stake.
“But without taking on a challenge, we may end up facing bigger
risks.”  Global Comparison  Outside Japan, the biggest cross-border deals by individual
companies have fared better. Globally, the 10 biggest overseas
acquisitions announced from 2000 to a year ago added about $56
billion in market value in the 12 months after their
announcement dates, with only two leading to declines, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The number was calculated using
today’s exchange rates.  Son initiated the deal about two months ago when he
traveled to Kansas City to meet with  Dan Hesse , chief executive
officer of Sprint, which was code-named “Swan,” one person
with direct knowledge of the situation said. He was accompanied
by Softbank Managing Partner Ronald Fisher and his lead M&A
adviser, Jeff Sine of Raine Group LLC. Hesse was joined by
Sprint’s M&A head, Keith Cowan, said the person who declined to
be identified because the details are private.  Son had bet on Hesse before. In 2000, the Japanese
billionaire invested $100 million in Terabeam Networks Inc., a
laser communications company Hesse was running. Terabeam aimed
to create a network of light beams over U.S. cities to connect
local and national networks at 1 gigabit per second.  Hesse Open  Terabeam in December 2002 sent a letter to shareholders
offering to buy back stock for 95 cents a share, about what the
company estimated its liquidation value would be. Lucent
Technologies Inc. had paid about $20 a share for its stake in
2000.  Hesse was open to Son’s idea to invest in Sprint, said
another person with direct knowledge of the situation.  To strengthen Sprint’s market position, Hesse had been
close to buying  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  in February and
held talks with Deutsche Telekom AG about a tie-up with  T-Mobile
USA . Softbank had also considered entering the U.S. market by
doing a deal with T-Mobile USA, one person said.  The two executives met again in Japan and company advisers
continued talks by phone.  By the time Deutsche Telekom announced on Oct. 3 its merger
with MetroPCS, the Softbank-Sprint talks had already
accelerated.  Sprint Board  Sprint held a  board  meeting on Oct. 5 to discuss the terms
of its deal with Softbank and other options, including the
possibility of counterbidding for MetroPCS, said the people. The
board held off on any MetroPCS bid and met again the next day to
discuss the Softbank deal, which it approved last Sunday night.  Representatives for Sprint and Softbank declined to
comment.  The transaction will help Softbank enter the U.S., where
 average revenue per data user  jumped 14 percent last year, more
than double Japan’s 6.3 percent  pace , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The U.S. is a large and growing mobile market, with the
highest smartphone penetration in the world and high revenue per
user, yet it is hampered by relatively slow network speeds,”
said  John Christiansen , a spokesman for Softbank.  DoCoMo Deals  The deal brings Son along a path once trod by bigger
Japanese rival  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  The cellular provider bought AT&T
Wireless Services Inc. as part of $10 billion in purchases of
overseas carriers, only to take 1.5 trillion yen in writedowns
on the investments between 2000 and 2004.  More recently,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s 2008 takeover of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian units swelled
costs that led to nine straight quarters of losses abroad.  The corporate culture of some Japanese companies has also
contributed to challenges in running companies based overseas,
said  Parissa Haghirian , associate professor at  Sophia University 
in Tokyo and author of “Understanding Japanese Management
Practices.”  “Most Japanese companies are basically like a village
where managers grow up and never leave, so when they go
overseas, there are cross-cultural issues,” she said in a phone
interview.  Shareholder Losses  Softbank plunged by a record 17 percent in Tokyo trading on
Oct. 12, the day after talks to buy Sprint were reported. The
company is worth less now than before news broke of its talks
for a 2006 purchase of Vodafone Group Plc’s Japanese unit, its
biggest deal before Sprint.  “Every overseas acquisition by a Japanese company has a
negative impact on its stock price,” Givens, also a lecturer at
Keio Law School, said in a phone interview. “I’ve never seen a
cross-border acquisition that resulted in a bump for the stock
price.”  The Lehman shock that froze global credit markets also
pushed the yen higher and boosted Japanese companies’ appetite
for assets abroad that had declined in price.  Nomura’s Lehman deal put Japan’s biggest brokerage in place
to compete head on with Wall Street banks weakened by the
financial crisis. Instead, the head of Nomura’s wholesale
business, which includes investment banking and trading,  Jesse Bhattal  and his lieutenant Tarun Jotwani, left the company amid
a clash with Nomura’s old guard over competing visions for the
future of Japan’s largest brokerage.  Ranbaxy Lesson  Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568) , a Japanese drugmaker, has lost more
than half of its market value since agreeing to buy a majority
stake in India’s largest drugmaker  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  in
June 2008. Most of the drop occurred after the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  banned imports from two of the Indian unit’s
plants because of manufacturing violations.  Companies in the world’s third-largest economy have
announced $96 billion of acquisitions abroad so far this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The biggest this year before
Softbank’s Sprint deal was Marubeni Corp.’s takeover of Gavilon
Group LLC, valued at $5.6 billion including assumed debt.  Japanese companies announced more than 790 cross-border
purchases last year valued at $88 billion, the most since at
least 2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Goldman Sachs,
Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank and Citigroup Inc. were
among the top five advisers on the deals.  Son Shines  Son, a U.S.-educated entrepreneur who built a software
distributor into Japan’s fastest-growing mobile carrier, may be
just the person to beat the odds against overseas deals, said
Haghirian of Sophia University. Son still owns 20.9 percent of
the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Softbank is better prepared for the challenges of managing
a U.S. company because its management structure and culture
isn’t traditionally Japanese, she said.  “Son is very charismatic and has a vision,” Haghirian
said. “Maybe he’s Western already and setting a very aggressive
agenda.”  Japanese companies have also seen some success buying
companies in faster-growing  emerging markets .  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) ’s 48 percent holding in  San Miguel
Brewery Inc. (SMB)  has more than tripled in value to about $6 billion
since the stake was purchased in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  More Deals  Japanese retailers and beverage companies will continue to
make acquisitions overseas, said  Nicholas Smith , a Japan
strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets Ltd. in Tokyo. Kirin,
Japan’s largest brewer by market value, agreed to buy out
shareholders in Brazil’s Schincariol Participacoes e
Representacoes in November 2011, valuing the brewer at about
$3.6 billion excluding debt.  “For a lot of them that ruled the roost at home, there are
huge scale merits for moving overseas and selling the same
stuff,” Smith said.  Softbank  climbed  5.6 percent to 2,625 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo, bringing its two-day gain to 16 percent, the
biggest since May 2009.  The extra yield investors demand to own the company’s 1.67
percent notes due June 2015 rather than government debt widened
107 basis points since the announcement on Oct. 12 to a record
143.3 yesterday, according to Japan Securities Dealers
Association prices. The spread was more than triple the 43 basis
points for the nation’s corporate bonds, and compared with 157
globally, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Credit Rating  Investors pushed Softbank bond prices lower as Japan Credit
Rating Agency Ltd. and Moody’s Investors Service followed
 Standard & Poor’s  in saying they may cut the rating.  Declines in market capitalization can’t all be attributed
to bad overseas deals as values of companies that have sought
organic growth have also slipped. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  represented a market value of 167 trillion yen as of
yesterday,  down  10 percent from 185 trillion yen four years
earlier.  The Sprint stake would give Son a shot to compete with the
two biggest U.S. wireless providers and to shake the legacy of
failed Japanese overseas deals.  “Son is a guy that brings strong emotions,” said Smith of
CLSA. “Many people who have written him off have ended up
smarting as a result.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave McCombs in Tokyo at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  