-- Soused Denzel Saves ‘Flight’; Pinochet; ‘Savoy’: Movies
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/soused-denzel-saves-flight-pinochet-savoy-movies.html
At the beginning of “ Flight ,” Whip
Whitaker, an arrogant and alcoholic but superbly competent
airline pilot, successfully crash-lands a disabled jetliner.  Denzel  Washington , who plays him, has a more delicate feat
to perform. To make the role work, he has to keep us on Whip’s
side while showing us his appalling behavior.  Director Robert Zemeckis’s “Flight,” which had its world
premiere on Sunday evening, made a satisfying finale to what’s
been a terrific 50th year for the  New York Film Festival .  As Whip coolly struggles to bring his plummeting jet under
control (performing a surprise move that I’ve never seen in a
movie nor, thank God, experienced on a plane), a viewer
inevitably thinks of Captain Chesley Sullenberger and US Airways
Flight 1549.  The writer, John Gatins, has explained that he’d already
spent several years working on his script when Sullenberger made
his famous landing in the Hudson River in 2009.  Whip knows what an expert pilot he is. He also knows, from
experience, that he can fly on a cushion of vodka and cocaine.
So where’s the problem? It doesn’t take long to understand that
the title refers to Whip’s flight from himself.  Lying Lessons  Don Cheadle, as a lawyer brought in after the crash, knows
Whip will probably go to prison if it comes out that he was
drunk when he entered the cabin. The lawyer’s job is coaching
him to lie. Cheadle plays him with modest restraint, frustrated
by a disdainful client who seems bent on undermining himself.  Kelly Reilly has a showier part as a junkie Whip meets in
the hospital after the crash. Tamara Tunie is elegant as a
stewardess who keeps her head during the emergency. And John Goodman is hilarious, as usual, as a swaggering coke dealer.
(His theme song is “Sympathy for the Devil.”)  Zemeckis draws uniformly beautiful performances from his
cast. The picture seems shorter than its 138 minutes and it’s
cleverly constructed, with the thrills at the front end.  The tense opening half-hour rattles you so completely, in
fact, that the rest of the movie seems more complex than it is.
The film only gives the impression of being unpredictable. A big
studio-made production like “Flight” has just one place to go.  Only in retrospect can you see how standard the plot is.
Right up to the end, Zemeckis pumps suspense into the question
of whether his hero is going to give in to the bottle. And as
Whip Whitaker might argue, when a movie is so smart about the
way it suckers you, where’s the problem?  “Flight,” from Paramount Pictures, is scheduled to open
Nov. 2. Rating: ****  Pinochet Referendum  In 1988, after 15 years of dictatorship,  Chile  held a
referendum on the continuation of the Pinochet regime.  “ No ” observes the anti-Pinochet campaign with an ambivalent
eye. Gael Garcia Bernal plays an advertising executive (a
composite character) who had the insight that you could sell the
future of the country the way you would a soft drink.  Because the director, Pablo Larrain, wanted to make the
archival footage that constitutes some 30 percent of the film
indistinguishable from the material he shot, he used
superannuated cameras that gave him low-resolution images as
“horrible” (his word) as what you see in blurry old newscasts.  This literal lack of focus carries over to the script: Its
thoughtfulness too often comes across as diffuseness. The movie
could have benefited from some of the slick salesmanship that it
doesn’t quite know how deeply to deplore.  “No,” from Sony Pictures Classics, is scheduled to open in
February. Rating: ***  ‘Savoy King’  It was probably because the renowned swing drummer and
bandleader Chick Webb (1909-1939) was a four-foot-one hunchback
that movie cameras were so seldom pointed in his direction.  “ The Savoy King ,” Jeff Kaufman’s documentary about him,
compensates with still photos, period footage, talking heads and
computer-animated re-creations of the Savoy Ballroom in Harlem,
where Webb’s band ruled the dance floor.  At first these visuals seem awfully busy. And then Frankie
Manning dances the Lindy Hop and Ella Fitzgerald sings at the
Savoy, and suddenly the images, the memories and the music
coalesce into a terrifically informative and affectionate movie.  Webb was beloved, influential and far too young to be on
his deathbed when, in June 1939, he sat up on his pillows and
announced, “I’m sorry -- I gotta go.” More than 10,000 mourners
showed up for his funeral.  “The Savoy King: Chick Webb and the Music That Changed
America,” from Floating World Pictures, is scheduled to open in
the spring. Rating: ****  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include James Tarmy on  art  and  Amanda
Gordon  on  New York  Scene.  To contact the writer of this column: Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 