-- South Africa’s Zulus Bolster Zuma’s Re-Election Bid
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-10-17T15:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/south-africa-s-zulus-bolster-zuma-s-re-election-bid.html
A surge in Zulu members of the
 African National Congress  is strengthening President  Jacob Zuma ’s bid to retain leadership of South Africa’s ruling party
in the face of a flagging economy and credit rating downgrades.  Party membership among Zuma’s fellow Zulus in his home
province has tripled since he ousted  Thabo Mbeki  as ANC leader
in 2007. KwaZulu-Natal will have 22 percent of the 4,500
delegates at the ANC’s leadership conference in December, up
from 16 percent five years ago. The ANC’s traditional
stronghold, the Eastern Cape, has a 15 percent share.  Zuma is strengthening his power base in KwaZulu-Natal just
as his government faces the worst labor unrest since the end of
apartheid that started Aug. 10 at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana platinum
mine, where 46 people were killed.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded  South Africa ’s sovereign rating in
the past month, citing an increase in political risk and slower
economic growth.  “Performance in government plays a very small part in the
choice of the ANC president,” Dirk Kotze, a politics professor
at the University of South Africa, said by phone from  Pretoria .
“Within the ANC, Zuma is in a very solid position. He is a very
crafty politician and he understands how to mobilize people.”  Victory in the contest will ensure Zuma, 70, remains
president of Africa’s biggest economy because the ANC holds
almost two-thirds of the seats in Parliament.  Strike Cost  The strikes cut output at platinum producers  Anglo Platinum
Ltd. (AMS)  and Lonmin and gold companies  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) 
Central bank Governor Gill Marcus warned on Oct. 10 that the
nation’s economic outlook is deteriorating “rapidly.”  The rand has lost 7.4 percent against the dollar since the
strikes began, the worst performer among 25 developing-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Zulus, South Africa’s biggest ethnic group, dominate in
KwaZulu-Natal. Since Zuma became party leader, ANC members in
the province soared to 331,820 as of last month from 102,742. In
Eastern Cape, the home of  Nelson Mandela  and Thabo Mbeki,
membership rose to 187,585 from 153,164.  The ANC has been siphoning members away from the Zulu
nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party, the ANC’s traditional rival
in KwaZulu-Natal, according to analysts such as  Daniel Silke ,
author of “Tracking the Future: Top trends that will shape
South Africa and the World.”  ‘Ethnic Loyalty’  Inkatha’s share of the vote in the last national elections
in 2009 slumped in the province to 23 percent from 36 percent
five years earlier, while the ANC’s surged to 63 percent from 47
percent.  “Zuma has been a significant player in attracting support
away from the IFP,” Silke said in a phone interview from Cape
Town. “There is no doubt that ethnic identification was always
an important factor for IFP voters, and as he is the first Zulu
president of South  Africa  the ethnic loyalty made it much easier
for those voters to switch away from the IFP.”  Zuma is also credited in KwaZulu-Natal with helping end
long-standing violence between the ANC and the IFP, Mzukisi
Qobo, a politics lecturer at the University of Pretoria, said in
a phone interview.  Zuma’s Allies  “The odds are that Zuma will take the election
uncontested,” Qobo said. “Senior party leaders are trying to
cobble together a platform that would be based on consensus on a
single slate that tries to accommodate everyone but agrees on
Zuma being the president.”  Zuma allies also control the Free State, Mpumalanga and
North West provinces, and the ANC Women’s League, which together
make up a quarter of voting delegates, according to Kotze.  The Congress of South African Trade Unions has also
endorsed Zuma’s candidature for a second term, the country’s
largest labor federation said today in an e-mailed statement.  Zuma is shoring up his status within the ANC even as the
government’s handling of the labor unrest has drawn criticism
from former supporters.  The killing of at least 34 striking miners by police at
Marikana prompted former ANC Youth League leader  Julius Malema ,
who was expelled from the party, to call Zuma a “dictator” and
South Africa a “ banana republic .”  Kgalema Motlanthe  The youth league and the ANC in Malema’s home province of
Limpopo have called for Zuma’s deputy,  Kgalema Motlanthe , 63, to
become party leader. Limpopo has 13 percent of the conference
delegates, and the youth league 1 percent.  “What we’ve seen in the last five years did not make us
happy as the leadership of the ANC,” Soviet Lekganyane, the
party’s secretary in Limpopo, said in a phone interview from the
northern town of Polokwane. “We want a leadership that can
inspire.”  Among the general public, Zuma’s approval rating fell to 48
percent in the first two weeks of August -- before the mine
violence erupted -- from 55 percent in February, a survey of
2,000 adults canvassed by research company TNS shows. Thirty-two
percent of respondents wanted him to win a second term, while 39
percent said Motlanthe should get the job, the Johannesburg-
based company said in a Sept. 25 e-mail.  Motlanthe, a former labor union leader who served as
interim president for eight months after Mbeki’s ousting as
national president in 2008, has strong support in his home
province of Gauteng, Kotze said. The province will account for
12 percent of delegates at the ANC conference.  Motlanthe also has some backing among delegates from the
Eastern Cape, according to Kotze.  “There is lots of resentment in provinces like Limpopo and
the Eastern Cape, where ANC members feel they are being
politically marginalized,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  