-- Spain Getting Precautionary Credit Line Positive, Pimco Says
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-16T15:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/spain-getting-precautionary-credit-line-positive-pimco-says-1-.html
Spain  receiving a precautionary
 credit line  would be a positive for global financial markets,
said Thomas Kressin, senior vice-president and head of European
foreign exchange at Pacific Investment Management Company.  “The market reaction with regards to Spain would be much
more favorable now with regards to a precautionary credit
line,” Kressin told delegates at the Bloomberg Link FX12 Summit
in  London . “Spain would still have open-market access. That
would be a market-friendly outcome.”  Germany is open to Spain seeking a precautionary credit
line from Europe’s rescue fund, two senior coalition lawmakers
said today, signaling a reversal of Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s public position.  The comments by Michael Meister, a deputy caucus leader of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, and
 Norbert Barthle , her party’s budget spokesman, indicate a
rolling back of German resistance to a full sovereign bailout
for Spain. Schaeuble cautioned the country against seeking aid
on top of its bank bailout as recently as last month.  The euro has jumped 4 percent against the dollar since
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged in July to
“do whatever it takes” to safeguard the currency from the debt
crisis. Spain must ask for a second bailout before the ECB can
step in and buy its bonds with maturities of up to three years
in the secondary market.  Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government has said
it won’t request aid until the terms of a bailout are clearer.  ECB Target  The euro may weaken if the ECB gives the impression that it
has a target for Spanish bond yields which is above the market
level where it starts to intervene, according to Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in New York.  “God help the euro if it turns out the target is higher
than where the market is trading,” Englander said at the
Bloomberg Summit. “The best thing the ECB could do at that
point is to buy a lot and say we’re ready to buy more. If the
market feels they are not committed, we will be back to where we
were in April.”  Spanish Bonds  Spanish two-year  note yields  dropped seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 3.13 percent at 4:36 p.m. London time
after dropping to 2.71 percent on Sept. 7, the lowest since
April 4. The euro strengthened 0.7 percent to $1.3038 after
advancing to $1.3172 on Sept. 17, the highest since May 4.  Standard Life Investments maintains a bearish view on the
euro amid concern the euro-area crisis will intensify, according
to  Frances Hudson , a global thematic strategist at the company.  “We have severe reservations about the way it plays out in
Europe and are slightly more optimistic about the U.S. in the
ugly dog competition,” Edinburgh-based Hudson said. Standard
Life has run a short position in the euro for the past three
years, or a bet the currency will decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  