-- Spain Retains Investment Grade Credit Rating From Moody’s
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-10-17T11:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/spain-retains-investment-grade-credit-rating-from-moody-s.html
Spain  kept its investment grade
credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service, which said the
 European Central Bank ’s willingness to buy the nation’s debt
reduces the risk of the country losing  market access .  Moody’s assigned a negative outlook on its Baa3 rating, one
step above junk, as it concluded a review for a possible further
downgrade of Spain initiated in June, the New York-based company
said in a statement yesterday.  The willingness of the ECB to purchase Spain’s government
bonds on the secondary market “is an important step” for Spain
to maintain access to credit markets, Kathrin Muehlbronner, a
Moody’s analyst in  London , said in a telephone interview.  Creditworthiness concerns have grown since Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  requested as much as 100 billion euros ($131
billion) in European Union aid to shore up Spanish lenders amid
signals the nation may miss its budget-deficit goals.  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded Spain on Oct. 10, saying it doubted the loans
will be mutualized among euro-region nations.  Spain’s 10-year bonds today advanced after the Moody’s
decision, pushing borrowing costs to the lowest in more than six
months. Spain’s 10-year bond yield fell 27 basis points to 5.54
percent at 1:38 p.m. in Madrid.  Risk Premium  That compares with an intraday record of 7.75 percent on
July 25, a day after Spain signed a document fixing the
conditions for the bank aid. Even with those bond gains, Spain
still pays 394 basis points more than  Germany  to borrow for 10
years.  Rajoy has held off on a decision about whether to request
ECB and EU bond-buying to further lower borrowing costs. Deputy
Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said on Oct. 11 that
Spain first wants a consensus among European governments and
more details on the attached conditions.  Spain avoided joining euro-region peers Cyprus, Portugal,
Ireland and Greece as being rated below investment grade. S&P
has a negative outlook on its BBB- rating, also one step above
junk, and  Fitch Ratings  has Spain at BBB, two levels higher than
junk.  Muehlbronner said she expects Spain to request a
precautionary  credit line  from the European Stability Mechanism,
the region’s permanent rescue fund “to be able to activate the
ECB purchases in the secondary market.”  German Resistance  Spanish bonds starting rising yesterday after German
lawmakers from Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic
bloc indicated a rolling back of German resistance to a full
sovereign bailout for Spain.  “The rating agency seems to gives its green-light to the
upcoming precautionary program, which will open the door for ECB
bond purchases,” Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in London, said yesterday by e-mail. “Overall,
Moody’s statement looks like a ‘stay of execution’ demonstrating
a wait-and-see attitude.”  Moritz Kraemer, S&P’s head of sovereign ratings for  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and Africa, said on Oct. 12 that “confusion”
and a “two step forward, one step back kind of environment” in
Europe contributed to the company’s downgrade decision.  Rating cuts have sometimes been followed by a decline in
bond yields. In the U.S., Treasuries and stocks have rallied
since S&P’s stripped the nation of its AAA grade in 2011.  Ten-year Treasury yields are down from 2.56 percent when
S&P cut the U.S. one step to AA+ on Aug. 5, 2011. The yield was
at 1.72 percent yesterday and fell to 1.379 percent on July 25,
the lowest on record. The  S&P 500 Index  has jumped 21 percent,
since that U.S. rating cut.  The yield on France’s 10-year government bond fell to 2.211
percent yesterday from 3.075 on Jan. 13, when the country was
cut by S&P to AA+ from AAA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  