-- Spar Nord Hits Six-Week Low as Income Suffers: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-10-16T09:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/spar-nord-hits-six-week-low-as-income-suffers-copenhagen-mover.html
Spar Nord Bank A/S (SPNO) , the regional
lender acquiring  Sparbank (SPB)  A/S, declined to its lowest price in
six weeks in Copenhagen trading on estimates third-quarter net
interest income fell after the central bank cut rates below
zero.  Spar Nord  fell  to as low as 24.50 kroner, its weakest price
since Sept. 5. The stock declined 0.30 krone, or 1.2 percent, to
24.70 kroner at 10:37 a.m. local time, making it today’s second
worst performer among listed lenders.  “Downward pressure on net interest income is
intensifying,” Simon Christensen, senior analyst at Nordea
Equity Research, said in a note.  Danish banks are struggling to generate interest income
after the central bank in July began charging the industry to
hold deposits for seven days. Copenhagen-based Nationalbanken
 cut  the rate on certificates of deposit to minus 0.2 percent to
stem an influx of investors seeking a haven from  Europe ’s debt
crisis. The negative rate has carried through into the money
markets as banks including  Denmark ’s largest, Danske Bank A/S,
charge counterparties for deposits.  Net interest income at Aalborg, Denmark-based Spar Nord
probably fell 2 percent in the three months through Sept. 30
from the previous quarter, to 368 million kroner ($64 million),
Christensen said. He also cited narrower lending margins, lack
of volume growth, and mortgage banks’ market share gains.  Spar Nord said Oct. 11 that its board and that of Skive,
Denmark-based Sparbank A/S had agreed to the merger, with Spar
Nord continuing as the remaining institution.  Christensen said he predicts Spar Nord Bank will announce
more detail on its efforts to cut costs by the end of the year,
following the takeover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  