-- Sprint Said Not to Plan Buying Clearwire After Softbank Deal
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-10-16T20:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/sprint-said-not-to-plan-buying-clearwire-after-softbank-deal-3-.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which agreed to
sell a 70 percent stake to  Softbank Corp. (9984)  for $20.1 billion, has
no immediate plans to take over  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , said people
with direct knowledge of the situation.  Softbank’s and Sprint’s priority is to close the deal they
announced yesterday, which will take six to eight months, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Until the deal is completed, the
companies can’t engage in extraordinary activities such as
further acquisitions unless Softbank agrees, these people said.  Softbank is prevented from doing further deals under its
banks’ covenants during that time, while Sprint is prohibited
from doing so under the merger contract, said one of the people.
Clearwire  shares  fell 17 percent today after doubling in the
prior three trading days on speculation of an imminent takeover.  While a decision hasn’t been made, Sprint doesn’t need to
own Clearwire because it already has access to its spectrum and
it’s too expensive, said two of the people.  “Sprint doesn’t need to own Clearwire now, as they already
paid $900 million to lease the spectrum they need for 2012 and
2013,” said Robert Chapman, founder of hedge fund Chapman
Capital LLC. “Sprint may be better off buying 700 megahertz
spectrum.” Chapman is “short” on Clearwire, meaning the firm
will profit if Clearwire’s shares fall.  U.S. Operations  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Sprint, wasn’t available for
comment. A spokesman for Softbank declined to comment. Mike DiGioia, a spokesman for Clearwire, declined to comment.  “I don’t talk about any specific detail of our strategy. I
never do that in advance,” Softbank President Masayoshi Son
said in a conference call, answering an analyst’s question about
a potential deal with Clearwire. Sprint holds 48 percent of
Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire and has an equal percentage
of voting power, Clearwire said Oct. 11.  Clearwire fell to $2.23 at the close in  New York , down from
$2.69 yesterday. Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , was
unchanged at $5.69.  Softbank will pay $12.1 billion to Sprint shareholders and
the deal includes $8 billion of new capital, according to a
statement yesterday. The transaction will help billionaire
Masayoshi Son’s Softbank enter the U.S., a market that’s still
growing in contrast to  Japan , where handset shipments tumbled 27
percent Japan over the past five years.  More Spectrum  Softbank will form a new U.S. subsidiary that will invest
$3.1 billion in a newly issued Sprint convertible senior bond,
the companies said in the statement. Immediately prior to the
merger’s closing, the bond will be converted into Sprint  common
stock  at $5.25 per share.  With the imminent capital injection, Sprint will be able to
fund both its short-term capital needs, such as paying down
debt, and a faster expansion of its 4G wireless network, said
the people with knowledge of the matter. Sprint has more than $4
billion coming due in 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The combined entity of Sprint and Softbank will create the
world’s third-largest mobile-phone services provider by revenue,
Son said, and have 96 million users after the transaction.  At that point, Sprint may consider other acquisitions to
challenge bigger competitors  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
said the people. Sprint might also buy more spectrum in the
imminent 700 megahertz auctions, one of the people said. Sprint
may seek to later bid for Richardson, Texas-based  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS)  or purchase the rest of Clearwire, people
familiar with the matter have said.  “We will use those proceeds in whatever ways we think will
maximize  shareholder value ,” Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  said on the conference call. “It could be internal
investments, external investments. It could possibly be to
retire debt and reduce our interest expenses. There are a
variety of ways that it could be put to use, and we’ll make
those decisions at a later time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  