-- State Street Beats Estimates as Asset-Management Fees Rise
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-10-16T20:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/state-street-quarterly-profit-falls-0-6-as-trading-fees-decline.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-
largest custody bank, reported third-quarter operating profit
that beat analysts’ estimates as it earned higher fees for
managing client money. Shares rose the most in seven months.  Net income on an operating basis declined 0.6 percent to
$473 million, or 99 cents a share, from $476 million, or 96
cents, a year earlier, the Boston-based company said today in a
statement. The results, which exclude certain items, beat the
average  estimate  of 96 cents a share of 22 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “They’ve done generally all right in winning new
customers, but the interest rate environment has just been
stagnant, more than anything,”  Marty Mosby , a Memphis,
Tennessee-based equity analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC,
said in an interview before results were announced.  State Street Chief Executive Officer Joseph Hooley,
struggling to boost growth in a low-interest rate environment,
has sought to increase shareholder returns by repurchasing
shares, raising the firm’s dividend and cutting jobs. Four large
investors, frustrated with State Street’s share performance,
have pushed the company’s board to replace Hooley or Chief
Financial Officer Edward Resch, according to a report yesterday
in the Financial Times.  Hooley, in a telephone interview today, declined to comment
on the report that investors had pushed for management changes.
During the quarterly conference call discussing earnings, none
of the analysts asked Hooley to address the report.  Shareholder ‘Outreach’  “I’m fairly active with regard to my outreach to
shareholders,” Hooley said in the interview. “I take all that
input and that influences how I run the company at some level.”  The company is focused on returning capital to shareholders
and would be “very cautious” in considering future
acquisitions, Hooley told analysts in a conference call today.
The message signaled a shift in emphasis that reflected a better
potential return on the company’s shares compared with
opportunities for acquisitions, Hooley said in a telephone
interview after the conference call.  “The rate of return on buying back our own stock has made
the hurdle higher in making acquisitions,” he said.  State Street rose the most since March 13, increasing 4.7
percent to close at $43.53 in New York. State Street has gained
8 percent this year, trailing the 18 percent advance by rival
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and the 18 percent increase by the
Standard & Poor’s 20-company index of asset managers and custody
banks.  Assets Rise  “We think the stock could trade up slightly today given
fairly depressed expectations and core revenue trends that were
reasonably good versus investor fears,” Brian Bedell, a New
York-based equity analyst with ISI Group Inc., wrote in a
research note published today.  State Street’s custody assets climbed 10 percent to $17.3
trillion after global stocks rose 18 percent in the year ended
Sept. 30 as measured by the MSCI ACWI Index. The amount of money
the firm manages for investors rose 11 percent to $2.1 trillion.  Revenue from investment-management fees rose 9.6 percent,
boosted by deposits to exchange-traded funds, including new ETFs
with higher fees than the firm’s broad market-tracking products,
Hooley said in the interview. Fees from custody servicing fell
0.5 percent, hurt by a shift by investors away from securities
that generate higher fees, such as emerging market stocks, to
lower-paying holdings, including cash.  Conservative Clients  “Although equity markets have improved, clients remain
conservative in their investment allocations, which adversely
affects our revenue,” Hooley said in the statement.  Sales in the third quarter declined 2.7 percent to $2.35
billion, hurt by a 44 percent decrease in foreign-exchange fees
to $115 million.  Expenses dropped 2.9 percent, driven by a 5.1 percent
decline in compensation and employee benefits to $916 million.  State Street won new business mandates in the quarter that
added $211 billion to custody assets and $78 billion to
investment assets.  The company repurchased 11.4 million shares of common stock
in the third quarter for $480 million. The company has $840
million remaining in a $1.8 billion repurchase program that
expires in March 2013.  Low interest rates hurt custody banks by reducing the
return they make on their own investments and lending. Low rates
have also forced State Street to waive some fees on money-market
funds to keep client returns above zero. The U.S. Federal
Reserve has held its benchmark interest rate at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008 in an attempt to stimulate lending
and economic growth.  Peltz Pressure   State Street came under pressure from investor Nelson Peltz
in October 2011 to increase profitability. Peltz, founder and
chief executive officer of Trian Fund Management LP in New York,
urged the firm to make a clearer commitment to cost-cutting, put
shareholder returns ahead of acquisitions and consider selling
its money-management unit. Peltz’s Trian was the eighth-biggest
holder of State Street’s shares as of June 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hooley has cut 2,250 jobs in the past two years to lower
costs, raised the firm’s dividend in March to its 2008 level and
announced a $1.8 billion share repurchase program through March
31, 2013.  Hooley also continued making acquisitions, agreeing in July
to purchase Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s hedge-fund administration
unit for $550 million in cash. State Street completed the
transaction yesterday, according to a regulatory filing.  GAAP Results  State Street’s operating profit excludes money earned from
the sale or maturing of bonds whose value was written down in
May 2009, which the company records as “discount accretion”
within net interest income. Discount accretion added $40 million
to net income in the second quarter.  Using generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP,
State Street’s net income rose to $654 million, or $1.36 a
share, from $543 million, or $1.10, a year earlier.  GAAP earnings include a net, after-tax benefit of 35 cents
a share, most of which relates to claims associated with the
2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  State Street estimated its Tier 1 common ratio, a measure
of financial strength as calculated under Basel III rules, rose
in the third quarter to 11.3 percent from 11 percent.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and hedge funds. State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  