-- Stimulus Bets Stoke Longest Advance Since March: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-16T21:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/stimulus-bets-stoke-longest-advance-since-march-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  in the U.S. climbed
for a fifth day, the longest stretch of gains since March, on
prospects slowing inflation will allow policy makers to take
further steps to stimulate the economy.  The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in  New York  climbed 0.7 percent to 95.39
yesterday, the highest close since May 14.  Spreadtrum
Communications Inc. (SPRD)  rose to a one-month high after Credit Suisse
Group AG said the mobile chipmaker was a good buy, and  Youku
Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  had the strongest gain in three months.  Huaneng (902)  Power
International Inc. traded at the highest premium to the Hong
Kong share in two months as BNP Paribas SA upgraded the stock.  Chinese consumer prices rose 1.9 percent from a year
earlier in September, an Oct. 15 government report showed, 10
basis points off the  slowest pace  in two years. The Bloomberg
China-US gauge added 4.6 percent in September, the biggest
monthly advance since February, on speculation  China ’s new
leaders to be announced on Nov. 8 will build on this year’s
reductions in  interest rates  and bank reserve ratios with
further measures to stoke growth.  “Falling inflation will allow the government to take more
stimulus measures,” Sam Mahtani, who oversees about $5 billion
as director of  emerging markets  at  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM) ,
said by phone from  London  yesterday. “We expect stimulus will
mainly come from cuts in reserve requirement ratios. Emerging-
market stocks, including the Chinese, will see an uptrend in the
next 12 months.”  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 0.5 percent to a five-
month high of $36.85. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  jumped 1
percent to 1,454.92. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has added
9.5 percent in 2012.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  was little changed yesterday
at 2,098.81. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong was also steady at 10,367.46,
after reaching the highest level since May 8 a day earlier.  After betting on declines earlier in the year,  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG)  has turned bullish on China’s currency and
equities as it predicts the government will halt a seven-quarter
slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy, Adam Levinson,
chief executive officer of the hedge fund’s Singapore unit, said
in an interview yesterday.  China showed signs of “stabilization and modest
improvement” last month and pro-growth measures are expected
with the appointment of a new leadership in November, Levinson
said in Singapore. Fortress manages $47.8 billion of assets
globally.  Spreadtrum Jumps  Spreadtrum, a Shanghai-based maker of mobile phone chips,
surged 4.2 percent to $21.74 in New York yesterday, the highest
since Sept. 7. The advance was the biggest in two weeks.  Spreadtrum’s chips are “leading in ultra low-cost
smartphones” and there is an “attractive opportunity at
reasonable valuations,” Credit Suisse analyst Randy Abrams
wrote in a note dated Oct. 15. Abrams maintained a rating
equivalent to buy on the company, with a price target of $26.50.  Huaneng Power, China’s largest electricity producer,
climbed 2.8 percent to $29.64, the biggest one-day gain since
Sept. 27. Its American depositary receipts, each representing 40
underlying shares, traded 0.6 percent  above  its  Hong Kong  stock,
the widest premium in two months.  BNP Paribas analyst Daisy Zhang raised her recommendation
on the stock to buy from hold yesterday, citing declining fuel
costs. She also lifted the price target for the company’s Hong
Kong-traded stock to HK$7.10 ($0.92) from HK$5.66. Huaneng
gained 2.7 percent yesterday in Hong Kong trading to HK$5.71.  Youku Tudou  Youku, the most-popular video website operator in China,
increased 4.6 percent to $20.94, the strongest level since June
29.  Visits to the website of Tudou, which was acquired by Youku
in August, rose to 2.75 billion in the week ended Sept. 23, 2.5
times the traffic volume on the video website of Shenzhen-based
Tencent Holdings Ltd., the China Securities Journal  reported 
yesterday, citing data from Iresearch, which tracks Internet
user volumes. Tencent is China’s largest Internet company.  PetroChina Co., the country’s biggest oil producer, climbed
for a second day, adding 2 percent to $138.52, the highest level
since May 8.  PetroChina and Royal Dutch Shell Plc successfully conducted
trial drilling on their first joint  shale gas  well on Sept. 27,
Beijing-based PetroChina’s parent, China National Petroleum
Corp., said in its online newsletter yesterday. The well is
located in Sichuan province.  GDP, Output Data  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , which runs casinos in
Macau, gained 1.4 percent to a five-month high of $14.22
yesterday in New York. The company’s ADRs have traded at a
premium to Hong Kong each day since Oct. 9.  China’s economy  probably expanded 7.4 percent in the three
months ended Sept. 30, from  7.6 percent  in the previous quarter,
the median estimate of 43 analysts in a Bloomberg survey shows.
Industrial  output  last month rose 9 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a three-year low of 8.9
percent in August, according to analysts’ forecast. China’s
statistics bureau is set to release the data tomorrow.  “China’s manufacturing sector has turned,”  Steven Bell ,
who manages $600 million in assets as principal portfolio
manager at the GLC Ltd., a London-based hedge fund, said by
phone yesterday. “We’ll see stronger September industrial
production figures this week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  