-- Stuyvesant Town Tenants to Appeal to Bondholders for Sale
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-10-16T21:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/stuyvesant-town-tenants-to-appeal-to-bondholders-for-sale.html
Tenants of Stuyvesant Town-Peter
Cooper Village,  Manhattan ’s largest apartment complex, are
asking bondholders of the defaulted mortgage to pursue a sale of
the property, bypassing the company working out the loan.  CWCapital Asset Management LLC, which has controlled the
11,000-unit complex since the mortgage went into default in
2010, is refusing to entertain offers that would result in a
payoff for the debtholders it represents, according to a letter
the Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village Tenants Association
sent to residents. The group, which has been working with
Toronto-based  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  on a plan to
convert apartments into condominiums and pay off bondholders,
said that CWCapital refuses to consider it.  “It has thus far been unwilling to work directly with us
and to share the information necessary for us to formalize a bid
in advance of opening up the property to a formal sale
process,” the association wrote. “CWCapital’s overall response
to our attempts to engage it has been to stall and delay.”  Tenants want to appeal directly to bondholders, as well as
bond-rating companies and  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , CW’s
parent company, according to the letter, released today.  Joe DePlasco, an outside spokesman for CW, declined to
comment on the letter.  CWCapital, the so-called special servicer for the $3
billion senior loan, represents investors of the mortgage debt,
and is advancing interest payments on the loan to them as it
manages the property, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Legal Limbo  A sale of the complex has been held up as CWCapital
negotiates a legal settlement to a 2007 lawsuit filed by
tenants, which challenged how high lease rates could be set at
the rent-stabilized property, according to servicer commentary
data compiled by Bloomberg. The settlement will determine the
legal rents that can be charged at more than 4,000 units, and
will also determine how much in overcharges CWCapital must
refund to current and previous tenants.  The value of the property in an eventual sale can’t be
determined until an agreement is reached about what rents the
owner can legally charge, according to servicer commentary.  “Litigation resolution, either through continued
litigation or settlement, is a prerequisite to optimal capital
recovery,” according to the servicer commentary, which said
that a resolution is unlikely before 2014.  Limited Impact  Bondholders have little sway over CW’s decision making,
though the tenants’ move could increase political pressure on
the servicer to negotiate, according to a note today by Richard Parkus and Andy Bernard, analysts with Morgan Stanley.  “The ability of bondholders to directly impact special
servicer behavior is limited,” they wrote in their note.  The 80-acre (32-hectare) Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper
Village spans from 14th Street to 23rd Street on Manhattan’s
East Side.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  sold the complex in 2006 to Tishman
Speyer Properties LP and its partner BlackRock Realty LP for
$5.4 billion, a record for a New York commercial real estate
deal at the time.  Tenants sued MetLife and Tishman Speyer in 2007, claiming
the companies improperly forced at least one-fourth of the
complex’s residents to pay market rents while the owners
received more than $25 million in tax breaks.  In January 2010, Tishman Speyer and BlackRock missed a
$16.1 million debt payment on the mortgage and said they would
cede control of the complex to lenders after its value fell and
they were prevented from raising rents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  