-- U.K. Inflation Cools to 2.2%, Least in Almost Three Years
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-10-16T10:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/u-k-inflation-cools-to-2-2-least-in-almost-three-years-1-.html
U.K. inflation  slowed to the least
in almost three years in September as electricity and gas price
increases a year earlier dropped out of the index.  Consumer prices rose 2.2 percent from a year earlier, the
smallest gain since November 2009 and down from a 2.5 percent
gain in August, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. That matched the median forecast of 37 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The largest downward effect was from
utility bills which knocked 0.43 percentage point off the rate.  Bank of  England  policy makers face a crunch decision next
month on whether to expand their  stimulus program  again as some
officials raise concerns about the inflation outlook. While the
central bank forecasts that price growth will ease below its 2
percent target next year, planned price rises by Britain’s
biggest power companies may slow the pace of cooling.  “There is still some room for further policy easing but
the stickiness of inflation in the face of such a large activity
shock to the economy is a reminder to policy makers that this
scope is not unlimited,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in London. They “will need to revise up their
short-term outlook for inflation.”  From the previous month,  consumer prices  rose 0.4 percent
in September, the statistics office said.  The pound rose against the dollar and was at $1.6093 as of
11:21 a.m. in London. U.K. 10-year gilts declined, pushing the
yield up 1 basis point to 1.771 percent.  Energy Prices  Core annual inflation , which excludes alcohol, food,
tobacco and energy prices, remained at 2.1 percent in September
from August, according to today’s report. Retail-price
inflation, a measure used in wage negotiations, slowed to 2.6
percent from 2.9 percent. The retail-price index excluding
mortgage-interest payments also rose an annual 2.6 percent.  Andrew Goodwin , an economist at the Ernst & Young ITEM
Club, said the September inflation data “is likely to be as
good as it gets” in the short term.  Scottish Power Ltd., a unit of  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , along with RWE
Npower Plc and  Centrica Plc (CNA) , all announced energy-price
increases in recent weeks. Wholesale gas costs for this winter
are up about 13 percent from the same season last year as North
Sea supplies dwindle, Centrica says.  U.S. Prices  In the euro area,  inflation  remained at 2.6 percent in
September, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. That’s lower than an initial estimate of 2.7
percent. U.S. consumer prices probably rose 0.5 percent last
month from August, economists said in a survey before a report
later today. So-called core prices, which exclude volatile food
and energy costs, may have risen 0.2 percent.  Britain’s statistics office also said today that  factory-
gate  prices rose 0.5 percent in September from August and were
up 2.5 percent on the year. The biggest contributor to the
monthly increase was petroleum products. Input prices fell 0.2
percent in September from the previous month and dropped 1.2
percent on the year.  The  Bank of England ’s current round of  bond purchases 
finishes next month and officials will decide at their Nov. 7-8
meeting whether to increase the target from the current 375
billion pounds ($604 billion). Minutes of the Monetary Policy
Committee’s October meeting, which may provide insights into
officials’ views, will be published tomorrow.  The MPC will have new forecasts for growth and inflation
that will inform its next decision. In August, it predicted that
the inflation rate would fall below its target in the fourth
quarter of 2013, to about 1.9 percent. Inflation has been above
the Bank of England goal every month since December 2009.  Separate data today showed that U.K. house prices rose 1.8
in August from a year earlier to an average 234,000 pounds.
That’s down from a 2 percent pace in July. Prices in  London 
surged an annual 6.3 percent, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  