-- U.K. Plans to Allow Shale Gas Drilling to Resume This Year
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-10-16T12:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/u-k-plans-to-allow-shale-gas-drilling-to-resume-this-year.html
The U.K. plans to allow companies
including Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. to resume shale gas
exploration this year to take advantage of “an exciting
opportunity,” Energy Minister  John Hayes  said.  Drilling by Cuadrilla caused two earthquakes last year,
leading to a suspension and an assessment by the Department of
Energy and Climate Change of hydraulic fracturing, the process
for extracting shale gas. Asked whether a resumption is likely
this year, Hayes said “yes, I’d like it.”  “I am a great enthusiast for it, providing we have all the
proper precautions in place,” Hayes said today in an interview.
“Whether the companies proceed this year, is another matter.
Certainly I want to get the matter settled from the government’s
point of view sooner rather than later.”  The comments build on remarks Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  made on Oct. 8, when he announced possible tax
breaks for shale gas “so that Britain is not left behind as gas
prices tumble on the other side of the Atlantic,” a reference
to a boom of fracking in the U.S. that’s driven gas prices down.  Cuadrilla says the shale rock it’s exploring in northwest
 England  has more gas than all of  Iraq . Lawmakers in Britain’s
ruling  Conservative Party  are pushing development of the
industry as a way to limit energy-prices and reduce reliance on
fossil fuel imports.  Earthquake Risk  Opponents of shale drilling say it pollutes groundwater and
point to the two earthquakes caused by Cuadrilla’s operations in
April and May last year. Hayes said he’s meeting today with
lawmakers who represent areas where shale drilling might take
place and who have “understandably” voiced concerns.  “We want to get the regulatory framework in place,” Hayes
said. “In terms of getting the regulations in place, you then
want to put the permission in place as early as possible.”  Companies with licenses in areas possibly holding shale-gas
resources in the U.K. include  IGas Energy Plc (IGAS) ,  Dart Energy Ltd. (DTE) ,
 BG Group Plc (BG/) , Celtique Energie Ltd. and Reach Coal Seam Gas
Ltd., according to Hayes’s department.  Cuadrilla has said there is 200 trillion cubic feet of
shale gas in its license area, though not all of it is
technically recoverable. Exploitation of the U.K.’s shale-gas
reserves may meet 10 percent of U.K. demand for 103 years, the
Institute of Directors said last month in a report.  “This is an exciting opportunity,” Hayes said. “We don’t
want to over-egg the pudding, but we don’t want to not egg the
pudding at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  