-- U.K. Says Alleged Hacker Won’t Be Extradited to U.S.
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-16T19:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/u-k-says-alleged-hacker-won-t-be-extradited-to-u-s-2-.html
U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May said
Briton Gary McKinnon won’t be extradited to the U.S. over
charges he hacked American military computers, risking a
diplomatic rift.  “After careful consideration of all of the relevant
material, I have concluded that Mr. McKinnon’s extradition would
give rise to such a high risk of him ending his life that a
decision to extradite would be incompatible” with his human
rights, May told lawmakers in London today. “I am therefore
withdrawing the extradition order.”  McKinnon, who suffers from a form of autism, is accused of
hacking into almost 100 computers and leaving a note on one that
read: “ U.S. foreign policy  is akin to government-sponsored
terrorism these days.” He has said he was writing a book and
looking for evidence related to unidentified flying objects on
U.S. computers.  McKinnon’s case has been among the most prominent cited by
campaigners who argue that Britain’s 2003 extradition treaty
with the U.S. is biased in favor of the American authorities.  “Mr. McKinnon is accused of serious crimes, but there is
also no doubt that he is seriously ill,” May said. “He has
Asperger’s Syndrome and suffers from depressive illness.”  Possible Charges  The U.K. put McKinnon’s case on hold in May 2010 to take
account of his health. The director of public prosecutions,  Keir Starmer , will now study whether McKinnon should face charges in
the U.K., May said.  McKinnon was indicted by federal prosecutors in  New Jersey 
and  Virginia  in 2002 for computer fraud and related activity.
They alleged he gained access and made unauthorized changes to
97 computers belonging to the U.S. Army, Navy,  Air Force ,
 Department of Defense  and the National Aeronautics & Space
Administration, and to six computers at private businesses.  The U.S. “is disappointed” the decision not extradite
McKinnon,  Rebekah Carmichael , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said today in a statement.  “We note that the Home Secretary has described this case
as exceptional and, thus, this decision does not set a precedent
for future cases,” said Carmichael, who added that the
extradition relationship between the U.S. and the U.K “remains
strong.”  May also announced a new “forum bar,” meaning that where
prosecution is possible in both the U.K. and in another country,
the British courts will be able to bar prosecution overseas.  Meanwhile, a bilateral protocol governing the approach of
investigators and prosecutors in the U.K. and the U.S. is to be
updated, May said.  Abu Hamza  She said arrangements between the two countries were
working well, such as in the case of Abu Hamza al-Masri, an
Islamic cleric accused of aiding the al-Qaeda terrorist group,
who was flown to the U.S. this month after eight years of
fighting extradition.  Civil-rights campaign group Liberty welcomed May’s
decision.  “This is a great day for rights, freedoms and justice in
the  United Kingdom . The home secretary has spared this
vulnerable man the cruelty of being sent to the U.S.,” Shami Chakrabarti, Liberty’s director, said in an e-mail.
“Extradition should prevent fugitives escaping -- not allow for
Britons like Gary to be parceled off around the world based on
allegations of offenses committed here at home.”  May said yesterday Britain wants to opt out of more than
130 European Union policing and justice powers, threatening to
fuel tensions in the coalition government. The government plans
to use its right to stand apart from a block of European
criminal-justice measures that were adopted before the EU’s 2007
Lisbon Treaty came into force, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  