-- U.K. FCA Will Adapt Rules Using Consumer-Behavior Data
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-10-16T10:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/u-k-regulator-will-analyze-consumer-behavior-wheatley-says.html
The Financial Conduct Authority will
analyze consumer behavior and adapt its rules accordingly, said
Martin Wheatley, the U.K.’s chief markets regulator.  The FCA will have a research arm to “really understand
what is happening” in the consumer market, Wheatley, a managing
director at the  Financial Services Authority , said in a speech
in London today. The agency will use the information to preempt
crises and has the power to ban the sale of inappropriate
products for as long as a year without consultation.  “We will use these new tools in a measured way,” Wheatley
said. “And while we will act sooner, and more decisively, our
approach will be based on a proper understanding of the issues
and a full consideration of the potential solutions.”  Wheatley will become head of the FCA next year when the FSA
is split into two separate organizations. The new agency will be
responsible for prosecuting insider traders and market
manipulators, as well as for U.K. financial-consumer protection.  Britain’s financial-services industry faces “a crisis of
trust and reputation” after a series of mis-selling scandals,
FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  said earlier this year.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Lloyds Banking Group Plc and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in July agreed to compensate small and medium-
sized businesses that were improperly sold interest-rate
derivatives.  Culture Change  Wheatley said he had seen evidence of financial firms
changing their internal culture following the scandals.  “What I’m seeing is firms reassessing remuneration
policies and moving away from the sales-driven approach,”
Wheatley told an audience of reporters and financial executives
after his speech.  Sixteen financial firms in 2011 paid 1.9 billion pounds
($3 billion) after the FSA found they improperly sold clients
payment-protection insurance. Hector Sants, the regulator’s
former chief executive officer, said last year customers may
receive as much as 9 billion pounds from the PPI probe.  “The industry’s standing has suffered as the mis-selling
scandals and other problems have taken their toll,” Wheatley
said. “This has damaged the reputation of firms across the
industry, whether directly involved or not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  