-- U.S. Commander Sees Peaceful End to China-Japan Maritime Dispute
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-10-16T12:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/u-s-commander-sees-peaceful-end-to-china-japan-maritime-dispute.html
The top U.S. commander in  Asia  said
 Japan  and  China  will be able to resolve a territorial dispute
peacefully, and called on the region to use arbitration to
settle conflicting maritime claims in resource-rich areas.  “In my estimation we are headed toward a peaceful
resolution and not toward conflict,” Admiral Samuel Locklear,
commander of the U.S. Pacific Command, told reporters in Bangkok
today, referring to the dispute between China and Japan. “And
we need to stay on that course.”  Japan’s purchase last month of the uninhabited  East China
Sea  islands led to violent protests in China and hurt Japanese
exporters such as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  Sovereignty gives the holder
control over fishing grounds and natural gas fields, and the
spat risks further damaging trade ties that have tripled to more
than $340 billion in the last decade.  Locklear’s comments came on the same day seven Chinese
warships passed through international waters about 49 kilometers
(30 miles) from a southern Japanese island, according to a Japan
Defense Ministry statement. That put the vessels about 200
kilometers from the islands claimed by both countries, called
Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese.  “They haven’t been sailing in Japanese territorial
waters,” Defense Minister Satoshi Morimoto told reporters in
 Tokyo . “We’re maintaining caution and surveillance of the area,
and are gathering information about the Chinese ships,” he
said, adding that they were the same vessels that passed through
the area in the opposite direction on Oct. 4.  ‘Justified and Legal’  The presence of Chinese naval vessels in the area is
justified and legal,  China Central Television  reported today,
citing the Ministry of National Defense news bureau. “We are
watching closely Japan’s moves and request a stop of any action
that may complicate or expand the issue,” the ministry said,
according to CCTV.  The two countries agreed last week to talks aimed at
reducing tensions over the islands a day after Japanese Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  warned that Asia’s two biggest economies
would suffer without negotiations. No date was set for the
planned vice-ministerial meeting.  Locklear said he was in “very close contact” with
counterparts in Japan, a U.S. treaty ally, as well as Chinese
military officials. He declined to speculate on how the U.S.
would react if the conflict escalated.  Two Countries’ Decisions  “In the end, the military response will be dictated by the
decisions that are made by two governments at the highest
levels,” Locklear said.  The islands fall under a treaty which obligates the U.S. to
defend Japan if it’s attacked, U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
 Kurt Campbell  told a Congressional committee last month.  Locklear cited a “successful” resolution of a territorial
dispute between Myanmar and Bangladesh this year that followed a
decision by the  United Nations ’  International Tribunal for the
Law of the Sea . He also mentioned that China and  Vietnam  have
previously used arbitration methods.  China has refused attempts to let international bodies rule
on its territorial claims in the East China Sea and the South
China Sea. Disagreements in the waters have increased tensions
as nations vie for oil and gas resources.  China, which has sent more patrol boats into waters claimed
by Japan since the purchase, maintains that it has owned the
islands for centuries. Japan argues it took control of them in
1895, lost authority after World War II and had them returned by
the U.S. in 1972.  Locklear said the U.S. would continue to challenge
countries that make “excessive” maritime claims. When asked
about harassment of U.S. ships in the  South China Sea , Locklear
said encounters with vessels from other nations have been
“professional and courteous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  