-- U.S. Rate-Swap Spread Plummets to 19-Year Low; Markit CDX Falls
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-16T21:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/u-s-rate-swap-spread-plummets-to-19-year-low-markit-cdx-falls.html
A measure of stress in U.S. credit
markets reached the lowest level in 19 years as economic data
and company earnings surpassed estimates.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread narrowed 1.3
basis points to 9.45 basis points, as of 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the lowest level since Sept. 28, 1993, for the
measure, which falls when investors favor assets such as
corporate bonds and rises when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities . The gauge has declined from 39.13 basis
points in May.  Industrial production increased 0.4 percent in September,
more than the 0.2 percent median estimate of analysts polled by
Bloomberg, curbing concern that the economic recovery is
weakening and bolstering confidence in companies’ ability to
repay obligations. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the fifth-biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, reported third-quarter net income of $1.51
billion, or $2.85 per share, beating the $2.28 per share average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The credit market is less risky today because of “positive
earnings plus positive reaction to Citigroup’s announcement”
that  Vikram Pandit  had resigned as chief executive officer,  John Donaldson , director of fixed income at Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based Haverford Trust Co., said in a telephone interview.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 3.2
basis points to a mid-price of 92.5 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since
Sept. 19, the day before the index changed to a new version.  Libor Rate  The credit-swaps index typically declines as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The narrowing of the interest-rate swap has been “driven
mostly by declines in Libor,” Neela Gollapudi, a New York-based
director of interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Inc., said in a
telephone interview, referring to the London interbank offered
rate, the level where banks say they can borrow from each other.  Three-month Libor fell to 0.33 percent from 0.58 percent in
January, Bloomberg data show.  “It’s difficult to say if this trend is going to keep
continuing,”  Michael Chang , an interest-rate strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a telephone interview. “You
could get a spike in Libor at any time if you get a shock coming
out of  Europe .”  HCA Holdings  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the biggest U.S. for-profit hospital
operator, is planning to sell $2 billion of bonds maturing in
2023 in its second offering this year. The company plans to
issue $1 billion of senior secured notes to yield from 4.75
percent to 4.875 percent and $1 billion of senior unsecured
notes to yield from 5.75 percent to 5.875 percent, according to
a person familiar with the transaction, who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  The average relative yield of speculative-grade debt fell 5
basis points, led by the spreads on bonds of  utility companies ,
which narrowed 9 basis points. The average relative yield on
investment-grade debt decreased 2 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  