-- UBS Fixed Loophole Used by Adoboli, Risk Officer Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-10-16T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ubs-fixed-loophole-used-by-adoboli-risk-officer-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  fixed a loophole that former
trader Kweku Adoboli allegedly used to conceal unauthorized
transactions by giving them long-term settlement dates, the
bank’s risk officer said at a London criminal trial.  The bank’s system for flagging extended trades with
settlement periods longer than 14 days -- and calling their
counterparties for verification -- stopped functioning and was
reinstated after Adoboli was arrested last year for allegedly
causing a $2.3 billion loss, Colin Bell, the bank’s global head
of operational risk, said in a London court yesterday.  The extended dates on Adoboli’s fictitious trades “would
make them harder to detect at the time,” Bell said. “We
focused on putting that control back in place.”  Prosecutors have said Adoboli, who is on trial for fraud
and false accounting, hid the risk of his trades by booking fake
hedges while he worked at the exchange-traded funds desk in
London. He’s also accused of creating a secret internal account,
his so-called umbrella, where he parked trading profits to cover
future losses. Adoboli, 32, has pleaded not guilty and his
lawyers have sought to show others knew of the secret fund.  Bell also testified about the bank’s internal investigation
of the trading loss, and his work with  KPMG  LLP on a broader
external probe requested by British and Swiss regulators. Bell
said he met with at least 30 employees from KPMG, and that the
accounting company’s review was on a “totally different scale”
than the bank’s smaller probe. The outside auditor reviewed 2.4
million documents, conducted 170 interviews and covered a period
of activity beginning in 2008, he said.  Operation Bronze  Bell was one of four members of an executive committee
handling the bank’s internal probe, dubbed Operation Bronze.
Ruwan Weerasekera, chief operating officer of securities at
UBS’s investment bank and another member of the committee,
testified last week that Adoboli booked tens of thousands of
real and fake trades during the summer of 2011 that exposed UBS
to losses that could have reached $12 billion within weeks.  The bank’s probe was limited to the trades entered into the
bank’s system by Adoboli, focusing on the period from June 1,
2011, until the trader’s arrest in September of last year,
Weerasekera testified Oct. 11. The review didn’t look at the
actions of other traders on his desk or messages between Adoboli
and others.  Patrick Meier, a futures execution trader on the bank’s
global equity-derivatives desk, who executed some trades for
Adoboli, testified yesterday that he wasn’t aware of Adoboli’s
so-called umbrella account where he kept profit from
unauthorized trades to cover later losses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  