-- UBS Whistle-Blower’s Ex-Lawyers Seek Share of IRS Award
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ubs-whistle-blower-s-ex-lawyers-seek-share-of-irs-award.html
A  Washington  law firm that worked
for Bradley Birkenfeld, the former  UBS AG (UBSN)  banker who exposed how
the Swiss lender helped Americans evade taxes, claims it’s owed
$13 million of his $104 million whistle-blower award.  Birkenfeld hired Schertler & Onorato LLP in 2006 to help
him tell the U.S. how UBS used Swiss bank secrecy to cheat the
Internal Revenue Service. Birkenfeld, now 47, told his story the
next year to the IRS, the U.S. Justice Department, the U.S.
Senate and the Securities and Exchange Commission. He agreed in
October 2007 to pay the law firm 12.5 percent of any IRS
whistle-blower award, according to court documents.  Birkenfeld served 31 months in prison after pleading guilty
to conspiracy and was released on Aug. 1, six weeks before the
IRS gave him the largest federal whistle-blower award for an
individual. Birkenfeld had fired Schertler & Onorato in 2008,
and his new law firm says the 12.5 percent accord is no longer
binding.  “I hereby request that you confirm in writing that your
firm does not assert any financial interest in any whistle-
blower claim that Mr. Birkenfeld may have related to his
allegations against UBS,” attorney David C. Colapinto of
Washington-based Kohn, Kohn & Colapinto LLP wrote to the
Schertler firm in December 2010.  Attorney David Schertler refused to waive his firm’s
financial claim. Last year, before it was clear that Birkenfeld
would ever see his big payday, a federal judge referred the
matter to an arbitrator. The arbitrator has yet to rule.  Undisputed Impact  Birkenfeld’s impact on Zurich-based UBS, the largest bank
in Switzerland, is undisputed. A neurosurgeon’s son from
Brookline,  Massachusetts , he spent 15 year in Swiss banking,
including five at UBS. He was one of as many as 60 UBS employees
who trolled the U.S. for rich clients, even though the bankers
lacked required SEC licenses, he told Senate investigators. They
visited art shows, yachting regattas and golf and tennis
tournaments, he said.  Prosecutors have said Birkenfeld’s disclosures led them to
charge UBS in 2009 with conspiracy. The bank avoided prosecution
by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion from
2000 to 2007, and turning over data on 250 Swiss accounts. UBS
later agreed to provide information on another 4,450 accounts.
Since then, at least 33,000 Americans voluntarily disclosed
offshore accounts to the IRS, generating more than $5 billion in
tax revenue.  The IRS said Birkenfeld provided “exceptional
cooperation,” gave information on taxpayer behavior that the
agency hadn’t detected, and led to substantial changes in UBS
practices, according to an agency explanation released by
Stephen Kohn of Kohn, Kohn & Colapinto.  ‘Unprecedented Actions’  “While the IRS was aware of tax compliance issues related
to secret bank accounts in Switzerland and elsewhere,”
Birkenfeld’s disclosures “formed the basis for unprecedented
actions against UBS,” according to the IRS document.  While he sat in prison in Minersville,  Pennsylvania ,
Birkenfeld filed a lawsuit accusing Schertler & Onorato of
malpractice and breach of fiduciary duty. The complaint, filed
in August 2011 without a lawyer in Superior Court in Washington,
sought $10 million in damages.  Birkenfeld claimed the firm mishandled negotiations with
the Justice Department, which refused in 2007 to grant him
either immunity or a subpoena he said he needed to reveal
information otherwise protected by Swiss law.  When prosecutors charged him in 2008, they said he wasn’t
truthful about his own role in helping a billionaire client
break the law.  Federal Case  Birkenfeld also sued in federal court in Washington,
claiming Schertler & Onorato violated his constitutional rights
in May 2008 when he met with prosecutors two days after his
arrest. At that meeting and in other instances, Birkenfeld
claimed, a prosecutor said he couldn’t meet with Senate or SEC
investigators, and his lawyer didn’t respond, violating
Birkenfeld’s right to free speech and his right to due process.  In October 2011, Schertler & Onorato denied Birkenfeld’s
allegations and filed a counterclaim, saying he didn’t give his
lawyers “complete information about the extent of his illegal
conduct and activities.”  That counterclaim said a Schertler lawyer gave a Form 211,
titled an “Application for Reward for Original Information,”
to IRS agent Matthew Kutz at a meeting on June 12, 2007. A copy
of the form, provided to Bloomberg News by Schertler & Onorato,
shows it was signed by Birkenfeld and given “through counsel”
to Kutz “in person.”  ‘Evolving’ Process  Schertler & Onorato helped Birkenfeld “navigate the
complex and evolving” process at the “newly formed IRS
Whistleblower Office,” according an October 2011 court filing
by the firm.  A retainer letter, sent on Oct. 23, 2007, outlined the 12.5
percent whistle-blower fee and a cap on hourly fees at $80,000,
according to the firm’s counterclaim.  Birkenfeld also signed a second representation letter on
May 9, 2008, for the firm to represent him after his arrest. It
called for an advance of $50,000.  In his December 2010 letter to Schertler, Colapinto said
Birkenfeld’s second retainer letter superseded the first one,
which meant the firm “relinquished its financial interest” in
the whistle-blower award. It also referenced an IRS Form 211
filed in 2007.  “There is no evidence that your firm performed any work on
that claim or that your firm perfected the claim as required by
either the statute or IRS regulations governing the whistle-
blower reward program,” Colapinto wrote.  Whistleblower Office  In an interview last month, Stephen Kohn said that his firm
filed the official Form 211 with the  IRS Whistleblower Office .  “Schertler never filed a 211,” Kohn said. “Whether Brad
did or not is a secondary issue. Schertler never met with the
office until we got involved, and the lawyers, to the best of
our knowledge, didn’t meet with the office. We filed the
claim.”  Schertler disputed Kohn’s account.  “It is indisputable that Schertler & Onorato communicated
directly with the IRS Whistleblower Office and followed the
explicit instructions received from that office on how to
properly register Mr. Birkenfeld as a whistle-blower,”
Schertler said in an e-mail yesterday.  The IRS also told the firm how to ensure that what he gave
Kutz “would qualify for treatment as information provided to
the IRS under the Whistleblower Program.”  Dean Patterson, an IRS spokesman, declined to comment on
the case.  Federal Law  “Federal law prohibits the IRS from discussing specific
taxpayers or situations,” he said in an e-mail.  Birkenfeld’s brother, Doug, didn’t respond to an e-mail
asking whether Bradley would comment on the fee dispute.  Kohn, Kohn & Colapinto has declined to say how much of the
whistle-blower award it will receive for work on Birkenfeld’s
behalf.  In November 2011, lawyers from Kohn, Kohn & Colapinto moved
on Birkenfeld’s behalf to voluntarily dismiss both the Superior
Court and federal lawsuits he originally filed without an
attorney. Schertler & Onorato’s counterclaim is still pending.  U.S. District Judge Robert L. Wilkins dismissed the federal
case, ordering that Kohn, Kohn & Colapinto place any IRS
whistle-blower payments in a trust account and segregate 12.5
percent, as well as $77,024, “until the fee dispute is
resolved.”  The judge said that the Attorney-Client Arbitration Board
of the District of Columbia Bar should handle the matter.  The cases are Birkenfeld v. Schertler & Onorato, 11-cv-
1529, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington);
and Birkenfeld v. Schertler & Onorato LLP, 2011-CA-6905,
District of Columbia Superior Court (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  