-- Hugo Chavez No Match to Fernandez in Bond Risk
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-16T15:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/hugo-chavez-no-match-to-fernandez-in-bond-risk.html
When it comes to default risk, not
even six more years of Hugo Chavez’s socialist revolution in
 Venezuela  can compete with Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
 Argentina .  While the cost of insuring Venezuelan debt jumped as much
as 71 basis points after Chavez, who has seized more than 1,000
companies or their assets since he was first elected over a
decade ago, won a landslide victory on Oct. 7, credit-default
swaps on Argentina surged 77 basis points last week. The jump in
the perceived risk of default by Argentina among credit-
derivatives traders was the biggest for any country.  Fernandez’s ban on the use of dollars to pay local
creditors, which caused Chaco province to pay its U.S. currency
debt in pesos on Oct. 5, is raising the specter that holders of
dollar-denominated bonds won’t be able to get their money back
as Argentina tries to preserve its foreign reserves. Since her
own re-election in October 2011, Fernandez has seized  YPF SA (YPFD) ,
Argentina’s biggest oil company, forced exporters to repatriate
revenue and tightened limits on imports.  “There will continue to be some volatility in Venezuela,
but in Argentina the fear will continue to be pesofication,”
Enrique Alvarez, the head of Latin America fixed-income at
research firm IdeaGlobal in New York, said. “Government policy
is to raise the pressure, preventing the outflow of dollars.”  Tighter Controls  Argentine government  dollar bond yields  rose 18 basis
points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 10.63 percent last week.
Venezuelan yields increased 31 basis points in that period,
while those on emerging-market debt fell three basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBIG Index.  While Venezuela’s default risk jumped after Chavez’s
election, the cost to insure the nation against non-payment for
five years ended just 2.2 basis points higher last week to close
at 777 basis points.  The swaps, which pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash if a government or company
fails to comply with debt agreements, on Argentina’s sovereign
debt ended the week at 991 basis points, higher than any other
country apart from  Ecuador .  Fernandez, an ally of Chavez, has tightened controls over
foreign-exchange markets and banned the purchase of dollars for
savings and local debt repayments to stem capital outflows,
which last year almost doubled to $21.5 billion.  ‘Significant Precedent’  Chaco, a soybean-growing province in northern Argentina,
said in a regulatory filing this month that currency
restrictions prevented it from obtaining dollars to make
payments due last week. Chaco said it deposited 1.2 million
pesos ($254,000) with the nation’s main clearing house to pay
interest and amortization on dollar bonds due in 2015 and 2023.  Investor concern spread to other provinces including
Formosa, Mendoza and Cordoba as Buenos Aires Vice Governor
Gabriel Mariotto on Oct. 10 praised Chaco’s decision, saying
that it was a “very significant precedent.”  The central bank that same day issued a statement saying
that while there are no currency restrictions on federal
government debt issued domestically or abroad, local governments
and companies won’t have access to dollars for payments on bonds
sold mostly to Argentines. Mariotto later said he didn’t mean to
imply that Buenos Aires would pay its dollar debt in pesos.  Mauro Roca, a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, says the
central bank won’t renege on its pledge to expand currency
restrictions. He maintained his overweight recommendation on
Argentina’s sovereign debt.  ‘More Interesting’  “The bonds that are more interesting to investors, the
sovereign bonds, won’t suffer pesofication, as the central bank
said in the statement,” Roca said in a telephone interview from
New York. “Argentine bonds are attractive and we don’t see
financing problems in the short term.”  Roca said he forecasts the economy will  grow  this year less
than the 3.26 percent threshold that would trigger a payment in
December 2013 to holders of warrants linked to economic growth.
While the World Bank says South America’s second-biggest economy
will expand 2.2 percent this year, the government foresees 3.4
percent growth.  Chaco’s payment in pesos of its local dollar-denominated
bonds was seen as “yellow, as opposed to red, lights,”
according to an Oct. 11 statement by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The risk of debt-related pesofication has been
overblown,” the statement said.  Emboldened Fernandez  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold
Argentine government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries
narrowed 14 basis points to 836 basis points at 12:06 p.m. in
Buenos Aires, according to JPMorgan. Warrants tied to
Argentina’s economic growth were unchanged at 12.88 cents. The
peso was little changed at 4.7275 per dollar.  Chavez’s election victory may embolden his ally Fernandez
to expand state control over the economy, according to
IdeaGlobal’s Alvarez.  Both leaders “have strengthened their position by pursuing
the same non-orthodox economics,” he said.  Chavez also made a habit of seizing companies, including
the local units of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , as
part of his so-called 21st century socialist revolution.  Minutes after Chavez routed opponent Henrique Capriles
Radonski by a surprise 11 percentage points, Fernandez broke a
five-day silence on  Twitter  and posted a series of messages on
the micro blogging website praising her ally.  “Hugo, today I want to say you’ve plowed the earth,
planted a seed, watered it and today are harvesting its
fruits,” she wrote. “Your victory is ours.”  Food Subsidies  While the 58-year-old Chavez, who has been battling cancer
for more than a year, has solidified his support by tapping the
world’s biggest oil reserves to subsidize food, provide low-cost
housing and expand health care among the poor, the opposition’s
showing in the election and the prospect of Chavez’s falling
from power at some point provide support for Venezuelan bonds,
according to Jefferies Group Inc.  “The elections were just phase one of regime change,”
 Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin America fixed-income strategy
at Jefferies, said in a telephone interview from New York.
“There’s still that latent expectation of regime change, which
is supportive for Venezuela. You don’t have that same potential
for positive credit shock in Argentina. In fact, as we’ve seen
post-YPF, it’s increasingly negative headline risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  