-- Humana Gains as Obama Health-Law Bonuses Spur Improvement
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-10-16T20:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/humana-gains-as-obama-health-law-bonuses-spur-improvement.html
Humana Inc. (HUM)  will get 5 percent more
in Medicare payments and a “five-star” rating for one of its
health plans under a U.S. program that may be helping to improve
care for the elderly, according to an analysis that quickly
spurred Republican criticism.  The program provides bonuses to health insurers who beef up
Medicare Advantage plans by limiting how many members are re-
admitted to the hospital after a discharge, increasing the
amount of preventative care and getting acceptable ratings on
patient satisfaction surveys, among other criteria. Insurers are
rated from one star, the lowest, to five stars, the highest.  Julia Lawless, a spokeswoman for Senator Orrin Hatch, a
Utah Republican, dismissed the program as “doling out money
conveniently during an election year.” Separate reports to be
released today by the consulting firm Avalere Health LLC and the
nonprofit Commonwealth Fund conclude that the bonus system put
in place in 2011 is working.  “More people have access to four- and five-star plans,”
said Avalere Chief Executive Officer Dan Mendelson, whose
Washington-based firm consults for insurers. “On average the
ratings are coming up, and some of the lower-rated plans are
going out of business because they can’t sustain being active in
the market without the bonus program.”  In Medicare Advantage, insurers provide health benefits in
place of the government’s program for the elderly and disabled.
The bonus system, originally created by the 2010 Affordable Care
Act, was modified by the Obama administration to allow bigger
payments to more plans. The U.S. Government Accountability
Office, the investigative arm of Congress, has said the
administration’s changes  weren’t authorized  by the law.  Five-Star Plans  Avalere, which used Medicare data to produce its report,
identified Louisville, Kentucky-based Humana as the first
publicly traded insurer among 11 given the top five-star rating.
The other plans were nonprofit.  Humana’s plan, located in  Wisconsin , has 8,300 members this
year. The rating “shows our company’s ability to carry out our
commitment to provide a perfect service experience for our
Medicare members,” said Tom Noland, a Humana spokesman.  Humana rose less than 1 percent to close at $75.11. The
shares have declined 14 percent this year.  Enrollment for the 2013 Medicare and Medicare Advantage
plans began yesterday. Avalere’s analysis “shows the quality
bonus program is working, as more plans are improving and
performing at a high-quality level,” said Brian Cook, a
spokesman for the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, in an e-mail.  Average Ratings  The average rating for a Medicare Advantage plan with drug
coverage next year will be 3.66 stars, up from 3.44 a year
earlier and 3.18 in 2011, Avalere’s report found.  Advantage plans have focused on improving their scores in
medical areas “that plans can invest in and control to get
better results” such as colon cancer screenings, body mass
index measurement and hypertension screening, said Bonnie
Washington, a senior vice president at Avalere. The plans urge
their members to get those screenings, which are aimed at
identifying health concerns at the earliest stages, then offer
doctors bonuses to perform the procedures.  Six of the 11 five-star plans are owned by Kaiser
Permanente, the nonprofit health-care company based in Oakland,
 California . Its largest five-star plan had about 864,000 members
this year, according to Avalere.  Competitive Advantage  “We are proud to earn the highest ratings for quality
because it reflects Kaiser Permanente’s commitment to achieving
the best health outcomes for our members,” Jed Weissberg,
Kaiser’s senior vice president for hospitals, quality and care
delivery excellence, said in a statement.  Gaining five stars confers an additional competitive
advantage: plans with the top rating can sign up Medicare
beneficiaries year-round, not just during the program’s open
enrollment period that ends Dec. 7.  Medicare gives five-star plans extra prominence on its
consumer  websites , and encourages beneficiaries to leave lower-
rated plans for higher-rated ones.  “It gives a convenient excuse for round-the-year
marketing,” Mendelson said. “That, I think, helps the plans
develop brand visibility.”  A Commonwealth Fund’s report released today also predicts
improvement in plan quality because of the Affordable Care Act.  Advantage plans “are likely to place greater emphasis on
tracking and improving their performance as they strive to
qualify for the bonus payments,” researchers led by Brian
Biles, a health policy professor at George  Washington  University
in Washington, said in the study.  The  Commonwealth Fund  is an independent foundation that
supports expanded health insurance coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  