-- Hungarian Forint Extends Longest Streak of Gains in Three Months
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-16T15:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/hungarian-forint-extends-longest-streak-of-gains-in-three-months.html
The forint rallied for a fifth day,
its longest streak of gains in three months, as global appetite
for risk increased and  Hungary  worked to obtain an aid deal from
the  International Monetary Fund .  The currency appreciated 0.5 percent to 277.71 per euro by
4:58 p.m. in Budapest. The cost of insuring Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell 22 basis points to 248, the lowest
since June 2011. Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-year
bonds fell 11 basis points to 6.626 percent.  Demand for higher-yielding assets has risen as central
banks in  Europe  and the U.S. eased monetary policy to help
economies recover from recession. While the market situation has
improved, the Hungarian government knows it’s “far” from a
position where it can say it can do without IMF help,  Mihaly
Varga , the minister in charge of negotiating with international
lenders, told a conference in Budapest today.  “If we didn’t have these low  interest rates  in the  euro
zone  and the U.S., I don’t think the markets would be so
positive about the Hungarian outlook and we wouldn’t have that
rally in the Hungarian bonds,” Magdalena Polan, a London-based
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., told a conference in
Budapest today. An IMF deal would help Hungary reduce borrowing
costs, she added.  Emerging-market stocks rose to the highest level in more
than a week after U.S. retail sales beat estimates and as a
report showed improved German investor sentiment, boosting the
outlook for exports.  Hungary sold 60 billion forint ($281 million) in three-
month Treasury bills, 15 billion forint more than planned, at an
auction today. The average yield was 6.12 percent, the  lowest 
for that maturity in a year, according to data from the Debt
Management Agency on Bloomberg.  ‘Correction’  “Hungary is currently benefiting from the wall of
quantitative easing-driven money pumping into  emerging
markets ,” Tim Ash, a London-based strategist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd., wrote by e-mail today. “It always ends in tears,
with a correction, and I guess this time around will not be
different.”  The Hungarian government this month scrapped a plan to levy
a tax on central bank deals that was an obstacle to obtaining
aid from the IMF. The Cabinet is imposing a higher levy on cash
withdrawals from ATMs and banks and delaying a pay increase for
teachers to keep the  budget deficit  within 3 percent of gross
domestic product, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said Oct. 5.  Hungarian assets may strengthen further as long as the
government keeps the budget under control and the global
environment remains supportive, Zoltan Arokszallasi, an analyst
at Erste Group Bank AG, said in a research report today.  “The external market environment is still supportive, the
‘big hunt for yield’ caused by global central bank stimulus is
going on in the world, which is boosting Hungarian assets,”
Arokszallasi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  