-- UnitedHealth Raises Forecast on Contained Medical Costs
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-10-16T20:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/unitedhealth-raises-forecast-on-contained-medical-costs.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest
U.S. health insurer, raised its 2012 profit forecast as
enrollment in its Medicare and Medicaid plans surged in the
third quarter and medical costs stayed stable.  Earnings may reach $5.20 to $5.25 a share this year, the
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company said in a statement today.
That would miss the $5.28 average of seven analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The insurer also said its quarterly
earnings rose 23 percent to $1.50 a share, or 5 cents higher
than in a preliminary report it gave last week.  UnitedHealth added 2.1 million customers to its medical
plans from a year earlier, and the share of customer premiums
spent on health care dropped. While revenue and profit will
grow, reaching analyst’s 2013 estimates may be a “considerable
challenge,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hemsley said.  “We expect strong execution to continue in 2013,” Hemsley
said on a conference call today. Still, “given the weak
business climate and employment outlook in the United States,
the mounting pressures on federal and state budgets -- to
mention just a few of the challenges -- we continue to be
cautious about 2013 earnings performance.”  Analysts anticipate profit of $5.73 a share in 2013 and
$119.4 billion in revenue, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. UnitedHealth fell 1.1 percent to $56.88 at the close
in New York. Shares have gained 12 percent this year.  Last Year  UnitedHealth’s third-quarter net income rose to $1.56
billion from $1.27 billion, or $1.17 a share, a year earlier.
Revenue gained 8 percent to $27.3 billion.  The numbers showed a “flawless quarter” with “better-
than-expected medical costs across” UnitedHealth’s plans, said
Brian Wright, a Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. analyst in New York,
in a note to clients. The 2012 forecast “continues to leave
room for upside, as has been the case all year.”  The insurer released preliminary results on Oct. 8 when the
company said it agreed to acquire Brazilian insurer and hospital
operator  Amil Participacoes SA (AMIL3)  for $4.9 billion to expand
abroad. It’s the first big health insurer to announce earnings
this quarter. Hartford, Connecticut-based  Aetna Inc. (AET) , the No. 3
health plan, is scheduled to report on Oct. 25.  The company also boosted earnings by 28 percent at its
Optum unit, which provides consulting and technology services to
hospitals, governments and other clients and manages drug-
benefit plans for employers. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hemsley has said the company wants to double profit from the
services unit by 2015.  U.S. Elections  Quarterly results will probably have less of an effect on
insurer stocks than U.S. elections next month that may determine
the fate of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, said
Matthew Borsch, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst in New York.
Obama faces Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  in the election.  “Earnings still matter, as does 2013 guidance, but the
election outcomes are likely to overshadow everything else,” he
said in a note to clients yesterday. “If President Obama wins,
we expect investors will stay on the sidelines on uncertainty
over health reform. If Mr. Romney wins, we expect a significant
rally.”  Medical costs for customers accounted for 79 percent of
premiums collected in the quarter, compared with 81 percent a
year earlier, according to the statement. Enrollment in the
company’s medical plans was 36.5 million, compared with 34.4
million a year earlier.  Unemployment was close to a four-year low at 7.8 percent in
September, the U.S. Labor Department said Oct 11.  The Amil acquisition should add “slightly” to profit in
2013, UnitedHealth said last week. UnitedHealth said it’s buying
the company, Brazil’s biggest managed-care insurer, to expand
its international presence as new taxes and regulations threaten
to crimp profit margins in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  