-- UPS ‘Absolutely Committed’ to TNT Deal, Due to Meet With EU
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-16T13:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/ups-absolutely-committed-to-tnt-deal-due-to-meet-with-eu.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s biggest package-delivery company, is “absolutely
committed” to its plan to take over  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  amid
concerns from European Union antitrust regulators, said Dan Brutto, president of international operations.  UPS representatives will meet EU officials this week to
discuss the transaction, Brutto said to reporters in Brussels
today. It “would not be unexpected to receive a statement of
objections soon,” UPS said in an e-mail response to questions
from  Bloomberg News .  UPS may be sent the document listing EU concerns over the
deal as soon as this week, two people said on Oct. 10. Atlanta-
based UPS is likely to wait until it receives the statement
before offering concessions aimed at eliminating possible
competition problems, the people said.  “UPS is absolutely committed to the transaction and the
value it will bring to customers and the competitiveness of
 Europe ,” Brutto said today. “Pricing is very competitive and
consumers are very price sensitive,” he said in relation to
competition concerns over the deal.  UPS agreed in March to buy TNT for 5.16 billion euros ($6.7
billion) or 9.5 euros a share in cash. The transaction will
double its size in Europe and vault it to equal footing with
Deutsche Post’s DHL, the market-share leader. The combination
with money-losing TNT will immediately add to earnings on an
adjusted basis once the deal is done, UPS said at the time.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission,
declined to comment on any meeting or on a statement of
objections.  Synergies  UPS estimates its takeover of TNT would generate savings of
between 400 million and 550 million euros annually over the next
few years, Brutto said. Europe is “the right place to be” for
the logistics company in the medium to long-term, he said.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said on Oct. 2
that the UPS deal may cut to three the number of companies that
control pan-European parcel-transport networks. Regulators would
analyze whether the combined firm would be “challenged enough”
by DHL and  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , he said.  “These companies offer a service that has a broad impact
on our economy, especially for cross-border trade, so it is
important that customers continue to have access to these
services at competitive conditions,” Almunia said in the  speech 
in Nicosia.  The EU in July cited potential competition concerns for
small-parcel delivery services, in particular international
express services, in several European countries where the
companies would have very high combined market shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 