-- Murdoch Uses News Stake to Beat Bid for Independent Chair
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-10-17T20:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/murdoch-uses-news-stake-to-beat-bid-for-independent-chair.html
News Corp. fended off an investor
proposal calling for an independent chairman only through the 40
percent voting stake controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch .  Excluding family holdings, investors at the annual meeting
yesterday overwhelmingly backed a proposal for an independent
director as chairman, according to totals in a  regulatory 
filing. Unaffiliated voters also backed a plan to eliminate a
special class of voting stock held by the Murdoch family,
according to filings and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The vote means management will continue to face calls for
governance changes as News Corp. advances plans to split into
separate publishing and entertainment companies. Murdoch
controls his 50-year-old media company through Class B voting
shares that represent less than 15 percent of the ownership.  “As they move toward a split, we plan to pressure them to
align the shares accordingly,” Ian Greenwood of the Local
Authority Pension Fund Forum in West Yorkshire, U.K., said in an
interview. “They must move toward a more appropriate governance
model.”  Dan Berger, a  News Corp. (NWSA)  spokesman, declined to comment on
the vote.  Chairman’s Role  The vote to create an independent chairman lost by a margin
of 356.7 million to 156.6 million. Excluding about 276 million
Murdoch votes, the proposal would have passed by almost two to
one. The tally was similar on the proposal to eliminate the dual
classes of stock.  Murdoch, 81, defended his dual titles at the meeting, which
was held in  Los Angeles . While the positions are often separate
in the U.K., he said it is standard for chairman and CEO roles
to be combined in the U.S. The company will offer details about
the management and board structures of the new companies by the
end of the year, he said.  “We always consider what shareholders have to say,”
Murdoch said. “There are plenty of U.S. media stocks to buy if
you don’t like this one.”  The company elected two new directors, Álvaro Uribe, the
former President of Colombia, and Elaine L. Chao, the former
U.S. Secretary of Labor. The rest were re-elected. Just over 20
percent of votes cast opposed  Lachlan Murdoch , 41, and Natalie Bancroft, who joined News Corp.’s board after the 2007
acquisition of Dow Jones & Co. Each would have won re-election
without the Murdoch votes.  Family Shares  Murdoch’s family didn’t vote all of its shares. News
Corp.’s foreign investors are barred from voting some stock
because the company owns U.S. broadcast licenses. The family
agreed to cap the votes it cast at 40 percent of the shares
eligible to participate, or 276.4 million of the 696.1 million.  News Corp., based in  New York , gained 1.7 percent to $25.20
at the close in New York. The non-voting Class A  stock  has
climbed 41 percent this year.  The company, owner of Fox Broadcasting and the Twentieth
Century Fox film studio, has about 2.37 billion shares
outstanding. Of those, the 798.5 million Class B shares have
voting rights.  Murdoch has faced criticism over his handling of a phone-
hacking scandal that erupted at the company’s U.K. newspapers.
Investors had mounted a new campaign to separate the chairman
and CEO roles to increase accountability.  Those efforts were also unsuccessful at last year’s
meeting, where majorities of non-Murdoch votes went against
Lachlan and Deputy Chief Operating Officer  James Murdoch , 39.  ‘Absolutely Necessary’  “This reform is absolutely necessary,” said  Julie Tanner ,
assistant director of socially responsible investing at
Christian Brothers Investment Services, which backs the split.
“The lack of internal controls at the company has had real and
lasting repercussions. It has resulted in shuttering a
newspaper, criminal investigations, the canceled BSkyB
acquisition, eroded public trust, and it has tarnished the
company’s reputation.”  News Corp. is embroiled in multiple police investigations
for hacking into mobile phones and computers, as well as bribing
public officials. U.K. authorities also are considering whether
to bring corporate charges against News Corp.’s board for the
alleged crimes.  At least 60 people have been arrested since police began
the probes last year. The company was forced to call off its
acquisition of  British Sky Broadcasting Plc. (BSY)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  