-- Turkey Loopholes on Terror Finance Risk OECD Blacklist
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-17T13:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/turkey-risks-blacklist-like-iran-north-korea.html
Turkey  has failed to tighten laws
blocking financing of terrorist groups, and risks being put on a
list of non-complying countries that includes  Iran  and North
Korea, said academics and analysts from Istanbul to Washington.  The  Financial Action Task Force  sponsored by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  warned in
June  it would “call upon its members to apply countermeasures”
against Turkey if rules weren’t tightened by October. Kenya and
Myanmar are the other two countries  at risk  of joining the
blacklist. The group meets in Paris today to address the issue.  OECD concerns include inadequate monitoring of bank
transfers and unwillingness to freeze accounts. A terror
financing bill drafted to address them is still held up in
Turkey’s parliament. While the NATO member and European Union
candidate isn’t likely to be assigned pariah status, a
downgrading by the Task Force could impede transactions with
Western banks.  That would be “damaging to all aspects of the Turkish
economy including tourism, manufacturing and finance,” said
Jack Smith, an anti-money laundering specialist and adjunct
professor at the George  Washington  University Law School.  Parliament Busy  Hakki Koylu, deputy chairman of parliament’s Justice
Committee, said Turkey is “already implementing measures
against terrorist financing” and can freeze assets where needed
under existing laws. He said the government backs the new rules
required by the OECD, and the only reason they haven’t made it
onto the statute books is that “parliament’s agenda is just
busy.”  It’s likely that “friendly Western states’ regulators will
be pragmatic” in applying any restrictions to Turkey, said Tim Ash, head of emerging market research at Standard Bank Group
Ltd. Still, “some foreign banks, less actively involved in
Turkey, might see Turkey’s possible position on the FATF
blacklist as a reason to limit business,” he said.  Turkey needs financial inflows to balance its  current
account gap . Foreign investors were net buyers of almost $21
billion in Turkish equities and bonds in the past year.  There are signs some U.S. banks already limit transactions.
An American tourist was unable to use a prepaid Visa TravelMoney
card issued by South Dakota-based MetaBank during a recent trip
to Turkey, because it’s on a list of “high-risk” countries
where MetaBank blocks the use of prepaid cards due to government
warnings about money laundering and the financing of terrorism,
the  Seattle Times  reported on Sept. 29.  Non-Compliance  Turkey is non-compliant with 10 out of 40 Task Force
recommendations, and only fully compliant with three, according
to Safak Herdem, a partner at Istanbul law firm Herdem & Co. and
author of a study on the issue.  Requirements for banks to identify parties in financial
transactions are limited and may not apply at all for transfers
below 12,000 liras ($6,600), Herdem said in the Oct. 5  report .
There is no requirement to “establish the purpose and
background of unusual transactions” and keep records of them,
or for banks engaging in cross-border transactions to “assess
the respondent institution’s anti-money laundering and terrorist
financing controls.  Hiding Money  Transparency International  backed the Task Force
recommendation for Turkey to “review the adequacy of laws and
regulations that relate to entities that can be abused for the
financing of terrorism.”  “Better laws which enhance the transparency of
organizations do more than just reduce the risk that an entity
could be used to hide money for funding terrorist activities,”
the Berlin-based anti-graft watchdog said in e-mailed comments
late yesterday. “They reduce the risk of any illicit financial
practices or activities within the organization or company.”  The Task Force rules require Turkey to freeze suspect bank
accounts even without a judicial ruling. Turkey says it will
only freeze assets of suspects listed by the United Nations,
while applying reciprocity to individual requests from
countries.  Turkey accuses some Western governments of failing to apply
sanctions against fundraising by the Kurdistan Workers’ Party or
PKK, which is fighting for autonomy in Turkey’s southeast and is
listed as a terrorist group by the EU and U.S.  “We want all European countries to stop financing of the
terrorist organization,”  Egemen Bagis , Turkey’s EU minister and
chief negotiator, said today in reference to the PKK. Bagis also
called on  Europe  to stop broadcasts by Europe-based Kurdish
television stations which he accused of “provoking the people
against the government.”  Freezing Assets  “Foreigners are not considering whether they are complying
with our requests,” Koylu said in an interview in parliament.
“Never mind freezing assets of people who fund terrorists, they
are not even freezing assets owned by terrorists themselves.
They’re not prosecuting them, they’re not extraditing them.”  Turkey suspects at least 269 companies in Europe, including
147 in  Germany  and 49 in  France , of ties with the PKK,  Today’s
Zaman  said on Oct. 7, citing police intelligence.  Islamist groups linked to al-Qaeda have carried out attacks
in Turkey. In 2003, suicide truck bombers attacked two
synagogues, the U.K. Consulate and a branch of HSBC Holdings Plc
in Istanbul, killing 58 people.  Koylu said it’s not clear when the terror finance bill will
be voted in parliament. It was submitted in February 2011, and
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan asked for an update in
October that year after opposition parties raised concerns about
privacy and other issues.  The Task Force is not the only group to raise concerns
about Turkish financial controls.  IMF Warning  The International Monetary Fund urged regulators to be more
“intrusive” in monitoring banks, insurance companies and
exchange offices. The U.S. State Department in a  March report 
cited widespread money-laundering linked to narcotics.  After initial signs that Turkish authorities were “really
worried” about a blacklisting by the OECD, the issue has
dropped down the agenda, Ash said yesterday.  “It could be that they have been in contact with Western
regulators and feel confident that countermeasures won’t be
applied,” he said. Alternatively, preoccupied by the war in
 Syria  and plans to rewrite the constitution, it may be that
“they are simply not focused.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 