-- Verizon Touted Idearc Team While Memo Cited Incompetence
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-10-16T22:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/verizon-touted-idearc-team-while-memo-cited-incompetence.html
The  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
executive who oversaw the spinoff of directory business Idearc
Inc. described the unit’s management internally as incompetent
while Verizon was telling investors the group was “solid.”  John Diercksen, a Verizon executive vice president,
complained in an October 2006 e-mail that the Idearc management
team represented a “rising tide of incompetence” that reduced
the value of the unit by $5 billion.  The e-mail was presented today in federal court in  Dallas 
during a trial over Verizon’s spinoff of the subsidiary in
November 2006. Idearc creditors sued Verizon, claiming the
second-largest U.S. phone company saddled the business with
$9 billion in debt, driving it into bankruptcy in 2009.  Diercksen is the first witness to testify at the trial.
Werner Powers, a lawyer for Idearc creditors, has sought to
portray Verizon as having a negative view of Idearc’s
performance while it promoted the company to investors.  Verizon has called the lawsuit baseless.  Before the spinoff, Verizon described Idearc executives as
a “solid management team with competitive industry
experience,” according to materials given to investors.  In the October 2006 e-mail, Diercksen said Idearc
management didn’t deserve bonuses.  “I did not care for the style of some of the things they
had done,” he testified. “They were capable individuals.”  The creditors’ lawsuit is U.S. Bank National Association v.
Verizon Communications Inc., 10-01842, U.S. District Court,
Northern District  Texas  (Dallas). The bankruptcy case was In re
Idearc Inc., 09-31828, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District
of Texas (Dallas).  Editors: Fred Strasser, Peter Blumberg  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in federal court in Dallas at
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net ; David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 