-- Vikram Pandit Takes a Powder at Citigroup
-- B y   J a m e s   G r e i f f
-- 2012-10-16T15:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/vikram-pandit-takes-a-powder-at-citigroup.html
It seems that the board of Citigroup
Inc. came to the same  conclusion  that many in the financial
world had settled on long ago: Vikram Pandit was never the right
man for the top job.  Pandit, who had been Citigroup’s chief executive officer
since December 2007, was  forced  by the board to resign along
with President and Chief Operating Officer  John Havens ,
according to the Wall Street Journal. Pandit was replaced by
 Michael Corbat , who had been CEO of Citigroup’s  Europe ,  Middle
East  and  Africa .  Whatever his strengths or weaknesses, here is the detail
that’s important to remember: Pandit was a hedge-fund guy given
the task of reviving what is, in essence, a commercial and
consumer bank.  His ascent to the top of Citigroup was by default
as much as anything. After the ouster of Charles Prince in
November 2007, the leadership void at Citigroup was enormous.
Former Citigroup CEO Sanford Weill was gone, stripped of power
after the tainted research-analyst scandals of the early 2000s.
Ex-Goldman boss and Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin , who never
had operational responsibilities at Citigroup, was too closely
tied to the bank’s disastrous plunge into the subprime mortgage-
securities business.  That left Pandit, who arrived at Citigroup in early 2007
after the bank bought a hedge fund he was running with Havens.
Before that, he had managed Morgan Stanley’s institutional
securities business, where one of his tasks was offering
brokerage services to the rapidly expanding hedge-fund industry.  To be fair, Pandit wasn’t given an easy task and any
strategic vision he may have had was soon overwhelmed by the
2008 financial crisis. In less than a year after he was handed
the top job, Citigroup was on the verge of collapse. The bank
was so sick that regulators nixed its plan to buy failing
Wachovia, which was awarded to Wells Fargo & Co.  Citigroup needed three rounds of federal aid to survive. It
still ranks among the weakest of the U.S.’s megabanks based on
standard benchmarks such as return on equity (6.5 percent) and
return on assets (0.6 percent). The shares have been a laggard
as well after the company did a 1-for-10 reverse split in 2011
because they had fallen to penny-stock territory. Since then,
the shares are down 20 percent even as the broader stock market
has gained 7 percent.  More telling, the shares trade at just a bit more than half
of Citigroup’s book value. What this means is that investors
doubt that Citigroup’s assets are worth what the bank says they
are.  Earlier this year Citigroup was one of just four U.S. banks
to fail an important part of the  Federal Reserve ’s stress tests,
which are designed to replicate how a bank would perform in an
economic collapse.  Even today, Citigroup struggles to turn in consistent
financial results. Yesterday, the company  reported  net income of
$468 million, a number that was muddied by one-time items. That
was actually better than Wall Street analysts expected. They
were counting on a loss.  (James Greiff is a member of Bloomberg View’s editorial board.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at the  Ticker .
 