-- Warburg Hunts Stakes for World Cup Buildup: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-10-16T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/warburg-hunts-stakes-for-world-cup-buildup-corporate-brazil.html
Warburg Pincus  LLC, the private-
equity firm with more than $35 billion in assets, is targeting
infrastructure service providers in  Brazil  as the nation steps
up investment in ports and energy ahead of the 2014 World Cup.  “To invest in a company that provides specialized services
to large projects is a better way to get exposure to the
infrastructure sector in Brazil, which will grow significantly
in the coming years”, said Luca Molinari, partner and managing
director of Warburg Pincus do Brasil Ltda. “A direct investment
in many of the typical large infrastructure projects probably
wouldn’t generate the return we want to achieve.”  Warburg Pincus joins BTG Pactual Participations Ltd. and
Carlyle Group LP in seeking to profit from an estimated 1
trillion reais ($491 billion) in investments needed to upgrade
Brazil’s infrastructure for the  World Cup  and 2016 Summer
 Olympic Games . BTG bought a stake in Brasbunker Participacoes
SA, an oil-and-gas services firm, in September 2010. Carlyle
said last month it acquired 25 percent of Grupo Orguel, which
rents equipment such as scaffolding, generators and cranes.  Brazil’s development bank said it plans to finance as much
as 80 percent of the infrastructure investment during the next
five years. Private investors may have to fund 10 percent to 20
percent of the total, according to Denise Pavarina, president of
Brazil’s capital-markets association.  Energy Deposits  Equipment-rental companies have margins exceeding 30
percent on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, compared with 10 percent to 15 percent for firms
that operate infrastructure projects, said Eduardo Centola, a
partner and head of  investment banking  at Banco Modal SA. He
cited Greenwich, Connecticut-based  United Rentals Inc. (URI) , which
posted  Ebitda margins  of 36 percent last year.  Some of the infrastructure investments will come from the
oil-and-gas industry. State-run Petroleo Brasileiro SA alone is
investing $236.5 billion through 2016 to tap newly found energy
deposits off the nation’s coast, among the largest discoveries
worldwide since 1976. The plan is to double oil output by 2020.  Rental companies that target the energy and transportation
infrastructure industry are particularly alluring for private-
equity investors because they can borrow to buy the equipment
and benefit from steady  cash flow , Centola said.  “The private-equity funds are just realizing the
opportunity they have investing in renting equipment to wind
farms, ports, road, railroads and airport projects,” Centola
said. “Those companies take loans to buy the equipment and rent
them and operate almost like a financial company.”  Brazil’s Oil  Not all of the suppliers to Brazil’s oil industry have
benefited from growing investments by Petrobras, which produces
more than 90 percent of Brazil’s oil. Lupatech SA, the Caxias do
Sul-based supplier of valves and anchor ropes for offshore
platforms, has dropped 24 percent in  Sao Paulo  trading this year
after the company sold shares and delayed interest payments on
its bonds to compensate for a sales shortfall.  Warburg Pincus has made two investments in Brazil since the
New York-based firm opened a Sao Paulo office in January 2010.  Omega Energia Renovavel SA said in September 2010 that
funds managed by Warburg Pincus and Tarpon Investimentos SA had
invested as much as 350 million reais in the Belo Horizonte-
based energy company. Six months later, Brazilian lender  Banco
Indusval SA (IDVL4)  announced the sale of a 150 million-real stake to a
Warburg Pincus affiliate. Warburg Pincus said in a regulatory
filing that its stake in Indusval may climb to 23 percent.  “There a lot of new companies’ names popping up from
private-equity funds that are looking to opportunities in the
logistics and equipment rental for projects sectors,” said João
Ricardo de Azevedo Ribeiro, a partner at Mattos Filho, Veiga
Filho, Marrey Jr. e Quiroga Advogados, a Sao Paulo-based law
firm that advises on mergers and acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  