-- Wells Fargo Forms Markets Unit as Stumpf Takes on Rivals
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-16T16:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/wells-fargo-creates-markets-unit-as-stumpf-takes-on-wall-street.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, is restructuring sales and trading operations to
form a new markets division at its investment bank as the firm
challenges more established Wall Street rivals.  The division will be one of five main units under the Wells
Fargo Securities brand and include equity and fixed-income sales
and trading, commodities, prime services and futures clearing,
the San Francisco-based firm said today in a statement. Walter Dolhare, 46, and Tim Mullins, 48, will oversee the division and
report to John Shrewsberry, 47.  Chief Executive Officer John Stumpf, 59, is seeking to
narrow the gap with Wall Street firms including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  He’s building upon a corps
of bankers that joined Wells Fargo after its 2008 purchase of
Wachovia Corp.  The investment bank, while still a small part of Wells
Fargo, is “an important piece” of the firm’s growth strategy,
Joseph Morford, an RBC Capital Markets analyst who has an
outperform rating on Wells Fargo shares, said before the
announcement. “The trading gains were up in the quarter, and
that’s largely related to activity in the investment bank.”  Stumpf and predecessor Dick Kovacevich built Wells Fargo
into the fourth-largest U.S. lender by focusing on consumers and
avoiding riskier trading and underwriting that felled some of
the biggest investment banks. Stumpf told investors in January
that he couldn’t “care less” how his firm fares in the ranks
of investment banking, preferring to view such services as
another product to sell to business customers if they need it.  ‘Buy-Side Clients’  “It’s always made sense to think about the future as one
where we face off with buy-side clients on a more cohesive
basis,” Shrewsberry, head of Wells Fargo Securities, said
yesterday in a phone interview. Combining the trading businesses
under one roof will also make it easier to comply with new
regulations, he said.  Third-quarter net trading gains more than doubled to $529
million from the previous three-month period amid “stronger
customer accommodation trading results,” the company said in a
presentation. The gains accounted for 5 percent of fee income.  Wells Fargo increased 5 cents to $33.95 at 11:57 a.m. in
New York. The shares have advanced 24 percent this year,
 matching the gain  of the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Financials Index.  Liquid Products  Businesses the bank has developed during the past three
years will be folded into the newly created division.  Wells Fargo announced in April 2010 that it was building a
team to package and trade mortgage-backed securities. Last
October, the company hired former Citigroup Inc. U.S.
government-bond trader Cronin McTigue as head of liquid products
sales and trading to create a business in Treasuries, swaps and
options, according to a statement.  The lender also has sought to bolster its offerings for
hedge funds and in the third quarter it completed the
acquisition of Merlin Securities LLC, a prime brokerage that
caters to hedge funds and other clients with as much as $2
billion in assets. The bank agreed in September 2011 to purchase
LaCrosse Global Fund Services, a hedge-fund administration and
service provider.  Wells Fargo also has grown in other securities businesses,
including at units that won’t be folded into the new division.  Highest Share  The capital-markets and investment-banking unit, run by co-
heads Rob Engel and Jonathan Weiss, has helped the lender seize
a bigger share of U.S. corporate bond sales this year. Wells
Fargo has underwritten 5 percent of sales in 2012, excluding
self-led deals, up from 3.6 percent in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest share on record and
ranks Wells Fargo eighth, up from 11th last year, the data show.  Last year, the lender hired Citadel LLC’s former investment
banking co-chief Brian Maier and about two dozen others to take
advantage of a decision by Citadel’s billionaire founder Ken Griffin to disband his securities business.  The co-heads of the markets unit are Wells Fargo veterans.
Mullins has been at the bank for a decade and was named head of
fixed-income trading in 2009 after sales and trading roles in
credit, interest rates and commodities, according to the
statement. Dolhare joined the firm in 1995 and was appointed
head of fixed-income sales in 2004. Both were named co-heads of
fixed-income sales and trading earlier this year.  Shrewsberry said he picked Mullins and Dolhare based on
their ability to manage risk.  ‘Biggest Risks’  “These two guys together manage the biggest risks we
have,” Shrewsberry said. “Given the choice, I have to lead
with people who are most equipped to manage risk because that’s
what we do.”  In addition to the markets division and the investment-
banking unit run by Engel and Weiss, Wells Fargo Securities
includes asset-backed finance and securitization, run by Julie Caperton; research and economics, headed by Diane Schumaker- Krieg; and municipal products, led by Phil Smith.  Wells Fargo Securities has more than 4,000 people spread
across about 40 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  