-- Western Asset Favors Korean Bonds Amid Global Slump
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-10-16T06:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/western-asset-favors-korean-bonds-amid-global-slump.html
South Korea’s bonds, upgraded three
times since 2006 by Moody’s Investors Service, are gaining
appeal as the nation’s fiscal health and growth prospects are
better than those of developed economies, according to Western
Asset Management Co.  The  money manager , which oversees $446 billion globally and
is a unit of Baltimore-based  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , increased its
holdings last month to above the level suggested by the
benchmark it tracks and keeps a “constructive” view on the
notes, said Chia-Liang Lian, head of  investment management  for
 Asia  excluding  Japan . The won reached an almost 1-year high
today and local-currency bond yields touched record lows last
week as global investors plowed money into the nation’s assets.  “Compared with other countries’ bonds, like the U.S. and
Japan, and given very favorable economic fundamentals, Korea
continues to look attractive,” Singapore-based Lian said in a
telephone interview on Oct. 12. “With the euro-zone problems
and the U.S. fiscal cliff concerns, the universe of high-quality
sovereign debt is shrinking. We expect Korea to stand out within
Asian bonds as the right candidate for diversification demand.”  South Korea ’s sovereign rating was raised to the fourth
highest investment grade of Aa3 by Moody’s in August, after
which Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings also upgraded the
country. The nation’s 10-year debt yields 2.95 percent and that
compares with 0.76 percent for similar-maturity bonds in Japan,
which is also rated Aa3. The U.S. is rated Aaa at Moody’s and
Treasuries due 2022 yield 1.68 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Outlook  Asia’s fourth-largest economy will expand 2.4 percent this
year and 3.2 percent in 2013, the central bank forecast on Oct.
11. Growth rates of 2 percent and 1.2 percent are projected for
the U.S. and Japan in 2013, according to the median estimates of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. South Korea’s budget surplus
is 1.65 percent of its gross domestic product while Japan has a
deficit of 10.1 percent and the shortfall in the U.S. is 7.9
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Bank of Korea  lowered the seven-day repurchase  rate  for
the second time this year to 2.75 percent on Oct. 11. The
central bank will probably leave the benchmark unchanged through
2013, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Korean securities accounted for 16.7 percent of the Western
Asset Asian Opportunities Fund as of Aug. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund took advantage of a drop in bond
prices in September, when the central bank unexpectedly held off
from cutting  interest rates , to boost holdings in the nation to
“overweight” from “neutral,” Lian said.  Record-Low Yields  “Even if we don’t anticipate the Bank of Korea to further
ease monetary policy, we are comfortable with adding exposure in
the next three months as, and when, valuations become
attractive,” Lian said.  Government bond yields in  Korea  touched all-time lows on
Oct. 10 as investors boosted bets the central bank would cut
borrowing costs the following day to support growth. The
benchmark three-year  yield  slid as low as 2.71 percent while 10-
year  rates  fell to 2.91 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The won has appreciated 4.1 percent to 1,107.19 per dollar
so far in 2012, the third-best performance among Asia’s 11 most-
traded currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,106.13 today, the strongest level since Oct.31, 2011.  “Consistent with improving sovereign fundamentals, we
expect the won to maintain gradual appreciation,” Lian said.  Aberdeen ‘Neutral’  Gains in Korea’s bonds may be limited as investors unwind
bets for further monetary easing, according to  Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc (ADN) , which maintains a “neutral view” on the notes
and oversees $300 billion globally.  “I place a 65 percent probability on another rate cut this
year and next year is much more uncertain,”  Kenneth Akintewe , a
Singapore-based  fund manager  at Aberdeen Asset, wrote in an e-
mailed response on Oct. 11.  A decline in geopolitical tensions in the Korean peninsula
also supports the country’s assets, according to Western Asset.
S&P said in a statement last month that the upgrade in the
nation’s sovereign rating reflects reduced risk in the region
following a “smooth” leadership change in  North Korea .  “Developments over the past year in the Korean peninsula
suggest some degree of abatement in geopolitical uncertainty,”
Lian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  