-- Westlake Chemical to Review IRS Ruling on Limited Partnerships
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-16T20:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/westlake-chemical-to-review-irs-ruling-on-limited-partnerships.html
Westlake Chemical Co. (WLK) , the Houston-
based chemical company that has gained 93 percent this year,
will review a U.S. Internal Revenue Service decision allowing
chemical makers to structure some units as master-limited
partnerships.  An Oct. 12 ruling allows companies that convert ethane and
other natural gas liquids into olefins, such as ethylene, to
classify themselves as partnerships. Such partnerships, common
in the pipeline industry, generally don’t pay income taxes at
the corporate level, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services said in a
report published yesterday.  “We are aware of this ruling and will be reviewing this in
more detail on a going forward basis,” Dave Hansen, a spokesman
for Westlake, said in an e-mail today.  Westlake,  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Williams Cos. are among U.S. ethylene
producers who may reduce taxes by converting their olefins units
into a partnership,  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at
Alembic Global Advisors, said today by phone. The partnerships
can distribute most of their income to investors as dividends
and are assigned higher equity valuations, he said.  Profits at U.S. ethylene producers are near record levels
as shale-gas production creates plentiful and cheap supplies of
gas liquids, providing a cost advantage over producers in Asia
and Europe where oil-derived naphtha is the main feedstock.
Analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are among those who expect
profit to continue to climb as ethylene demand outpaces supply
through 2016.  Westlake rose 7.8 percent to a record $77.78 at the close
in New York, the biggest gain since Aug. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  