-- Wind-Farm Aesthetics a Factor in U.K. Decisions, Minister Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-10-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/wind-farm-aesthetics-to-weigh-in-u-k-decisions-minister-says.html
The British government should give
more weight to aesthetics when deciding whether to approve wind
farms, the nation’s new energy minister said.  The U.K., which is seeking to more than double its onshore
wind capacity by 2020, should also work harder to assess the
opinions of communities where the facilities will be built said
 John Hayes , who was named to the post in September. He said
local residents must also consider the jobs, skills and economic
benefits derived by cleaner forms of energy.  “There has to be much more done to engage communities and
to ensure that wind goes where people want it,” Hayes said in
an interview at Bloomberg’s office in  London  yesterday.
Decisions on where to install turbines “must be shaped by both
the effect of wind on the environment, the perfectly proper
aesthetic consideration and a good practical argument.”  With many U.K. wind farms sited on hilltops in the
countryside, the comments raise the prospect that wind-farm
developers may find it harder to get planning permission. Almost
a third of lawmakers in Hayes’s  Conservative Party   wrote  to
Prime Minister  David Cameron  in January calling wind turbines
“inefficient and intermittent.”  While Hayes wasn’t among them, he opposed wind farms before
his appointment in his own constituency in Lincolnshire, eastern
 England . The British Broadcasting Corp. in 2009 reported him as
calling wind turbines a “ terrible intrusion ” on the landscape
that fail to pass the “twin tests of environmental and economic
sustainability.”  ‘Aesthetic Considerations’  “I would neither want to nor can wipe the record clean
with respect to my comments on wind, which are motivated by
aesthetic considerations,” Hayes said. “I see all of life
through an aesthetic prism, because beauty is what matters.”  Hayes’s Department of Energy and Climate Change on Sept. 20
started a  consultation  designed to ensure communities could
derive benefits from wind farms built nearby, including through
grants to build playgrounds. That was announced about two weeks
after Hayes was appointed.  “There are good arguments around jobs and skills, and its
value as a low carbon technology, and creating the mix we need
to deliver resilience and sustainability of energy,” Hayes said
about wind power. “Where development has high visibility buy-
in, where it has real payback for the people where the
development takes place, where the aesthetics are handled
properly, then development can engender enthusiasm and
support.”  Coalition Partners  The energy department is led by Secretary of State  Ed
Davey , a member of the junior coalition partner, the Liberal
Democrats. Davey earlier this year won a battle with the
Treasury over the scale of cuts to wind power support, securing
a 10 percent reduction. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  had sided with the 101 Conservative Party lawmakers who
wrote to Cameron in January calling for a bigger cut.  Hayes said he’d support the government targets for
renewable energy in general and for wind, since those were
endorsed by the prime minister before he took his current post.
The government targets 13 gigawatts of onshore wind capacity in
2020, up from 5 gigawatts now.  Hayes said the consultation announced last month is an
opportunity to end the “pepper pot” approach Britain has taken
to developing wind farms in favor of a more structured system.  ‘Environmental Impact’  “They vary in terms of their productivity, they certainly
vary in terms of their environmental impact, they vary massively
in terms of the relationship they have with their local
community,” Hayes said.  He said one wind farm outside Glasgow,  Scotland , has become
a “kind of local attraction,” while elsewhere “you’ve got
 wind turbines  in rural areas where you have maybe only a
handful, which are much less productive, and there is immense
acrimony associated with it.”  “Now’s a chance to take a step back and to say how much
does it matter, and if we acknowledge that it does matter, where
do we put it and on what basis,” the minister said. “We need a
new paradigm. We won’t get that until we settle some of the
contentious wind arguments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  