-- Yves St. Laurent Seeks to Dismiss Suits Against Louboutin
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-10-16T15:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-16/yves-st-laurent-seeks-to-dismiss-suits-against-louboutin.html
Yves Saint Laurent  SAS, following an
appeals court ruling in September that it has the legal right to
sell monochromatic women’s shoes with red soles, asked a federal
judge to dismiss counterclaims it filed against Christian
Louboutin Sarl.  Yves Saint Laurent seeks to end the lawsuit Louboutin
brought to prevent Saint Laurent from selling red-soled shoes,
according to a filing today in  Manhattan . Saint Laurent tried to
persuade the federal courts to reject Louboutin’s trademark for
red soles. The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York , in a mixed
decision, said Louboutin had a limited right to the trademark
but couldn’t stop Saint Laurent from selling monochromatic red
shoes.  “Now that the Second Circuit has definitively rejected
Louboutin’s claims against YSL, YSL prefers to refocus its
energies on its business and creative designs, and has
determined that these claims are no longer worth pursuing,”
Yves Saint Laurent said in the filing.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in August 2011 rejected
a bid by Louboutin for an injunction to stop Saint Laurent from
selling the shoes. Louboutin appealed and Marrero said he would
defer deciding whether to cancel Louboutin’s trademark for the
red sole until after the appeals court ruled. The appeals court
said Louboutin’s trademark didn’t extend to all-red shoes.  Dispute Resolved  “It’s not unexpected,” Harley Lewin, a lawyer with
McCarter & English LLP who represented Louboutin, said in a
phone interview. “We’re talking to the client about whether
there are any further steps to take. This is all that was left.
The essential dispute was resolved.”  Saint Laurent seeks to dismiss six counterclaims. Four were
over trademark rights, and Saint Laurent said in its filing that
the district court no longer has jurisdiction over this issue.  The two other claims were for tortious interference and
unfair competition. Saint Laurent said Louboutin called certain
retailers and told them to stop selling Saint Laurent’s red
shoes because it owned the trademark.  “We were able to mitigate our damages by re-selling the
shoes that were returned,”  David Bernstein , a lawyer with
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP who represented Saint Laurent, said in
a phone interview.  Patent Office  As for the trademark counterclaims, Bernstein said that
because Louboutin’s claims against Saint Laurent were dismissed,
the only place to pursue cancellation of the trademark would be
the  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office . He said Saint Laurent
would not pursue that action unless “Louboutin were to file a
new lawsuit against us.”  Louboutin, a Paris-based fashion company, claimed in its
lawsuit filed in April 2011 that Yves Saint Laurent’s red-soled
footwear “threaten to mislead the public.”  Christian Louboutin, the designer for whom the company is
named, got the idea for the red soles when he painted red nail
polish on the black soles of a pair of women’s shoes.
Louboutin’s red soles were introduced in 1992 and have been on
all of its luxury shoes since then, according to court papers.
They have been popularized by actresses like Sarah Jessica Parker in the TV show “Sex and the City.”  Yves Saint Laurent is a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , which owns
other luxury brands including Gucci. PPR rose 1.05 euros to
133.05 euros at 10:33 a.m. New York time in Paris Stock Market
trading. Louboutin’s shares aren’t traded publicly.  The case is  Christian Louboutin  SA v. Yves Saint Laurent
America, 11-2381, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 