-- ‘Political Genius’ Housing Plan Spurs Bubble Talk: U.K. Credit
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-08-21T10:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/-political-genius-housing-plan-spurs-bubble-talk-u-k-credit.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s plan to boost the U.K. housing market is winning his
Conservative Party votes at the risk of creating a property
bubble, economists say.  Help to Buy is designed to let cash-strapped buyers
purchase a home with a deposit of as little as 5 percent of the
value of the property. The first phase -- interest-free loans
for buyers of newly built homes -- began in April and has
already stoked the  strongest housing market  since the financial
crisis. Guarantees meant to spur 130 billion pounds ($204
billion) of mortgage lending will be available for all homes
starting in January.  “It’s political genius but economic lunacy,” said
Stewart Robertson, an economist at Aviva Investors in London,
which manages about $430 billion. “Have we learned nothing? You
can already use language like ‘booming’ about the housing
market. It may win you votes, but at what cost?”  Rising house prices are spurring  consumer confidence  and
growth in a country where two thirds of homes are  owned  rather
than rented. That’s boosting support for Prime Minister David Cameron, with less than two years to go before the next general
election. Ten-year  gilt yields  reached a two-year high of 2.75
percent on Aug. 19 as investors bet the Bank of England will
increase its benchmark interest rate sooner than Governor Mark Carney projects.  ‘Great Politics’  A home-value gauge compiled by the  Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors  rose to the highest in almost seven years in
July. Halifax, the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc,
estimates values rose for a sixth month to an average 169,624
pounds. Mortgage lending rose 29 percent from a year earlier to
the highest level since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008, the Council of Mortgage Lenders said yesterday.  Since Help to Buy began, 10,000 reservations for new homes
have been made, according to figures published on the Department
for Communities and Local Government website this month.  Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank and a former Bank
of  England  official, forecasts house prices will rise 15 percent
by the end of 2014.  “If you want an economic recovery in the U.K. you want to
push up house prices, but it is a dangerous way of doing it and
stores up problems in the future,” he said. “It’s not sound
economics but great politics. It will be very difficult for the
government to get out of it.”  ‘Moronic’ Plan  The program, announced in the  March budget , is designed to
help people who lack enough cash for a deposit, with the
government lending 20 percent of the value of a newly built home
up to 600,000 pounds, interest-free for five years. The lender
provides 75 percent, meaning the purchaser has to raise a down
payment of 5 percent compared with about 20 percent previously.  The second phase, set to run for three years, will provide
12 billion pounds of government  guarantee  to encourage lenders
to offer mortgages with loan-to-value ratios of up to 95
percent. The program applies to new and existing homes and
excludes buyers of second properties.  The initiative, which follows the Funding for Lending
Scheme run by the Bank of England, has drawn a warning from the
International Monetary Fund for its potential to stoke home
prices and been described as “moronic” by Societe Generale SA
analyst Albert Edwards for encouraging Britons to add to already
high debt levels. U.K. households owed about 1.3 trillion pounds
on their mortgages in June, according to the Bank of England.  ‘Incredibly Dangerous’  “It’s incredibly dangerous to persuade new buyers to take
on high loan-to-value mortgages,” said Robertson at Aviva.
Critics also say the plan is pushing prices further beyond the
reach of first-time buyers.  Bank of England projections suggesting the benchmark
interest rate can remain at a record low 0.5 percent for the
next three years are being increasingly challenged in financial
markets. Three-month short sterling futures maturing in
September 2016 were at 2.15 percent as of 11:30 a.m. today.
Investors demand 84 basis points more yield to own 10-year gilts
than equivalent German debt, close to the widest  spread  since
June 2010.  “The Help to Buy mortgage guarantee forms part of a
package of measures to increase confidence and certainty in both
the supply and demand for housing,” the Treasury said in an e-mailed response to questions. Carney told Sky News television
this month the BOE’s Financial Policy Committee “would not
expect to extend” the program if it puts financial stability at
risk.  Gathering Speed  Further evidence the economy is gathering pace emerged
today. The Confederation of British Industry said its index of
factory orders rose to its highest in two years in August, with
further improvement expected over the next three months.  The strengthening recovery and rising house prices have
helped boost the Tories’ popularity. An ICM Research Ltd. poll
for the Guardian newspaper on Aug. 13 showed 40 percent of
voters believe Cameron and Osborne are more capable of managing
the economy than the opposition Labour Party, up from 28 percent
in June. In the survey of 1,001 voters conducted Aug. 9-11,
Labour had a three-point lead in terms of voting intention over
the Tories with 35 percent to 32 percent. Labour was about 10
points in front at the start of the year.  “Politically, it’s a masterstroke,” Alan Clarke, an
economist at Scotiabank in  London , said of Help to Buy.
“Economically, given the choice between that and stagnation,
some growth is better than none.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  