-- Airport Facilities Shares Surge on New Zone Report: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2013-08-20T05:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/airport-facilities-shares-surge-on-new-zone-report-tokyo-mover.html
Airport Facilities Co. (8864)  shares had a
record two-day surge in Tokyo trading after the Sankei newspaper
reported  Japan ’s government is considering a strategic zone to
support small enterprises near the city’s Haneda airport.  Airport Facilities  advanced  as much as 38 percent in the
past two days, the most since its December 1995 listing,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  and
Japan Airlines Co., the country’s two largest carriers, are the
biggest  shareholders  of the Tokyo-based company that manages and
leases facilities at Haneda and at Itami airfield in Osaka.  “Some investors expected that new facilities constructed
in the special economic zone will be managed by the company,”
said Nobuyuki Fujimoto, a senior market analyst at SBI
Securities Co. “Individual speculators tend to react to this
kind of news flow. The shares are gaining momentum after
breaking the high in May but the reversal will be also quick.”  Japan Airport Terminal Co. (9706) , which also manages facilities
at Tokyo’s Haneda and Narita airfields, gained as much as 12
percent in the past two trading sessions, following Sankei’s
report yesterday.  Airport Facilities changed hands at 767 yen as of 2:08 p.m.
in Tokyo, up 3.9 percent. Shares of the company have risen 90
percent this year, compared with a 30 percent gain in the Nikkei
225 Stock Average.  Masahiro Shigihara, a spokesman at Airport Facilities, and
Shigetoshi Hosoya, a Japan Airport Terminal spokesman, said they
have no information about the development plan reported by the
newspaper. Both officials declined to comment on the shares’
gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiyotaka Matsuda in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  