-- Al Jazeera Tries Fair and Balanced in U.S. News Push
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-08-20T20:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/al-jazeera-tries-fair-and-balanced-in-u-s-news-push.html
Al Jazeera , the Qatar-based TV
network once labeled “vicious” by former Defense Secretary
 Donald Rumsfeld , is seeking to appeal to an American audience
willing to look beyond its reputation as the mouthpiece of
terrorists and Islamist militants.  Al Jazeera America, a new cable-news channel that begins
airing today, is geared to Americans fed up with opinionated
newscasts to tune in over rivals  MSNBC ,  Fox News  and CNN. The
network, controlled by the Qatari royal family, paid $500
million for  Al Gore ’s money-losing Current TV in January and
rebranded it. Al Jazeera America says it will offer unbiased,
in-depth reporting on topics such as health-care reform, drugs
in baseball, and gun violence in Chicago.  Domestic news will be complemented by reports from more
than 400 international correspondents -- many stationed in
countries where few Western reporters venture. The channel,
which has hired some 700 staffers for a dozen U.S. bureaus
including Nashville, New Orleans and Detroit, faces the hurdle
of appealing to an American audience that remembers Al Jazeera
as the forum for Osama bin Laden’s video messages after the
terrorist attacks on the U.S. on Sept. 11, 2001.  Former President  George Bush  considered the network
sympathetic to terrorists, and the U.S. government was angered
when Al Jazeera broadcast images of civilian casualties in the
Iraqi City of Fallujah in 2003. That same year, the U.S.
military mistakenly bombed Al Jazeera’s Baghdad office, killing
one of its journalists.  Middle-East Identity  “The mass American audience still has a negative
perception around Al Jazeera post-Sept. 11 and the early days of
the  Iraq war ,” said Philip Seib, a professor of international
relations at the University of  Southern California . “Al Jazeera
won’t run away from their Middle East identity, but stressing
that connection will get it about a dozen viewers.”  To boost its appeal to Americans, Al Jazeera has brought on
 CNN  personalities such as Soledad O’Brien, Ali Velshi and Emmy
Award-winner Michael Okwu. And former ABC senior vice president
Kate O’Brian serves as president. Programs include “Real
Money” with Velshi and current affairs program “Consider
This” with former ABC News correspondent Antonio Mora.  ‘Badly Underserved’  Al Jazeera America started service at 3 p.m. New York time
with “This is Al Jazeera: Preview Hour,” followed by news
headlines at 4 p.m. A rundown of Al Jazeera America’s top U.S.
stories on its  website  today included California to force-feed
inmates on hunger strike, the CIA admitting to its role in a
1953 Iran coup and a feature on a Detroit union challenging the
city’s bankruptcy request.  Network research showed that some 50 million Americans
“feel badly underserved by TV news,” said Paul Eedle, Al
Jazeera America’s deputy news director. “They aren’t watching
because the news doesn’t speak to them,” Eedle said. “We’re
inviting people to watch us and make up their minds,”  The network tried for years to get U.S. cable operators to
pick up its Al Jazeera English channel, which broadcasts to 220
million homes in more than 100 countries. Despite a campaign
urging supporters to tweet about the channel and like it on
Facebook, it’s only found in New York,  Washington , and a handful
of other markets.  Dropped Service  Buying Current TV gives Al Jazeera America access to about
43 million homes nationwide, less than half of all pay-TV homes.
It lost several million homes when  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) 
dropped Current after the purchase, though the two companies are
negotiating a return for Al Jazeera.  AT&T Inc. dropped the network from its U-verse TV service
just a day before it was set to debut, according to  Mark Siegel ,
a spokesman for the phone company. AT&T has about 5 million pay-TV households. Siegel declined to comment on whether the
companies remain in talks.  The Qatar company also has deals with Comcast Corp.,
 DirecTV (DTV)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  for  BeIN Sport , a group of
channels it owns in France, the U.S. and Canada that have rights
to European soccer leagues.  The push into the U.S. comes as Al Jazeera faces a crisis
in core Middle Eastern markets, where the network once hailed as
instrumental in the Arab Spring protests is being accused of
bias. In  Egypt , some of its journalists have quit, saying they
were told to lionize ousted former Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood.  In  Syria , Al Jazeera has been the subject of numerous
newspaper articles citing former Al Jazeera staffers who say the
network aided rebels during the civil war and encouraged
reporters to write favorably about their cause. In Bahrain, the
government banned Al Jazeera correspondents from reporting,
citing bias toward  Israel .  ‘Political Role’  Al Jazeera has rejected those claims and accuses Egyptian
authorities of intimidating its staff after security forces
raided its Cairo offices and took several staffers into custody.
But the popular perception of the network in the  Middle East  has
shifted from a source of fair and accurate reporting to one that
echoes the foreign policy and sentiment of the Qatari
government.  “Al Jazeera is perceived as playing a political role more
than that of a journalist,” said Fatima El-Issawi, who leads a
London School of Economics research project titled Arab
Revolutions: Media Revolutions.  There’s little doubt that some Americans are looking for an
alternative to Fox, MSNBC, and CNN. BBC America and BBC World
News have been in “demand as the trend has veered toward
impartiality” in the U.S., said Ann Sarnoff, chief operating
officer of the BBC Worldwide North America.  “It’s not going to be easy to displace those well-established heavyweights,” said  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst
at Panmure Gordon in London. “But if there’s a market for
something like C-Span then there will be a market for Al
Jazeera.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  