-- All Blacks Fly-Halves to Miss Australia Match; McMeniman Out
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-20T04:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/all-blacks-cruden-barrett-ruled-out-of-australia-rugby-match.html
New Zealand  will be without fly-halves Aaron Cruden and Beauden Barrett for this weekend’s Rugby
Championship match against  Australia  in Wellington, while lock
Luke Romano will miss the rest of the tournament.  Cruden injured the posterior cruciate ligament in his right
knee during the 47-29 win against the Wallabies in Sydney three
days ago and may be out for as many as six weeks, New Zealand
Rugby said today. Barrett has a minor calf strain and should be
fit to face  Argentina  in Hamilton on Sept. 7.  With first-choice fly-half  Dan Carter  still recovering from
a calf injury,  Colin Slade  and rookie Tom Taylor will come into
the squad to face Australia on Aug. 24 as top-ranked New Zealand
seeks to retain the Bledisloe Cup for the 11th straight series.  “It’s an exciting time for the replacement players and
it’s also a challenge now for the rest of the team to make their
entry into the side as seamless as possible,” All Blacks head
coach  Steve Hansen , who is scheduled to name his team in two
days, said in the statement.  Second-rower Romano will miss the rest of the southern
hemisphere’s annual championship after tearing a groin tendon in
the opener, New Zealand Rugby added. Romano is not expected to
be available until the All Blacks tour Europe in November.  Australia back-row forward Hugh McMeniman, who played his
first Test for the Wallabies since 2008 last weekend, was today
ruled out until next year because he needs a shoulder
reconstruction, the team said.  The 29-year-old McMeniman, who carried a pre-existing
shoulder issue throughout the 2013 Super Rugby competition, will
undergo surgery next week that will sideline him for six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  