-- Ally Plans $5.9 Billion Buyback to Help Lender Exit U.S.
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-08-20T15:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/ally-raising-1-billion-as-lender-seeks-to-exit-u-s-bailout-1-.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto lender
seeking to repay a U.S. bailout, is raising $1 billion in a
private placement and said it will pay $5.9 billion in a plan to
buy back preferred shares held by the Treasury Department.  The actions are intended to strengthen the company’s
finances as it resubmits its capital plan to the Federal
Reserve, Detroit-based Ally said today in a statement. The deal
includes the termination of an option that would have entitled
the Treasury to more common stock if the value of Ally’s shares
fell below a certain threshold.   Ally is looking for ways to pay back the $17.2 billion
taxpayer rescue received during the global credit crisis, when
subprime home loans threatened to sink the company. Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  refocused Ally on its auto
lending roots, and has been selling assets to raise money while
exploring the idea of an initial stock offering.  “The actions announced today will clear the way for Ally
to pursue the next steps to ultimately exit” the government
bailout, Carpenter said in the statement.  Terms include a cash payment to the Treasury of $5.2
billion to repurchase $5.94 billion par value of the mandatorily
convertible preferred shares, and $725 million to terminate the
option, Ally said. The agreement requires the funding of the
private placement to take place by Nov. 30 and depends on the
Fed approving Ally’s revised  capital plan , among other
conditions, according to the statement.  U.S. Stake  Ally sold about $5.9 billion of convertible preferred
shares paying 9 percent to the government as part of the rescue
plan. The U.S. also received $2.67 billion in trust-preferred
shares as part of the rescue which have since been sold to
investors. The U.S. still owns common shares in the lender that
gave it a 74 percent stake.  Once today’s actions are completed, the Treasury’s stake
will consist solely of common stock and the stake will drop to
about 65.6 percent, according to figures in the company’s
quarterly securities filing.  Ally, formerly known as GMAC Inc., was owned by General
Motors Corp. until 2006, when the automaker sold 51 percent to
Cerberus Capital Management LP, a private-equity firm. The
holding was later diluted by the U.S. rescue plan.  GMAC had expanded into home loans with brands such as GMAC
Mortgage and Ditech, and almost collapsed under the weight of
defaults on subprime mortgages, which were designed for people
with the weakest credit. The U.S. poured funds into Ally to
ensure that money kept flowing to the  auto industry  and to
preserve jobs.  Stalled IPO  Carpenter, who took over as CEO in late 2009, filed a
proposed initial stock offering in March 2011. The plan stalled
as he wrangled with creditors of the bankrupt Residential
Capital mortgage unit over how much Ally should contribute to
its revival, and when the  Federal Reserve  rejected the company’s
capital plan this March. Carpenter publicly disputed the Fed’s
reasoning, while vowing to resubmit a plan that would win
approval.  The company has paid the U.S. about $6.2 billion including
the return of bailout funds plus dividends, and today’s actions
would bring the total to $12.1 billion, according to the
statement.  “Ally has made great progress in restructuring and
strengthening its business in order to repay the taxpayer, and
we look forward to continuing to work with the company to
recover the remaining investment,” said Tim Massad, Treasury’s
assistant secretary for financial stability, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The cost to protect Ally debt holders from default for five
years fell. Credit-default swaps tied to its debt dropped 2.5
basis points to a mid-price of 230 basis points at 11 a.m. in
 New York , according to McGraw Hill Financial Inc.’s CMA market
tracker.  The swaps act like insurance for bondholders in case a
company fails to pay its debts. The falling price reflects less
concern about the possibility of a default. The contracts are
down from a 2013 high of 292.5 basis points on June 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  