-- Angels Say Pujols Will Miss Rest of MLB Season With Foot Injury
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-08-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/angels-say-pujols-will-miss-rest-of-mlb-season-with-foot-injury.html
Albert Pujols  will miss the rest of
the 2013 Major League Baseball season because of a left foot
injury that has kept him out of the lineup since late July, the
 Los Angeles Angels  said yesterday.  Pujols, 33, a three-time National League Most Valuable
Player while with the  St. Louis Cardinals  in 2001-2011, is in
the second year of a 10-year, $240 million contract with the
Angels.  Pujols, whose batting average of .285 for the Angels last
year had been his lowest as a major leaguer, is hitting .258
this season with 17 home runs and 64 runs batted in. He has been
bothered by plantar fasciitis in his left foot all season and
has not played since July 26.  “By the time I was going to come back, it would have been
two weeks left in the season,” Pujols told reporters yesterday
before the Angels hosted the  Cleveland Indians . “That’s what
the doctor and everybody else agreed on, so we looked at the
schedule to see if it was worth it to come back at that point in
the season and decided to shut it down.”  The Angels are in fourth place in the American League West
division and have eight teams ahead of them in the race for the
AL’s two wild-card spots.  Pujols had a .328 average and 445 homers during his 11
years in St. Louis. Since signing with the Angels as a free
agent in late 2011, the first baseman has had the two least-productive years of his career offensively.  His slugging percentage has declined from .617 in  St. Louis 
to .485 with the Angels. Last year, he failed to rank in the top
10 in his league in MVP voting for the first time in his career.  “The risk and reward of everything has to be evaluated,
and I think there’s probably more risk than there would be
reward in Albert trying to do what he needed to do to get ready
to play this year,” Angels manager Mike Scioscia told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  