-- Tankers Used to Carry Iran Oil Are Being Sold for Scrap
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-08-20T18:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/tankers-used-to-carry-iran-oil-are-being-sold-for-scrap.html
Three of eight tankers that the  U.S.
Treasury  said helped Iran evade sanctions by shipping its oil
were sold for demolition, according to data from IHS Maritime.  The sales of the Bicas, Atlantic and Caribo appeared on
Coulsdon, England-based IHS Maritime’s database in July and this
month. The unit of  IHS Inc. (IHS)  provides data for the United Nations
shipping agency. Each of the vessels is capable of hauling 2
million barrels of oil.  The  Treasury  froze the U.S. assets of Dimitris Cambis, a
Greek businessman, in March after saying he bought the eight
tankers through Impire Shipping Ltd. and other front companies
and used them to load Iranian oil. The Treasury didn’t specify
what assets were blocked. Cambis said at the time the
allegations were “very bad rumors created by our competitors.”  Three calls and two e-mails to Cambis’ office in  Athens  on
Aug. 2 and Aug. 16 weren’t returned. A spokeswoman for a  law
firm  she said was representing Cambis did not answer three calls
and two e-mails on Aug. 19. Another spokeswoman for the firm
said Aug. 20 she has been unable to reach the attorneys
involved.  European Union sanctions that started a year ago bar most
tankers from hauling Iran’s crude because almost all ships are
insured under the laws of the 28-nation bloc. Iran’s exports
have slumped, reducing its oil revenue by 38 percent to $52.7
billion last year, according to the International Trade Centre,
a UN and World Trade Organization agency. The U.S. and EU say
 Iran’s nuclear program  is aimed at producing weapons while the
government in Tehran says it is for civilian purposes.  The tankers probably are being demolished because of their
age, said Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an analyst at Fearnley
Consultants A/S in Oslo. They were built more than 16 years ago
and are worth as much in scrap as they are as operational ships,
he said. NITC,  Iran ’s biggest tanker company, already has enough
capacity to haul all the nation’s exports, Svenning said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  