-- Asian Stocks Drop to Six-Week Low on Fed Tapering Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-20T12:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/asia-stocks-fall-fourth-day-as-metals-decline-qbe-profit-drops.html
Asia ’s benchmark  stock  index dropped
to a six-week low as investors sold riskier assets across the
region amid concern that the U.S. will cut stimulus drove
Treasury yields to a two-year high.  QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE)  sank 5.5 percent as first-half net
income at Australia’s largest insurer by market value plunged 37
percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  dropped 1.4 percent in Sydney before
the world’s biggest miner reported profit that missed analyst
estimates.  Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  slumped 10 percent in
Shanghai as trading resumed after an error at the Chinese
brokerage whipsawed stocks last week.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.6 percent to 131.51 at
8:47 p.m. in  Tokyo , as all 10 industry groups on the gauge slid.
More than five shares fell for every one that rose on the
measure, which dropped to its lowest level since July 9.  “It’s a very uncomfortable period,” Richard Yetsenga,
head of global markets research in Sydney at  Australia  & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., told Bloomberg TV. “This has
further to run before we look to get back in. Asia as a whole,
even though the data’s probably OK, is not going to feel like a
great place for a while as we adjust to the new world order
where U.S. bond yields are going up, not down.”  Japan’s Topix index retreated 2.1 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.7 percent as it declined a fifth day,
the longest streak of losses in more than two months. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained 0.1 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi index slipped 1.6 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index dropped 2.2 percent and the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  sank 2.9 percent, its biggest decline since
July 3. China’s Shanghai Composite slid 0.6 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index lost 0.9 percent, while Singapore’s Straits Times
Index retreated 1.4 percent.  China, Fed  The Asia-Pacific measure gained 3.4 percent this year
through yesterday, lagging a 15 percent surge in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index as growth slows in China and speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  will curb bond buying spurred investors to
sell assets across Asia and  emerging markets . Investors will be
watching the release of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July
meeting minutes tomorrow for hints as to when the stimulus draw
down will begin.  The Jakarta Composite Index fell as much as 5.8 percent,
extending a retreat to 20 percent from this year’s peak.
Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  slumped 2 percent, its lowest close since
June 24. India’s S&P BSE Sensex gauge lost 0.3 percent.
 Indonesia ’s record current-account deficit and Thailand’s
recession spurred concern that capital outflows from emerging
markets will accelerate.  Emerging Markets  Emerging markets from Brazil to Indonesia have raised
borrowing costs in 2013 to try to aid their currencies as the
prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus curbs demand for
assets in developing nations.  S&P 500 futures added 0.2 percent today. The U.S. equities
gauge yesterday completed its first four-day decline of the year
as energy shares dropped and Treasury yields jumped to a two-year high.  Japan’s Topix has gained 31 percent this year, the world’s
best-performing developed equity market, amid optimism Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will push through reforms while the central
bank provides record stimulus to spur an economic recovery.
 Trading volume  on the gauge yesterday fell to the lowest level
since December as investors took summer vacations.  Raw Materials  QBE fell 5.5 percent to A$16.10 in Sydney. Net income
dropped to $477 million in the six months ended June 30, missing
the $555 million median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  Raw-material shares fell as metals prices sank. Jiangxi
Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal, slid 4.4
percent to HK$14.84 in  Hong Kong .  BHP Billiton  fell 1.4 percent
to close at A$36.54. The miner reported after the close that net
income dropped to $10.9 billion in the year to June 30 from
$15.4 billion a year ago. Profit, excluding one-time items, was
$11.8 billion, missing a median forecast of $12.7 billion of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The S&P GSCI index of commodities dropped as much as 1
percent today after the London Metal Exchange Index of
industrial metals declined 1.3 percent yesterday.  Everbright slumped 10 percent, the daily limit for losses
in Shanghai, as trading resumed. The China Securities Regulatory
Commission banned the state-controlled brokerage, the country’s
12th-largest by revenue, from proprietary trading for three
months after 23.4 billion  yuan  ($3.8 billion) of erroneous buy
orders on Aug. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  