-- Asian Dollar Bond Yields Rise Most in 6 Weeks as Funds Exit Debt
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-08-20T04:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/asia-pacific-bond-risk-climbs-to-six-week-high-cds-prices-show.html
Yields on U.S. dollar-denominated
bonds sold by Asian issuers rose the most in six weeks yesterday
as investors pull cash from the region in favor of more
developed economies. Bond risk climbed.  Average rates rose 13 basis points, the most since July 8,
to 5.57 percent yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes. The cost of insuring the region’s corporate and
sovereign bonds against non-payment meanwhile increased to the
highest level in almost six weeks, according to traders of
credit-default swaps.  Emerging-market bond funds have leaked money since late May
as investors reposition amid signs of recovery in the U.S. and
 Europe  and ahead of an expected slowdown in U.S stimulus, data
from EPFR Global show. Investors are waiting for the  Federal
Reserve  to release minutes from its July meeting this week for
guidance on the timing of bond-purchase reductions. Some 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the central
bank to begin paring stimulus next month.  “The market is getting back into fundamentals,” said
Louisa Lam, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at HSBC Holdings
Plc. “People are very defensive so the primary market has
paused for a while.”  The Fed’s first step may be small, with monthly purchases
tapered by $10 billion to a $75 billion pace, according to the
median estimate in a survey of 48 economists conducted Aug.
9-13.  Flows into Europe debt funds climbed to a six-week high in
the week to Aug. 14, EPFR data show, after the euro area’s
economy expanded 0.3 percent in the three months through June,
ending a record-long recession. Weakening economies in  Asia ,
where Chinese growth is slowing, meanwhile look less attractive.  Risk Climbs  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  rose 5 basis points to 158.5 basis
points as of 8:17 a.m. in Hong Kong,  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  prices show. The gauge is set for its highest
close since July 10, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased 5 basis points
to 126 as of 10:53 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  prices. The benchmark last closed higher on July 17,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 2 basis points to 100
as of 9:24 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup Inc. prices.
The measure is set for its highest closing level since July 31,
CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  