-- AT&T Sued Over Refusal to Carry Al Jazeera Cable Network
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-08-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/at-t-sued-over-refusal-to-carry-al-jazeera-cable-network.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone
company, was sued by  Al Jazeera  over its refusal to to carry the
Qatar-based broadcaster’s new U.S. cable-news channel as part of
its pay-television service.  The Dallas-based company is violating an agreement with  Al
Jazeera ’s U.S. unit by refusing to broadcast the channel, which
began airing in the U.S. yesterday, according to a filing in
 Delaware Chancery Court . The network, controlled by the Qatari
royal family, paid $500 million for  Al Gore ’s money-losing
 Current TV  in January and rebranded it.  AT&T’s  U-verse pay-TV service  said Aug. 19 it wouldn’t
carry Al Jazeera America because of a contract dispute. U-verse
began in 2006 and has 5 million video customers in states such
as Texas and  California .  AT&T officials’ decision amounts to a “wrongful
termination of an affiliation agreement,” Al Jazeera said in
the filing, which accompanied a sealed complaint. Details on the
case came from a cover sheet that contained a brief description
of the network’s claims.  Under the court’s rules, a public version of the complaint
must be filed within five days unless a judge grants an
extension to the sealing of the case.  ‘Certain Breaches’  “As a result of our inability to come to terms on a new
agreement and due to certain breaches of the existing agreement
we have decided not to carry Current TV on U-verse,”  Brad Burns , an AT&T spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Al Jazeera officials contend the AT&T left them “no
choice” other than to file a breach-of-contract suit over the
decision to drop the channel, according to an e-mailed
statement,  “AT&T’s decision to unilaterally delete Al Jazeera America
presented us with circumstances that were untenable -- an
affiliate that has willfully and knowingly breached its
contractual obligations,”  Stan Collender , a partner in Qorvis
Communications in Washington, said on behalf of the broadcaster.
The aim of the suit is to “compel AT&T to do the right thing,”
he added.  Pay-TV Homes  Buying Current TV gave Al Jazeera America access to about
43 million homes nationwide, less than half of all pay-TV homes.
The Qatari company also has deals with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  DirecTV (DTV) 
and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  for BeIN Sport, a group of channels it
owns in  France , the U.S. and  Canada  that have rights to European
soccer leagues.  U-verse is the second TV provider to drop Al Jazeera’s
channel since it acquired Current TV.  Time Warner Cable (TWC) , which
has 12 million customers, dropped the channel from its lineup in
January.  Officials of Time Warner, the second-largest U.S. cable
company, are still negotiating with Al Jazeera America on a deal
to carry the network, said spokeswoman  Maureen Huff , who
declined to comment on the AT&T lawsuit.  Al Jazeera America started service at 3 p.m.  New York  time
yesterday with “This is Al Jazeera: Preview Hour,” followed by
news headlines at 4 p.m. A rundown of Al Jazeera America’s top
U.S. stories on its website yesterday included California to
force-feed inmates on hunger strike and the CIA admitting to its
role in a 1953 Iran coup.  To boost its appeal, Al Jazeera brought on CNN
personalities such as  Soledad O’Brien ,  Ali Velshi  and Emmy
Award-winner  Michael Okwu . Programs include “Real Money” with
Velshi and current affairs program “Consider This” with former
ABC News correspondent  Antonio Mora .  U.S. News  The channel’s domestic U.S. news will be complemented by
reports from more than 400 international correspondents -- many
stationed in countries where few Western reporters venture.  The channel, which has hired about 700 staffers for a dozen
U.S. bureaus including Nashville, Tennessee, New Orleans and
Detroit, still must appeal to an American audience that
remembers Al Jazeera as the forum for Osama bin Laden’s video
messages after the terrorist attacks on the U.S. on Sept. 11,
2001.  Ex-President  George W. Bush  considered the network
sympathetic to terrorists, and the U.S. government was angered
when Al Jazeera broadcast images of civilian casualties during a
2003 battle in the Iraqi City of Fallujah. That same year, the
U.S. military mistakenly bombed Al Jazeera’s Baghdad office,
 killing  some of its journalists.  The case is Al Jazeera LLC v. AT&T Services Inc., CA 8823,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  