-- Aussie, Kiwi Fall for Third Day Versus Dollar Before Fed Minutes
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-08-21T06:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/aussie-holds-losses-versus-dollar-before-fed-minutes-kiwi-drops.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell for a third day before the Federal Reserve
publishes minutes of its last meeting, which may provide clues
on when U.S. policy makers plan to slow stimulus that has
inflated asset prices around the world.  The Aussie extended losses that have made it the worst
performing Group of 10 currency this year after the Reserve Bank
signaled yesterday that more interest rate cuts are possible.
New Zealand’s dollar slid to the lowest level in a week as the
country’s central bank said new lending curbs could reduce
house-price inflation in half.  “If we do see a reiteration that the Fed will start
tapering as early as September, I think 90 U.S. cents will be
breached on the downside, bringing 88 1/2 into play,” said
Michael Judge, a dealer in Sydney at OZForex Pty Ltd., an online
currency company, referring to the Australian dollar. “Broader-term weakness in the Aussie is still very much intact.”  Australia ’s currency slid 0.5 percent to 90.29 U.S. cents
as of 4:48 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, after earlier reaching
90.18, the lowest since Aug. 8. It declined 1.2 percent over the
previous two days.  The New Zealand dollar dropped 0.6 percent to 79.31 U.S.
cents, after touching 79.10, the lowest since Aug. 7. It lost
1.1 percent yesterday, the most since Aug. 1.  Australia’s 10-year bond yield was little changed at 3.98
percent, while its three-year yield held at 2.73 percent.  Taper Speculation  The Australian dollar has tumbled 11 percent this year, the
most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The New Zealand dollar has lost
0.7 percent, while the U.S. currency has gained 4.2 percent.  The Fed’s minutes of its July meeting due today may point
to whether policy makers will start reducing their $85 billion
of monthly bond purchases as soon as their Sept. 17-18
gathering. The central bank’s first step may be tapering
purchases by $10 billion at that meeting, according to a
Bloomberg survey concluded last week.  The RBA said in  minutes  yesterday of its Aug. 6 meeting
that “members agreed that the bank should neither close off the
possibility of reducing rates further, nor signal an imminent
intention to reduce rates further.” Policy makers reduced the
benchmark rate to a record-low 2.5 percent at that gathering.  Traders see 60 percent odds that the RBA will reduce the
benchmark interest rate again by the end of the year,  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show. They see a 11
percent chance that the Reserve Bank of New Zealand will raise
its benchmark from an all-time low of 2.5 percent in the same
period.  Kiwi Declines  New Zealand’s dollar slid as the country’s central bank
forecast that house-price inflation could slow to half its
current rate as a result of new mortgage-lending restrictions.  Lending limits announced by the central bank yesterday
could reduce house-price inflation by between 1 percentage point
and 4 percentage points in the first year, the Reserve Bank of
New Zealand said in a Regulatory Impact Assessment published on
its website. House-price inflation is 8.1 percent, the fastest
since January 2008, according to Quotable Value New Zealand.  The RBNZ wants to deflate the housing market without
raising  rates , which would risk fueling demand for the kiwi.  “Although the intention to cool the housing market may
decrease the need to increase interest rates anytime soon, it is
highly questionable if such measures will be sufficient in
decreasing the risk of a major housing bubble,”  Manuel Oliveri ,
a currency strategist at UBS AG in Zurich, wrote in a research
note dated today. “NZD upside risk remains intact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  