-- Australian Dollar Declines for 2nd Day After RBA Minutes
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-08-20T07:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/aussie-dollar-holds-drop-bond-yields-rise-before-rba.html
Australia ’s dollar fell for a second
day, following its biggest drop this month, after the  Reserve
Bank  said the currency’s direction will be important in
determining policy.  Volatility in the Aussie rose to the most in two weeks
after meeting minutes showed policy makers said another
 interest-rate  cut isn’t imminent. The 10-year government bond
yield touched the highest in 16 months. New Zealand’s dollar
tumbled against all its major peers, heading for its biggest
loss against the greenback in six weeks, after the country’s
central bank chief said it will impose bank lending
restrictions, lessening the need for interest-rate increases.  “It’s clear that the RBA would welcome a further
depreciation of the Aussie dollar, to assist the economy’s
rebalancing,” said Alvin Pontoh, a Singapore-based strategist
at TD Securities Inc. “It seems the RBA is willing to tolerate
an exchange rate of around 90 U.S. cents for now.”  Australia’s currency dropped 0.76 percent to 90.40 U.S.
cents as of 4:59 p.m. in Sydney, after earlier touching 90.37,
the lowest since Aug. 8. Yesterday it rose as high as 92.33
before slumping 0.83 percent, the most since July 31.  New
Zealand ’s dollar slid 1.2 percent to 79.69 U.S. cents, set for
the biggest decline since July 5.  The 10-year bond  yield  in Australia rose as high as 4.05
percent, the most since April 2012, before ending the day at
3.98 percent from 4.02 percent yesterday. The three-year yield
touched 2.8 percent, the highest since July 8. It closed at 2.73
percent from 2.77 percent the previous day.  The Australian dollar’s one-month volatility against its
U.S. peer gained 80 basis points, or 0.80 percentage point, to
12.4 percent. It earlier reached 14.44 percent, the highest
since Aug. 5, the day before the central bank cut its key
lending rate to a record-low 2.5 percent.  RBA Minutes  “Members agreed that the bank should neither close off the
possibility of reducing rates further, nor signal an imminent
intention to reduce rates further,” the RBA said in  minutes  of
that meeting, released in Sydney today. “The course of the
 exchange rate  would be important” in setting policy, it said.  The Aussie has rallied more than 2 percent since reaching a
three-year low against the  U.S. dollar  on Aug. 5. In the past
six months, it’s lost 11 percent, making it the worst performer
among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s dollar has fallen
2.7 percent in that period.  “Aussie has failed to hold above that 92 U.S. cent level,
so it’s pared back some of its recent gains,” said Emma Lawson,
a Sydney-based foreign-exchange strategist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. “We’ve had quite a run-up in the Aussie.”  Australia’s currency will weaken to 88 cents by the end of
next year, according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed
by  Bloomberg News . They expect the kiwi to drop to 76 cents.  Rate Expectations  “Arguably the RBA is now trying to use its rates policy to
coax the currency lower,” Greg Gibbs, a senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore ,
wrote in a research note. “Further rate cuts in Australia
remain in the balance.”  The central bank’s current easing cycle began in November
2011, when the benchmark rate was 4.75 percent. RBA Governor
 Glenn Stevens  is trying to stimulate growth in manufacturing,
construction and retail as a record mining-investment boom
wanes.  Traders see 56 percent odds that the RBA will reduce the
benchmark interest rate again by the end of the year,  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show. They see a 14
percent chance that the  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  will raise
its benchmark from an all-time low of 2.5 percent in the same
period, compared with 28 percent probability yesterday.  Kiwi Tumbles  The kiwi tumbled after Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor
Graeme Wheeler damped the outlook for higher borrowing costs by
announcing that policy makers will impose bank lending
restrictions to slow house-price growth.  Raising the benchmark interest rate “would risk causing
the  New Zealand dollar  to appreciate sharply, putting further
pressure on New Zealand’s export and import competing
industries,” Wheeler said in a speech in Wellington today. The
currency is “over-valued relative to what would be sustainable
long-term,” he added.  The central bank will impose restrictions on low-deposit
home lending from Oct. 1 to guard the financial system from a
bubble that has made houses in the nation among the most
overvalued in the world, according to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  “The timing may have surprised the market, which may have
been expecting a background discussion rather than an explicit
introduction” from Wheeler today,  Imre Speizer , a market
strategist in Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , wrote in a note
to clients. The ability of the measures to cool the housing
market “will in fact prove limited,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  