-- Stocks, Bonds Fall With Commodities on Fed; Dollar Gains
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-08-21T20:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/australian-index-futures-rise-after-u-s-jump-kiwi-slips.html
U.S. stocks and Treasuries fell with
commodities while the dollar gained as minutes of the  Federal
Reserve ’s July meeting showed officials supported reducing
monetary stimulus this year if the economy improves.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6 percent to
1,642.80 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) 
slumped for the sixth straight day, the longest streak in more
than a year. Thirty-year Treasury yields jumped six basis points
to 3.92 percent, a two-year high. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24
commodities dropped 0.5 percent. The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index 
climbed 0.6 percent. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index tumbled 1.1
percent for a fifth straight decline, with Turkish stocks
falling the most as the lira plummeted.  Fed officials were “comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to start reducing bond buying later this year if
the economy improves, with a few saying tapering might be needed
soon, minutes of their last meeting show. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  will probably reduce its $85 billion in monthly
purchases at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of
48 economists in an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg survey.  “The Fed minutes continue to show this clear uncertainty
as to when the monetary tightening will begin,” Erik Davidson,
deputy chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank in
 San Francisco , said in a phone interview. His firm oversees $170
billion. “It will be a seminal moment when they move from the
easing they’ve been in for years towards some incremental
tightening steps. The minutes are quite clear in the sense that
the Fed doesn’t know that we are there yet where the process can
begin.”  Whipsawed Stocks  Three rounds of bond purchases by the U.S. central bank,
coupled with improving earnings and economic growth, helped
propel the  S&P 500 (SPX)  up more than 150 percent from its bear-market
low in 2009. Speculation about the Fed’s bond purchases has
whipsawed stocks since May, when Bernanke first indicated policy
makers could begin reducing the stimulus this year if the job
market continues to improve.  The benchmark index tumbled 5.8 percent from a record high
on May 21 through June 24. It then rebounded 8.7 percent,
reaching its latest closing record of 1,709.67 on Aug. 2. The
S&P 500 has slid 3.9 percent since then amid growing concern the
Fed will start reducing its asset purchases this year as data
showed the economy recovering. The yield on benchmark 10-year
Treasury notes has soared, reaching 2.90 percent on Aug. 19 for
the highest level since July 2011.  The  S&P 500   fluctuated  after the Fed released its minutes
at 2 p.m. in  Washington  today, with the gauge at one point
erasing losses of as much as 0.8 percent. It’s now trading at
the lowest level since July 8, while the Dow has dropped to an
almost two-month low.  Target Rates  At the conclusion of its two-day meeting in July, the Fed
said that while economic growth should pick up from its recent
pace, persistently low inflation could hamper the recovery. It
repeated a pledge to hold the target interest rate near zero as
long as the jobless rate remains above 6.5 percent and the
outlook for inflation over one to two years doesn’t exceed 2.5
percent.  “Everybody is edgy right now,” Mark Lehmann, president of
JMP Securities LLC in San Francisco, said in a phone interview.
“People are not convinced about what to do so you’re
susceptible” to big intraday market swings like today, he said.  Data tomorrow is expected to show that initial jobless
claims rose last week, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. A report today showed that sales of previously owned
U.S. homes climbed more than forecast in July to the fastest
pace since November 2009 as more buyers entered the market
before further increases in  mortgage rates .  Staples, Lowe’s  Among stocks moving today, Target Corp. slid 3.6 percent
after the discount retailer’s second-quarter profit fell.
Staples Inc. plunged 15 percent after earnings missed estimates
and the office-supplies chain cut its earnings forecast.  Lowe’s (LOW) 
Cos. jumped 3.9 percent as earnings topped estimates and the
company raised its full-year profit forecast.  Corporate earnings have helped the S&P 500 rally 15 percent
this year. Of the 478 companies in the S&P 500 that have
 reported results  this period, 72 percent have posted profit that
surpassed estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Heineken, Veolia  The Stoxx 600 capped a third day of declines, the longest
losing streak in almost two months. Heineken NV slid 4 percent
as the world’s third-biggest brewer said poor spring weather in
 Europe  led to weak second-quarter revenue. Veolia Environnement
SA, Europe’s biggest water company, and Standard Life Plc,
Scotland’s largest insurer, advanced as analysts upgraded the
shares.  Treasury 10-year note yields gained seven basis point to
2.89 percent, trading near the highest level in two years.
Yields on 10-year U.K., French and German bonds rose more than
three basis points.  The dollar advanced against 15 of its 16 major peers. The
U.S. currency climbed 2 percent versus the Norwegian krone and
1.5 percent against the New Zealand currency. The euro weakened
0.5 percent to $1.3357 and the yen dropped 0.5 percent to 97.76
per dollar.  West Texas Intermediate oil slipped 1.2 percent to $103.85
a barrel, to the lowest level in almost two weeks. Gold slipped
0.2 percent to settle at $1,370.10 an ounce. The precious metal
jumped 70 percent from the end of December 2008 to June 2011 as
the Fed bought more than $2 trillion in bonds to bolster the
economy. Copper slipped 0.9 percent.  Topix Slips  Japan ’s Topix fell for a second day. Tokyo Electric Power
Co. slumped 9.3 percent. The country’s nuclear watchdog raised
the severity ranking of the company’s leak of radioactive water
from a tank at the Fukushima nuclear plant.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index extended its five-day slump
to 4.8 percent. India’s Sensex lost 1.9 percent, sinking 7.6
percent in four days, as the rupee dropped to a record low. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed
in  Hong Kong  lost 0.5 percent and gauges in  Hungary ,  Thailand 
and  South Korea  slipped at least 1 percent.  In  Turkey , the Borsa Istanbul National 100 index slumped
3.5 percent, the lowest level since October 2012 and tumbling
the most in dollar terms among 94 indexes tracked by Bloomberg.
The lira weakened 1.1 percent to 1.9707 a dollar as the central
bank left a key rate unchanged yesterday, spurring bets policy
makers won’t act aggressively enough to support the currency.  The Jakarta Composite Index rebounded 1 percent after
valuations dropped to a 14-month low and the nation’s biggest
pension fund said it’s buying. The rupiah slipped 2 percent
against the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  