-- BAE Systems U.S. Chief Hudson to Retire as Successor Sought
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-20T15:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/bae-systems-u-s-chief-hudson-to-retire-as-replacement-sought.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  announced the
surprise departure of Linda Hudson, the chief executive officer
of its U.S. operations and one of first women to ascend to the
ranks of a senior executive in the defense industry.  Hudson will retire no later than March 31, 2014, the
London-based company said in a statement today. Hudson, 62, has
run BAE Systems Inc. since 2009 and will temporarily remain in
position to ease the transition to a new leader.  The U.S. market, which account for about 40 percent of
revenue at Europe’s largest defense company, has been under
pressure as defense spending is being cut, forcing the company
to seek sales in other regions. Hudson joined BAE in 2007 as
president of its land & armaments group, after working at
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   “She has led the transformation of BAE Systems Inc. by
streamlining the organization, reducing costs, increasing
efficiency and speed to market, and diversifying the company’s
portfolio of products and services,” CEO Ian King said in the
release. “She has done this while leading a culture change with
a focus on delivering strong business performance and
efficiency.”  Trailblazing  Hudson, a systems engineer by training, was among the first
female leaders the U.S. defense industry, where she has since
been joined by Marillyn Hewson, president and CEO of the largest
defense company,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , and Phebe Novakovic,
chairman and CEO of  Falls Church , Virginia-based General
Dynamics.  “In a very challenging period for the industry following
the draw down of forces from Iraq and Afghanistan, we have shown
we can do the right thing for our customers and our company by
resizing and restructuring the business for these times and
continuing to perform exceptionally well,” Hudson, who will
remain on the board of BAE’s U.S. arm through April 2015, said
in a letter to employees.  Hudson’s departure comes amid a broader overhaul of senior
management. BAE plans to appoint chairman-designate  Roger Carr ,
now chairman at British Gas parent  Centrica Plc (CNA) , to its board on
Oct. 1. Carr will replace Dick Olver next year, who has held the
job since 2004.  BAE rose 0.2 percent to 441.30 pence as of 3:53 p.m. in
London today, valuing the company at 14.3 billion pounds ($22
billion).  BAE also said board member Lee McIntire will step down to
avoid a conflict of interest because he is also CEO at London-based engineering firm CH2M Hill, which is bidding to run the
U.K. defense-equipment organization under a new outsourcing
arrangement the government is pursuing.  CH2M Hill has teamed up with  WS Atkins Plc (ATK)  and  Serco Group
Plc (SRP)  and bidding against a group including Bechtel, PWC and PA
Consulting, the U.K. defense ministry said Aug. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  