-- Bain-Owned Methadone Site Forced to Stop Carryout Doses
-- B y   S y d n e y   P .   F r e e d b e r g
-- 2013-08-20T16:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/bain-owned-methadone-site-forced-to-stop-carryout-doses.html
California regulators forced an
addiction-treatment center owned by Bain Capital Partners LLC to
stop dispensing carryout doses of methadone this month after an
inspection found the clinic failed to properly control them.  The state order -- aimed at preventing misuse and diversion
of prescription opiates -- barred the  Sacramento  unit of Bain’s
CRC Health Corp. from “administering take-home dosages”
starting Aug. 7, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg.
Authorities lifted the ban last week after they approved a
corrective action plan.  California and at least six other states have moved to
toughen oversight of methadone clinics after allegations that
take-home doses were contributing to illegal street sales,
misuse and deaths. Investigators in Indiana,  Kentucky , Virginia
and West Virginia linked diverted methadone to carryout doses
that CRC clinics distributed to patients, Bloomberg News
reported in February.  State authorities barred take-home doses “of narcotic
drugs or medications to any patient” at CRC’s Sacramento
Treatment Clinic after a surprise inspection on July 24 found
violations of take-home rules and other deficiencies, according
to an Aug. 7 letter to the clinic. It was signed by Marlies
Perez, acting chief of the California Department of Health Care
Services’ substance use disorder division.  State Order  The agency threatened fines of $500 a day for failure to
comply. The 400-patient Sacramento site is one of dozens
operated by Cupertino, California-based CRC, the largest U.S.
provider of methadone treatment.  The state authorities ordered the clinic to increase
training, tighten procedures and reassess whether patients are
eligible for take-home doses under federal and state rules,
according to a seven-page “notice of order” obtained through a
state public records request. The violations include an alleged
failure by clinic staff to document that some patients received
required drug tests and counseling or were even stable enough
for unsupervised doses of narcotics.  “This situation was resolved last Friday when DHCS vacated
the order upon acceptance of a corrective action plan which the
department determined reasonably addressed concerns,” said
Kristen Hayes, spokeswoman for CRC, in an e-mail. “DHSC has
advised us that this plan substantially conforms to the required
action set out in the order.”  Boston-based Bain Capital declined to comment, said Alex
Stanton, a spokesman.  Carryout Doses  In methadone maintenance treatment, which has been used for
decades to help addicts abate withdrawal symptoms from heroin or
other opiates, patients take a daily dose of a synthetic
narcotic. Initially, the medication is given at a clinic under a
nurse’s supervision. In time, patients qualify for carryout
doses under federal and state rules that normally require them
to attend counseling and test clean for illegal drugs.  Some former CRC employees said in interviews that the
company, which operated 57 clinics in 15 states last year,
worked to maintain high enrollments despite chronic under-staffing, increasing CRC’s profitability and the chance that its
take-home methadone doses would be abused.  Philip Herschman, CRC’s chief clinical officer, called
Bloomberg’s February story “misleading and biased” and said
the company strictly complies with government take-home rules.
Patients must use lock boxes and are subject to spot checks, in
which they are called back to clinics to account for their take-home bottles, Herschman said.  Missing Records  In the unannounced inspection in Sacramento last month,
state licensing analysts found patients getting take-home doses
without an appropriate reason or a physician’s order. One
patient’s chart failed to document “that the program physician
restricted or ordered a reduction in the patient’s take-home
doses after the patient admitted to continued use of
methamphetamines and continued to produce positive urinalysis
results for methamphetamines,” according to the documents.  Inspectors also found patient files missing “medication
dispensing records,” which would show the date and amount of
drugs distributed by the clinic. The center was cited for
failing to document that it gave some patients enough counseling
or drug tests -- which if positive are supposed to result in
restrictions on clients’ take-home privileges.  California’s health-care agency regulates 145 methadone
clinics with more than 27,000 patients enrolled last year,
including about 3,400 at CRC clinics.  State Limits  Tennessee, Minnesota and West Virginia have adopted new
rules in the past year tightening oversight of methadone
clinics. Pennsylvania created a panel to examine methadone-related deaths. The  Indiana  General Assembly passed a bill to
study the use and prescribing of methadone and how to improve
monitoring of clinic patients.  Maine  has capped state funding
for methadone patients at 24 months, though in June the Maine
House and Senate rejected a bill that would have further limited
state coverage.  Maryland regulators are investigating a CRC clinic in
Baltimore after a forklift operator ingested methadone allegedly
given to him by a CRC patient. An autopsy found that “methadone
intoxication” contributed to the man’s death, records show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sydney P. Freedberg in Miami at 
 sfreedberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  