-- Banks Crafting Bonds for Basel Face Math Snag Nykredit Sees
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-08-21T07:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/bankers-crafting-bonds-for-basel-face-math-hurdle-nykredit-sees.html
As bankers in the world’s biggest
mortgage market per capita design debt to meet funding rules set
by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,  Denmark ’s largest
home-loan provider says the exercise may be a waste of time.  The math behind Basel’s net stable funding ratio suggests
even three-year bonds may not be long enough to keep an issuer
above water if markets really were to shut down for 12 months,
said Soeren Holm, chief financial officer at Copenhagen-based
Nykredit Realkredit A/S, Europe’s biggest issuer of mortgage-backed covered bonds.  “It’s not clear whether that’s long enough,” Holm said in
an interview. “If you take the very strict Basel math, you have
to have quite a long maturity of five or seven years.”  Banks in Denmark’s $500 billion mortgage bond market have
been scrambling to adapt to Basel’s funding requirement. The
rule threatens to wipe out one of Denmark’s most popular home
finance constructions, in which one-year bonds are rolled over
annually to fund 30-year mortgages.  The home-loan arm of  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s biggest
bank, has responded by designing a three-year bond with an
interest rate that adjusts every six months. Yet according to
Holm, whose bank competes with Danske for mortgage clients,
swapping one-year bonds for three-year securities will still
leave lenders facing a funding gap.  Industry Split  Yields on short-maturity bonds were little changed today in
Copenhagen trading. Nykredit’s 2 percent bond maturing April
2014 yielded 0.3 percent, while a similar-maturity bond issued
by Danske’s mortgage arm yielded 0.34 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Denmark’s mortgage banks, which fought shoulder to shoulder
to prevent Basel’s liquidity coverage ratio from destroying
their home-loan model, are now split over how to tackle new
funding rules. Standard & Poor’s and Denmark’s committee on too-big-to-fail banks also have singled out the nation’s one-year
mortgage bonds as a risk.  Eivind Kolding, Danske’s chief executive officer, said Aug.
1 the government may need to ban one-year bonds as banks
hesitate to take a first step for fear of losing market share.
Both Danske and Nykredit had the outlooks on their issuer
ratings cut last month by S&P, which cited the lenders’ funding
models. One-year bonds, which were introduced in 1996, now make
up more than one-third of all Danish residential mortgage debt.  Too Big  Danske and Nykredit are among six banks identified by a
government committee as systemically important to Denmark’s $355
billion economy. The panel recommended enforcing a national
funding rule next year, four years before Basel’s net stable
funding requirement is due to take effect.  The Basel committee plans to complete its work on the
liquidity rule by “around the end of 2014,” Wayne Byres, its
secretary general, said last month. S&P has given banks two
years to cut issuance of one-year bonds.  Banks trying to design their borrowing away from one-year
bonds in anticipation of new rules risk chasing a moving target,
Holm said.  “I think they will have to be changed but I don’t know
into what,” he said. “If you look at pure Basel calculations,
it’s actually difficult to say.”  While Danish lenders have cut issuance of one-year bonds by
about 40 billion kroner ($7.2 billion) since 2012, their use
remains too high, the central bank said in June. It advised the
industry to cap one-year borrowing at 60 percent of a property’s
value, less than the 80 percent allowed by law.  The Wait  DLR Kredit A/S, a mortgage bank that focuses on farms, is
“looking into alternatives,” though it’s finding that “three-year bonds do not seem to be enough,” Pernille Lohmann,
investor relations manager at the Copenhagen-based lender, said
Aug. 13. DLR probably will wait to see what its bigger
competitors do before introducing an alternative, she said.  So far, borrowers have had little incentive to give up the
one-year bonds, which the industry estimates have saved them as
much as 50 billion kroner since Denmark’s housing market
collapsed five years ago. Nykredit sold one-year bonds in
auctions that started last week at yields as low as 0.5 percent.
That compares with 3.5 percent on fixed-rate loans.  Danske’s mortgage arm, Realkredit Danmark A/S, cautions
against a wait-and-see approach. Replacing one-year bonds with
three-year borrowing will over time reduce its stable funding
gap by two thirds, said Klaus Kristiansen, executive vice
president for risk management at Realkredit. The remaining
shortfall would be covered by five-year bonds, though for now,
those are “too expensive,” he said.  ‘Very Dangerous’  “Introducing three-year funding is an important step in
the right direction,” Kristiansen said.  Nykredit, which unlike Danske can’t take deposits, would be
short about 80 billion kroner in stable funding each year were
it to move all adjustable-rate mortgages to a three-year
timetable, Holm said.  “It’s very dangerous to make too fast a decision and to
change something that you then have to change again,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  