-- Baring Said in Talks to Invest in Indian Software Firm Hexaware
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-08-20T05:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/baring-said-in-talks-to-invest-in-indian-software-firm-hexaware.html
Baring Private Equity  Asia  is in
talks to invest in  Hexaware Technologies Ltd. (HEXW) , an Indian
software company, three people familiar with the matter said.  The buyout company is seeking to acquire shares from
investors including the family of Hexaware founder Atul Nishar
and U.S. private equity firm General Atlantic LLC, one of the
people said, asking not to be identified because the discussions
are confidential.  The Nishar family controls 27.9 percent of Hexaware,
according to a filing posted on the Navi Mumbai-based company’s
website. General Atlantic, which bought shares equivalent to 15
percent of Hexaware in 2006 for 3 billion rupees ($47 million),
said in 2011 it was considering options for the stake.  Any deal to acquire Hexaware, which provides outsourcing
services for corporate customers, may still fall through, the
people said. The Times of  India  today reported that Baring will
buy the stakes of the Nishar family and General Atlantic, and
start a tender offer for another 26 percent of Hexaware in a
deal worth as much as $400 million, citing unidentified people.  A spokesman for Baring in Hong Kong declined to comment.
Sreedatri Chatterjee, a spokeswoman for Hexaware, said in an e-mailed response to questions that any reports on a deal with
Baring are “purely baseless speculations which do not carry any
authentic or substantial matter.” General Atlantic declined to
comment.  Baring Asia, which was once part of Dutch insurer ING, has
more than $5 billion of assets under management, according to
its website.  Hexaware last month forecast revenue will increase as much
as 5.5 percent in the three months through September, after
second-quarter sales climbed 7 percent to 5.37 billion rupees.
The company’s shares have gained 47 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  Hong Kong  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  