-- Barnes & Noble Ends Breakup Push for Now for Nook Revival
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-08-21T20:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/barnes-noble-ends-breakup-push-for-now-for-nook-revival.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s move to shelve
a breakup plan for now steps up pressure on the biggest U.S.
bookstore chain to stem losses at its e-book division and hatch
a new plan for coping with the shift toward digital
publications.  “They are stuck,” said  Michael Souers , an analyst for
Standard & Poor’s in New York. While the company could become
profitable by shedding the Nook business, e-books will continue
to take market share from printed books.  Founder  Leonard Riggio , 72, who is also the chain’s
chairman and largest shareholder, said yesterday in a filing
that he dropped the plan he floated in February to buy Barnes &
Noble’s website and almost 680 stores. The shares  plunged ,
erasing their gain for the year, as the company also reported a
fiscal first-quarter  loss  that was bigger than analysts
estimated.  Sales at the Nook unit, once the centerpiece of a plan for
navigating from printed to digital books, declined 20 percent in
a third straight drop. Rather than banking on a breakup, Barnes
& Noble now will focus on better integrating its retail, college
and Nook units, President Michael Huseby said in an interview.
The company may revisit breakup prospects in the future, he
said.  The stock  fell  0.8 percent to $14.49 at the close in New
York. The shares have slid 4 percent this year, compared with a
15 percent increase for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  A further decline in the price eventually may bring back
Riggio or convince a private-equity fund to make a bid, said
Souers, who  rates  the company’s shares a hold.  CEO Exit  Barnes & Noble created Nook Media, a subsidiary made up of
its Nook digital reading and college bookstore divisions, last
year with the goal of spinning it off. The impetus for that was
the company said investors weren’t properly valuing the Nook’s
success. That thesis collapsed during the holidays when new
devices flopped, forcing writedowns and eventually led to the
July departure of Chief Executive Officer William Lynch, who
oversaw Nook.  Huseby declined to provide details about the company’s
revised plan other than promoting products across channels and
sharing costs. He’s the company’s highest-ranking executive
since Lynch’s departure.  The Nook division’s costs in the quarter ended July 27
produced a loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of $55 million, following a deficit of $57 million
by the same measure in the previous year.  Reversed Decision  Since starting Nook in 2009, Barnes & Noble has been taking
the profits from its stores and spending on building a digital
unit to compete on content and devices with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  The
division has also sought outside investors.  Microsoft Corp. and  Pearson Plc (PSON)  invested in the Nook Media
unit last year. Pearson’s 5 percent stake in December, which
came after Microsoft announced about an 18 percent purchase in
April, valued the subsidiary at $1.79 billion. The market
valuation for all of Barnes & Noble was just $872 million at
yesterday’s close.  Their investments came after  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  took a
stake in the entire company in August 2011. Liberty initially
made a cash offer of $17 a share, or about $1 billion, in May
and then three months later spent $204 million buying preferred
shares that can be converted into a 17 percent stake.  Microsoft, Liberty Media  Microsoft and Liberty Media need to figure out their
strategies, said  John Tinker , an analyst with Maxim Group in New
York, who recommends  buying  the shares.  After Nook tablets missed with consumers during the
holidays, Lynch said the company would look for a major hardware
manufacturing partner to help produce those devices to reduce
costs and the risk of making them on its own.  Yesterday the company reversed that decision. Huseby said
that Barnes & Noble would continue to design and develop “color
devices” along with its black-and-white e-readers under the
Nook brand and that it won’t be outsourcing production.  “If we want to be in the content business, we need to be
in the device business, and we believe our people can develop
devices better than anyone else,” Huseby said on a call with
analysts to discuss the quarterly results.  While Nook tablets were well reviewed, the company didn’t
sell as many as it expected. Lynch had chalked that up to other
devices having more functionality, and in May, Barnes & Noble
reached an agreement with Google Inc. to install several of its
applications on Nooks.  Amazon, Apple  Barnes & Noble has rejected that notion too, as Huseby said
it will no longer try compete head-to-head with the likes of
Amazon and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  It will instead make devices geared to its
core customers of readers and learners. He even declined to use
the word “tablet” in describing Nook’s next color devices
because the term is too closely associated with Apple’s iPad.  “To use the word tablet is to put us into a league that we
aren’t willing to go into at this point,” Huseby said. “Our
focus is on providing the best reading experience. We’re not
trying to be all things to all people.”  The chain will release one new device for the  holiday
shopping season , after unveiling two tablets last year. As for
concerns over the losses Nook continues to incur, Huseby said
those would be reduced by being better at forecasting demand
after missing by so much during the holidays.  Quarterly Loss  The net loss in the quarter was $87 million, or $1.56 a
share, compared with a loss of $39.8 million, or 76 cents, a
year earlier, the New York-based company said in a statement.
The loss excluding some items was 86 cents. Analysts projected a
loss of 67 cents, the average of six estimates.  Sales declined 8.5 percent to $1.33 billion. Analysts
projected $1.32 billion. Revenue at the chain’s 674 stores sank
10 percent.  The results were reported just minutes after Riggio filed
an update to his 13-D filing.  “While I reserve the right to pursue an offer in the
future, I believe it is in the company’s best interests to focus
on the business at hand,” Riggio said in the filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Riggio’s decision “is not surprising given that the Nook
business has collapsed,” said Tinker, the Maxim Group analyst.
“The issue here is you have a lot of deal investors in the
stock and there is obviously no deal today. I emphasize
‘today,’” Tinker said yesterday.  The company didn’t name a successor to Lynch and declined
to comment on whether it was looking for a new CEO. After Lynch
left the company, Huseby was promoted from chief financial
officer to president of the company and CEO of Nook Media. He
reports to Riggio.  Riggio, who still owns about 30 percent of the bookseller’s
stock, founded the company in 1965 with a college bookstore in
 Manhattan . Six years later, he bought the Barnes & Noble name
and its flagship store, beginning a spree of acquisitions,
including Doubleday Bookshops. The chain started focusing on
superstores, instead of mall sites, in the 1990s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  