-- Beau Biden to Return to Delaware Tomorrow After Tests
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-08-21T21:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/beau-biden-in-houston-for-testing-after-disorientation.html
Delaware  Attorney General Beau Biden, son of Vice President Joe Biden, underwent an unspecified
procedure yesterday at a Houston cancer-treatment hospital where
he was being examined after an episode of disorientation and
weakness last week.  The younger Biden, 44, will be discharged from the hospital
and return to Delaware tomorrow, the vice president said today
in a statement released by his office. Without describing the
treatment or the nature of his son’s illness, the vice president
called the procedure “successful.”  “He is in great shape and is going to be discharged
tomorrow and heading home to Delaware,” Joe Biden said. “He
will follow up with his local physicians in the coming weeks.”  Beau Biden will speak with Delaware’s chief deputy attorney
general and the state prosecutor tomorrow following his return
to Wilmington, according to an e-mailed statement from Jason
Miller, a spokesman for Delaware Department of Justice.  Biden is being treated at the University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, according to a person familiar with the
situation who isn’t authorized to talk publicly about it. U.S.
News & World Report  ranks  MD Anderson No. 1 in the nation for
cancer care, and has done so for the past seven years, according
to the hospital’s website.  Miller had declined to confirm where he is being treated.  Biden yesterday posted on Twitter a picture of himself and
his wife, Hallie, in Houston. “Touched by all your well wishes
-- thank you,” he wrote. The couple has two children.  Trip Canceled  The elder Biden, 70, accompanied his son to Houston earlier
this week, flying from Delaware, according to the vice
president’s office. He remained in the city yesterday and today,
according to the schedule released by his office.  The vice president has canceled plans to attend a
fundraiser for New Hampshire Governor Maggie Hassan, an event at
Salve Regina University in Newport, Rhode Island, and a
Democratic National Committee fundraiser at a private home, his
office said.  He is still scheduled to join President  Barack Obama  at an
event on Aug. 23 in Scranton,  Pennsylvania , the vice president’s
birthplace. His family moved to Delaware during his childhood.  Beau Biden was treated for a mild stroke in 2010. A
Democrat, he decided earlier that year to forgo seeking the U.S.
Senate seat his father had held for 36 years and relinquished
after winning election as vice president on Obama’s presidential
ticket in 2008.  The attorney general talked by phone on Aug. 19 with his
chief deputy, Ian McConnel, and his chief of staff, Timothy
Mullaney, Miller said.  Iraq Veteran  Biden first felt weak and disoriented while driving to
 Indiana  on Aug. 14, according to a statement from his office.
After meeting with his doctor at Jefferson University Hospital
in Philadelphia later in the week, he spent the weekend at home.  Elected Delaware attorney general in 2006, Biden is an
officer in the Army National Guard and served a yearlong
deployment in  Iraq . He won re-election in 2010, getting almost
80 percent of the vote.  He survived a car crash in December 1972 that killed his
mother and 1-year-old sister. He and his younger brother,
Hunter, were seriously injured in the collision, which occurred
just weeks after his father was first elected to the U.S.
Senate.  The elder Biden married his current wife, Jill, in 1977,
and one daughter was born to them. The vice president underwent
surgery twice in 1988 to repair two cranial aneurysms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  