-- BHP Seeks Potash Partners After Approving Jansen Spending
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-08-20T14:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/bhp-seeks-potash-partners-after-approving-2-6-billion-spend.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest miner, is seeking partners for its Canadian potash
project after approving spending of $2.6 billion, less than a
month after the largest producer set off a possible price war.  “We have actively been approached and have approached
people to see what might be possible” over selling a stake in
the Jansen project, Chief Executive Officer Andrew Mackenzie
told reporters today on a call, declining to provide further
details of the talks. The project in Saskatchewan province may
cost $16 billion to build, Citigroup Inc. said last month.  Russia’s OAO Uralkali, the largest potash producer, quit a
marketing venture in July that controlled about 43 percent of
global exports and signaled prices for the crop nutrient may
fall by as much as a quarter. BHP’s projections for Jansen
assume a shift away from the current market dynamic and the
expectation that prices will reflect the cost of adding new
supply, the company said in a statement.  “They’ve always said they want market-related pricing, and
that’s what we’ve got with the break-down in the Russian
pricing,”  Glyn Lawcock , a Sydney-based analyst with UBS AG,
said in an interview. “It’s unlikely that they wouldn’t go
ahead” with Jansen because they will have invested about $4
billion by the time they make a decision, he said.  Melbourne-based BHP, which today reported a 30 percent drop
in full-year profit, fell 1.6 percent to 1,924 pence at 2:19
p.m. in  London .  ‘Net Negative’  The Jansen announcement “is probably a net negative in the
short-term given our, and the market’s, view of the project’s
net present value,” Liberum Capital Ltd. said today  in a note
to clients. “The company is clearly showing its commitment to
Jansen, flagging it will spend a further $800 million” a year
to 2017, Liberum said.  “Once we’ve done that, then we’re three years from first
potash,” Mackenzie told reporters today on a conference call,
adding that it’s possible the mine may start as early as 2020.
He said he has begun briefing shareholders on the Jansen plan.  BHP made a $40 billion hostile bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan in 2010 as it sought to add production of the crop
nutrient. The approach was blocked by the Canadian government.
Saskatchewan is the world’s biggest potash-producing region.  BHP may see the move by Uralkali as accelerating a switch
to more market-oriented pricing for potash, a process it has
encouraged in other commodities such as iron ore, and a
development that may bolster its faith in Jansen’s economics.  Former CEO  “It doesn’t really affect our decision making,” Mackenzie
said of Uralkali’s change in strategy. “We’re very confident
the market is going to need a new greenfield mine some time in
the next decade, but the exact timing is not clear.”  The development decision on Jansen, which has a 5.3 billion
metric ton measured resource, was delayed in August by former
CEO Marius Kloppers as part of a plan to shelve all major
project approvals for the 2013 fiscal year. BHP said in 2011 it
had committed to spending $1.2 billion on the project and almost
$2 billion in Saskatchewan as part of its “commitment to
develop a world-class potash business in the province.”  “You don’t have to take a project all the way to
production to realize value, that is indeed my intention though
with potash,” Mackenzie today told reporters.  Market Upheaval  Potash producers have plunged since July 30 as investors
dumped the shares on concern profits will crumble because of
lower prices and surplus supply. Belaruskali, the state producer
abandoned by partner Uralkali, said yesterday it won’t follow
the new low-price approach of its former ally or consider a
reconciliation unless the policy changes.  The market upheaval means about 6 million tons of
production capacity that’s unprofitable or barely profitable
will have to be cut in the next two years, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. analysts said in an Aug. 1 note. That’s equal to about 12
percent of last year’s global output. Goldman cut its 2014
potash price forecast by 42 percent to $281 a ton.  According to the bank, potash is similar to the iron ore
market, where years of booming demand from Asia led to a rush of
investment in new mine capacity, creating a looming oversupply.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  