-- BHP Second-Half Profit Drops After Prices Slump, Slowing Growth
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-08-20T06:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/bhp-second-half-profit-drops-after-prices-slump-slowing-growth.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, had a 6.9 percent drop in second-half
profit after growth in emerging economies slowed and metal
prices fell.  Profit, excluding one-time items, was $6.7 billion in the
six months to June 30, from $7.2 billion a year ago, according
to Bloomberg calculations. That missed a median forecast of $6.8
billion of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.The Melbourne-based company also said it will invest $2.6 billion in the
Jansen potash project in  Canada .  BHP joins Rio Tinto Group and Vale SA in reporting a
decline in profit as slowing economic growth in  China  saps
demand for raw materials, dragging down prices. BHP Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Mackenzie cut capital spending this
fiscal year as investors including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  pressure
mining companies to defer expansions and acquisitions.  “The equity market is looking for the miners to cut
spending and increase returns,”  Glyn Lawcock , a Sydney-based
analyst for UBS AG, said in a report before the results. “It’s
been a tough year for BHP.”  BHP fell 1.4 percent to A$36.54 at the close of trading in
Sydney before the results were released.  “Economic conditions over the second half of the 2013
financial year were affected by lower than expected growth in
emerging economies,” the Melbourne-based company said today in
a statement. “We expect more balanced global growth over the
long term as China continues to develop its economy and large
developed economies, such as the U.S., grow despite fiscal
challenges.”  Net income dropped to $10.9 billion in the year to June 30
from $15.4 billion a year ago, the company said in a statement.
Profit, excluding one-time items, was $11.8 billion, compared
with $17.2 billion a year ago. That missed a median forecast of
$12.7 billion of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  