-- Bigpoint’s Dragons Target Asian Gamers as Cologne Fair Starts
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-08-20T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/bigpoint-s-dragons-target-asian-gamers-as-cologne-fair-starts.html
For Bigpoint GmbH, a South Korean
version of its popular “ Drakensang Online ” game is a first
step to enter the Asian market with dragons and magicians.  Bigpoint, the Hamburg-based company with more than 330
million registered players, is the first western games company
to team up with Korean market leader  NHN Corp. (035420) , said Bigpoint
Managing Director Khaled Helioui, who’s attending the  Gamescom 
trade fair in Cologne, which starts today. Bigpoint plans a
similar tie-up in China by December, he said.  “ South Korea  is probably the most demanding country as
professional gaming is part of the national culture,” he said
in an interview this month. “TV is showing gaming matches and
the best teams have fan bases of millions of people.”  Bigpoint offers free games and makes money by selling
virtual goods such as better weapons, which attract about 10
percent of its active users. Since Helioui became managing
director in February, he has been driving expansion abroad to
establish Bigpoint “as the international destination of
reference in online gaming” to gain an advantage over  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA)  of the U.S. and Karlsruhe, Germany-based Gameforge AG.  The 30-year-old, who got into gaming at the age of four
when his father gave him a console, estimates South  Korea ’s
online games industry is worth more than $4 billion in annual
revenue, about four times the German market.  China Move  In China, mobile gamers will rise 30 percent to 280 million
this year, while there are only about 1 million users of black-market consoles from vendors such as  Nintendo Co. (7974) ,  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , according Analysys International estimates.  Bigpoint was reluctant to enter the Asian market in the
past partly because it was “too far away, not a focus” and it
was “complicated to work with Korean and Chinese companies with
our existing portfolio back then,” said Helioui, who holds
French and Tunisian passports. “But when I joined Bigpoint,
considering the success and quality of ‘Drakensang,’ the size of
these markets and the fact that I had already built a strong
network in  China  and Korea, I was convinced we had a strong shot
at building a presence there.”  “Drakensang,” in which players take on the role of
warriors fighting evil dragons and monsters, has graphics and
depth of gameplay that exceed those of local games of the
“hack-and-slash” genre, Helioui said.  China has banned gaming consoles for 13 years to shelter
its youth from the violence of video games. Gamers have found
ways to ignore that ban by playing free online games and
increasingly by migrating to mobile devices.  Regulatory Approval  Bigpoint has been working on a partnership with one of the
industry leaders in China, a market worth about $12 billion a
year, according to Helioui.  “Hopefully we will have regulatory approval before the end
of the year to start another localized version of
‘Drakensang,’” he said.  Bigpoint, which has popular titles such as  “Battlestar
Galactica”  and  “Farmerama”  in its portfolio, also plans to
expand into publishing games created by other companies.  “We are going to allow third-party studios to connect to
the Bigpoint world, to our services to make their games more
successful, as it is not enough to build your own unique
games,” Helioui said.  In  Europe , Bigpoint is teaming up with the British
Broadcasting Corp. to publish a game modeled after TV show
“Dancing With the Stars,” potentially providing the
broadcaster with ways to localize the game, payment systems and
community management.  Publishing Prospects  “We have six other publishing deals that have been signed
and more than 15 to 20 in the pipeline,” Helioui said. “In the
mid-term I expect the publishing part to be as big or even
bigger in terms of sales than our own games.”  Helioui is scheduled to present a military-themed
multiplayer online battle arena, or MOBA, game called “ Merc
Elite ” at Gamescom. Bigpoint plans to increase its workforce in
Hamburg and Berlin from about 700 after shedding 120 jobs last
year, he said, declining to discuss details.  Before joining Bigpoint in July 2012 as chief games
officer, Helioui had worked for Boston-based private equity firm
 TA Associates  from 2009, helping to broker the company’s
investment in Bigpoint in 2011.  In April that year, TA joined Summit Partners, another
Boston-based private equity firm, to buy a majority stake in
Bigpoint for $350 million. TA and Summit aren’t in a rush to
sell their holding, Helioui said.  “Private equity firms like TA and Summit don’t expect a
return on equity within two years, the average ‘hold’ is five to
six years, some even 10 to 12 years,” he said, adding that an
initial public offering is not an issue at the moment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  