-- Bill Gates, Warner Music, Deere: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/bill-gates-warner-music-deere-intellectual-property.html
While  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman Bill
Gates these days is more often seen engaged in philanthropic
activities through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, he
still dons his inventor cap from time to time.  Gates is one of the named inventors on a patent application
published in the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office July 25. One of Gates’s nine co-inventors is  Nathan
Myhrvold , former Microsoft chief technology officer and founder
and chief executive officer of Bellevue,  Washington ’s
Intellectual Ventures.  Application  20130188887  covers a technology to generate
video from text. According to the application, the technology
could be used to aid students with dyslexia or other learning
disabilities who have difficulty reading long passages of text.
The video generated by the text would be a synthesized image
sequence relating to the text.  The application was filed in January 2012. Myhrvold and
others have acknowledged that some Intellectual Ventures patent
applications are generated following “invention sessions”
during which experts from a number of disciplines meet together
to discuss problems and potential technological solutions.  The patent is assigned to Elwha LLC. Elwha is both the name
of a river in Washington state’s Olympic Peninsula, and an
Intellectual Ventures holding company.  The Gates foundation received a $2 billion gift from
billionaire  Warren Buffett , according to a July statement from
Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Chubby Checker’ Trademark Case Against HP to Go Forward  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  failed to persuade a federal court in
San Francisco to dismiss a trademark suit brought by Earnest
Evans, the performer famous for his 1960s hit record “The
Twist” and known as “Chubby Checker.”  Evans sued HP June 3, claiming his “Chubby Checker”
trademark was infringed by the Palo Alto, California-based
computer company. He was objecting to an app offered for sale in
the HP app catalog that purports to estimate the size of a man’s
penis based on his shoe size.  In his Aug. 15 ruling, U.S. District Judge William Alsup
said that HP’s “the Chubby Checker” app is “a vulgar pun.”
He disagreed with the computer company’s contention that Evans
failed to state a case. He found plausible Evans’ claims that HP
knew he hadn’t consented to this use of his trademark and the
company had full knowledge of the existence of the performer’s
trademarks.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Evans registered “Chubby Checker” as a U.S. trademark
in April 1998.  Alsup did reject Evans’s claims that the app violated
several state laws, saying those were preempted by a section of
the Communications Decency Act that provides immunity from state
claims relating to publishing content created by third parties.  The case is Evans v. Hewlett Packard Co., 3:13-cv-02477-WHA, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  California ‘Gentlemen’s Clubs’ Duel Over ‘Gold Club’ Trademark  Gold Club-SF LLC , a so-called gentlemen’s club in San
Francisco, sued a competitor in a nearby city for trademark
infringement.  According to the complaint filed in San Francisco Aug. 15,
 Platinum SJ Enterprise  of San Jose, California, is using “Gold
Club SJ” without authorization. The San Francisco club also
objects to a logo used by the San Jose club, saying the design
too closely resembles its own gold lion and spear mark.  Customers, entertainers and journalists are all confused by
the name similarity, the San Francisco club claims. Despite
receiving a cease-and-desist notice from the San Francisco Club,
Platinum SJ Enterprises went ahead and held a grand opening of
its Gold Club-SJ on Aug. 8 and persists in its unauthorized use
of the marks, according to the complaint.  The company asked the court to bar the San Jose venture’s
use of the term and the logo and for awards for all profits the
San Jose club derived from its alleged infringement, together
with money damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.
Additionally, Gold Club-SF seek an order for the seizure and
destruction of all infringing promotional material and asked for
extra damages to punish the San Jose venture for its actions.  Counsel for Platinum SJ  told  the San Jose Mercury News that
it is a licensee of  PML Clubs Inc.  of South Carolina, owner of
the “Gold Club” trademark and that the San Francisco club,
once also a PML Clubs licensee, is making “completely
baseless” claims.  The case is Gold Club-SF v. Platinum SJ Enterprise, 3:13-cv-03797-NC, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Warner Music Says Unauthorized Song Translation Infringed  Access Industries Holding LLC’s Warner Music Group unit has
complained that a translation into a Taiwanese dialect of the
theme song from the film “Les Miserables” infringes its
copyright, the Taipei Times  reported .  The translation was used at an Aug. 3 mass protest relating
to human rights in the military, and the translator -- a doctor
at Mackay Memorial hospital -- said that while he sought
permission to use the song, he got no reply to his request, the
Taipei Times reported.  Satiric T-Shirt Doesn’t Infringe Copyright, Court Rules  Sconnie Nation LLC , an apparel company specializing in
Wisconsin-theme T-shirts, successfully fought a copyright-infringement suit brought by a Madison, Wisconsin-area photo
journalist.  The suit, filed in federal court in Madison, related to a
photo of Madison Mayor Paul Soglin. According to court papers,
when Scoglin was a student at the University of  Wisconsin  in the
late 1960s, he took part in a student protest that gave rise to
an annual event in Madison known as the  Mifflin Street Block
Party .  In 2011, the mayor told a Wisconsin newspaper that, with
reference to the event, “All I’m interested in is ending this
thing.” Sconnie Nation then produced a  satiric T-shirt 
featuring an image of the mayor with the phrase “Sorry for
Partying,” using the  official photo of the mayor  that appeared
on the city’s website.  Photographer  Michael Kienitz  then filed a copyright-infringement suit against Sconnie Nation and its printer in June
2012, claiming this was an unauthorized use of the image, that
he never permitted his work to be used for satiric purposes and
that he was, in fact, a supporter of Mayor Soglin.  In an Aug. 14 order, Magistrate Judge Stephen L. Crocker
said Sconnie Nation’s use of the photo fell under copyright
law’s “fair use” provision in that it was sufficiently
transformative. He said the visual impact of the shirts so
changed the image that when they were viewed side by side with
the original image, it was difficult to determine that the shirt
contained an altered version of the original.  He also said that the use of the image on the shirts didn’t
affect the market for the photographer’s sales of the original
photo.  The case is Kienitz v. Sconnie Nation LLC, 3:13-cv-03797-NC, U.S. District Court, Western District of Wisconsin
(Madison).  Dotcom Claims Copyright Is 21st Century’s Biggest Economic Issue  Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom, arrested in January 2012
for alleged Internet piracy, is taking part in a public debate
on copyright law in September, Auckland’s Sunday Star-Times
 reported .  Dotcom told the Star-Times he’s “one of the best persons”
to talk about Internet-related copyright issues, calling
copyright potentially the biggest economic issue of the 21st
century.  He will be one of the featured presenters at the public
program “Internet Killed the Copyright Star,” according to the
newspaper.  Previously Dotcom, who insists he’s innocent of copyright
infringement, debated New Zealand’s Prime Minister John Key, and
has appeared as Santa Claus in a Christmas program, the Star-Times reported.  Ottawa Outdoor Movie Screening Infringed, Content Owners Say  Outdoor movies in an Ottawa neighborhood have been canceled
after it was learned that the community organization that
sponsored the screenings had ignored copyright law for the past
four years, the Ottawa Citizen  reported .  Audio Cine Films Inc. , which represents film content-owners
in  Canada , told the Hintonburg Community Association that it was
infringing by failing to pay the fee of C$200 ($193) per
showing, according to the newspaper.  The president of the Hintonburg Community Association told
the Ottawa Citizen the group will pay the back fees and try to
figure out how to continue showing the films.  The association won’t be able to afford to show the films
for free in the future so it may ask for donations to cover the
cost, according to the newspaper.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Deere Seeks Protective Order in Secrets Case Against Ex-Employee  Deere & Co., the Moline, Illinois-based farm-equipment
manufacturer, has entered a request for a protective order in a
trade secrets case it filed against a former employee.  The suit, filed July 17 in federal court in Rock Island,
 Illinois , is against Eric Hansotia, the company’s former senior
vice president of global harvesting. At Deere, Hansotia’s
responsibility was global sales of crop-care and harvesting
equipment.  Hansotia is accused of taking Deere’s trade secrets with
him when he joined Duluth,  Georgia ’s  Agco Corp. (AGCO)  July 1. Agco
isn’t a named defendant.  In its request for a protective order, Deere asked the
court to limit access to confidential information to the
preparation for and conduct of pretrial, trial and appellate
proceedings between the parties.  In the complaint, Deere said Hansotia had access to a wide
range of the company’s confidential information, including
Deere’s analysis of Agco’s business strategies, the impact of
cost of the Environmental Protection Agency’s emission standards
on Deere, new product development, new product schedules,
manufacturing footprint plans and precision farming solutions.  Deere asked the court to bar Hansotia from working for Agco
for 24 months, and to order the competitor not to use Deere
trade secrets. The company also asked for the return of any of
its confidential information in Hansotia’s possession.  Hansotia is represented by  Benton J. Mathis Jr.  of
Atlanta’s  Freeman Mathis & Gary LLP , who said in an e-mail
yesterday that his client was pleased that the court had already
rejected Deere’s request for a temporary restraining order and
that the Illinois company had failed to show any likelihood it
would prevail on its trade secrets claims. Mathis said that
Hansotia believes Deere’s claims are based on a “fundamental
misunderstanding of his actions” and is hopeful the case will
be resolved when “the actual facts have been fully disclosed.”  The case is  Deere & Co. (DE)  v. Hansotia, 4:13-cv-04060-SLD-JAG,
U.S. District Court, Central District of Illinois (Rock Island).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 