-- BRE Sale Seen as Inevitable Given Lagging Value: Real M&A
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-20T20:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/bre-sale-seen-as-inevitable-given-lagging-value-real-m-a.html
BRE Properties Inc. (BRE) ’s dismissal of a
$4.6 billion takeover offer has highlighted the apartment
landlord’s discount valuation, showing it may behoove investors
to push for a sale.  Land & Buildings revealed a bid for BRE in July, saying its
undervaluation would be eliminated by a deal. The stock has
returned about  71 percent  including dividends since Chief
Executive Officer Constance Moore took office in 2005, trailing
closest rival  Essex (ESS)  Property Trust Inc.’s 138 percent gain. BRE
yesterday traded 13 percent below its properties’ value, worse
than the 6.3 percent discount at Essex, according to the average
of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The divergence between BRE and Essex shows investors view
BRE as poorly managed, and a sale -- even if Land & Buildings
isn’t ultimately the buyer -- might help resolve the disparity,
according to Bank of Montreal. While BRE said the takeover offer
isn’t viable because Land & Buildings doesn’t have enough
financial firepower, the bid has raised San Francisco-based
BRE’s profile as a target and put pressure on the firm’s
management to evaluate selling, Citigroup Inc. said.  “This has been a long process of underperformance,” said
 Richard Anderson , an analyst covering real estate investment
trusts at BMO in  New York . “At the end of the day, they are
standing the risk of losing sponsorship of their investors. BRE
needs to either improve operations or sell the company.”  Considering Alternatives  Land & Buildings, a Greenwich, Connecticut-based investment
firm, said on July 31 that it was part of a group that offered
to acquire BRE, whose stock closed at $47.23 yesterday, for $60
a share in June. BRE’s “consistent underperformance and
persistent discount to net asset value is best resolved through
strategic alternatives,” Land & Buildings CEO Jonathan Litt
told BRE in a letter.  BRE, a real estate investment trust that owns and manages
apartments in major cities in northern and southern  California 
as well as  Seattle , said in its response that Land & Buildings
has neither the assets nor the expertise to complete the deal.
Land & Buildings has less than $200 million in assets, Litt
said. BRE’s market value was $3.6 billion yesterday.  Moore, the CEO of BRE, said during a July 31 earnings
conference call that the company will consider any “legitimate
proposals.” BRE has no further comment, John Selindh, a
spokesman for the REIT, said yesterday.  Litt said BRE continues to ignore the bid from Land &
Buildings, which owned almost 158,000 BRE shares at the end of
June, or 0.2 percent of outstanding equity, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bidder’s Disappointment  “We have tried to address their concerns about who our
operating partner and capital partners are in the most pragmatic
way that we can, and we continue to be disappointed they are not
engaging with us to vet our proposal,” he said in a phone
interview yesterday.  While BRE shares  rose  to a two-month high of $53.06 after
Litt’s letter was released, the stock then declined 11 percent
to $47.23 through yesterday. That price was 13 percent less than
the company’s per-share net asset value, according to the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. By
comparison,  Palo Alto , California-based Essex closed yesterday
at $144.66, only 6.3 percent below the average NAV estimate.  “If BRE continues to trade at a larger discount to net
asset value than their peers, they have to think about what
other ways they can maximize value,” Michael Bilerman, a New
York-based analyst at Citigroup, said in a phone interview.
“There is a lot of interest in this space.”  Investor Uncertainty  Since the Bloomberg Apartment REIT Index bottomed in March
2009, the measure returned 267 percent including dividends
through yesterday, beating BRE’s 221 percent return. Today, BRE
added 3.6 percent to $48.92, the biggest gain in nine months.  The company is lagging behind peers in part because of
investor uncertainty about its development plans, according to
Dave Bragg, an analyst at Green Street Advisors Inc., a  Newport
Beach , California-based real estate research firm.  “The company has a large development pipeline relative to
the size of the company,” he said in an interview. “Investors
are patiently waiting to see if the company can execute their
plans.”  BRE has $900 million in projects under way, exposing it to
“enhanced execution risk and changing material and labor
costs,” Vin Chao, a New York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
said in a July 31 research note.  ‘Poor’ Decisions  In his letter, Litt said “poor capital allocation has also
marred the record of BRE management.” He cited BRE’s Wilshire
La Brea community in  Los Angeles , which is expected to return
less than planned and open late.  Essex, with a market value of $5.5 billion yesterday, is
among BRE’s closest peers, said Jeffrey Langbaum, an analyst at
Bloomberg Industries. BRE’s implied capitalization rate was 6.1
percent on Aug. 16 versus 5.6 percent at Essex, according to
data compiled by Stifel Financial Corp. That means investors are
assigning less value to BRE’s cash flows, Langbaum said.  “The stock market is voting with its dollars that there’s
potentially a more efficient way to be running” BRE’s assets
and that “a different management team can extract more value
out of these properties,” Langbaum said in an interview.  A takeover of BRE may be unlikely in the near future
because its managers probably think they can turn the REIT
around on their own, BMO’s Anderson said in a phone interview.
The company operates on the U.S. West Coast, where renting is
becoming more affordable in comparison with buying a home,
boosting BRE’s prospects this year, said David Toti, a New York-based analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP.  BRE is likely to attract attention from activist investors
until its stock returns improve, according to  James Sullivan , an
analyst at Cowen & Co.  “BRE as a potential activist target, that’s not a
surprise,” he said in a phone interview. “Will there be others
who get involved in BRE? It’s certainly possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  