-- Broncos’ Von Miller Accepts Six-Game Drug Violation Suspension
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-08-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/broncos-von-miller-accepts-six-game-drug-violation-suspension.html
Denver Broncos linebacker  Von Miller 
has accepted a six-game ban for violating the National Football
League’s drug policy.  Details of the infraction weren’t released by the NFL,
which said on its website yesterday that the 6-foot-3, 250-pound
Miller will be eligible to return following Denver’s Week 6 game
against the Jacksonville Jaguars. He’ll also miss games against
the Baltimore Ravens,  New York  Giants, Oakland Raiders,
Philadelphia Eagles and Dallas Cowboys.  “Although my suspension doesn’t result from a positive
test, there is no excuse for my violations of the rules,”
Miller said in a statement e-mailed by the players’ union. “I
made mistakes and my suspension has hurt my team, Broncos fans
and myself. I am especially sorry for the effect of my bad
decisions on others.”  Miller, 24, is the first player in Broncos history to be
selected for the Pro Bowl in each of his first two NFL seasons.
He was runner-up for the NFL Defensive Player of the Year award
last season with 18.5 quarterback sacks, 27 quarterback
knockdowns, 12 quarterback hurries and 28 tackles for a loss.  “Obviously we’re frustrated with what’s happened, and I
think disappointed in Von,” John Elway, executive vice
president of football operations, said in a statement.
“Whatever we have to do as an organization to try to help Von,
we want to be able to do.”  Broncos coach John Fox said Miller will play against St.
Louis in a preseason game on Aug. 24.  Team Workouts  “During his suspension he’ll be lifting with his
teammates, in meetings,” Fox said. “He can be everywhere but
on the field.”  The  Denver Post  reported in July that Miller had multiple
positive tests for marijuana and an undisclosed amphetamine in
his rookie season in 2011. That month, NFL Players Association
spokesman George Atallah announced in a twitter posting that
Miller’s case didn’t involve steroids, the Post reported.  Miller, who was scheduled to receive $2.28 million in
salary this season, met with the players’ union on Aug. 15 to
try to have the punishment reduced to four games, ESPN reported
Aug. 19.  “I will not make the same mistakes about adhering to the
policy in the future,” Miller said in his statement. “During
my time off the field, I will work tirelessly and focus
exclusively on remaining in peak shape. I look forward to
contributing immediately upon my return to the field.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  