-- California Considers If PG&E Penalty Is Worth Bankruptcy
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-08-21T20:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/california-considers-if-pg-e-penalty-is-worth-bankruptcy.html
California  regulators must weigh
whether a $2.25 billion penalty for safety lapses is worth
potentially pushing  PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of the state’s largest
utility, into bankruptcy for the second time in 12 years.  PG&E expects the California Public Utilities Commission to
decide by the end of this year on a punishment for a September
2010 natural gas pipeline explosion that killed eight people.
Imposing the staff’s proposed penalty may force the company into
bankruptcy if it can’t sell enough shares to pay for it,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tony Earley said in an
interview yesterday at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York .  “If the purpose was to get the company’s attention, you
have the company’s attention,” said Earley, who took over a
year after the accident. A $2.25 billion penalty would bring
PG&E’s total tab for the disaster to $4 billion, including money
already spent on pipeline upgrades and safety work, Earley said.
The San Francisco-based company has asked regulators to credit
money already spent against any fine imposed.  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  have said
they will review California’s regulatory system if the full
penalty is assessed. PG&E put its utility unit into bankruptcy
in 2001 after amassing $9 billion in debt when electricity costs
tripled in the aftermath of the state’s deregulation of power
markets and regulators didn’t act quickly enough to raise
customer rates.  “Staff made a recommendation regarding a penalty and
parties and PG&E provided comments,” Terrie Prosper, a
spokeswoman for the commission, said in an e-mail yesterday.
“The matter is now in the hands of administrative law judges.”  Changed Proposal  California is confronting a challenge faced across the
U.S.: how to pay for an estimated $1.5 trillion needed for
infrastructure upgrades while keeping rates low. In the case of
PG&E, regulators are seeking to get billions in system upgrades
and penalize the company for safety violations while maintaining
a financially healthy utility with low borrowing costs.  Last month, staff of the commission changed a prior
recommendation and called for PG&E to pay $2.25 billion in
penalties for the explosion in San Bruno, California, including
a $300 million fine for violating safety rules. An earlier
proposal, which PG&E supported, would’ve given the company
credit for money already spent on upgrades and safety work.  “We are at a real turning point that will determine
whether the company will continue to make the progress we made
or will it end up being a company that is just struggling along
because we are financially hobbled,” Earley said.  Carlsbad Explosion  El Paso Corp. paid $101.5 million for a explosion in 2000
that killed 12 people in Carlsbad,  New Mexico . There “seems to
be some momentum behind a penalty, relative to the size of the
company, larger than anyone has ever seen,” Earley said.  The proposal is more than four times the company’s net
income last year and is 15 years worth of earnings for the gas
business, Earley said. Moody’s said in a July 10 note that the
proposed penalty “does not bode well for the regulatory
environment in California.”  Overland Consulting said in a August 2012 report
commissioned by the state that PG&E can afford to pay a $2.25
billion penalty without hurting its creditworthiness. The
commission has asked PG&E to file an explanation today of how it
intends to finance the proposed penalty.  “We don’t find Mr. Earley’s comments consistent with
PG&E’s own experts and with the report that was independently
commissioned and prepared,” Connie Jackson, San Bruno’s city
manager, said yesterday. The city has called for a penalty as
large as $3.85 billion.  ‘Probably’ Survive  PG&E might be able to issue stock to pay a $2 billion
penalty, Eric Fornell, a vice chairman at Wells Fargo
Securities, testified at a March 5 commission hearing. Such an
outcome may limit future  capital spending  by the company, which
would “probably” survive, he said, according to a transcript.  The decision is now before two administrative law judges,
who will send their recommendation to the five-member
commission, which will vote on a penalty.  PG&E  dropped  1.7 percent to $42.04 at the close in New
York. The shares have declined 13 percent since the blast,
compared with an 18 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Utilities Index.  The discount in PG&E’s stock reflects the fact that
investors anticipate a “significant” sale of more stock, not a
bankruptcy filing, said Kit Konolige, a New-York based analyst
for BGC Financial LP, who rates the shares a buy and doesn’t own
them.  “Even $4 billion is something that a company this size can
afford,” Konolige said in an interview.  PG&E has already spent or is planning to spend about $2.2
billion to fix its gas system, Earley said.  “Penalties should hurt a little,” said Mindy Spatt, a
spokeswoman for the Utility Reform Network, a customer advocacy
group based in  San Francisco . “PG&E seems to think penalties
shouldn’t hurt at all. They’re just whining.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  