-- Canada Dollar Drops to Two-Week Low on Fed-Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-08-20T21:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/canadian-dollar-touches-two-week-low-after-rba-signals-rate-cut.html
The Canadian dollar fell to the
lowest in almost two weeks as oil, the nation’s biggest export,
slid amid bets the  Federal Reserve  will slow monetary stimulus
that has fueled demand for riskier assets as soon as next month.  The currency sank versus most major counterparts as the
central banks of  Canada ’s commodity-exporting peers,  Australia 
and  New Zealand , signaled steps may be taken to weaken their
currencies. Canadian retail sales fell in June, data due Aug. 22
is forecast to show, following drops in employment and factory
sales. The nation’s 10-year government bonds rose for the first
time in seven days, pushing yields down from a two-year high.  “People are just sort of preparing for a tapering world,”
said  John Curran , a senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd.,
an online foreign-exchange dealer, by phone from Toronto.
“People are just leaning toward recent data for the Canadian
dollar. When push comes to shove, you can be comfortable selling
it at the levels it’s at.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is nicknamed for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated for a third
day, losing 0.5 percent to C$1.0392 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in
Toronto. It touched C$1.0401, the weakest level since Aug. 8.
One Canadian dollar buys 96.23 U.S. cents.  Canada’s currency closed weaker than its 50-day moving
average for the first time since Aug. 7, a signal to some
traders that there’s momentum for further losses. It will
depreciate to C$1.05 by year-end, according to a Bloomberg
survey of 62 economists and analysts  Bonds Climb  Benchmark 10-year government  bonds  gained for the first day
since Aug. 9, pushing yields down six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.68 percent. The yields touched 2.76
percent yesterday, the highest level since July 2011. The price
of the 1.5 percent securities maturing in June 2023 increased 51
cents to C$89.93.  Futures on crude oil dropped as much as 2.4 percent, the
biggest decline in two months, to $104.50 before paring losses
to trade at $104.96.  Options traders became more bearish on the Canadian dollar.
The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate, which
measures the premium charged for the right to buy the U.S.
dollar against the loonie versus contracts to sell, rose to 1.58
percent, the highest a closing basis since July 8. The 2013
average is 1.24.  The Canadian currency declined earlier after Australia’s
central bank said the Aussie dollar will be considered in
setting policy and interest-rate cuts remain a possibility,
while  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler said
his country’s dollar was overvalued. The two South Pacific
currencies slid versus most major counterparts.  ‘Dragged Lower’  “There’s a bit of a drag from the Aussie and the kiwi
performance overnight,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone from Toronto.
“The Canadian dollar has just been dragged lower by the
performance of those currencies, just falling in sympathy.”  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart rose to 7.5 percent, the
highest level since July 16. Implied volatility is used to set
option prices and gauge the expected pace of currency swings.
The average for this year is 6.8 percent.  The loonie extended its decline today as Statistics Canada
reported the nation’s  wholesale sales  dropped 2.8 percent to
C$48.8 billion ($47.1 billion), the fastest since January 2009.
A Bloomberg survey forecast a 0.5 percent decline.  Retail Sales  Retail sales  declined 0.4 percent in June after gaining 1.9
percent the previous month, economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast before  Statistics Canada  reports the data this week.  The loonie slid versus most major peers Aug. 16 after data
showed manufacturing sales fell 0.5 percent in June. A report on
Aug. 9 showed the nation unexpectedly lost 39,400 jobs in July.  Data in July showed retail sales, wholesale sales and
housing starts increased more than forecast.  The Fed will slow its bond purchases at policy makers’
Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13.  U.S. central-bank officials have been discussing when to
begin tapering the pace of their $85 billion in monthly bond
buying amid an improving economy. The purchases, designed to put
downward pressure on borrowing costs and spur economic growth,
tend to devalue the greenback.  “With QE kind of winding down, you won’t get the kind of
liquidity support for riskier assets,” Emanuella Enenajor, an
economist at  CIBC World Markets , said in a telephone interview
from Toronto.  The Canadian dollar fell 0.9 percent over the past week
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar dropped
0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  