-- Caymans Accord Makes It Tougher for Wealthy to Hide Money
-- B y   A l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-08-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/caymans-accord-makes-it-tougher-for-wealthy-to-hide-money.html
The  Cayman Islands , known as a haven
for wealthy Americans seeking to stash cash overseas without
scrutiny from the U.S. government, is about to become less
secret.  An agreement between the countries will put in place the
 Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act , or Fatca. The 2010 law makes
it tougher to hide money overseas because foreign banks must
report their accounts to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or
face, in some cases, a 30 percent withholding tax.  The accord is significant because the Cayman Islands is a
major financial center and home to operations for dozens of
banks, funds and wealth-management entities, according to
Bloomberg BNA. Among major banks that do business in the Cayman
Islands are the Royal Bank of Canada,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Bank of
Nova Scotia ,  Bank of America  Corp., Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG,
and CIBC FirstCaribbean International Bank.  “The Caymans have traditionally been thought of as a
secrecy jurisdiction, as was Switzerland,” Dennis Brager, a
former IRS senior trial attorney who now heads  Brager Tax Law
Group APC  in  Los Angeles , said in an interview Aug. 15, the day
after the agreement was announced.  “People come into my office in utter shock,” he said.
“They thought their bank was too small or their country too
remote or the information was too deep,” said Brager. “The
truth is that your information is going to be turned over.”  Generating Revenue  Switzerland  and the U.S. signed an intergovernmental
agreement in February to comply with Fatca. Separately, the U.S.
and Swiss governments are negotiating the terms of handing over
data about former U.S. clients suspected of tax evasion.  The congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimated in
2010 that the law would generate $8.7 billion in  tax  revenue
over 10 years. Today, the IRS announced a new online Fatca
registration system for overseas banks.  The agreement with the Caymans is another sign that U.S.
taxpayers’ accounts are increasingly subject to government
scrutiny on multiple fronts. Several other Caribbean
jurisdictions with significant financial industries, such as
 Bermuda  and the Bahamas, are among the dozens of countries
having discussions about similar accords.  “They’re falling like dominoes,” Brager said.  So-called intergovernmental agreements, or IGAs, similar to
the one announced last week allow banks to share the information
with their own governments, which then pass the data on to the
IRS.  No Withholding  In general, no withholding tax will be due on payments in
an IGA country -- a feature that has made the accords attractive
to jurisdictions around the world. Banks must still engage in
due diligence and report the accounts.  Financial institutions have work to do to comply with the
U.S. law. Still, the Caymans agreement, accompanied by a new and
broader tax information accord, symbolizes the rapid increase of
tax transparency, tax lawyers say.  “It is a milestone,” Manal Corwin, head of international
corporate tax services at KPMG LLP, said in an Aug. 15
interview. “Step by step, you’re seeing this broadening to a
global standard,” Corwin, until recently the Treasury’s deputy
assistant secretary of  tax policy  for international tax affairs.  Denise Hintzke, global Fatca leader for Deloitte Tax LLP,
agrees.  “We are moving toward more global information exchange,”
she said in an Aug. 15 interview. The Caymans accord “is the
first step toward being able to do that.”  Taking Responsibility  What’s more, the Cayman Islands is entering into a “Model
1” Fatca agreement, she said.  “It means that they’re taking on the responsibility of
Fatca guidance and regulations and they will take responsibility
for enforcing the requirements of the law,” she said. “They
are going to step into the role of getting information directly
from their financial institutions.”  John Harrington, a former Treasury international tax
counsel, said, “There is certainly a push toward broader
information exchange and automatic exchange. This is reflective
of that broader movement.”  The agreement was anticipated by tax lawyers because the
Caymans’ government announced in June it would take action to
fight  tax evasion .  Jonathan Jackel, senior counsel at Burt, Staples & Maner
LLP, said the surprise is how vocal the Cayman Islands
government has been in supporting Fatca -- a stance that
reflects the need for its financial services industry to stay
competitive.  Economic Importance  “Financial centers are a very important part of the
Caymans’ economy,” Jackel said in an Aug. 16 interview. “The
fund industry is a very significant part of the picture.”  One of the biggest difficulties under Fatca is rules that
“grandfather” in certain entities for purposes of the
withholding tax, Jackel said. With the removal of the
withholding tax in most cases under an IGA, “that gets rid of a
huge complication” and financial companies can focus on due
diligence.  Robert Stack, U.S. Treasury deputy assistant secretary for
international tax affairs, said in a statement that Treasury is
“especially pleased” that the accord will provide certainty to
the islands’ “significant fund industry.”  Harrington, currently a Washington-based partner in  Dentons
Tax practice , said the benefits of an IGA, including the general
absence of withholding taxes, probably appealed to the Caymans
government.  ‘Greater Freedom’  There is a tradeoff, he said, of “‘we’ll give you the
information you want in exchange for the greater freedom of our
institutions.’” The agreement is attractive to U.S. payors who
may be confronted with withholding, he said.  “You want to know for sure what the treatment is going to
be,” Harrington said.  Banks are still working to comply with Fatca.  “We are monitoring the overall impact of this legislation,
particularly with respect to minimizing its impact on client
service, privacy and costs,” Jason Graham, a spokesman for
Royal Bank of Canada, said in an e-mailed statement.  CIBC ``will meet all Fatca obligations, in accordance with
local laws,'' bank spokesman Kevin Dove said in a statement.  The Treasury Department announced last month that it was
delaying Fatca’s implementation date by six months, until July
1, 2014, to give foreign banks more time to refine their systems
and allow intergovernmental agreements to be signed.  “Financial institutions still have to engage in due
diligence to identify U.S. accounts, and they still have to do
the reporting,” to their own governments, Corwin said.
“Everybody has to comply.”  Hintzke stressed that banks must register under Fatca and
document and identify their account holders. Jackel, too, sees
burdens for banks in dealing with clients or investors.  “There’s still a very big mountain to climb,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Bennett in Washington at 
 abennett37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  