-- China Gold-Mine Deals at Record After Price Plunge: Commodities
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-08-21T14:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/china-gold-mine-deals-at-record-after-price-plunge-commodities.html
Acquisitions by  China ’s gold mining
companies reached a record this year as the metal’s steepest
quarterly drop in more than nine decades slashes mine values and
sidelines Western competitors laden with debt.  Takeovers and asset purchases by producers based in China
and Hong Kong rose to a record $2.24 billion this year, beating
last year’s record $1.96 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Zijin Mining Group Co., the world’s seventh-largest
gold company by market value, and Zhaojin Mining Industry Co.
are among companies looking to strike after  the share prices of
targets  fell an average 53 percent since bullion peaked in 2011.  “The gold declines are good for key Chinese producers to
buy overseas assets,” Chen He, head of overseas resources
development at Zhaojin Mining, China’s fourth-largest producer,
with a $2.3 billion market value, said in an interview. “This
year our main task is to closely watch potential targets as
prices in 2014 are forecast to be lower.”  Global producers led by  Canada ’s  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the
world’s second-biggest by value, were warned by investors
against deals after taking $26 billion in writedowns since July
16 following a spree that saw $162 billion spent on acquisitions
during a decade-long price boom.  Shareholders are “actually actively telling a lot of
companies, we’d rather you not do M&A transactions,” Barrick
Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky said May 21 at the
Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit in Toronto.  Demand Explodes  Chinese buyers are less constrained as demand at home
explodes. With consumption having jumped to 4 metric tons a day,
the nation is set to overtake  India  as the biggest consumer this
half. Many producers in China have better cash flow than
overseas competitors and lower production costs.  Zijin is forecast to have all-in costs, which include
administration, capital spending and exploration, of $658 per
ounce this year and Zhaojin $549 per ounce, compared with a
global average of $831, brokerage UOB Kay Hian Ltd. said in a
note to clients dated July 9.  Papillon Resources Ltd. (PIR) , which has a project in Mali, may
be a possible target for Chinese companies, according to RBS
Morgans Ltd.  Iamgold Corp. (IMG) , with a $2.4 billion market value,
 Amara Mining Plc (AMA)  and  Perseus Mining Ltd. (PRU)  also are possible
targets, said David Brennan, an analyst in Melbourne at Ord
Minnett Ltd.  “There are some good bargains out there, and things that
are too good to pass up on,” said James Wilson, a Perth-based
analyst at RBS Morgans Ltd. and a geologist who has worked in
 Australia ,  Africa  and China.  Perseus Reaction  Perseus has fallen 62 percent this year, meaning it’s “not
surprising that some consider us to be a takeover target,” the
Perth-based producer’s CEO Jeff Quartermaine said in an e-mailed
statement. Papillon Resources hasn’t yet received approaches,
CEO Mark Connelly said by phone. “We could be a potential
target. Any decision would be for the shareholders to make.”  Charles Vivian, a spokesman for Amara based at Pelham Bell
Pottinger in  London , said in an e-mail that the company declined
to comment. Iamgold didn’t immediately respond to calls and an
e-mail seeking comment.  Gold producers globally were involved in $10.3 billion of
deals this year, compared with a record $32.6 billion in 2010
and last year’s $8.9 billion, the data show. Chinese M&A is
accelerating, with transaction values more than doubling in the
first half from the preceding period.  “They are hunting assets that are more distressed, or are
obviously for sale,” said Matt Weaver, a Perth-based director
of advisory firm Azure Capital. “But we are also finding that
they are becoming a lot more discerning.”  Easier Financing  Financing is often easier for Chinese commodities companies
compared with rivals overseas, Jake Klein, chairman of  Evolution
Mining Ltd. (EVN) , said in an interview. “They have access to
cheaper, vast pools of capital, they are going to be
competitive,” said Klein, who previously ran gold mines in
China. Zijin said in November 2012 it had received 30 billion
 yuan  ($4.9 billion) in loans from the state-controlled China
Development Bank’s Hong Kong and Fujian units for overseas
acquisitions.  China’s government has urged national gold producers to
boost development of overseas resources in neighboring countries
and in Africa and Latin America, according to its 12th Five-Year
Plan which ends in 2015.  The encouragement is probably linked to the country’s
desire to increase its gold holdings, Marcus Grubb, managing
director of investment research at the World Gold Council, said
in an interview.  Zijin, China’s biggest producer, is looking at buying
several assets and considering making a bid for three of
Barrick’s mines in Australia, the company said June 20.  Barrick Plans  Barrick plans to sell, close or trim production at 12 of
its 27 mines where costs are higher than $1,000 per ounce, the
company said Aug. 2, while  Alacer Gold Corp. (ASR)  said it will
mothball two high-cost mines in Australia if it can’t sell the
assets within 18 months after taking charges of $902 million on
the unit since the last quarter of 2012. Spot gold traded today
at $1,369.20 an ounce, down 0.2 percent, at 3:52 p.m. London
time.  At Barrick, net debt jumped last quarter to 83 percent of
equity from 49 percent in the previous quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Zijin’s ratio rose to 55 percent
from 51 percent.  ‘Improve Things’  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  of the U.S., the world’s third-biggest
gold miner, said in December it was in talks to sell the stalled
Hope Bay project in Canada. Johannesburg-based  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ,
spun off most of its South African assets into  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) 
in the past year amid a wave of strikes and above-inflation pay
increases.  “I think some of the Chinese companies believe they can
actually improve things,” Owen Hegarty, vice chairman of  G-Resources Group Ltd. (1051) , said in an Aug. 6 interview in Hong Kong.  Bullion’s spiral into a bear market in April provoked a
buying frenzy in malls and shops in China, a culture that
traditionally acquires the metal for brides, babies and
strongboxes. There will be about 6.6 million brides in China
this year alone, according to the World Gold Council.  At a national level China, with the world’s largest foreign
exchange reserves of $3.497 trillion on June 30, is likely to
increase gold holdings to diversify from the dollar, according
to the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum.  Net imports into China more than doubled in the first half
to 493 metric tons, from about 239 tons a year ago, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on Hong Kong customs data.  Doubting Takeovers  “What is often not understood is that the Chinese approach
to metals is strategic and, in the case of gold, also has the
added element of being involved in Chinese reserve asset
management,” the Gold Council’s Grubb said in an interview.  To be sure, with gold heading for its worst year in three
decades and some brokers forecasting the metal to extend losses,
BOCOM International Ltd.’s Benjamin Pei isn’t convinced
takeovers will soar. Societe Generale SA last month predicted
gold may average $1,150 an ounce in 2014, the lowest annual
average since 2009. Spot gold traded at $1,368.30 at 2:52 p.m.
in Sydney.  “Recent price declines have squeezed gold miners’ profit
margins and largely affected their cash flow, hampering their
ability to spend on acquisitions,” said Beijing-based Pei.  China National Gold Group President Sun Zhaoxue said in
March, after talks ended in January with Barrick over its
African unit, that China’s state-owned enterprises face
obstacles such as cultural gaps and environmental barriers in
seeking overseas deals and shouldn’t rush to conclude them.  China Consumption  Gold consumption in China jumped 54 percent to 706.36
metric tons in the first six months, the China Gold Association
said this month. Per capita gold holdings in China are little
more than 5 grams, compared with the average 20 grams in
developed countries, meaning there’s huge potential as long as
the economy is growing, the association said in June.  “China’s appetite for gold is virtually insatiable,” said
Jon Price, managing director of  Phoenix Gold Ltd. (PXG)  “They have a
large bank account with which to work, and a lot of U.S. dollars
that they perhaps would rather see turned into physical assets.
I can see them being a dominant player.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  