-- McKool Smith, Kilpatrick, Manatt Phelps: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/mckool-smith-kilpatrick-manatt-phelps-business-of-law.html
Demand for legal services in the
U.S. was tepid in the first half of the year while law firm
expenses grew, according to a study by Citi Private Bank’s Law
Firm Group.  Demand, defined by Citi as the total billable hours logged,
declined 1.3 percent compared to the first six months of 2012
while law firm revenue increased slightly by 0.5 percent.  Expenses, including compensation and capital improvements,
were up 2.4 percent in the first half of the year.  Compensation accounts for most of the uptick in costs.
Compared to the first six months of 2012, compensation expenses
increased 2.8 percent so far this year, while headcount grew
only 0.4 percent, said Gretta Rusanow, a senior client adviser
at Citi.  “We know the industry hasn’t been increasing salaries at
specific experience levels,” Rusanow said. “Instead, there’s a
shifting demographic. When associates become more senior, say
moving from second year to third year associates, their salaries
have gone up.”  The quarterly study is based on the results of 172 firms of
varying sizes. It doesn’t disclose actual revenue or expense
amounts, Rusanow said, because those numbers wouldn’t be
“meaningful” because of the range of firms surveyed.  Rusanow said that she expects that unlike last year, when
revenue grew by 3.6 percent, this “will turn out to be a flat
year for the industry.”  Law Firm News  McKool Smith Adds Former Prosecutor in New York  Daniel W. Levy, a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in the
Southern District of New York, is joining McKool Smith as a
principal in New York.  Levy joined the U.S. Attorney’s office in 2002, and has,
according to a firm statement, conducted more than a dozen jury
trials and argued more than 15 times before the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit. He has led investigations and
served as senior trial counsel for prosecutions involving fraud,
including money laundering, securities and bank fraud and theft
of trade secrets.  “Our white collar practice launched in 2009, and has since
really found its footing representing clients in complex
investigations and government enforcement actions,” Mike McKool, the firm’s co-founder and chairman, said in a statement.
“Dan is an important addition to the practice and the New York
office.”  McKool Smkth has more than 175 lawyers in offices in
 Dallas , Houston, Austin and Marshall,  Texas , Los Angeles, New
York, Silicon Valley and  Washington .  Kilpatrick Townsend Expands Labor and Employment Group  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP added a partner and
three associates to the firm’s labor and employment group in
Atlanta.  Russell Jones is joining the firm as a partner, along with
associates Kathryn McConnell, Sara Partin and Camille Ward. They
previously worked at Dow Lohnes LLP.  Randy Avram, chairman of the firm’s labor and employment
team said in a statement that Jones “brings more than a decade
of expertise that covers the entire gamut of employment issues
affecting management today.”  Jones represents management in all aspects of the
employment relationship, according to the statement.  Manatt Phelps Adds Litigators in Los Angeles Office  John W. McGuinness joined the Los Angeles office of Manatt,
Phelps & Phillips, LLP as a partner in its litigation practice.
He comes from BuckleySandler LLP and joins Donna L. Wilson, who
also joined Manatt from BuckleySandler in late July.  According to a statement from the firm, Wilson and
McGuinness represent corporate and individual clients in
litigation, focusing on consumer class and individual actions,
including mortgage/financial services and data security/privacy
matters, complex commercial litigation, and litigation against
state and federal governments.  “These three litigators bring significant trial experience
and an impressive track record of success,” said Matthew Kanny,
chairman of Manatt’s litigation practice.  Over the last year, the team, led by Wilson, has secured
favorable results for an international vehicle manufacturer in
an eight-figure dispute with the state of  California  in a
midtrial settlement, and litigated on behalf of a
telecommunications provider facing claims arising from the
Malibu Canyon fire in a multiparty California state court
action.  In the Courts  Barclays Investor Lawsuit Partially Revived by Appeals Court  A previously dismissed investor lawsuit claiming  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  failed to disclose its full credit-market risk in offerings
for $5.45 billion in American depositary shares was partly
revived by an appeals court.  The federal appeals court in Manhattan said yesterday that
the investors may go forward with claims over a $2.5 billion
share offering in April 2008, reversing a 2011 lower-court
ruling that they couldn’t sue over Barclays’s asset valuation
and writedown decisions. The panel agreed with the lower court
that claims based on three earlier offerings were filed too
late.  A group of investors filed the suit in 2009 seeking to
represent buyers of 218 million Barclays shares at $25 each. The
investors claimed Barclays should have disclosed losses on
mortgage-backed securities as mortgage delinquencies and
defaults triggered an August 2008 writedown.  Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman for London-based Barclays,
declined to comment on the ruling.  The case is Freidus v. Barclays Bank Plc, 11-2665, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 