-- CLO Refinancings at $50 Billion Seen Rewarding Riskiest Issues
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-08-20T15:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/clo-refinancings-at-50-billion-seen-rewarding-riskiest-issues.html
About $50 billion of collateralized
loan obligations may be refinanced in the next two years,
rewarding holders of the most speculative portions of the funds
at the expense of AAA investors, according to  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Ares Management LLC and other firms have
refinanced more than $2 billion of CLOs this year, and an
additional $8 billion sold in 2011 will be able to cut interest
payments by the end of 2013, according to RBS. Restrictions
preventing more than $40 billion of 2012 investments from doing
the same will be lifted in 2014, according to the bank.  Yield premiums on new-issue CLOs shrank to the lowest
levels in at least three years as more investors piled into the
debt seeking better returns than similarly-rated asset classes.
Rising demand helped push CLO issuance to $60.6 billion globally
this year, the most since 2007, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  “Current market spreads on CLO debt are tighter in many
cases than during 2012, economically incentivizing equity
holders to refinance the” debt, Ken Kroszner, a CLO analyst at
RBS in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
“By reducing the coupon spread on the deal’s liabilities, all
else equal, additional cash-flow will be generated.”  Equity Payout  CLOs pool high-yield loans and slice them into debt
securities of varying risk and return, typically from AAA
ratings down to B. The lowest portion, known as the equity
tranche, offers the highest potential returns and the greatest
risk because investors are the first to see their interest
payouts reduced when loans backing the CLO default.  Equity investors are paid after the holders of debt rated
AAA down to BB or B, receive their distributions, a spread
typically based off of the  London  interbank offered rate. By
decreasing the rate paid to a fund’s bondholders, additional
cash is available to equity holders.  Interest rates  on the highest-rated portion of CLO debt
dropped to a low this year of 110 basis points more than Libor
in May from 145 basis points in January, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. While spreads widened in the last two
months, they are still lower than the high of 175 basis points,
or 1.75 percentage points, in 2011. Libor is the rate banks say
they can borrow in dollars from each other.  CLO Comeback  CLO issuance inn the U.S. has seen a resurgence in the past
four years after sales dropped to $1.22 billion in 2009 from a
high of $91.1 billion in 2007, according to Morgan Stanley data.
 Wells Fargo & Co . says as much as $80 billion of the funds may
be raised in the U.S. this year.  Investors are seeking CLOs as they offer higher interest
rates than similarly-rated debt. New-issue AAA spreads were at
130 basis points on Aug. 9, compared with 103 basis points for
commercial mortgage-backed securities, according to Morgan
Stanley data.  A $521.5 million deal for Credit Suisse Asset Management
that priced last week pays investors in the largest of three
senior-rated pieces, a $190.5 million AAA portion, a coupon of
128 basis points more than Libor, according to Bloomberg data.
The two other senior ranking slices pay a coupon of 130 basis
points and 145 basis points.  CLO AAA spreads widened given the higher volatility and
lower liquidity across markets, Rishad Ahluwalia, the head of
global CLO research at JPMorgan in London, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Five CLOs for more than $2 billion have been refinanced
this year, including a $410 million deal from Ares and a $408.4
million pool from BlackRock, according RBS.  Lauren Post, a spokeswoman for BlackRock, declined to
comment. Bill Mendel, a spokesman for Ares who works at Mendel
Communications, didn’t return a telephone call or an e-mail
seeking comment.  3i Deal  3i Debt Management US LLC teamed up with Citigroup Inc. to
issue  Jamestown CLO II , an approximately $508 million fund, in
February, according to John Fraser, a managing partner at 3i
Debt Management US. The firm is the U.S. debt investment arm of
 3i Group Plc (III)  in New York, which oversees $3.2 billion. The deal
refinanced a 2011 WCAS Fraser Sullivan Investment Management LLC
CLO.  The coupon on the highest-rated portion of the debt dropped
to 127 basis points more than Libor from 165 basis points. By
decreasing the interest paid to holders of top-rated slices of a
CLO, the additional cash generated can be distributed to equity
investors.  Refinancing Right  As most CLOs sold in 2011 have two-year, non-call periods,
equity holders may now seek to take advantage of lower funding
costs to refinance the deals, RBS’s Kroszner said. The majority
of CLO equity investor retains the right to refinance debt
pieces, he said.  The manager and equity investor look at potential returns
based on where the fund is today and its ability to invest,
particularly once it reaches the end of its reinvestment period,
compared to the cost and structure of a new deal, Fraser said of
choosing to refinance.  Refinancing may allow equity holders to boost returns by
more than 2 percentage points, based on a 2012 CLO with a
weighted average funding cost of about 215 basis points compared
with 190 basis points currently, Kroszner said. The weighted
average funding cost is the average coupon spread paid to CLO
debt holders.  When AAAs were lower earlier this year, equity investors
may have seen an increase in annualized distributions of four to
five percentage points, according to RBS. The bank sees AAAs
decreasing from the current 130 basis-point area by the end of
the year and into 2014, which may increase the payout to equity
investors on a refinance. AAA spreads may need to continue to
tighten to spur more refinancings.  “We expect the trend of refinancings to continue,”
Kroszner said. “The bulk of post-crisis CLOs don’t exit their
non-call periods until after 2013 so we expect a majority of
refinancings to occur next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  