-- Coal Foe Named to FERC Is Latest Obama Pick Drawing Ire
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-08-20T20:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/coal-foe-named-to-ferc-is-latest-obama-pick-drawing-ire.html
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to
head a little-known energy commission has become the latest
appointee drawn into the contentious debate over  climate change .  The nomination of Ron Binz to be chairman of the U.S.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has sparked enough
opposition that environmentalists have hired a public-relations
firm to aid his Senate confirmation. Binz has drawn the ire of
coal-industry interests for advocating policies that mining
companies said encouraged the conversion of  power plants  to
natural gas when he served as Colorado’s top utility regulator.  “He’s not a regulator, he’s an activist,” Amy Oliver
Cooke, director of the  Energy Policy Center  at the Independence
Institute in Denver that advocates for limited government, said
in an interview.  The Green Tech Action Fund, a San Francisco-based non-profit that backs green energy technology, has hired VennSquared
Communications LLC, a Washington-based political consultancy, to
advocate on Binz’s behalf. The fund is affiliated with the
Energy Foundation, which reported almost $100 million in revenue
in 2011 and has connections to hedge fund billionaire Tom Steyer, an Obama fundraiser and opponent of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
proposed Keystone XL pipeline.  Energy Flashpoint  Binz’s nomination is the latest flashpoint in the battle
between fossil-fuel and clean-energy groups as Obama makes
tackling climate change a key goal of his second term. FERC
nominees don’t usually have the support of public-relations
firms, and the push for Binz follows an Internet campaign this
year by groups including the  Sierra Club  and  Natural Resources
Defense Council  to support the nomination of Gina McCarthy, now
the Environmental Protection Agency’s administrator.  The criticism of Binz “fails to paint an accurate picture
of who Ron was as a regulator, who he is as a person,” said
Skip Arnold, executive director of Energy Outreach  Colorado , a
Denver-based non-profit group that helps low-income consumers
afford electricity. “At his roots, Ron is a consumer
advocate,” Arnold said in a phone interview.  Binz directed Colorado’s Office of Consumer Counsel from
1984 to 1995.  Nomination Challenges  The debate over Binz also underscores a growing challenge
for nominees in general. In the past, a candidate lined up a key
lawmaker to help win Senate confirmation. Now, with Congress in
gridlock over many issues, supporters and opponents of nominees
to lead agencies are conducting campaigns.  “Every aspect of public policy is lobbied these days, and
with the difficulty of getting executive nominees confirmed, it
doesn’t surprise me at all that this has occurred,”  Thomas Mann , a senior fellow in governance studies at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington , said in a phone interview.  While the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee
hasn’t scheduled a hearing to consider Binz’s nomination,
conservatives and the  mining industry  in Colorado have already
taken aim at him for backing legislation that they say forced
coal plants to switch to natural gas at consumers’ expense. The
Wall Street Journal’s editorial page called Binz “the most
important and radical Obama nominee you’ve never heard of.”  Binz declined an interview request, saying he hasn’t
granted interviews since Obama announced his nomination June 27.  Plaudits Readied  His allies have been prepared for the controversy, however.
Hours after the White House announced its choice for the FERC
chairman, VennSquared issued a statement with plaudits from the
chairmen of  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG) ,  Xcel Energy
Inc. (XEL)  and Lola Spradley, a Republican former speaker of the
Colorado House of Representatives.  VennSquared’s support is an “insurance policy” so stories
about Binz are accurate when “anybody with a blog can sit out
there and make an assertion,” Michael Meehan, the firm’s
president, said in an interview.  VennSquared doesn’t lobby, and it doesn’t have plans for an
Internet campaign to support Binz, according to Meehan. The firm
is helping to connect media outlets with people who have worked
with Binz or who support his nomination, he said.  The public-relations push for Binz surfaced as
environmental groups and fossil-fuel industries duel over
government’s role in protecting air and water.  The campaign to support McCarthy included the website
 standwithgina.com  and a Facebook  page . Republican senators led
by  David Vitter  of  Louisiana  dragged out the review, posing more
than 1,000 questions to McCarthy, and boycotted a meeting to
consider the nomination.  Four Months  The Senate confirmed McCarthy on July 18, more than four
months after Obama named her to lead the EPA.  “You have to be prepared for people whose stated goals are
to stop stuff,” said Meehan, a former aide to Democratic
senators including  John Kerry , now the secretary of state,
 Barbara Boxer  and former Majority Leader Tom Daschle. He said
Binz’s critics may “cherry pick pieces of fact and put it out
of context.”  If confirmed, Binz would succeed FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff, who turned the agency from a sleepy regulator of
the electric and natural gas network into an enforcement
authority after Congress expanded its powers in 2005. FERC, an
independent government agency, oversees the nation’s interstate
transport of electricity and natural gas.  Action Fund  Wellinghoff also backed renewable energy and efficiency
technologies. Advocates for Binz want to ensure FERC continues
in that direction. The Green Tech Action Fund, which describes
itself as a nonpartisan, not-for-profit grant-making
organization, has the same street address as the 22-year-old
Energy Foundation. The foundation in 2011 issued $76.4 million
in grants on $96.8 million in revenue, the latest available  tax
records  show.  Binz last year received at least $10,000 from the Energy
Foundation for consulting work, according to a personal-finance
disclosure document filed with the Office of Government Ethics
in June.  Binz’s opponents, including the Colorado Mining
Association, say that as a state regulator he blocked coal use
at utility customers’ expense, while benefiting Minneapolis-based Xcel, which has operations in Colorado.  Mining Critics  The Colorado Public Utilities Commission under Binz allowed
Xcel to receive a 10.5 percent rate of return on construction
costs associated with building natural-gas generators, Cooke and
co-author William Yeatman wrote in a 2010 paper. The plan
stemmed from a Colorado clean-energy law backed by then-Governor
Bill Ritter, a Democrat, they said.  Cooke and Chris Horner, a lawyer for the Burke, Virginia-based Free Market Environmental Law Clinic, on July 29 filed a
Freedom of Information Act request with FERC to find out whether
the agency has had any contact with VennSquared or the Green
Tech Action Fund, even before Obama announced Binz’s nomination.  “Ron Binz’s regulatory approach as chairman of the
Colorado Public Utilities Commission was sound,” Amy
Fuerstenau, the fund’s executive director, said in an e-mail.
“Our support includes helping to make sure accurate information
about Ron and his record are in the media.”  Colorado energy prices from November through April have
remained relatively flat for at least the last six years, said
Arnold, the executive director of Energy Outreach Colorado who
has known Binz since the early 1990s.  Binz is a “balanced regulator,” he said. “He looks out
for the public interest.”  ‘Damn-the-Voters’  The Wall Street Journal described the FERC nominee in
different terms.  “Mr. Binz is part of the White House’s damn-the-voters
strategy of imposing through regulation what Congress won’t
pass,” according to the paper’s July 30 editorial, citing his
comments that the Colorado agency was both an arbiter and an
advocate. “Mr. Binz is the latest presidential nominee who
doesn’t understand the difference between making laws and
enforcing them.”  VennSquared’s Meehan said he isn’t surprised by the
editorial or the dispute over Binz. Fights over nominees can
become an extension of electoral politics and policy disputes
and are less about a candidate’s qualifications, he said.  “The rule of thumb in political Washington is to prepare
for the worst and hope for the best,” Meehan said.  -- Editors: Jon Morgan, Steve Geimann  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  