-- Cruz Renounces Canadian Citizenship Amid 2016 Speculation
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-08-20T04:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/cruz-renounces-canadian-citizenship-amid-2016-speculation.html
Republican U.S. Senator  Ted Cruz  of
Texas is renouncing his Canadian citizenship, removing a
potential distraction to a possible 2016 presidential campaign.  Cruz, 42, was born in Calgary to an American mother,
automatically making him a U.S. citizen. The Dallas Morning News
reported Aug. 18 that Cruz also automatically became a citizen
of Canada upon his birth. The newspaper posted a copy of Cruz’s
birth certificate in a story on its website.  “Because I was a U.S. citizen at birth, because I left
Calgary when I was 4 and have lived my entire life since then in
the U.S., and because I have never taken affirmative steps to
claim Canadian citizenship, I assumed that was the end of the
matter,” Cruz said yesterday in a statement, according to the
Austin American-Statesman newspaper.  “Now the Dallas Morning News says that I may technically
have dual citizenship. Assuming that is true, then sure, I will
renounce any Canadian citizenship,” Cruz said. “Nothing
against  Canada , but I’m an American by birth and as a U.S.
Senator, I believe I should be only an American.”  The U.S. Constitution says that “no person except a
natural born citizen, or a citizen of the  United States ,” may
be eligible for the presidency. The Constitution doesn’t specify
what the term “natural born citizen” means, and it doesn’t
address dual citizenship.  The president must also be at least 35 years old and have
resided within the U.S. for at least 14 years.  Obama’s Birthplace  In April 2011, President  Barack Obama  released a copy of
his long-form birth certificate in response to what he said was
“silliness” by some political opponents who doubted he had
been born a U.S. citizen. Obama, 52, was born in Honolulu,
 Hawaii , to an American mother and a Kenyan father.  So-called birthers questioning Obama’s citizenship -- and
thus his eligibility to serve as president -- included
billionaire businessman  Donald Trump , who flirted with a bid for
the 2012 Republican presidential nomination.  Trump, in an interview broadcast Aug. 11 on ABC’s “This
Week,” said “perhaps not” when asked whether he viewed Cruz
as eligible to be president.  Obama’s Republican opponent in the 2008 presidential race,
Senator  John McCain , 76, of  Arizona , was born of American
parents in the Panama Canal Zone, prompting some to question
whether he met the definition of “natural born citizen.”  Cruz’s father was a Cuban citizen who fled the country in
1957 and studied at the University of Texas. He and his wife
were working in the oil business in Canada when their son was
born. The elder Cruz became a U.S. citizen in 2005.  Iowa Visits  The younger Cruz has made political visits this year to
 Iowa  and  South Carolina , two states that traditionally hold
early nomination contests in presidential election years. He is
set to appear Aug. 23 in  New Hampshire , the state that
traditionally holds the first presidential primary.  Cruz was elected to the Senate in 2012, defeating a more
politically experienced Republican in the party primary with the
help of Tea Party activists who want to curb spending, taxes and
government regulations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  