-- Czechs Trigger Early Election to End Political Turmoil
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   M i c h a e l   W i n f r e y
-- 2013-08-20T15:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/czechs-trigger-early-election-to-end-political-turmoil.html
Czech lawmakers agreed to shorten
their term in office and initiate an early election to end
policy paralysis that’s curbing the country’s ability to revive
economic growth after a record-long  recession .  The motion to cut parliament’s tenure, a condition for
calling the snap ballot, was backed by 140 deputies in the 200-seat assembly in  Prague  with seven against. President Milos Zeman, who must formally dissolve the chamber, has said he’ll
schedule the vote for Oct. 25-26 after approval of the motion.  An early ballot would end political turmoil that erupted
after illegal-spying and graft allegations toppled ex-Prime
Minister Petr Necas’s pro-austerity government in June. Zeman
snubbed Necas’s coalition by naming his own interim cabinet,
which lost a parliamentary confidence vote this month, extending
the crisis and hindering the $196 billion  economy’s  pursuit of
measures to aid the economy’s recovery.  “The current political situation is limiting the ability
of the technocrat government to untie the overly tight fiscal
straitjacket,” Vaclav  France , an analyst at Raiffeisenbank AS
in Prague, said by phone. “The government that will emerge from
the next election will have room to loosen the fiscal stance, of
course in compliance with the European Union limit.”  While Czech borrowing costs have risen since the start of
the political crisis, those of regional peers Poland and  Hungary 
have increased more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield on 10-year  koruna bonds  was at 2.34 percent as of 4:34
p.m. today, holding at 49 basis points, or 0.49 percentage
point, below comparable U.S. Treasuries.  Election Push  The three parties that backed Necas’s previous
administration had wanted a chance to form a new government
before the confidence vote. Their alliance disintegrated during
the session, prompting the TOP09 party to agree to join the
 Social Democratic Party  in its push for an early ballot.  The Social Democrats have increased their lead in opinion
polls since Necas’s cabinet collapsed and had 34 percent support
in a June 14-July 14 survey by Prague-based Median, more than
the 22 percent the party got in the 2010 election.  The Communists were next with 18.5 percent in the survey of
1,377 people. TOP09 had 15 percent support, while Necas’s Civic
Democrats had 13 percent, according to the poll, which was
published July 24 and had a 1 percentage point margin of error
for smaller parties and 3 percentage points for larger parties.  Budget Savings  The previous government focused on narrowing the budget gap
by trimming investments and raising taxes. While undershooting
2011 and 2012  deficit  targets helped cut borrowing costs, it
frustrated the public and curbed private consumption,
contributing to six quarters of economic contraction that ended
in March, the central bank has said.  The Czech  economy  exited its longest recession on record in
the second quarter, when gross domestic product advanced 0.7
percent from the previous three months, preliminary data
released last week showed. GDP will drop 0.4 percent this year,
the  International Monetary Fund  predicts.  The  Social Democrats  want to support the economy with more
state spending, while keeping the fiscal shortfall below the
EU’s 3 percent of GDP limit, shadow Finance Minister Jan Mladek
said Aug. 15. If in power after the election, the party plans to
boost state revenue by increasing taxes for higher earners and
some businesses, including financial, energy and
telecommunications companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Winfrey in Prague at 
 mwinfrey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  