-- Czechs Head For Snap Elections to End Political Turmoil
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   M i c h a e l   W i n f r e y
-- 2013-08-21T08:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/czechs-head-for-snap-vote-to-end-turmoil-after-record-recession.html
The Czech Republic is moving toward
early elections after months of political upheaval, a move that
could bring higher spending to help revive economic growth
following a record-long recession.  Lawmakers in  Prague  voted yesterday to shorten their term
in office, a condition to trigger the snap ballot sought by the
poll-leading Social Democrats. President Milos Zeman, who must
formally dissolve the chamber, has said he’ll schedule the vote
for Oct. 25-26 after approval of the motion.  An early ballot would end political turmoil that erupted
after illegal-spying and graft charges toppled ex-Prime Minister
Petr Necas’s pro-austerity government in June. Zeman snubbed
Necas’s coalition by naming his own interim cabinet, which lost
a parliamentary confidence vote this month, hindering the $196
billion  economy’s  pursuit of measures to aid recovery.  “The growing feeling of economic insecurity has become a
major concern for voters seeking a bigger social safety net and
pro-growth measures,” Otilia Dhand, an analyst at Teneo
Intelligence, a London-based political risk evaluator, said by
e-mail after the vote. “The preferences of the electorate have
been gravitating toward the left of the political spectrum for
quite some time.”  Bonds, Koruna  While Czech borrowing costs have risen since the start of
the political crisis, those of regional peers Poland and  Hungary 
have increased more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield on 10-year  koruna bonds  was 2.33 percent as of 9:28
a.m. in Prague, holding at 49 basis points, or 0.49 percentage
point, below comparable U.S. Treasuries. The koruna was little
changed at 25.784 against the euro.  The previous government focused on narrowing the budget gap
by trimming investments and raising taxes. While undershooting
2011 and 2012  deficit  targets helped cut borrowing costs, it
frustrated the public and curbed private consumption,
contributing to a 1 1/2-year slump, the central bank has said.  The  economy  exited its recession in the second quarter,
when gross domestic product advanced 0.7 percent from the
previous three months, preliminary data released last week
showed. GDP will drop 0.4 percent this year, the International
Monetary Fund predicts.  Purchasing Power  Czech GDP per capita in terms of purchasing power, a gauge
of a country’s economic performance, declined to 79 percent of
the European Union average in 2012 from 83 percent at the end of
2009, the year before Necas took office, according to  Eurostat ,
the EU’s statistics bureau.  The Social Democrats will try to “undo the damage that
occurred in the three years under the government of Petr
Necas,” leader Bohuslav Sobotka told journalists after
yesterday’s vote. “We’re hoping that people will decide in
favor of changes that must take place after the years of right-wing rule.”  The party wants to support the economy through higher
spending, while keeping the fiscal  shortfall  below the EU’s 3
percent of GDP limit, shadow Finance Minister Jan Mladek said
Aug. 15. Mladek plans to boost state revenue by increasing taxes
for higher earners and some businesses, including financial,
energy and telecommunications companies.  No Alliance  The three parties that backed Necas’s previous
administration had wanted a chance to form a new government
before the confidence vote. Their alliance disintegrated during
the session, prompting the TOP09 party to join the Social
Democratic Party in its push for an early ballot.  The Social Democrats have increased their lead in opinion
polls since Necas’s cabinet collapsed and had 34 percent support
in a June 14-July 14 survey by Prague-based Median, more than
the 22 percent the party got in the 2010 election.  The Communists were next with 18.5 percent in the survey of
1,377 people. TOP09 had 15 percent support, while Necas’s Civic
Democrats had 13 percent, according to the poll, which was
published July 24 and had a 1 percentage point margin of error
for smaller parties and 3 percentage points for larger parties.  Zeman plans to meet leaders of parliamentary parties on
Aug. 23 to discuss early elections, the CTK newswire reported,
citing Vratislav Mynar, the head of president’s office.  The elections will probably bring fiscal loosening and a
“reversal of some reforms” adopted by Necas’s government,
according to Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based emerging-markets economist at Nomura International Plc.  “A wider deficit and additional spending could easily be
supported by excess liquidity in the local banking system and
would help boost growth -- both directly and via sentiment,”
Montalto said yesterday by e-mail. “We’d worry about the
reversal of reforms, however.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Winfrey in Prague at 
 mwinfrey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  