-- Delek Group Rises to Record on Unit’s Share Sale: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-08-20T14:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/delek-group-rises-to-record-on-unit-s-share-sale-tel-aviv-mover.html
Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG)  rose to a record
after the company said the sale of a unit’s shares would result
in a profit and on bets an offer to buy the outstanding stock in
another subsidiary will succeed.  The shares of the  group , whose interests include the off-shore Leviathan and Tamar natural gas sites, climbed 3.7 percent
to 1,112 shekels by the close of trading, the highest level
since listing on the Tel Aviv bourse in February 2000. The
volume was 2.4 times the three-month daily average, with the
stock gaining the most by percentage points on the benchmark
 TA-25 (TA-25)  Index, which slipped 0.1 percent.  Delek Group said on Aug. 18 it would post a profit of 450
million to 500 million shekels in the second quarter following
the sale of shares in  Delek US (DK)  Holdings Inc. Earlier this month,
it offered to buy the outstanding stock of  Delek Energy Systems
Ltd. (DLEN)  in which it already holds an 87 percent stake, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The sale of Delek US shares “is generating significant
profit for the company,” Ella Fried, a senior analyst at Bank
Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by phone today.  The result of the offer made on Delek Energy’s stock is
expected on Aug. 28, Itay Gore, a spokesman for Delek Group,
said by phone today.  “Some investors are also optimistic about a positive
outcome of a buyback offer for Delek Energy shares, which if
successful will enhance efficiencies and flatten the company’s
holding structure,” Fried said.  The group’s shares have more than doubled in the past 12
months, compared with a jump of 9.3 percent in Israel’s
benchmark gauge, as the Tamar gas field started production in
March and the group sold non-energy assets to focus on its oil
and gas business. It has offloaded stakes in  Delek Automotive
Systems Ltd. (DLEA)  and Delek US in the past year.  Delek Group owns shares in the Tamar and Leviathan fields
via stakes in  Delek Drilling-LP (DEDRL)  and  Avner Oil Exploration LLP. (AVNRL) 
Delek Drilling advanced 2.1 percent today and Avner gained 2.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  