-- Dollar Advances as Fed Minutes Show Broad Support for Tapering
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-08-21T21:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/dollar-halts-decline-against-yen-as-market-awaits-fed-minutes.html
The dollar advanced as minutes of
the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting showed officials were
“broadly comfortable” with a plan to start reducing bond
buying later this year if the economy improves.  The U.S. currency rose earlier as sales of previously owned
U.S. homes climbed in July to the fastest pace since November
2009.  Indonesia ’s rupiah slumped to a four-year low and  India ’s
rupee fell to a record as emerging-market assets declined on
concern a paring of stimulus under the Fed’s quantitative-easing
strategy would intensify outflows from the currencies. The
Canadian dollar dropped to a six-week low as the tender of
commodities-exporting nations dropped.  “It’s supportive of the tapering in the fall -- I don’t
think it’s enough to knock it either way, from September being
favored over December or the opposite,” Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
“I don’t see anything here that’s a huge commitment to doing
anything just yet.”  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 major peers, rallied 0.6 percent to 1,026.73 as of 5
p.m.  New York  time, the biggest gain on a closing-basis since
Aug. 1.  The dollar rose 0.4 percent to 97.68 yen after gaining 0.7
percent, the biggest advance in a week. The U.S. currency gained
0.5 percent to $1.3355 per euro, halting a two-day decline. The
euro was little changed at 130.46 yen.  Treasury 10-year note yields approached the highest level
in two years as commodities fell for a third day.  Rupiah, Rupee  The rupiah slid for a sixth day versus the dollar even
after Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said
yesterday the central bank will remain in the currency and bond
markets to stabilize the currency.  The rupiah declined 0.8 percent to 10,775 per dollar after
slumping to 10,818, the weakest since April 2009. India’s rupee
depreciated as much as 2.1 percent to 64.55 per dollar.  “To the extent that QE tapering implies reduced global
liquidity, I think  emerging markets  will remain very sensitive
to the Fed outlook -- it’s not something that’s going to reverse
overnight,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist
at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“We remain cautious on the commodity currencies, especially in
the short term. We think it’s still not a very supportive
environment for those currencies.”  The Canadian dollar fell for a fourth day, dropping 0.8
percent to C$1.0474. The Australian dollar slid 1.1 percent to
89.69 U.S. cents, after declining to 89.66 cents, the weakest
since Aug. 7. The New Zealand currency plunged 1.7 percent to
78.46 cents after touching 78.44, lowest since Aug. 6.  ‘Not Yet  “Almost all committee members agreed that a change in the
purchase program was not yet appropriate,” and a few said ‘it
might soon be time to slow somewhat the pace of purchases as
outlined in that plan,’’ according to the record of the Federal
Open Market Committee’s July 30-31 gathering released in
 Washington .  The Fed staff continued to work on tools for the exit from
record stimulus, briefing FOMC participants on the possibility
of “a fixed-rate, full-allotment overnight reverse repurchase
agreement facility as an additional tool for managing money
market interest rates.” The minutes said such a tool would
allow the FOMC to offer an overnight, risk-free instrument to a
“wide range of market participants.”  ‘Market Expectations’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s and the FOMC will probably
reduce the $85 billion in monthly asset purchases at the group’s
Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of 48 economists in
an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg survey. The median estimate called for a
cut to $75 billion each month.  The minutes show the Fed “did not wish to alter market
expectations, taking a view that the market had essentially
heard the message appropriately,”  Alan Ruskin , the global head
of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in
New York, wrote in a note. “Most other asset markets are taking
their lead from Treasuries.”  Purchases of  previously owned houses  advanced 6.5 percent
to a 5.39 million annual rate last month, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed in Washington. The
median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected
a 5.15 million pace.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $22 billion, compared with $29 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the euro-dollar  exchange rate  amounted to $2.8 billion, the
largest share of trades at 13 percent. Options on the Australian
dollar-U.S. dollar rate totaled $2.4 billion, or 11 percent.  Euro-dollar options trading was 18 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Aussie-greenback options
trading was 9 percent less than average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  