-- Dryness Seen by Oil World Delaying Brazil’s Soybean Plantings
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-20T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/dryness-seen-by-oil-world-delaying-brazil-s-soybean-plantings.html
Dry weather in  South America  is
threatening to delay soybean planting in Brazil and reduce the
area Argentine farmers sow with corn, Oil World said.  Little rain is in the forecast for Mato Grosso, Brazil’s
main soybean producing state, in the next two weeks, and
precipitation expected in  Argentina  probably won’t be enough to
replenish soil moisture, the Hamburg-based research company said
in a report today. Argentina’s corn area will probably be
reduced by about 5 percent. Brazil is the world’s top soybean
exporter and Argentina ranks second for corn shipments, after
the U.S., according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  “In Argentina dryness has affected wheat and rapeseed and
raised the risk of insufficient soil moisture when summer crop
plantings begin,” Oil World said. In  Brazil , “if sizable
rainfall fails to occur in September, the start of the new
soybean growing season will be unfavorable. It is still early,
but conditions could become problematic and production prospects
for soybeans and other crops could deteriorate.”  Brazil’s soybean plantings are scheduled to start Sept. 22,
Oil World said. Corn planting in Argentina also usually begins
in September, according to the USDA.  In Argentina, soybean farmers are holding back on sales on
expectations for a devaluation of the currency, Oil World said.
The 13 percent weakening in the real in the past seven months
against the dollar has helped Brazilian farmers, it said.  Frost in Brazil’s Parana state last month cut the country’s
corn and wheat crops by 1 million metric tons each, and will
“considerably raise Brazilian wheat import requirements in
July/June 2013-14,” Oil World said. The government estimates
Brazil’s wheat imports will be 5.2 million tons, according to
the report.  In the European Union, the rapeseed crop estimate was
lowered 200,000 tons from two weeks ago to 20.5 million tons,
Oil World said. Production was lower than anticipated in France
and  Germany , according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  