-- EA Asks Appeals Court to Delay Ruling on Athletes’ Suit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-08-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/ea-asks-appeals-court-to-delay-ruling-on-athletes-suit.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  urged a federal
appeals court in  California  to put on hold a ruling that bars a
First Amendment defense to lawsuits accusing the company of
profiting from using likenesses of college athletes.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Philadelphia ruled the
opposite in a similar case and said the company was
constitutionally protected from claims by college athletes who
allege EA violated their rights by using their likenesses in
videogames, company lawyers said in a filing yesterday in the
U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco.  Electronic Arts intends to ask the U.S. Supreme Court to
review both rulings and asked that the July 31 decision by the
San Francisco-based court, which takes effect Aug. 21, be put on
hold for 90 days to allow the company to petition the high
court, said Kelli Sager, an EA attorney, in the filing.  In a 2-1 ruling in a case brought in 2009 by former  Arizona 
State University quarterback Sam Keller, the San Francisco-based
court said EA wasn’t protected against Keller’s suit because its
“NCAA Football” games, which use athletes’ height, weight,
hair color and skin tone, though not their names, “literally
creates Keller in the very setting in which he has achieved
renown.”  Former student basketball and football players allege that
Electronic Arts and the NCAA, the governing body of most U.S.
intercollegiate sports, conspired to use their likenesses in
video games without their permission and without paying them,
violating antitrust law and their rights of publicity.  Robert Carey, an attorney representing Keller, said he 
opposes EA's request. Once the ruling takes effect, Keller's 
lawyers will begin requesting documents from EA to prepare for
trial, he said by phone.  ``We've been waiting a long, long time to proceed with the
case,'' Carey said.  The case is Keller v. Electronic Arts, 10-15387, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  