-- Medical Marijuana Spawning Pump-and-Dump Scams: Finra
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-08-20T18:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/medical-marijuana-spawning-pump-and-dump-scams-finra.html
Con artists are taking advantage of
the legalization of medical marijuana to lure investors into
buying stock in weed-related companies, regulators said.  The scammers may be promoting the shares, then selling them
to gullible investors in what’s called a “pump-and-dump”
scheme, the  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  said today
in an e-mailed statement. The companies are touting their growth
potential as more states allow pot for medical or recreational
use, Wall Street’s self-funded regulator said.  “We’ve seen a rise over the last couple of months in
marijuana-related potential stock scams,” Gerri Walsh, Finra’s
senior vice president for investor education, said in a phone
interview. “We often see with these stock-fraud scams that the
next big thing, the cons tend to circle around.”  Walsh said that she couldn’t say which companies attracted
her suspicion because Finra has a policy of not discussing
potential cases it refers to other regulators. Investors should
compare the contents of press releases and promotional e-mails
to the companies’ financial statements, she said.  Washington  and  Colorado  legalized the drug for recreational
use in November. Eighteen states and Washington, D.C., allow the
medical use of marijuana and 11 permit sales through
dispensaries, according to the Denver-based  National Conference
of State Legislatures . National legalization has the potential
to start a $35 billion to $45 billion a year industry, according
to Bloomberg Industries.  ‘Absurd’ Criticism  Investors should be wary of companies whose executives have
been jailed, according to Finra’s alert, which gives the example
of an unnamed chief executive officer who spent nine years in
prison for running one of the largest drug-smuggling operations
in history. Bruce Perlowin, CEO of Las Vegas-based  Hemp Inc. (HEMP) ,
said he thinks the regulator is talking about him and that it’s
“absurd” to criticize him for his experience dealing
marijuana.  “That’s not a negative, nor is it something I’ve ever
hidden,” Perlowin said in a phone interview. “It means I know
marijuana, I know logistics. I ran one of the largest marijuana
smuggling operations in the history of the U.S.”  Stock in Perlowin’s company, which sells hemp vitamins,
candles and sexual enhancers, jumped to 10 cents a share in
February and traded for 1.5 cents at 2:30 p.m., giving it a
market value of $17.3 million. The company had $426,000 in
 revenue  in the first quarter, according to  OTC Markets Group
Inc. (OTCM) , owner of the marketplace where the stock trades.  Pot Kiosks  “These are real products,” Perlowin said. “I’m the
biggest investor in hemp out of my own pocket.”  Medbox Inc. (MDBX) , which sells secure kiosks that can dispense
marijuana, dropped 17 percent to $31.05 as of 2:30 p.m. in  New
York  following Finra’s alert. After the stock spiked as high as
$215 a share in November, the company put out a statement
warning investors that the price might not be justified.  Bruce Bedrick, CEO of the  West Hollywood , California-based
firm, said today in a press release that he approves of Finra’s
warning.  “There are companies and individuals that prey on
investors looking to enter this fast-growing market,” Bedrick
said. “We want these fly-by-night operations out of our
industry, and support any regulatory authority in calling
attention to the problem.”  Medbox generated $3.53 million of  revenue  last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  