-- Medtronic Plans Expansion to Health Services, CEO Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-08-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/medtronic-plans-expansion-to-health-services-ceo-says.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  is looking beyond
medical devices, seeking to expand within hospitals and connect
directly with patients as it moves into a health-services
industry projected to grow as Obamacare expands coverage.  The world’s biggest maker of devices to regulate the
heart’s rhythm signaled its move last week with its $200 million
acquisition of Cardiocom, which provides monitoring services to
patients with chronic diseases. It is pursuing contracts with
about a dozen large European medical centers to run their
cardiac catheterization laboratories, where hearts are examined
and stents are implanted to prop open arteries.  The new business model for the Minneapolis-based company
coincides with growth in the aging population and projections
that the U.S. health law will add more patients to the system.
Providing services to help manage care, and proving that
Medtronic’s devices offer cost-saving benefits, will gain more
patients, Chief Executive Officer Omar Ishrak said.  “It’s a very much intentional strategy to build out a
solutions company,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“In this transformation, it’s not that we are leaving stuff
behind and going somewhere else. It’s that we are expanding what
we have, beyond the episode of therapy itself. That way we can
get full value for the benefits and make sure they are
optimized.”  ‘Value-Based Care’  Health-care spending is under intense scrutiny as costs
rise amid weak economic growth. Medtronic has focused on
quantifying the value of the company’s products since Ishrak
took the helm of the medical device company in June 2011.  “Disease and patient management is definitely a way to go
in the new era of health-care reform,” said Jason McGorman, an
analyst at Bloomberg Industries in Princeton, New Jersey.
“Health-care reform is a shift to value-based care, rather than
quantity of care. Any way Medtronic can help improve outcomes is
generally the way health care is moving. The trick for them is
to capitalize on that in the right areas.”  Questions about quality and overuse of products where
Medtronic has a leading position, including stents, heart rhythm
devices like defibrillators and spinal products, led to price
cuts and other pressure. Ishrak’s goal has been to prove the
company’s technology can save money and improve health, for
example by showing a device that synchronizes electrical
activity may keep heart failure patients out of the hospital.  Heart Failure  With the Cardiocom acquisition, Medtronic plans to focus
first on heart failure patients. Ensuring those patients get the
care they need and improve their health will expand Medtronic’s
reach beyond the 10 percent of patients who already have their
 products , he said.  “We can reach a broader set of patients who may or may not
have had our devices,” Ishrak said. “We have no intention of
forcing them to use our devices. We want to manage the entire
disease state, and provide customers with the care they need to
be as healthy as possible.”  Additional announcements on Medtronic’s strategy and a
deeper move into patient services are planned, Ishrak said.  The move has the potential to reduce the company’s profit
margins, particularly because devices are known for their high
margins, McGorman, the Bloomberg Industries analyst, said in a
telephone interview. Medtronic has recognized that the change in
focus for health care is coming, “and it’s here to stay,” he
said.  Quarterly Earnings  Medtronic yesterday reported fiscal first-quarter sales of
$4.08 billion  that missed analysts’ estimates on weaker demand
for defibrillators and the InFuse bone-growth product. Profit
excluding one-time items matched the 88 cents average estimate.
 Net income  in the three months ended July 26 increased 10
percent to $953 million, or 93 cents a share.  The company declined 2.4 percent to $52.83 at the close
yesterday in New York. Medtronic gained 29 percent this year
through yesterday.  Ishrak said he isn’t worried the new moves will erode the
company’s profit margins or slow its growth. He plans to use new
technology to improve profitability and the size of the
operation to streamline costs.  In hospital catheterization labs, Medtronic is automating
the way products are acquired, smoothing the flow of patients
through the system and crafting new payment options.  “That’s the kind of relationship we are building with big
hospital systems,” Ishrak said. “We’re also looking at filling
this capability out fairly soon.”  While Medtronic may look to do future  acquisitions  to build
the business, it will also grow some portions in-house.  “Independent businesses do exist, but no one has the
technical and clinical expertise that we have,” he said.
“Coupled with an elaborate infrastructure to manage patients,
that’s a pretty unique combination.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  