-- Medtronic’s Sales Miss Estimates on Defibrillator Demand
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-08-20T20:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/medtronic-s-quarterly-profit-rises-on-demand-for-heart-devices.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s biggest
maker of heart-rhythm devices, said fiscal first-quarter sales
missed analysts’ estimates on weaker-than-expected demand for
defibrillators and the InFuse bone-growth product.  Net income  in the three months ended July 26 increased 10
percent to $953 million, or 93 cents a share, from $864 million,
or 83 cents, a year earlier, the Minneapolis-based company said
today in a statement. Revenue of $4.08 billion fell short of the
$4.12 billion average of 16 analysts’s estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit excluding one-time items matched the 88 cents
average estimate of 20 analysts.  Sales of Medtronic’s CoreValve, used to repair a damaged
aortic valves, were stopped in  Germany  after a district court in
Mannheim in July found the devices infringed a patent held by
 Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW)  Chief Executive Officer Omar Ishrak
reiterated the company’s  earnings  forecast of $3.80 to $3.85 a
share, excluding certain items, for fiscal year 2014, saying
sales of other new products should replace any lost demand for
CoreValve in Germany.  “Despite clearly strong execution to-date, with
incremental headwinds as we move through the year -- including,
but not limited to, competitive outside the U.S. defibrillator
and pacemaker launches as well as a CoreValve injunction in
Germany -- we continue to think Medtronic’s fiscal year 2014
organic sales growth and EPS guidance may be at risk,” said
Danielle Antalffy, an analyst with Leerink Swann Research in New
York, in a note to clients today.  Ardian Purchase  The company’s expenses related to the 2011 acquisition of
Ardian Inc. fell by $96 million. Medtronic purchased Ardian for
the company’s hypertension device that destroys nerves near the
kidneys. The milestone payments due to Ardian shareholders will
be lower than originally anticipated due to slower-than-expected
demand in Europe, where the device is currently sold, and a
slower than anticipated approval process in the U.S.  Medtronic fell 2.4 percent to $52.83 at the close in  New
York . The shares have  gained  29 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  