-- Elmore Leonard, Best-Selling Author of Crime Novels, Dies at 87
-- B y   F e l i x   K e s s l e r
-- 2013-08-20T14:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/elmore-leonard-best-selling-author-of-crime-novels-dies-at-87.html
Elmore Leonard, who wrote “Get
Shorty,” “Be Cool” and dozens of other best-sellers praised
for their lean style and gritty dialogue, has died. He was 87.  His death was confirmed by the  Associated Press . He died
today at his home, after suffering a stroke last month,
according to Leonard’s official  website . He lived in Bloomfield
Township,  Michigan , a suburb of  Detroit .  British author Martin Amis  called  Leonard the “Dickens of
Detroit” and said several of his books were on Nobel Prize
winner Saul Bellow’s bookshelves, clear evidence that he was a
writer’s writer.  “There was no one quite like Elmore Leonard” for
providing “narrative pleasure in a prose miraculously purged of
all false qualities,” Bellow said, according to Amis.  Leonard was irked by what he saw as backhanded accolades,
such as the  New York  Times dubbing him “the greatest living
writer of crime fiction.”  “I don’t know what that means,” he told Time magazine in
2005. “To tell you the truth, I don’t read much in my field. I
didn’t learn anything from Raymond Chandler or the other guy,
Dashiell Hammett,” two writers to whom he was often compared.  Ernest Hemingway ’s declarative sentences and spare prose
were a greater influence on him, Leonard said.  “I’d open ‘For Whom the Bell Tolls’ and start reading
anywhere for inspiration,” he told the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper in 1998. “I loved his work -- the short dialogue, all
that white space, his constructions, his use of participles.”  Tough Guys  As for the “realistic” language of his low-life criminals
and tough guys, “I just make it up,” Leonard said. After
creating a character, his attitude and the way he talks, Leonard
said, “you know what his angle is going to be, what his beef is 
or if he’s funny.”  Renowned as an author of crime fiction, Leonard started as
a writer of Westerns. His short story “3:10 to Yuma” became a
1957 movie, and was remade in 2007. His 1961 novel “Hombre”
was made into a film starring  Paul Newman  six years later.  Elmore John Leonard Jr., born in New Orleans on Oct. 11,
1925, had a nomadic childhood. His mother, Flora Rive Leonard,
organized family moves as his father, an executive with Detroit-based General Motors Corp., took jobs in various U.S. cities
before settling in Detroit in 1934.  Nicknamed “Dutch” as a youth after a 1930s baseball
pitcher, Leonard played ball in high school before enlisting in
the U.S. Navy in World War II.  ‘Commercial Approach’  After the war, he went to the University of Detroit where
he entered a short-story contest on a professor’s promise that
students who did would receive at least a “B” grade in
English.  “I’ve always been inspired in this somewhat commercial
approach toward writing,” Leonard said.  After graduating in 1950, he took a job at a Detroit
advertising agency and wrote at home before heading to work.  He married Beverly Cline in 1949 and sold his first story,
a Western, to Argosy magazine in 1951.  Leonard  said he chose Westerns because he “liked Western
movies and “wanted to sell to Hollywood.”  “I approached this with a desire to write but also to make
as much money as I could doing it,” he said.  He sold the screenplays to “Hombre,” “3:10 to Yuma,”
and “Joe Kidd,” which starred  Clint Eastwood , though it was
years before he could afford to stop writing ad copy.  From the start, Leonard’s stories had characters with
snappy lines that appealed to film makers and movie stars.  “I’ve been able to sell my books because they look easy to
shoot,” Leonard said. “‘They’re written in scenes, and stories
move through dialogue.”  Movie Making  More than 30 of Leonard’s books or stories became feature
 films  or TV movies. He wrote scripts for about a dozen of them,
though he came to dislike the movie-making process and sometimes
the final product even more.  He so disliked the 1985 movie version of his book
“Stick,” directed by Burt Reynolds, that Leonard ordered his
name removed from the credits.  At a movie-theater showing of “The Big Bounce,” his first
non-Western novel, he sat behind a couple and heard the woman
say, “This is the worst picture I ever saw in my life.”
Leonard agreed with her. “The three of us got up and left,” he
said.  There was a notable exception to Leonard’s negative
feelings about Hollywood.  “The movie of  ‘Get Shorty’  has done more for me than 35
books,” he said. The 1995 film, starring  John Travolta , stayed
true to the book’s characters, said Leonard, crediting director
Barry Sonnenfeld.  Details Matter  Leonard attributed his mastery of crime fiction mostly to
his imagination, though he did some research. He hung out at a
Detroit police station for a month or so, and was familiar with
the various locales he used in his work. Later, he hired a
Detroit magazine writer,  Gregg Sutter , as a researcher.  Sutter scouted locations and videotaped people in certain
jobs or situations, focusing on how they talked. For Leonard’s
“Cuba Libre” (1998), set in the Spanish-American War, Sutter
found the cost of transporting horses from  Arizona  to  Texas  and
then to  Havana .  In “Bandits,” a 1987 book about a jewel thief who tries
to go straight as a mortician, Sutter provided local color in
 New Orleans  while Leonard learned how corpses are prepared for
funerals.  To be sure, most people “have no real idea of what goes on
in funeral parlor embalming rooms, just the same as we have no
real idea of how hit men or small-time crooks talk,”  wrote  Paul
Challen in his biography of Leonard, “Get Dutch” (2000).  Sounds Real  “No matter how often the critics and casual fans blather
on about ‘authentic’ dialogue or setting,” Challen wrote,
“we’re really just taking Leonard’s word about this
authenticity -- it sounds real to us, so we say it’s real.”  Leonard wrote four pages every morning while holding down
an advertising job. Years later, he still wrote daily in
longhand, though a full day’s work might yield only two pages.  It got harder, though it was still “the most satisfying
thing I can imagine doing,” he said. “The notoriety that comes
later doesn’t compare to the doing of it.”  After a marriage of 28 years and five children, Leonard and
Cline divorced in 1977. In 1993 he married Christine Kent.  In addition to his novels and screenplays, Leonard produced
a pithy “10 Rules of Writing,” the most important being, “If
it sounds like writing, I rewrite it.” And, almost as
important: “Try to leave out the parts readers skip.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story: Felix
Kessler at   fkessler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  