-- Emerging Stocks Drop on Outflows as Ibovespa Snaps Rally
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-08-20T21:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/emerging-stocks-decline-to-five-week-low-as-currencies-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled to a
six-week low on concern that capital outflows will accelerate
amid prospects for reduced U.S. stimulus.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa
dropped for the first time in 10 days as steelmakers slumped.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 1.3 percent to 932.15,
the lowest since July 10. Steelmaker Usinas Siderurgicas de
Minas Gerais SA led Brazilian commodity producers lower, while
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  slid 1.2 percent in Moscow as oil sank. Egypt’s EGX
30 index of stocks rose 1.1 percent after a three-day plunge.
Poland’s zloty snapped a six-day decline versus the euro.  Investors withdrew $8.4 billion from developing-nation
exchange-traded funds this year as weakening economies from
 India  to  Indonesia  fueled pessimism in markets already concerned
the  Federal Reserve  will start cutting bond purchases. The Fed
publishes minutes of its July meeting tomorrow.  “It’s the Fed, the Fed, the Fed,”  Quincy Krosby , a market
strategist for  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential Financial
Inc., which oversees more than $1 trillion of assets, said by
phone. “Global markets are just as concerned about Fed actions
and emerging markets are particularly sensitive. This week,
we’re watching the minutes to see if there’s any color.”  All 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell today
as health-care companies had the biggest decline. The  broad
measure  dropped 12 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent
surge in the MSCI World Index. The  gauge  of developing nations
is trading at 9.9 times estimated earnings, below the valuation
of developed markets of 13.6.  Emerging ETF  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund fell 0.2 percent at $38.49. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
retreated 0.5 percent to 24.45.  Brazil’s Ibovespa dropped 2.1 percent, snapping the longest
rally since August 2010. Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is
also known, fell 6.5 percent. Brazil’s swap rates plunged from a
19-month high after central bank president Alexandre Tombini
said yesterday that traders had taken wagers on raises in
borrowing costs too far. The real appreciated.  Mexico’s peso bonds rose, pushing yields down the most in
two weeks, as slower-than-forecast economic growth fueled
speculation that the central bank will reduce borrowing costs.  Russian stocks dropped as crude oil, the nation’s main
export earner, retreated. Rosneft sank to the lowest price since
June 28. Poland’s zloty led gains among developing-nation
currencies versus the euro and the Hungarian forint, the
Romanian leu and the  Czech Koruna  also gained.  China, India  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.6 percent as  Jiangxi
Copper Co. (358)  the nation’s largest producer of the metal, slid to a
three-week low.  Everbright Securities (601788)  Co. plunged by the 10
percent daily limit. The shares traded for the first time since
erroneous buy orders roiled the nation’s equities last week.  India’s benchmark stock index fell to a four-month low
after the rupee slid past 64 per dollar for the first time. PT
Jamsostek, Indonesia’s biggest pension fund, is stepping up
purchases of Indonesian stocks, President Director Elvyn Masassya said after the Jakarta Composite index plunged 11
percent in four days.  The EGX 30 Index rebounded after tumbling 5.6 percent since
the violent breakup at protest camps of supporters of ousted
President Mohamed Mursi on Aug. 14.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose 0.07 percentage point to 337 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  