-- Employer Health Premiums Slow for Second Straight Year
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-08-20T17:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/employer-health-premiums-slow-for-second-straight-year.html
Health-insurance premiums to cover
working Americans rose 4 percent this year, less than the
previous two years in another sign that the cost of employee
benefits for U.S. companies may be slowing.  Annual premiums for a person who opts for a family coverage
plan through their job increased this year to $16,351, the
 Kaiser Family Foundation  said today in its annual  survey  of
benefits costs. The rise was below last year’s 4.5 percent jump
and less than half the 9.5 percent gain seen in 2011, the  Menlo
Park , California-based research group said in a statement.  The reported slowdown is similar to results from other
studies of U.S. health spending. Economists have attributed the
trend to a weak U.S. jobs market, insurance plans shifting more
costs to workers and President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care
Act. Even so, premiums have risen almost three times as fast as
wages or inflation over the past decade, Kaiser said.  “We are in a prolonged period of moderation in premiums,
which should create some breathing room for the private sector
to try to reduce costs without cutting back benefits,”  Drew Altman , the foundation’s president, said in the statement.  Polls suggest workers aren’t feeling much relief, Altman
told reporters today during a conference call. Kaiser’s survey
found more than a third of employees face at least a $1,000
deductible as part of their health plans. Among small
businesses, 31 percent of workers pay a $2,000 deductible
compared with 12 percent five years ago.  ’Quiet Revolution’  The trend is “part of a quiet revolution in health
insurance from more comprehensive to less comprehensive,”
Altman said. “People still feel the pain of health-care costs
and worry about paying their health-care bills.”  The survey of more than 2,000 employers found 57 percent
offering health benefits, statistically unchanged from last
year’s 61 percent. More than a third of employers with more than
200 workers now tie at least part of an employee’s share of the
bill to participating in a wellness program, Kaiser said.  Workers on family plans typically pay about a quarter of
the premium costs, with their employers picking up the rest,
according to the Kaiser data. Premiums rose 5 percent for
individual coverage to $5,884, according to the statement.  The survey also found the 2010 health-care law extending
its reach to more U.S. employers. Just 36 percent of covered
workers were in “grandfathered” plans this year that are
exempt from the act’s new requirements, down from 48 percent
last year. Among other changes, the law requires employers to
cover preventive services at no charge to workers and to let
employees appeal denials of coverage.  Obama Delay  The Obama administration last month said it was postponing
the law’s requirement that employers with 50 or more workers
offer health benefits to full-time employees. The administration
said the one-year delay would have a minor effect. Kaiser found
93 percent of such companies already offer insurance.  While the health law played a role, most of the slowdown in
premiums probably is due to the economy, said Gary Claxton, lead
investigator on the Kaiser study. Statistical models suggest a
pickup in health-care  spending  typically lags about five years
behind spending in the wider economy, he said.  “If and when the moderation in premium increases will end,
that remains the debate,” Altman said. “If anybody tells you
they know for sure, they don’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  