-- German SPD Pushes Merkel on to Defensive Over Aid for Greece
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-08-21T16:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/merkel-calls-for-european-unity-as-spd-steps-up-criticism.html
German Social Democratic leaders
stepped up their attacks on Chancellor Angela Merkel over the
costs of the debt crisis, accusing her of trying to conceal the
need for a third Greek aid program until after the election.  SPD chancellor candidate  Peer Steinbrueck  seized on
comments made by Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble yesterday
that Greece will need additional funds, saying it was proof the
government’s crisis policies weren’t working. Merkel wants to
“shove all the hot potatoes” until after the ballot, he said.  Former SPD Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, joining
Steinbrueck on the campaign trail in the western town of
Detmold, mocked Merkel for having “the wrong glasses on” and
contradicting her finance minister on Greece. “You won’t win
the trust of voters by covering up and obscuring, only by
telling them straight,” Schroeder said.  Less than five weeks before the Sept. 22 vote, the SPD is
trying to turn Merkel’s crisis-resolution policies of the past
three years against her to narrow the gap in the polls. Merkel’s
coalition extended its lead over the SPD and its Green party
ally to 12 percentage points in a Forsa poll released today.  “The poll scores clearly underline the lack of appetite in
the electorate for change,” Peter Matuschek, chief political
analyst for Forsa, said by phone. “It’s becoming very difficult
to see where the SPD is going to get that winning issue, that
winning persona who will motivate its former supporters.”  Latest Poll  Backing for Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and its
Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union, rose one
point to 41 percent in the Forsa poll for Stern magazine and RTL
television, while her Free Democratic coalition partner also
gained a point to 6 percent. That score would allow Merkel to
repeat her current government if replicated on Election Day.  Steinbrueck’s SPD dropped a point to 22 percent and the
Greens held at 13 percent. The anti-capitalist Left Party had 8
percent, also unchanged. Forsa polled 2,502 voters on Aug. 13-19. The results have a margin of error of as much as 2.5
percentage points.  Merkel continues campaigning in southern  Germany  today with
stops in Baden-Wuerttemberg after visiting Bavaria yesterday,
where she laid a wreath at the former Nazi  concentration camp  in
Dachau, the first visit by a German chancellor.  “We don’t want to forget that for six decades we’ve been
living in peace,” Merkel told a rally later. Countries sharing
a currency will never go to war, Merkel said, while warning that
“solidarity isn’t enough in the end if you don’t create the
conditions for all of us to be successful.”  ‘Further Measures’  Schaeuble, speaking at the first of four campaign rallies
he held yesterday in and around Hamburg, made his clearest
indication yet that the euro region will eventually resort to
the “further measures and assistance” for  Greece  agreed in
principle by the bloc’s finance ministers in November last year.  Merkel backed Schaeuble’s comments, telling a rally of more
than 7,000 supports today in the southern town of Schwaebisch
Gmuend that the crisis “isn’t over.”  “What Wolfgang Schaeuble said about Greece yesterday,
everybody knew,” Merkel said, adding that a decision will be
made about any possible further Greek aid in 2014 or 2015.  While the government said today that Schaeuble’s comments
simply restated policy, Steinbrueck and Schroeder sought to
portray them as a reversal and a stance at odds with Merkel.  “One gets the impression that this government suffers from
short-term memory loss,” Steinbrueck said. “It may be that we
have to help them again, but this time the money can’t just be
sunk -- it has to be used to bring growth and jobs.”  Matuschek at Forsa said it’s plausible that by airing
Greece’s problems now rather than closer to the vote Schaeuble
wanted “to nip the issue in the bud.”  Clear Credit  “The point is he’s not putting support for the CDU at risk
as SPD criticism of Merkel’s handling of the crisis just bounces
off her,” Matuschek said. “Voters very clearly credit Merkel
with more competence to manage the twists and turns of the
crisis than Steinbrueck and the SPD and, more to the point,
Steinbrueck isn’t saying he’d do anything differently.”  Schroeder, who served as Germany’s chancellor from 1998 to
2005, said his party had a shot at victory in the final weeks.
He referred to the 2005 election, in which he narrowed Merkel’s
lead of about 14 points at a  similar stage  in the campaign to 1
percentage point on Election Day.  “That was just about the same situation as now: the
opinion polls put us at less than 30 percent,” Schroeder, 69,
told the Detmold rally. “Many people were writing ‘Schroeder,
you don’t even need to run.’”  Schroeder’s performance eight years ago forced Merkel into
a so-called grand coalition with the SPD, a configuration that
polls show parties may have to resort to again. He said that the
economic improvement Germany has witnessed was down to his
policies and not Merkel.  Under Merkel “as good as nothing has been done,”
Schroeder said. In economic policy and education, Germany “is
taking a step backwards.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  