-- Ethanol’s Discount to Gasoline Expands on Outlook for Ample Corn
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-08-20T16:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/ethanol-s-discount-to-gasoline-expands-on-outlook-for-ample-corn.html
Ethanol’s discount to gasoline
expanded the first time in a week on speculation that next
month’s corn harvest will yield ample supply of the biofuel
feedstock and reduce costs for producers.  The spread, or price difference, widened 2.75 cents to
71.18 cents a gallon at 12:03 p.m.  New York  time, as
participants in the annual Professional Farmers of America
Midwest crop tour estimated higher yields in corn-producing
states such as  South Dakota  and  Ohio  after inspecting fields.
One bushel of corn makes at least 2.75 gallons of ethanol.  “Medium to long-term, it looks like there will be plenty
of corn,” said Justin Dirico, manager of the biofuels desk at
Eagle Energy Brokers LLC in New York.  Denatured ethanol for September delivery fell 1.3 cents to
$2.236 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade. Futures have
gained 2.1 percent this year.  Gasoline for September delivery rose 1.45 cents to $2.9478
a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract
covers reformulated gasoline, made to be blended with ethanol
before delivery to filling stations.  Corn for September delivery slumped 6.25 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $4.87 a bushel in Chicago. The more actively traded
December contract dropped 6.75 cents to $4.7875.  The corn crush spread, or the cost difference between a
gallon of ethanol and the corn needed to make it, based on
September contracts, was 47 cents, up from 46 cents yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ethanol Backwardation  Ethanol for September delivery is trading at a 31.6-cent
premium to the October contract, a phenomenon known as
backwardation, where prompt prices are higher than later ones.  Farmers responded to last summer’s drought that devastated
yields by sowing the most acres of corn since 1936.  “This may lead to record ethanol production, with lower
corn prices potentially boosting margins if ethanol prices
remain firm,” Bloomberg Industries wrote in a note today.  The government uses tracking certificates, known as
Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINs, to determine
compliance with mandates to use the fuel.  Corn-based ethanol RINs  slipped 1 cent to 79 cents, while
 advanced RINs , which cover biodiesel and Brazilian sugarcane-based ethanol, were unchanged at 89 cents, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in  Chicago  at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  