-- EU Quotas Derided by Faroese as ‘Breadcrumbs’ as Fight Escalates
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-08-20T10:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/eu-quotas-derided-by-faroese-as-breadcrumbs-as-fight-escalates.html
The government of the  Faroe Islands 
derided as little more than “breadcrumbs” the European Union’s
quotas as a fight over herring and mackerel fishing escalates.  The self-governing Danish territory of 49,000 inhabitants
now plans to take on the EU in a court of arbitration in
accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea after the 28-nation bloc threatened sanctions.  It “is the best move we can take while we’re under threat
from larger interests in  Europe ,” Prime Minister Kaj Leo Holm Johannesen said in a telephone interview from the Faroese
capital of Torshavn. “This is a matter of principle for us,
which is why we’re taking this big step.”  The quarrel started after the Faroe Islands more than
tripled an annual quota from the Atlanto-Scandian herring stock
to 105,000 tons in 2013. The European Commission today said it
will adopt a package of measures including a ban on imports of
some herring and mackerel caught by the Faroes as well as
restrictions on the use of EU ports by the islands’ vessels.  “The imposition of such measures is always done as a very
last resort,” Maria Damanaki, the European Commissioner for
Maritime and Fisheries Affairs, said in a statement. “The
Faroese could have put a stop to their unsustainable fishing but
decided not to do so. It’s now clear to all that the EU is
determined to use all the tools at its disposal to protect the
long-term sustainability of stocks.”  Moody’s Warning  The commission also said that it’s taking the initial steps
toward the application of trade measures against Iceland in a
similar dispute.  Moody’s Investors Service this month placed the Aa3 rating
of the archipelago on review for a downgrade following the EU’s
threat of sanctions. The decision affects about 4.2 billion
kroner ($753 million) in bonds and a negative outcome could
drive up borrowing costs when the islands tap the markets again
next year, said Malan Johansen, head of debt management at the
Faroe Accountancy and Financial Department.  Johannesen said securing the right to fishing is more
important than avoiding a potential downgrade.  “We’re not content with the breadcrumbs we are being given
by the EU and the larger countries,” said Johannesen. “We have
to keep in mind that these species are feeding in our waters and
thereby these species are being raised by the Faroese. The
species’ breeding grounds and habitats should be taken into
consideration when quotas are distributed.”  The Governmental Bank of the Faroes said in a March report
that it predicted a financing need of 3 percent of gross
domestic product this year, down from 8 percent last year. Next
year the financing need will rise to 14 percent of GDP as debt
matures, according to the report. The bank said it expects
nominal GDP to grow 4.9 percent this year and 1.4 percent next
year.  The export value of mackerel and herring is about 6 billion
kroner and makes up 5 percent to 10 percent of the Faroese
exports, according to Johannesen.  “There’s a very good chance that the court will understand
the Faroese side in this matter,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  