-- Eurex to Enter Currency Market With Derivatives
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-08-20T17:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/eurex-to-enter-currency-market-with-derivatives.html
Eurex will enter the foreign-exchange market for the first time as Europe’s largest
derivatives exchange seeks to expand into an asset class
dominated by its American rival CME Group Inc.  From Oct. 7, Eurex will offer exchange-listed derivatives
on the six currency pairs where the bulk of over-the-counter
trading takes place. The futures and options will include
contracts based on euro-dollar, euro-pound, euro-Swiss franc and
pound-dollar, according to a notice sent to members today. The
exchange will also make available contracts based on the pound-Swiss franc and dollar-Swiss franc pairs.  Eurex, which is owned by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , intends to
benefit from increased volumes in currency markets and
regulators’ insistence on greater transparency. Volumes in the
world’s biggest financial market jumped to a record $5.7
trillion a day in June, according to the latest data from CLS
Bank, which operates the world’s largest foreign-exchange
settlement system.  CME is setting up a new European exchange, based in London,
that will start with 30 currency futures. On Aug. 1, the
Chicago-based company said that record foreign-exchange trading
contributed to a 27 percent increase in second-quarter profit
from the year-earlier period.  The currency market is one of the least regulated. The
inherent conflict banks face between executing client orders and
profiting from their own trades is exacerbated because most
currency trading takes place away from exchanges. Traders at
some of the world’s biggest banks manipulated benchmark foreign-exchange rates used to set the value of trillions of dollars of
investments, Bloomberg News reported on June 12, citing five
dealers with knowledge of the practice.  Eurex will offer physical settlement of the derivative
contracts through CLS. Investors will be able to trade futures
from 8 a.m. Frankfurt time to 10 p.m and options from 8 a.m to
7:30 p.m. The bourse will offer revenue sharing to increase
liquidity. It plans to attract market makers, the notice said
without giving any details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  