-- Ex-Qwest CEO Nacchio Seeks Tax Refund as Prison Term Ends
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-08-20T23:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/ex-qwest-ceo-nacchio-seeks-tax-refund-as-prison-term-ends.html
Ex-Qwest Communications
International Inc. chief Joseph Nacchio shouldn’t be allowed 
an income tax deduction for the $44.6 million he forfeited
after his conviction for insider trading because it would
undercut his punishment, a government lawyer said.  “If we would give you a deduction for that it would reduce
the sting of the penalty,” Jacob Christensen, a Justice
Department lawyer, told Judge Mary Ellen Coster Williams of the
U.S. Court of Federal Claims in  Washington  during a hearing
today on Nacchio’s lawsuit seeking a tax refund.  The forfeiture was part of a package of penalties imposed
on Nacchio that also included 70 months in prison and a
$19 million fine, Christensen said.  The forfeited money was the gain from Nacchio’s sale of
Qwest stock based on warnings, withheld from other investors,
that the company would miss revenue targets.  Thomas Gentile, an attorney for Nacchio, said the forfeited
funds are tax deductible because they ultimately were used as
restitution to victims of the executive’s fraud, thus different
from a criminal fine.  “The government’s intention was for those funds to be used
to compensate victims,” said Gentile, of Lampf Lipkind Prupis &
Petigrow PA.  Disgorged Funds  Christensen countered that Nacchio’s sentencing papers list
the disgorged funds as forfeiture while a section covering
restitution is blank.  “Labels aren’t important here,” Gentile said. “It
doesn’t matter if it’s called restitution or not.” The point is
that the money went to Qwest shareholders harmed by Nacchio’s
actions, he said.  Nacchio and his wife sued the U.S. in January 2012 for a
refund of $17.97 million in taxes paid on gains from the illicit
sale of the shares.  The hearing today was on a government bid to throw out the
case and on Nacchio’s request for a ruling that the forfeiture
is deductible.  Nacchio also asked Coster Williams to allow a trial on the
question of whether he thought in good faith that he was
entitled to the money from the stock sales that led to his
conviction when he reported it on his tax return for 2001.  ‘More Digging’  The case requires “some more digging and analysis,”
Coster Williams said, adding that a ruling won’t come quickly,  Nacchio, 64, the former chairman and chief executive
officer of Denver-based Qwest, was found guilty in 2007. He
appealed his conviction for three years and was sentenced in
June 2010.  He is set for release on Sept. 21, according to the Federal
Bureau of Prisons website. Nacchio said in a court proceeding on
May 4, 2010, that in prison he was serving as a Catholic
Eucharistic minister.  The government argued that forfeiture in a criminal case is
intended as punishment, no matter what’s done with the money.  The fact the U.S. attorney general “subsequently exercised
his discretion to use Nacchio’s forfeiture to compensate victims
of Nacchio’s fraud does not magically convert the criminal
forfeiture into a compensatory fine,” the government said in
court papers.  “Because Nacchio’s insider-trading violations were
intentional, it could not have appeared to plaintiffs that they
had an unrestricted right to the illicit proceeds generated from
those offenses,” government lawyers wrote.  Deductible Restitution  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York held in one case that
forfeiture used as restitution was deductible, according to  Mark
Allison , a tax lawyer with Caplin & Drysdale Chartered. Allison
said he isn’t familiar with the details of Nacchio’s case.  In 2011, Nacchio sued the defense lawyers in his criminal
case, accusing them of malpractice and overbilling him. A New
Jersey state court judge dismissed the malpractice count in
September. The overbilling allegations are being contested,
according to court records.  Nacchio was one of several high-profile former corporate
chiefs sentenced to prison in a wave of prosecutions that began
after Enron Corp. collapsed in 2001.  Nacchio, of Mendham, New Jersey, was transferred from a
prison into a New York-area halfway house in March and into home
confinement, under Federal Bureau of Prisons supervision, in
May, according to Chris Burke, a bureau spokesman.  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL) , a telecommunications company based in
Monroe, Louisiana, bought Qwest in 2011 for $24 billion.  The case is Nacchio v. U.S., 12-00020, U.S. Court of
Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington
at   azajac@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 