-- Excising the ‘Cancer’ in Egypt
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-08-20T14:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/excising-the-cancer-in-egypt.html
The knives -- or more properly the
scalpels -- are drawn in the Egyptian public square. The liberal
forums and the state media are suddenly filled with discussions
of illness, with the workings of cancer, with the way diseased
cells spread unless “excised” and the tumors removed.  Hail the surgeons who perform the needed operations. They
must be possessed of steady hands and be precise; they must do
their work and check again to make sure that the damaged organs
are completely removed. “Istisal,” surgical removal, is the
word of the day among erstwhile decent men and women, who
express their fondness for the removal of tumors.  In the fairly independent forum  Al Masry Al Youm , a well-known commentator, Tarek El-Ghazali Harb, sees “total excision
of the Muslim Brothers as the only proper cure.” It is a
“satanic group,” the Brotherhood, allowed to “prey on a weak
Egyptian body whose immune system had been damaged by ignorance
and poverty and disease, in precisely the same fashion the
dreaded cancerous tumors spread and take hold.”  The man is a surgeon to boot, and he claims professional
authority to pronounce on the condition of  his homeland . “There
is no room,” he writes, “for any reconciliation” with the
Brotherhood:  “We must count them, name them, list their occupations,
make certain that we don’t allow them to spread their poison
among the young, as has been their way. We must not let them
roam free in this country, enjoying its blessings, drinking from
its Nile River after they betrayed the homeland and sold it for
the cheapest of coin. As for the millions, the ignorant and
deluded people taken in, they, too, should be isolated and
studied, helped psychologically so that our political dictionary
will forever be rid of the mention of the Brotherhood.”  ‘Cancerous Cancerous’  A columnist in the same paper, on the very same day, claims
no surgical authority, but does the surgeon one better. His
article is titled “Cancerous Cancerous.” There is no mention
of the  Muslim Brotherhood  here, no reference to General
Abdelfatah al-Seesi performing his medical wonders.  The piece is delivered as a medical bulletin. Cancer is a
clever, tricky disease, Ramy Galal Amer writes. It has active
cells and dormant ones that work best when the body is weak or
at rest. Cancer is aided by a patient’s genetic code. Radiation
and chemotherapy can slow down the spread of the disease, but
surgery is best, followed by a period of recovery. “Abdication
will lead to a certain death.” The metaphor leaves no
ambiguity: Egypt has the cancerous disease in its DNA.  Egyptian liberalism is girded for total war. Crushed for
decades by the men in uniform, it now looks to the officer corps
as redeemers. Gamal Abdel Nasser, who ruled from 1954 to 1970,
was the bane of the liberals: He trampled on civil liberties,
diminished the liberal class and owned “the street,” the
crowd, which deified him and thrilled to his oratory. The
liberals cowered before him, and the few who ran afoul of his
writ filled the political prisons.  Now, a little more than four decades after the passing of
the great man, the liberal class has all but anointed the
hitherto obscure al-Seesi as the Nasser of our time.  The general has obliged the crowd: On several occasions he
appeared in public with  dark glasses , an essential accessory of
despotic power -- he even wore them to read a speech. He had
been a man of the shadows, chief of intelligence, in a country
that suffered grievously under the intelligence services. The
general posing as a redeemer was, in truth, an embodiment of the
inability of  Egypt  to give birth to participatory politics.  Reflexive Pride  The surrender of the liberals, now gripped by a spirit of
vengeance, is the shameful surprise of this moment of Egyptian
history. “This is not us. It’s not Egypt at all. We are not
happy with death and blood,”  said Israa , an Egyptian woman, who
gave only her first name to a foreign reporter. Israa gave voice
to a reflexive, unexamined pride -- the good, peaceful land,
whose life has been regulated, since the dawn of history, by a
steady, gentle river.  Now go tell that old, timeless idea of Egypt to  Mohamed ElBaradei , the celebrated Egyptian liberal who, as the former
director of the  International Atomic Energy Agency , had returned
to his country crowned with a Nobel Peace Prize. He was
glorified on the Egyptian street for having frustrated, as best
he could, the George W. Bush administration’s resort to war in
 Iraq .  ElBaradei had given his blessing to the July 3 coup. He had
given the interim regime a respectable facade when he accepted
the vice presidency. He opposed the storming of the two
encampments of the Brotherhood; he had foreseen the bloody
outcome and sought to distance himself from it.  His resignation was the only honorable thing open to him.
After that decision, his secular allies wanted him tried for
treason: He was a Freemason, a tool of the Americans, an enemy
of the valiant Egyptian army, a covert ally of the Muslim
Brotherhood determined to use it for his own bid for power.
ElBaradei has reportedly left Cairo for Vienna, his old
domicile.  For now, Egypt is done with patience and compromise. I have
known that country the full length of my adult life, marveled at
its wisdom and subtlety, and have written of it as a scholar
since the early 1970s. From my home in  Beirut , I read its great
novelists, listened to its singers, savored its films and saw it
the way Israa described it to the foreign reporter who queried
her about her homeland. This Egypt, I will admit, has taken me
by surprise.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at Stanford University’s
Hoover Institution and author of “The Syrian Rebellion.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 