-- Mexican Bonds Rally on Weaker-Than-Forecast GDP; Peso Advances
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-08-20T22:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/mexican-bonds-rally-on-weaker-than-forecast-gdp-peso-advances.html
Mexico ’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields down the most in two weeks, as slower-than-forecast
economic growth fueled speculation that the central bank will
reduce borrowing costs.  Yields on bonds due in 2024 fell for the first time in
seven days, dropping 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point,
to 6.25 percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The peso appreciated 0.8 percent to 12.9745 per  U.S. dollar ,
rebounding from a seven-week low.  Gross domestic product expanded 1.5 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the national statistics institute
reported today. The increase was smaller than all of the
forecasts of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Mexico’s
government cut its growth forecast today for  Latin America ’s
second-biggest economy to 1.8 percent this year, down from a
previous projection of 3.1 percent.  “With that GDP number out there, there’s certainly going
to be an increasing part of the market that’s going to say, ‘We
think that the central bank is going to cut,’” Vivienne Taberer, a  money manager  who helps oversee $14 billion in
emerging-market assets at Investec Asset Management, said by
phone from  Cape Town .  Traders are assigning a 16 percent chance of a reduction in
the next six months, according to swap-rate contracts used to
speculate on borrowing costs. At the end of last month, the
contracts showed no possibility of a cut, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Treasuries Correlation  Mexico bonds are also following Treasuries higher,
according to Taberer. Investors will study the release tomorrow
of minutes of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s July 30-31 meeting for
signs of when it will begin to reduce the $85 billion pace of
monthly bond purchases.  The 30-day  correlation coefficient  between 10-year peso
bonds and similar-maturity Treasuries rose to 0.68 today after
having a negative correlation as recently as May 2, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A reading of 1 would signal that the
securities moved in lockstep. Mexico sends about 80 percent of
its exports to the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  