-- Mexico Economy Grows Less Than Expected as Industry Contracts
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-08-20T13:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/mexico-economy-grows-less-than-expected-as-industry-contracts.html
Mexico’s economy grew less than
forecast by any of the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg in the
second quarter as industrial production declined on a sluggish
U.S. recovery.  Gross domestic product  expanded 1.5 percent from the year
earlier, rebounding from a revised 0.6 percent growth rate in
the previous three months, the National Statistics Institute
said on its website today. The median estimate of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for growth of 2.3 percent. The economy
contracted 0.7 percent from the previous quarter.  The central bank cut its growth forecast for this year to
between 2 percent and 3 percent this month from 3 percent to 4
percent on stagnant exports to the U.S. and muted public
spending. Growth will accelerate in both the third and fourth
quarters, rising to 4 percent next year as the U.S. recovery
strengthens and the government passes key economic reforms,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Industrial production fell 0.6 percent in the second
quarter from the year earlier, the statistics agency also said
today. The construction sector contracted 4 percent over the
same period amid a drop in government spending.  Mexican  exports  increased just 0.6 percent in the first six
months of the year, the slowest start to a year since the 2009
recession and compared with 7 percent growth in the first half
of 2012.  The peso pared its gain from as much as 0.8 percent today,
strengthening 0.4 percent to 13.0296 per dollar at 8:12 a.m. in
Mexico City.  Central Bank Governor Agustin Carstens said Aug. 7 that a
slowdown in government spending had hurt the construction
sector. The trend should reverse in the second half of the year
as public spending picks up, he said.  “We expect that public construction won’t remain an
impediment to economic growth, but on the contrary, start
boosting the economy,” Carstens said.  The statistics agency updated its base year in today’s
report to 2008 from 2003, revising past GDP figures  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  