-- Falcone’s Spectrum Loan Shaves Interest Costs: Corporate Finance
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-08-20T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/falcone-s-spectrum-loan-shaves-interest-costs-corporate-finance.html
Philip Falcone ’s  Spectrum Brands
Holdings Inc. (SPB)  is improving creditworthiness at the fastest pace
among high-yield U.S. consumer-products makers as it taps the
loan market to cut debt-service costs after a $1.4 billion
acquisition.  The extra yield creditors demand to hold bonds of the owner
of the Remington shaving products and Rayovac batteries instead
of Treasuries has dropped 143 basis points this quarter, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. The Madison, Wisconsin-based company is seeking $1.15 billion of loans with initial
interest rates of 3 percent for four years and 3.5 percent for
six to pay down $950 million of 9.5 percent secured notes,
resulting in annual savings of about $50 million.  Spectrum Brands, which emerged from bankruptcy in 2009 and
is 59 percent owned by Falcone’s  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , is
winning favor in credit markets with plans to cut its $3.26
billion of debt by $450 million in the two years through 2014.
Standard & Poor’s raised the company’s rating to B+ from B this
month, reflecting growing  free cash flow  and other benefits from
the 2012 purchase of  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK) ’s hardware
unit.  “They made a good acquisition that’s exceeded expectations
and they are generating good cash flow, which they have used for
debt reduction,” Brian Milligan, a Chicago-based credit analyst
at S&P, said in a telephone interview. “This transaction
reinforces their commitment to reduce leverage.”  S&P’s rating change brings it in line with Moody’s
Investors Service grade of B1.  SEC Settlement  Jamie Tully, a spokesman for Spectrum Brands at Sard
Verbinnen & Co. in New York, declined to comment on the
company’s debt transactions.  Falcone and his Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, which
controls Harbinger Group, agreed yesterday to pay an $18 million
fine, and the billionaire accepted a five-year ban from the
securities industry, according to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The SEC had accused him of improperly
borrowing from the fund and favoring some investors over others.  The settlement with the SEC doesn’t require Falcone to give
up control of Harbinger Group, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday.  Loan Terms  Interest on the $850 million four-year term loan changes to
a floating rate of 225 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate when the lending benchmark exceeds 0.75
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt,
which is being arranged by Credit Suisse Group AG, amortizes at
a rate of 7.5 percent per year. The $300 million six-year
obligation amortizes at 1 percent a year and floats at 275 basis
points over Libor when the rate exceeds 0.75 percent.  Three-month Libor was fixed at 26 basis points yesterday. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The loan will be used to redeem senior secured notes coming
due in 2018, Spectrum Brands said in an Aug. 6 statement. The
firm is offering 111.6 cents on the dollar to investors, with
the offer expiring on Sept. 3.  Spectrum’s $520 million of 6.375 percent notes maturing in
November 2020 traded at 104.813 cents on the dollar to yield
5.56 percent yesterday, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The notes, which trade at a spread of 324 basis
points, compare with an average spread of 461 basis points for
comparable bonds, Bloomberg data show.  Coleman, NBTY  The spread compression for Spectrum Brands’s bonds compares
with 56 basis points for the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
High Yield Consumer Products index. That gauge also includes
Jarden Corp., the maker of Coleman camping goods and Sunbeam
appliances, and the Carlyle Group LP-owned nutritional
supplement provider NBTY Inc.  The company has trimmed $100 million from its existing term
loan and plans to reduce another $100 million before the end of
September, and a higher amount next year, Chief Executive
Officer David Lumley said on an Aug. 6 conference call with
analysts and investors.  Spectrum Brands’s ratio of total debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about six
times is double the average for U.S. consumer products companies
with at least a billion dollars of debt.  The company’s divisions excluding the Stanley Black &
Decker Unit reported adjusted Ebitda margin of 16.8 percent in
the three-months ended June 30, a record high, Lumley said.  ‘Positive Results’  “They make a big noise about their legacy business, which
was difficult to manage, and they are assuring investors that
has stabilized,” Kim Noland, a debt analyst at research firm
Gimme Credit LLC, said in a telephone interview. “Their efforts
to manage debt are getting them positive results.”  Spectrum Brands’s household products range from batteries
and appliances to home-improvement goods, garden supplies and
pet food. The Stanley Black & Decker hardware and home
improvement unit contributes more than 20 percent to the
company’s sales, which rose to $1.1 billion last quarter.  “They bought a very high earnings-powered business,”
Hamed Khorsand, a Woodland Hills, California-based equity
analyst at BWS Financial Inc., an investment-research firm, said
in a telephone interview. “They have been growing their brands
organically, and also making acquisitions to grow.”  7 Purchases  The company has completed seven purchases in the last three
years, forking out about $2.3 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Spectrum Brands filed for Chapter 11 protection in February
2009 to implement a debt restructuring after defaulting on a
bond interest payment, according to a statement at the time. The
negotiations with noteholders included an agreement to waive 80
percent of the principal for new shares, the company said.  Falcone initially acquired 12.6 million Spectrum Brands
shares, or 42 percent of the company, in exchange for debt held
before the bankruptcy and a supplemental loan, according to a
2009  regulatory filing .  Some of the other industries in which Falcone’s firm has a
stake include insurance, energy and financial services,
according to an Aug. 8 statement.  Spectrum Brands’s Ebitda is expected to increase to $646.5
million in the year ending September 30, according to the  mean
estimate  of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Cumulative free cash flow for 2013 and 2014 may be as much
as $600 million and the company will direct a significant
portion of that toward accelerated debt reduction, according to
Milligan.  “The recently announced transaction gives them a snapshot
picture that looks better to investors and ratings agencies,”
Noland said. “The problems with their debt restructuring are
starting to be in their distant past. How long do they have to
carry that taint? Not long in this kind of market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  