-- Fraport Vows to Restore Profit at Ground-Handling Unit
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-20T15:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/fraport-vows-to-restore-profit-at-ground-handling-unit.html
Fraport AG (FRA) , operator of Frankfurt
airport, said it’s working on returning its ground handling unit
to profitability after three consecutive quarters of losses.  “We’ll take different measures to bring the business
back,” Anke Giesen, the head of the division, said today at a
press conference at the airport. She declined to specify a
deadline or target figure, saying the plan is to make the check-in and baggage operation profitable “as soon as possible.”  Fraport’s second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes
were held back as the ground-handling business at Frankfurt
airport, Europe’s third-busiest by passenger numbers, reported a
loss because of a traffic decline and a new terminal’s higher
depreciation costs. Holding back spending will be key to making
the unit profitable again, Giesen said.  “We have quite a bit of work to do,” she said. “Mainly
these are efficiency issues, and it’s also about cost
structures.”  Airport operators are being squeezed by airlines to lower
fees and service charges. Earnings growth at Frankfurt-based
Fraport is also hampered by a ban on overnight takeoffs and
landings at the German airport, which is the main hub for
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest carrier.  Fraport handles the bulk of ground services at Frankfurt,
with Spanish infrastructure operator  Acciona SA (ANA)  as its main
third-party competitor there. The unit, which last posted an
operating profit in the third quarter of 2012, has a workforce
of about 8,900 employees, Giesen said.  Traffic Decline  Chief Executive Officer Stefan Schulte said on Aug. 7 that
meeting Fraport’s group financial goals for this year has become
more challenging. Passenger numbers in Frankfurt slipped 0.7
percent in July as political unrest in northern  Africa  and the
Middle East reduced travel to those regions.  Fraport  forecast  in its 2012 annual report that the ground-handling division will generate a “minor increase in revenue”
this year, while Ebit will remain unchanged at about 4.7 million
euros. The company said on Aug. 7 that it’s sticking with
projections for earnings at its businesses, though airlines’
flight cutbacks “could negatively influence” ground-handling
profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  