-- Galaxy Earnings Top Estimates on Higher Gambler Spending
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-08-20T10:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/galaxy-quarterly-earnings-rise-as-gamblers-bet-more.html
Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , the
Macau casino operator founded by billionaire Lui Che Woo,
reported quarterly earnings above analyst estimates as Chinese
tourists boosted spending in the world’s biggest gambling hub.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or adjusted Ebitda, rose 18 percent to HK$3.02
billion ($389 million) for the second quarter ended June, Galaxy
said in a stock exchange statement today. That compares with the
HK$2.88 billion median of nine analyst estimates compiled by
 Bloomberg News .  New attractions, increased hotel supply and an improved
rail connection are drawing more mainland Chinese visitors to
Macau, the only place in  China  where casino gambling is legal.
Galaxy is expanding in the city’s Cotai area,  Asia ’s equivalent
of the  Las Vegas Strip , to compete with rivals including  Sands
China Ltd. (1928) , which tripled profit in the second quarter.  “The prospects for Macau and our company for the rest of
this year and beyond are encouraging,” Chairman Lui Che Woo
said in a press conference today. “Macau will benefit from the
major infrastructure and transport improvement, and the VIP
growth will remain robust.”  Galaxy fell 2.5 percent to close at HK$42.9 in  Hong Kong 
trading, narrowing its gains this year to 41.4 percent. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  fell 2.2 percent today.  VIP Gamblers  Visitors from mainland China accelerated in the second
quarter, surging 20 percent in June, according to data from
Bloomberg Industries.  First-half net income increased 35 percent to HK$4.6
billion, while revenue rose 9 percent to HK$30.8 billion. VIP
turnover at Galaxy  Macau , the company’s flagship casino, dropped
4 percent to HK$178.2 billion in the second quarter, while mass
gaming revenue grew 13 percent to HK$6.85 billion.  The company will add 12 VIP gaming tables at Galaxy Macau
by October, Deputy Chairman Francis Lui told reporters at the
same conference. It received government approval this year to
add 50 gaming tables there.  “VIP revenue growth has been rather solid,” Francis Lui
said, referring to the industry’s annual growth, “It grew by 10
percent in the first half. I don’t see VIP spending falling
dramatically for the rest of this year.”  Increasing Footprint  The Hong Kong-based company last month completed the
HK$3.25 billion purchase of Grand Waldo complex in Macau, which
includes a spa and hotel, to increase its presence in Cotai. The
company said it will take six to nine months to relaunch the
Grand Waldo casino, which is adjacent to Galaxy Macau.  The casino operator is also boosting the budget for Galaxy
Macau’s second-phase expansion by HK$3.6 billion to HK$19.6
billion to double the size of the resort.  The phase-two expansion, which the company has started,
will add as many as 500 gaming tables and 1,300 rooms from the
JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotels by mid-2015.  Galaxy plans to spend as much as HK$60 billion to begin the
third and fourth phases of the project as early as the end of
this year and begin operations from 2016 through 2018.  The company didn’t declare an interim dividend because of
the planned expansion. It may consider raising funds by selling
debt, though it won’t finance the expansion via a sale of
equity, Chief Finance Officer  Robert Drake  said at the
conference.  Gross gaming revenue  in Macau is expected to grow 17
percent to $44.5 billion from $38 billion last year, according
to Deutsche Bank AG estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  