-- Glencore Posts $7.7 Billion Writedown as Profit Declines
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-08-20T16:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/glencore-posts-7-7-billion-writedown-as-profit-declines.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) ’s first-half
profit slid 39 percent and the world’s biggest exporter of power
station coal wrote down the value of assets acquired in the
Xstrata Plc takeover three months ago by $7.7 billion.  Adjusted net income fell to $2.04 billion from $3.36
billion a year earlier, Glencore said today in a statement. That
compares with the $1.87 billion average estimate of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The Baar, Switzerland-based company
reported a net loss of $8.9 billion.  The $29 billion all-share purchase of Xstrata created the
fourth-biggest miner and added coal, nickel, zinc and copper
output to Glencore’s global commodity trading empire.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Rio Tinto  Group and Glencore are among producers
cutting costs, selling assets and reducing spending as lower
prices trim profits and force more than $60 billion of industry
writedowns.  The Xstrata impairments reflect “the broader negative
mining industry environment and sentiment which prevailed during
the first half of 2013 and the heightened risks associated with
greenfield and large-scale expansion projects,” Glencore said
in the statement.  “A lot of the greenfield assets and certain assets which
they had on their books we didn’t put a large amount of value
on,” Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said in a phone
interview from  London  today.  Industry Writedowns  The first half showed “tentative signs that we may be
entering a period of increased capital discipline within the
sector,” Glasenberg said in the statement.  Rio Tinto posted a $14 billion writedown in January on
previous acquisitions of aluminum assets from Alcan Inc. in 2007
and coal projects in  Mozambique . Gold companies, led by the
world’s biggest,  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , have written down the value
of mines by at least $26 billion in the past two months.  Some investors may find the figure on the Xstrata writedown
“somewhat jarring, especially given management rhetoric on
capital allocation,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst
Jason Fairclough wrote today in a note to clients.  Glencore fell 1.6 percent in London trading to close at
297.15 pence. The company, 25 percent owned by management,
reported an interim dividend of 5.4 cents a share.  Glencore also posted a $1.2 billion accounting loss on
revaluing its 34 percent interest in Xstrata at the time the
transaction was completed, as well as a $452 million impairment
charge at its Murrin Murrin nickel operation in  Australia  and a
$324 million charge on its investment in United Co. Rusal.  Metal Prices  Declining metal prices, which averaged 15 percent lower in
the first-half, were cushioned by increased production in coal
and copper, Glencore said today. The company’s marketing unit
“still performed very well” amid the drop in prices,
Glasenberg said.  The Xstrata takeover is expected to generate annual cost
savings “well above” the stated $500 million plan, Glasenberg,
56, said in May. It will be “materially in excess of previous
guidance,” he said today.  The combined group has interests in about 35 coal mines in
Colombia, Africa and Australia, accounting for about 10 percent
of global seaborne supplies of the fuel. It’s the fourth-biggest
producer of mined copper and third-largest in nickel. It employs
about 190,000 people in more than 50 countries across its
industrial and trading divisions.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , is a non-executive director of Glencore Xstrata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  