-- Glencore’s Glasenberg Applauds Rival CEOs for New Mantra
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-08-21T16:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/glencore-s-glasenberg-applauds-rival-ceos-for-new-mining-mantra.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  Chief Executive
Officer Ivan Glasenberg said mining-industry peers are
responding to his call to restrain spending and shelve
expansions in a bid to buoy prices and boost investor returns.  “CEOs are now under pressure from shareholders and they
are doing the right thing, it’s clear,” Glasenberg said in a
phone interview from  London . “They are following the mantra.”  Six months earlier, the 29-year veteran of commodities
trader Glencore said mining chiefs had “screwed up” by
swamping the world with raw materials that eroded prices and
profits. An industrywide clean-out this year saw some of the
largest mining companies, including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , replace
CEOs with new executives tasked with cutting costs and spending.  “He’s a hard guy to please,” BHP CEO Andrew Mackenzie
said yesterday of Glasenberg. Mackenzie, 56, took on the top
role at the world’s biggest miner in May as the company and its
peers grappled with falling revenue following a decade-long boom
in demand for minerals.  “Most CEOs now have got to live with the past errors and
they have to resolve the past errors,” Glasenberg, who owns 8.3
percent of the Baar, Switzerland-based  company  where he’s been
CEO since 2002, said yesterday.  At an investor conference in February, Glasenberg said he
hoped the new generation of CEOs had learned lessons from the
past and urged them to stop building mines. Glasenberg “set the
tone for the new ‘age of austerity’ for miners,” Bank of
America Corp. analysts wrote in May.  Capital Discipline  Yesterday the billionaire accountant-turned-coal-trader
said he saw “tentative signs” in the first half that the
industry was entering a period of “increased capital
discipline.”  In response, Mackenzie said “if he’s talking about me then
I’d agree, but I hope it’s not tentative.” Speaking on a
conference call, the BHP chief said he’s engaging in “full-frontal capital discipline.”  BHP didn’t approve any major new projects during the past
fiscal year, it said yesterday. The Melbourne-based company is
building 18 major  projects  with 70 percent of them due to start
output by end of the 2014 fiscal year, when it estimates
spending of $16.2 billion.  Glencore in May estimated spending on new projects at $29
billion over the next three years. After 2015, investment will
“materially decline” to $4 billion to $5 billion, it said.  Heavy Investment  “The problem is the miners back in 2009 were challenged to
increase production, to invest heavily in order to be able to
address demand,”  James Bevan , who oversees about 4.2 billion
pounds ($6.6 billion) as chief investment officer at CCLA
Investment Management in London, said on Bloomberg Television.  “Supply response was much, much more substantial and much
quicker than the markets had expected and we now have too
much,” he said. “How can that be reined back whilst at the
same time shepherding value through for shareholders?”  The response to date has been to increase dividends, with
Rio Tinto Group, Glencore and BHP all raising payouts this
month. Those three companies and Anglo American Plc, the four
biggest miners on the London bourse, boosted their combined
payout to about $5.8 billion for this earnings period from $5.2
billion a year earlier.  Glencore Xstrata yesterday reported an $8.9 billion net
loss in the first half after taking a $7.7 billion charge on the
value of assets acquired in the all-share takeover of Xstrata
Plc in May. BHP also yesterday joined Rio, Anglo American and
 Vale SA (VALE3)  in posting lower profits with a 30 percent decline in
fiscal 2013 to $10.9 billion.  Rio, Anglo  Rio said this month it had cut costs and reduced employees
by 2,200 since June 2012. Spending on projects is estimated at
$14 billion this year, 20 percent below the 2012 peak. Anglo’s
new CEO Mark Cutifani is seeking to add $1.3 billion in annual
cashflow as part of an operational overhaul, he said last month.  Glencore advanced 2.6 percent to close at 304.75 pence in
London trading, paring its decline this year to 13 percent. BHP
fell 2.6 percent to 1,873 pence and is down 12 percent this
year. Both have outperformed the 25 percent decline this year in
the 115-company Bloomberg World Mining Index.  Glasenberg’s tenure as Glencore CEO for more than a decade
has seen him outlast all his peers at the world’s biggest mining
companies, including Tom Albanese at Rio, Marius Kloppers at BHP
and Anglo’s  Cynthia Carroll . He isn’t considering an exit and
succession plans aren’t discussed, Glasenberg said yesterday.  “There’s a good set of guys underneath me,” he said. “I
think any one of them could take over at some stage in the
future. I’ve always said I am staying around as long as they
want me there and none of them want my job. So right now I’m
here, so I ain’t going anywhere.”  Since Glencore began trading in London after a $10 billion
initial public offering in May 2011, it’s down about 43 percent.
BHP has dropped about 18 percent in London in the same period.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , is a non-executive director of Glencore Xstrata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  