-- Glencore Posts 6% Trading-Profit Gain as Oil Offsets Agriculture
-- B y   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-08-20T16:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/glencore-posts-6-trading-profit-gain-as-oil-offsets-agriculture.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) ’s commodity
trading operations had a 6 percent gain in first-half adjusted
earnings before interest and taxes as higher profits from oil,
coal and metals offset a slump in agricultural products.  Profit from commodity trading rose to $1.19 billion from
Ebit of $1.12 billion a year earlier, Glencore said today in a
statement. That contrasts with the 39 percent slump in the
company’s overall adjusted net income to $2.04 billion.  Trading operations accounted for 37 percent of first-half
Ebit at the Baar, Switzerland-based company, according to
JPMorgan Cazenove analyst Dominic O’Kane. The world’s fourth-largest mining company was created in May, when Glencore
International Plc completed the $29 billion all-share takeover
of Xstrata Plc, adding coal, nickel, zinc and copper output to a
global commodities trading network  The results from Glencore’s marketing operations were
“solid,” even after lower-than-expected earnings from the
agricultural product trading division, O’Kane said in a note to
clients.  Marketing activities, where traders buy and sell physical
commodities hoping to exploit price differences between
geographical markets and products, help Glencore counter the
impact of lower prices for output from its mines and plants.  “The marketing division can be anti-cyclical and even with
commodity prices falling as they have during the first half of
the year, the marketing division performed well,” Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said on a conference call
today with investors.  Oil, Coal  First-half adjusted Ebit from the trading of energy
products, which include coal, crude oil and oil products,
climbed 43 percent from a year earlier to $501 million, Glencore
said. Energy trading margins improved to 0.8 percent from 0.6
percent.  “Even with falling coal prices, the marketing part of the
business did very well,” said Glasenberg.  Metals and minerals marketing Ebit increased by 3 percent
to $711 million. Glencore said trading in all of its metals
divisions contributed to the results. Copper trading volumes
were flat at 1.3 million metric tons, zinc rose 15 percent to
1.5 million tons and  iron ore  jumped 54 percent to 12.8 million
tons.  Agricultural products trading Ebit, including oilseeds,
cotton and wheat, plunged 87 percent to $15 million. The
“disappointing” results were caused by 2012 crop reductions in
 Australia  as well as a lack of price volatility that limited
opportunities for arbitrage, Glencore said.  Well Supplied  Markets will be “well supplied,” this year, Chris Mahoney, Glencore’s head of agriculture, told investors on the
conference call. He forecast “good underlying demand” for oils
and oilseeds.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission requested
documents relating to warehouses for aluminum and other metals
from Glencore, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , Bloomberg News reported Aug. 13, citing people with
knowledge of the probe.  Glencore warehousing unit Pacorini is a “small part of the
business,” and an insignificant contributor to earnings,
Glasenberg said on the call. He declined to comment on any
possible regulatory probes into the warehousing operations.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , is a non-executive director of Glencore Xstrata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net  