-- Gol Gains as Profitability Rises on Flights Cut: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-08-20T20:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/gol-advances-as-brazilian-airline-cuts-flights-to-boost-profit.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA,
 Brazil ’s second-biggest air carrier by market share, rose after
the company said profitability increased last month as it cut
flights where there was less demand.  The shares  climbed  1.8 percent to 8.55 reais at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo. It was the second best performer on the
benchmark  Ibovespa (IBOV) , which fell 2.1 percent.  Net passenger income per available seat-kilometer, a
measure of profitability known as Prask, increased 18 percent in
July from a year earlier, the Sao Paulo-based airline said
yesterday in a regulatory filing. The company attributed the
increase to a strategy adopted in May 2012 of cutting flights on
routes where there is less demand.  The increase in profitability shows that Gol’s strategy is
working, Sandro Fernandes, a trader at brokerage Geraldo Correa,
said in a phone interview from  Belo Horizonte , Brazil. “The
hard adjustments Gol has been making are paying-off,” he said.
“Investors are very encouraged by the numbers released today.”  Domestic flights in July dropped by 4.8 percent from a year
earlier, according to the filing.  Gol’s shares have tumbled 34 percent this year as a falling
Brazilian real drives up costs for dollar-based expenses such as
fuel, airplane leases and debt payments. The Ibovespa fell 17
percent over the period.  Workforce Reduction  The airline has been cutting costs, reducing its workforce
in the first half to 16,465 employees, down 13 percent from a
year earlier. Simultaneously, the company has pushed to boost
dollar-based revenue by adding international flights.  Gol’s international flights in July increased by 26.4
percent from a year earlier, according to yesterday’s filing.  Seventy-seven percent of Gol’s total debt of 5.6 billion
reais at the end of the second quarter was denominated in
dollars, according to a regulatory filing last week. The real
has depreciated 14 percent this year.  “The weakening of the Brazilian currency represents a risk
for the company’s profit in coming quarters, not only because of
the operational expenses, but debt too,” Fernandes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  