-- Gold Borrowing Costs Remain Near 4 1/2-Year High on Tight Supply
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-08-20T13:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/gold-borrowing-costs-remain-near-4-1-2-year-high-on-tight-supply.html
The cost of borrowing gold held near
a 4 1/2-year high in London as U.S. futures moved into
backwardation this month, a signal that near-term supplies are
tightening at a time when prices gained on more physical demand.  The one-month  gold forward offered rate , which shows the
 interest rate  at which dealers will lend metal for dollars, has
been negative since July 8, pushing one-month lease rates to
0.3067 percent on Aug. 8, the highest since December 2008. The
cost of  borrowing  was at 0.2929 percent today, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed. August futures on the Comex in  New York  rose
above the December contract for the first time on Aug. 2.  Speculators’ bets on price declines gained eightfold since
November as the metal heads for its first annual drop in 13
years after some investors lost faith in gold as a store of
value. Bullion rebounded 16 percent from a 34-month low on June
28 as lower prices spurred more purchases of jewelry, bars and
coins from  China  to  Turkey .  Rising borrowing costs “could be because of demand for the
metal in the short term linked to the physical market,”  Ross Norman , chief executive officer of Sharps Pixley Ltd., a
brokerage handling physical bullion in London, said today by
phone. “When you run a short position in gold, you’re selling
what you haven’t got, and therefore you need to borrow it. It
may simply be a symptom of the fact that there are a very large
number of shorts out there in the market.”  Gold Price  Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,366.45 an ounce by
2:08 p.m. in London, set for an 18 percent slide this year.
Prices reached a two-month high of $1,384.55 yesterday,
rebounding from as low as $1,180.50 in June.  Consumer demand for gold jumped 71 percent in  India , last
year’s biggest buyer, in the second quarter and gained 87
percent in China, the next-largest, helping to push global bar
and coin purchases to a record, the World Gold Council said Aug.
15. Prices may reach $1,450 an ounce by the end of 2013 on
rising demand in  Asia , according to the median of estimates in a
survey of 11 traders, jewelers and analysts who attended the
India Gold Convention in Jaipur, India on Aug. 16-17.  Comex futures entered backwardation, when nearby contracts
are more expensive than longer-dated futures, as bullion
stockpiles tracked by the bourse fell to the lowest in more than
seven years on July 22. The August and December contracts were
near the same price today. Sales from  exchange-traded products 
slowed every month since liquidations peaked in April, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Speculators’ Positions  Money managers’ bets on lower prices fell 27 percent since
reaching a record on July 9, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. That helped increase the  net-long 
position, or bullish wager, by 59 percent since then.  The one-month lease rate in  London  averaged 0.252 percent
since the start of July, compared with 0.0062 percent in the
prior five years. Rising rates may indicate a scarcity of metal,
according to the London Bullion Market Association.  “Borrowing in the lending market can be quite complex,”
said Norman at Sharps Pixley. “The borrowing market is normally
cheap, simply because there’s a lot of lenders and relatively
few borrowers, the lenders being central banks and the borrowers
being jewelry producers, typically, and gold miners who are
hedging.”  Central banks and government institutions hold about 31,910
metric tons of bullion in reserves, equal to almost 12 years of
global mine production, according to the London-based WGC and
Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  