-- Green Bonds to Top $9 Billion on Buffett’s MidAmerican Boost
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-08-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/green-bonds-to-top-9-billion-on-buffett-s-midamerican-boost.html
Green bond sales are set for a
record year as investors in clean-power and climate projects
seek long-term gains from the securities.  With $6.03 billion of bonds sold since January, the
securities are on course to surpass $9 billion this year,
beating the record $7.5 billion sold in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Issues include $1 billion by MidAmerican
Solar, a subsidiary of Warren Buffett-controlled  Berkshire
Hathaway (BRK/A) ’s Mid-American Energy Holdings Co., to build and
operate the Solar Star projects in  California . The  European
Investment Bank  has sold $1.3 billion of green bonds this year.  Investors are snapping up bonds to finance the global
expansion of clean energy, promoted by governments from the U.S.
to  China  to tackle  climate change . The debt, issued by
development banks or by project sponsors themselves, offers
investors an alternative to volatile equities while boosting
funding prospects for developers as nations from  Spain  to
 Romania  have reined in support for the industry.  “There is a rising demand on the part of U.S. insurance
companies, money managers and pension funds for quality
infrastructure and project finance projects,” Nasser Malik,
head of global structured debt at Citigroup Inc., which
underwrote 50 percent of the MidAmerican Solar bond, said by
phone Aug. 19. “The longer duration of the credits is a good
match if you’re managing a liability profile.”  Roiled Market  Green bonds analyzed in a survey by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance include debt issued by development banks or
international finance institutions where the issuer’s funds are
used to repay interest. The study also looks at project bonds
where repayments come from cash generated by the venture.  The MidAmerican Solar bond, issued by Solar Star Funding
LLC to finance the $2.75 billion, 579-megawatt project, has a
5.375 percent coupon. The notes mature in 2035. It was priced
June 20, a day after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the central bank may start dialing down its
unprecedented bond-buying program this year.  “It was literally priced the day after Bernanke’s now
famous statement that began the roiling of the credit markets
globally,” Malik said. “Investors will appreciate the merits
of investing in this space based on relative value, the secured
nature of many financings and duration.”  Citigroup, which underwrote the most project bonds this
year with $583 million, according to BNEF, expects the market to
“grow, deepen and broaden,” according to Malik.  ‘Bond Age’  Institutional investors such as insurance and pension funds
are the largest buyers of project bonds, according to disclosed
holdings surveyed by BNEF. American International Group Inc. is
the top holder, with $308 million since 2011.  Clean-energy investment dropped 11 percent to $268.7
billion last year after governments in rich countries reduced
subsidies. In April, the  International Energy Agency  reiterated
that  $5 trillion  of additional investment is required by 2020 to
switch to a low-carbon economy.  “We have now entered the age of bonds,” Sean Kidney,
chief executive officer at the Climate Bonds Initiative, a non-profit organization promoting low-carbon investment, said by e-mail. “If we are to get real finance to get these industries at
scale, we have to engage with  capital markets .”  For project bonds, ventures surveyed since 2011 are mostly
in the U.S. and  Canada .  “The U.S. has definitely been leading the pack globally,
but that could change,” Joseph Salvatore, the BNEF analyst in
 New York  who compiled the report, said by e-mail.  Better Returns  “We’ve identified a $142 billion slice of the global
clean-energy pipeline that we believe could be securitized into
project bonds, and nearly $100 billion of that is from European
offshore wind installations,” Salvatore said.  The notes surveyed generally paid higher coupon rates than
average rates of recent U.S. and European utility bonds, BNEF
data showed.  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  is the largest underwriter
of development bank securities with $2.76 billion since 2007.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  underwrote the most of those securities this year
with $608 million, according to the London-based researcher.  The EIB is the top seller this year with $1.3 billion,
followed by Washington-based IFC. The World Bank Group unit
plans to continue to issue $1 billion each year in green bonds,
said Evelyn Hartwick, who leads the green bonds program.  “What the green bond is doing is providing a AAA asset to
investors without the risk of the project, while also giving
investors the opportunity to channel funds into the sectors that
they want to develop,” she said by phone. “Investors are more
interested in fixed income than in equity investments because
there is less risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  