-- GSW Jumps as Deutsche Wohnen Makes All-Share Takeover Bid
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-08-20T12:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/gsw-jumps-as-deutsche-wohnen-makes-all-share-takeover-bid.html
GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  surged to the
highest price since its 2011 initial public offering after
 Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI)  made an all-share bid for the company that
would create the second-largest owner of German homes.  GSW climbed as much as 10 percent to 34.64 euros and was up
7.2 percent at 2:05 P.m. in  Frankfurt , giving the Berlin-based
company a market value of 1.7 billion euros ($2.28 billion).
Trading volume was more than five times the three-month daily
average.  The combined company will own about 150,000 apartments
valued at 8.5 billion euros, Deutsche Wohnen said in a statement
today. About 54 percent of Deutsche Wohnen’s properties and 93
percent of GSW’s holdings are located in the German capital.  “We would also see the potential to create synergies as
the portfolios of both companies fit well,” Kai Klose and
Estelle Weingrod, London-based analysts at Berenberg Bank, said
in a note today. The offer implies a premium of 15 percent to
the EPRA net asset value of GSW, a standard measure set by the
European Public Real Estate Association, the analysts said.  Deutsche Wohnen offered 51 new shares for every 20 GSW
shares, or about 1.75 billion euros, based on the three-month
volume-weighted average share price of GSW, according to the
statement.  GSW’s shareholders will own about 43 percent of the
combined company if they all accept the offer, Berlin-based
Deutsche Wohnen said. GSW is evaluating the bid, the residential
landlord said in a separate statement today.  Berlin Premium  “The combined portfolio will have a stronger focus on
Berlin, where we would regard GSW as the clear market leader,
which may justify even a strategic premium,” the Berenberg
analysts said.  Deutsche Wohnen, which has 90,000 apartments across
 Germany , said in 2011 that it wanted to buy its rival. GSW has
been without a chief executive officer since July, when Bernd Kottmann resigned following investor complaints about the way he
was hired. The departure fueled speculation that GSW might be
taken over by a competitor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  