-- Libya Plans to Reopen Some Oil Export Terminals
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i ,   S a l e h   S a r r a r   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-08-20T17:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/libya-plans-to-reopen-some-oil-export-terminals.html
Libya  prepared to open some oil
ports closed by labor unrest, as the government vied with guards
for control of export facilities. The country’s navy said it
would seize any tankers attempting illicit shipments.  The ports of Zueitina and Hariga are ready to resume
exports, Ibrahim Al Awami, an oil ministry official, said today
from Hariga. Another port, Brega, was operational as of today, a
union representative said. Among other terminals, the country’s
largest, Es Sider, remains closed. Earlier, the navy said it
will forcibly escort back to port any vessel carrying the
nation’s crude without authorization, according to a statement
carried by the Libyan  News Agency .  Brent crude  has risen 3.5 percent this month amid the
turmoil in Libya, the holder of  Africa ’s biggest reserves, and
disruptions in Iraq and  Nigeria . Libya’s production has fallen
to less than half the level pumped before the 2011 uprising
against  Muammar Qaddafi  as protests by the Petroleum Facilities
Guard, or PFG, for better working conditions has hurt exports.  “A more severe or longer Libyan disruption would be more
bullish,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil research for the
Americas at Societe Generale SA in  New York . “Our base case
assumption is that the current strike and current level of
disruptions will be over by October.”  Hellas Warrior  A tanker is waiting to load at Hariga, Al Awami, director
of the Oil Ministry’s inspection and measurement department,
said. The Greek-flagged Hellas Warrior, an Aframax crude oil
tanker owned by Polembros Shipping Ltd., is outside the port,
vessel-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show. Storage tanks
at the port are full, according to an oil ministry official who
asked not to be identified, citing policy.  National Oil Corp. may lift its force majeure on exports of
crude and refined products from Es Sider, Ras Lanuf, Zueitina
and Brega by the end of the week with the resolution of the
strikes, said Al Awami. Local residents expelled members of the
Petroleum Facilities Guard who had been holding a sit-in at
Zueitina, he said. Es Sider, the largest of Libya’s oil
terminals with a capacity of 350,000 barrels a day, has been
shut since July 28.  Naval vessels patrolling waters around Es Sider, Ras Lanuf
and Brega will search all ships anchored in Libyan waters and
return tankers without clearance to port, according to the
navy’s statement on LANA.  Navy Warning  The navy will end the “illegal presence” of unauthorized
vessels and “prevent them from shipping Libyan crude unless
there are legal contracting procedures with the National Oil
Corp.,” LANA quoted the navy as saying. Prime Minister Ali Zaidan has warned that ships docking illegally at Libyan ports
may be removed or bombed.  The force majeure, a legal clause that excuses the seller
from making deliveries because of events beyond its control, was
applied on Aug. 18, according to a National Oil Corp. document
signed by Chairman Nuri Berruien and obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Libya produced 800,000 barrels of crude a day last month,
down from 1.6 million a day one year earlier, according to a
monthly Bloomberg survey. The labor dispute is crippling the
government’s main source of revenue, costing at least $1.6
billion, Oil Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi told reporters in
Tripoli on Aug. 15.  While Es Sider and Ras Lanuf remained closed today, another
port, Zawiya, has remained open amid closures elsewhere, and the
terminals of Brega and Hariga “entered duty today,” Jamal Ben
Zuglam, a coordinator of the oil and gas workers union, said
today by phone from Tripoli.  Refiners around the  Mediterranean Sea  are seeking crude
from Nigeria to replace Libyan crude because it’s similar in
quality, pushing up freight costs between the two locations, JBC
Energy GmbH, a consultant based in Vienna, said in a report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Sami in Cairo at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net ;
Saleh Sarrar in Hariga, Libya at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  