-- Michigan’s 4.375% Yield on School Notes Shows Detroit Stigma
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-08-20T16:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/michigan-offering-4-5-yield-on-school-notes-shows-detroit-stain.html
Michigan ’s Finance Authority is
offering an interest rate almost 14 times higher than that on
top-rated bonds to sell $92 million of one-year notes for
Detroit’s public schools.  Today’s deal is the first tied to the Motor City since it
sought bankruptcy protection July 18. The bonds are backed by
state aid payments.  The securities maturing in August 2014 are being offered
with a preliminary yield of 4.375 percent, down from 4.5 percent
earlier in the sale, according to three people familiar with the
deal who requested anonymity because the pricing wasn’t final.
That compares with a  0.32 percent  interest rate on benchmark AAA
munis due in one year.  The notes “seems pretty darn cheap,” Alan Schankel, head
of fixed-income research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, said in
an e-mail. Yields move inversely to bond prices.  The yield penalty is the latest example of how investors in
the $3.7 trillion municipal market are pushing up borrowing
costs for issuers in Michigan and around  Detroit  after state-appointed emergency manager Kevyn Orr filed a record Chapter 9
bankruptcy last month. Orr has sought to give some general-obligation bondholders less than 20 cents on the dollar.  Offerings Delayed  Last week, the authority sold revenue bonds for Ypsilanti
Community Schools, about a half-hour drive from Detroit, with
yields as high as 4.82 percent for tax-exempt debt maturing in
August 2026, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The sale
came after three other issuers in the state -- Genesee County,
Battle Creek and Saginaw County -- postponed offerings that
followed Detroit’s bankruptcy because rates were too high.  While Orr has no authority over Detroit’s school district,
it has its own emergency manager, Jack Martin. The district and
the city are “unrelated legal entities created and existing
under different laws of the state,” according to offering
documents. The district was Detroit’s fourth-biggest employer
last year, with about 7,350 workers, the document shows.  Standard & Poor’s rates the one-year Detroit school debt
SP-1, its second-highest grade on short-term securities. The
notes have first claim to state-aid revenue for repayment.  The proceeds will help cover the autonomous school
district’s anticipated cash-flow deficits for the fiscal year
that ends in June, according to offering documents.  Terry Stanton, a spokesman for Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon, didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail and e-mail
seeking comment on the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  