-- IJM Considers Listing, Business Trust to Boost Stock Value
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-08-20T05:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/ijm-considers-listing-business-trust-to-boost-value-of-stock.html
IJM Corp. (IJM) ,  Malaysia ’s second-biggest
builder by market value, is considering taking some of its
highway and port concessions public to boost the value of its
stock, said Chief Executive Officer Teh Kean Ming.  IJM is considering a straight listing of its assets or an
initial public offering as a business trust, Teh said in an
interview in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. The Selangor-based company
may also look at selling stakes to private equity firms or
strategic investors, he said, without providing a time frame.  “We have intentions to monetize the value of some of more
mature route concessions in Malaysia,” Teh said. “It is a bit
early to say which vehicle we might use. We have assets which we
think are very valuable, but the investing fraternity have not
given us a value.”  IJM sold its 36 percent stake in the Trichy Tollway in
 India  for a profit of about 50 million ringgit ($15 million) in
March, and disposed 40 percent of its equity interest in Kuantan
Port to  China ’s Guangxi Beibu Gulf International Port Group,
according to the company.  The infrastructure business contributed to about 10 percent
of total revenue in the last financial year ended March 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The diversified group
last year agreed to become the biggest shareholder in oil and
gas services provider  Scomi Group Bhd. (SGB) , adding to its portfolio
of plantations and property assets.  Concession Assets  IJM’s  shares  have gained 13 percent this year,
outperforming the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index’s 3.4
percent advance. The stock dropped 1.6 percent to 5.61 ringgit
today at the midday trading break, as stock markets dropped
across Asia.  About 75 percent of IJM’s debt is in concession assets,
which is non-recourse, said Teh. Total  debt  was at 2.86 billion
ringgit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  IJM will see most of its earnings growth coming from the
property segment in the near-term on strong sales and demand,
Teh said. The construction of a mixed development in the
northern state of Penang has attracted potential partners to
operate hotels, a shopping outlet and a convention center, and
the company may later list the commercial property element of
the project as a real estate investment trust, he said.  IJM will continue to focus on boosting palm oil production
by improving yields, said Teh. Last month, futures on the
benchmark Bursa Malaysia Derivatives dropped to the lowest level
since October 2009 on expectations that global supply will beat
demand. India and China are the biggest consumers of the
tropical oil.  “The overall picture is still based on demand,” said Teh.
“This financial year will be a bit tough, a challenge for us,
but going forward, when the U.S. economy, and India and China
are back on track, demand will come back.”  The weaker Malaysian currency was also supportive of palm
oil exports, said Teh. The ringgit weakened against the dollar
today on speculation funds will pull money from  emerging markets 
after Treasury yields climbed to a two-year high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  