-- India May Delay Capital Infusion Into Banks as Stocks Slump
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-08-20T10:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/india-may-delay-capital-infusion-into-banks-as-stocks-slump-2-.html
India  may delay injecting capital
into state-run banks due to slumping  stock  prices, said Rajiv Takru, the  Finance Ministry ’s banking secretary.  The government, which usually infuses capital into lenders
by buying their shares, doesn’t want to lose money as prices
slide, Takru said in an interview yesterday in New Delhi. He had
said on July 9 the government will inject as much as 140 billion
rupees ($2.2 billion) by the end of September to strengthen
banks’ risk buffers and bolster credit growth.  The S&P BSE Bankex Index, which tracks 13 banks, has lost
31 percent from a record on May 17 as central bank steps to
support the rupee caused interbank rates to surge. The gauge
gained 0.8 percent at 3:30 p.m. trading close in Mumbai, after
falling 3.1 percent to its lowest intraday level since January
2012.  The capital infusion “may now not happen in September,”
Takru said. The government is waiting for stock prices to
stabilize before it makes a decision on the matter, he said.  The government will need to insert as much as 910 billion
rupees into the banks it controls to comply with international
standards known as Basel III if it wants to maintain the stakes
it holds in the lenders,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on Sept. 4.  The possible delay “sends out a message that the
government is seeing further downside to the banking stocks,”
said Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based banking analyst at SMC
Global Securities Ltd.  Tighter Liquidity  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the country’s largest by assets, rose
1.5 percent today from its lowest close since May 2009.  Yes Bank
Ltd. (YES)  climbed 0.5 percent, paring its slide in the past three
months to 54 percent.  Bank stocks have slumped as the  Reserve Bank of India 
raised two  interest rates  and tightened lenders’ access to cash
since mid-July, among efforts to steady the rupee, which has
tumbled 16 percent against the dollar in the past three months.
The currency weakened today to a record low.  India’s interbank overnight call  money rate  has climbed
more than 4 percentage points in the past month and was at 10.4
percent today, the highest level since March 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Siddhartha Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  