-- India Seen Defying Rupee Plunge to Import Record Cooking Oil
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-08-20T10:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/india-seen-defying-rupee-plunge-to-import-record-cooking-oils.html
The slump in  India ’s rupee may fail
to deter refiners and traders from importing record amounts of
cooking oils for a second year amid rising demand in the world’s
largest palm oil buyer.  Inbound shipments will climb to an unprecedented 10.5
million metric tons to 10.7 million tons in the year ending Oct.
31 from 10.2 million tons a year earlier, said B.V. Mehta,
executive director of the  Solvent Extractors’ Association of
India . Imports increased 11 percent to 8.03 million tons in the
nine months through July, according to the association.  Record purchases by India, the world’s second-biggest
consumer of cooking oils, may help cut palm oil inventories in
Indonesia and Malaysia and stem a 21 percent slump in prices in
the past year. The rupee tumbled past 64 per dollar today for
the first time on concern foreign outflows will accelerate as
the U.S. Federal Reserve prepares to trim monetary stimulus.  “The depreciation in the rupee will put some pressure on
imports of edible oils, but it being an essential commodity,
we’ll have to import it,” Mehta said by phone from Mumbai
today. “Fortunately for us, the international prices have come
down and will be low for sometime.”  Palm oil tumbled to the lowest level in more than three
years last month after dropping for five quarters, the worst run
since at least 1995, as supplies of the oil used in everything
from noodles to soaps outpaced demand. The contract for November
delivery declined 0.2 percent to 2,329 ringgit ($708) a ton on
the Bursa  Malaysia  Derivatives today. Futures touched 2,137
ringgit on July 26, the lowest level since October 2009.  Rising Demand  A rising population and increasing disposable incomes will
boost demand for cooking oils in India, Mehta said. Demand may
surge to 23 million tons by 2020 from 17.5 million tons, and
imports will rise significantly, according to the Food Ministry.  Imports may total a 800,000 tons to 900,000 tons in each of
the next three months, Mehta said. The country meets more than
half its demand through purchases of palm oil from Indonesia and
Malaysia and soybean oil from the U.S.,  Brazil  and Argentina.  “Costs for importers will go up and increase local
prices,” said  Atul Chaturvedi , chief executive officer of
Ahmedabad-based Adani Wilmar Ltd. “At the end of the day, it
will be a zero-sum game if importers can sell at the price they
are importing.”  Imports may drop marginally in the coming months as India
is set to harvest a bigger oilseed crop, said Chaturvedi, who
estimates overseas purchases to total 11 million tons this year.  Oilseed Planting  Farmers in India have planted 18.3 million hectares under
the oilseed crop this year, 15 percent more than a year earlier,
data from the Agriculture Ministry showed Aug. 16. Output of
soybeans, the main oilseed sown during the monsoon, may climb
from a record 14.7 million tons in 2012-2013, J.S. Sandhu, the
nation’s agriculture commissioner, said July 30.  “Whatever may be the price, consumption of palm will
continue to remain,” said Prathamesh Mallya, an analyst at
AnandRathi Commodities Ltd. in Mumbai. “The weakness of rupee
against the dollar will really not hamper demand. Nobody will
stop purchases of vegetable oils as it’s not a luxury product,
which you can delay for some time. It’s a necessity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  