-- India Eases Cash Curbs to Tame Surging Bond Yields
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-08-21T05:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/india-eases-cash-supply-curbs-as-surging-yields-imperil-growth.html
India ’s central bank said it will
buy long-dated government debt after cash-supply curbs to
support the rupee prompted a surge in yields. Bonds and shares
of lenders jumped the most in four years.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will conduct open-market debt
purchases of 80 billion rupees ($1.3 billion) on Aug. 23 and
“thereafter calibrate them both in terms of quantum and
frequency” based on market conditions, it said in a  statement 
yesterday. The earlier liquidity-tightening steps must not
“harden longer term yields sharply” and hurt lending, it said.  India’s 10-year bond yield touched 9.48 percent yesterday,
the highest since 2001, as the nation struggles to curb capital
outflows spurred by risks such as a record current-account
deficit and speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve could taper
stimulus. The RBI since mid-July raised two  interest rates  and
capped cash injections into the banking system to aid the rupee,
steps that risk hurting expansion in  Asia ’s No. 3 economy.  “The long-end yields reacted too much and that was,
probably, not the objective,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian,
an economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in
Mumbai. “There are other objectives that the RBI has to worry
about, like government borrowing costs and the impact on the
economy.”  Bank Shares  Ten-year  government bonds  rallied the most since March 2009,
with the yields plunging 60 basis points to 8.30 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The S&P BSE Bankex
index, a gauge of 13 lenders, surged 5.2 percent as of 10:10 a.m.
in Mumbai, the biggest gain since May 2009.  The rupee weakened 0.2 percent to 63.335 per dollar and has
tumbled about 15 percent in the past six months to a record low.
The S&P BSE Sensex index climbed the most in a week.  The central bank said a review of the measures since mid-July suggests the “immediate objective of raising the short-term interest rates has substantially been achieved.”  The issue of cash management bills will be calibrated going
forward, “including scaling it down as may be necessary,” the
RBI said. The central bank last month increased both the
marginal standing facility rate and the  bank rate  by 200 basis
points to 10.25 percent. It has also tightened daily  reserve
requirements .  Overnight Rate  The interbank overnight lending rate has surged more than
300 basis points, or 3 percentage points, to 10.25 percent since
the end of June. The 10-year yield has jumped 86 basis points in
the same period, while that on the two-year securities soared
2.34 percentage points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The RBI also allowed lenders to move a larger portion of
their government bond holdings to the so-called held-to-maturity
category so they won’t have to show losses when prices of the
securities fall.  State Bank of India , the country’s largest, led the rally
in lenders’ stocks in Mumbai.  “Investor sentiment got a boost from the measures,” said
Jisha Nair, Mumbai-based banking analyst at BoB Capital Markets
Ltd. “The surge in shares may not be sustainable as they are
staring at losses on government and company bond holdings for
the year even after the relaxation.”  State Bank of India (SBIN)  advanced 4.1 percent to 1,617.30 rupees,
while Yes Bank Ltd. jumped 15 percent to 278.80 rupees and
IndusInd Bank Ltd. rallied 12 percent to 376.50 rupees.  Sustainable Level  The current-account gap widened to 4.8 percent of gross
domestic product in the 12 months ended March. The RBI estimates
the sustainable level is 2.5 percent of GDP.  The plunge in the rupee threatens to stoke the cost of
imports such as oil, adding to price pressures.  Consumer prices  rose 9.64 percent in July from a year
earlier. Another gauge based on  wholesale prices  advanced 5.79
percent, a five-month high that exceeded the central bank’s
comfort zone of about 5 percent.  India’s economy  may expand 5.5 percent in the year through
March 2014, compared with 5 percent in the previous 12-month
period, the central bank estimates. That lags behind the 10-year
average of about 8 percent.  The nation is suffering as Asia’s role as the world’s
growth engine wanes and investors pull out billions of dollars.  Raghuram Rajan , the top adviser in the  Finance Ministry 
since 2012 and a former International Monetary Fund chief
economist, becomes the Reserve Bank governor in September. He
succeeds  Duvvuri Subbarao . The next scheduled monetary-policy
review is on Sept. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  