-- India’s 10-Year Bonds Rise First Day in Six as Yields Lure Funds
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-08-20T12:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/india-bonds-reverse-drop-as-highest-yields-since-2001-lure-funds.html
India ’s government bonds snapped a
five-day drop, reversing an earlier decline, as a surge in
yields to a 12-year high attracted investors.  The yield on the notes due May 2023 slid 32 basis points,
or 0.32 percentage point, to 8.92 percent in Mumbai today,
according to prices from the central bank’s trading system. The
rate touched 9.48 percent earlier, the highest for a benchmark
10-year security since 2001, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The rupee tumbled to a record 64.12 per dollar today on
concern foreign outflows will accelerate as the U.S. Federal
Reserve prepares to trim monetary stimulus. Foreign funds have
pulled about $12 billion from local debt and equities since May
22 when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  first signaled the central
bank may pare its $85 billion monthly bond-buying program. India
this month sought to stem a slide in its currency by lowering
the amount companies and individuals can invest abroad.  “It’s a dead-cat bounce after the carnage we’ve seen,”
said Debendra Kumar Dash, a fixed-income trader at  Development
Credit Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai. “Sustainability is the question as
things have hardly changed.”  The yield on the bonds maturing in May 2023 jumped 72 basis
points this month as the rupee plunged to new lows and foreign
funds sold local debt. The rate jumped 75 basis points in July
as the  Reserve Bank  of India raised two  interest rates  and
drained liquidity from the banking system in a bid to stem the
currency’s slide.  India will seek to boost inflows with steps including
allowing state-owned financial companies to issue “quasi-sovereign” bonds to fund long-term infrastructure investment,
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said Aug. 12.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, dropped 23 basis
points to 9.94 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched a five-year high yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  