-- Indonesia Stocks Drop for Fourth Day as Outflows Weaken Rupiah
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-08-20T10:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/indonesia-stocks-drop-as-index-falls-as-much-as-20-from-peak.html
Indonesian stocks tumbled, capping
the biggest four-day plunge since 2011, amid growing concern
that capital outflows will accelerate. The rupiah dropped to the
weakest level in four years.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  fell 3.2 percent to 4,174.98,
extending its four-day slide to 11 percent. The gauge has
dropped 19.9 percent from its record close on May 20. The rupiah
fell 1.8 percent to 10,685 per dollar after reaching 10,728
earlier, the weakest level since April 2009, prices from local
banks show. The cost to insure Indonesian debt against default
rose to an almost two-year high yesterday, according to CMA.  The nation’s shares have tumbled at the fastest pace
worldwide this quarter amid concern the quickest inflation in
four years will spur the central bank to tighten monetary policy
further after it raised the benchmark  interest rate  in June and
July. The Jakarta index  sank  5.6 percent yesterday after data
showed the country had a record current-account deficit last
quarter. Speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will soon
withdraw stimulus has fueled the retreat.  “We are in bear-market territory,” saidPriyo Santoso,
the chief investment officer at PT Mandiri Manajemen Investasi
in Jakarta. “We have been defensive in our strategy.”  Overseas investors have pulled $255 million from local
stocks in the past two days, exchange data compiled by Bloomberg
show. PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia and PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia
were among the biggest drags on the index today as trading
volumes climbed to 79 percent above the 30-day average.  Losses Pared  The Jakarta gauge pared losses toward the end of the day
after falling as much as 5.8 percent earlier. Its 14-day
relative strength index declined to 26.6, below the 30 threshold
that some investors see as an indication a  rebound  is imminent.
PT Bank Mandiri gained 2 percent after losing as much as 7.2
percent, while  PT Astra International (ASII) , the nation’s largest
company by market value, finished unchanged after dropping 2.5
percent earlier.  “Some investors are buying some oversold stocks,
particularly Bank Mandiri,” said John Teja, a director at PT
Ciptadana Securities in Jakarta. “An index below 4,200 is
basically a good entry point, however trading direction tomorrow
will still be determined by foreign investors.”  PT Jamsostek, Indonesia’s biggest pension fund, is buying
“blue chip” stocks, President Director Elvyn Masassya said in
a mobile-phone text message today.  ‘Buy Selectively’  The retreat in shares, which sent valuations to the lowest
levels in 14 months today, is creating buying opportunities in
banks and consumer companies, said PT Schroder Investment
Management Indonesia’s Kiekie Boenawan. The Jakarta index fell
to 12 times estimated  profit  for the next 12 months, the lowest
level since June 2012.  “We see this drop as an opportunity to buy selectively
those stocks that have been overpriced in the past,” Boenawan,
the Jakarta-based head of investment at Schroder Investment
Management  Indonesia , the nation’s biggest mutual-fund manager
with 37.9 trillion rupiah ($3.5 billion) under management, wrote
in an e-mail yesterday.  The rupiah fell the most since September 2011. Five-year
 credit-default swaps  insuring the Southeast Asian nation’s debt
against default rose 43 basis points to 283 yesterday, according
to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Worst Performer  Inflation reached 8.6 percent in July, the fastest pace
since February 2009. The current-account deficit swelled to $9.8
billion in the second quarter, the most in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 1989, the central bank reported on Aug.
16. The shortfall will narrow in the current three-month period,
Finance Minister Chatib Basri told reporters after the market
closed yesterday.  “The government hasn’t been able to restore confidence in
the market,” said Norico Gaman, the head of research at PT BNI
Securities in Jakarta. “Investors now put more weighting on the
risk that they have to take, no longer at the potential returns
that they might have. Their main concerns right now are
inflation and the  exchange rate .”  The rupiah spot rate has dropped 7.1 percent against the
dollar this quarter, the worst performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies.  A  fixing  by the Association of Banks in  Singapore  used to
settle derivative contracts was set at 10,699, the weakest since
April 2009, from 10,499 yesterday. One-month implied volatility,
a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, climbed 144 basis points, or 1.44 percentage points, to
15.03 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bonds Drop  The yield on the nation’s bonds due May 2023 rose nine
basis points to 8.46 percent, the highest level since March
2011, prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association show.
Indonesia raised 1.54 trillion rupiah from an Islamic debt sale
today, exceeding its 1.5 trillion-rupiah target, with investors
bidding for 7.4 times the amount offered.  The Fed will start tapering its monthly bond purchases in
September, according to 65 percent of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg this month.  “The rupiah will still be under selling pressure due to
global sentiment, along with local assets,” said Mika Martumpal, head of treasury research and strategy at PT Bank
CIMB Niaga in Jakarta. “Risk indication surged following
disappointment over  Bank Indonesia  refraining from raising rates
to support the currency and attract inflows.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson51@bloomberg.net  