-- Indonesia’s Top State Fund Steps Up Stock Buying After Plunge
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-08-21T02:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/indonesia-s-top-state-fund-steps-up-stock-buying-after-plunge.html
PT Jamsostek, Indonesia’s biggest
pension fund, is stepping up purchases of Indonesian stocks,
President Director Elvyn Masassya said after the  Jakarta
Composite (JCI)  index plunged 11 percent in four days.  The state-owned fund is buying major companies and will
increase its holdings of shares to 22 percent to 25 percent of
assets under management, Masassya said in a mobile-phone text
message late yesterday. Around 19 percent of the investment
vehicle’s holdings were in equities, he said on June 19.  The Indonesian share gauge rose 1.4 percent to 4232.953 as
of 9:29 a.m. in Jakarta. It pared losses to close 3.2 percent
lower yesterday, after falling as much as 5.8 percent earlier.
The market’s four-day plunge through yesterday is the biggest
since 2011 and shares have dropped at the fastest pace worldwide
this quarter, fueled by speculation the Federal Reserve will cut
stimulus that has inflated asset prices in  emerging markets .  “Jamsostek will enter the stock market, with a long-term
market horizon,” said Masassya, who oversaw 144.2 trillion
rupiah ($13 billion) of assets as of June. “We are buying blue-chip stocks.”  The rupiah has fallen 7.6 percent since the end of June,
inflation accelerated to a four-year high in July and the
current-account deficit swelled to a record last quarter,
official data show. Overseas investors sold a net $182 million
of the nation’s shares yesterday, the most since June 21,
according to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mandiri Rebounds  The country’s Financial Services Authority, or OJK, doesn’t
plan to suspend trading and met financial institutions today to
listen to their views, Chairman Muliaman Hadad said in a mobile-phone message late yesterday. The OJK is asking market
participants not to make the situation worse and to report to it
every day, Hadad said, without elaborating. Bank  Indonesia  is
coordinating with the OJK and the government to stabilize
financial markets, Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said in a
mobile-phone text message yesterday.  Large foreign funds have been driving the losses and
Jamsostek only has a limited ability to support local stocks,
Raymond Budiman, an equities analyst at PT Panin Sekuritas in
Jakarta, said yesterday. Jamsostek is buying stocks along with
other state-controlled funds, Masassya said, without giving
details.  PT Bank Mandiri, the country’s largest lender by assets,
fell 0.6 percent. It recovered in late trade yesterday to close
2 percent higher, after dropping as much as 7.2 percent earlier.
The country’s largest-listed company, PT Astra International,
rose 2.5 percent after closing flat yesterday. Masassya did not
comment on what stocks he was buying.  Some investors are buying oversold shares, particularly
Bank Mandiri, John Teja, a director at Ciptadana Securities in
Jakarta, said yesterday. Sucorinvest Asset Management bought
Mandiri because of a relatively low valuation, Jemmy Paul, a
Jakarta-based equity fund manager, wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  “It definitely helps having Jamsostek,” said Edwin Sebayang, head of research at PT MNC Securities in Jakarta. “If
the big ones enter, smaller funds would likely follow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  