-- Minnesota Forces Patent Company to Cease Royalty Demands
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-08-20T18:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/minnesota-forces-patent-company-to-cease-royalty-demands.html
A patent-licensing company sued by
 Vermont  officials for sending threatening letters has agreed not
to target businesses in Minnesota, that state’s attorney general
said today.  MPHJ Technology Investments LLC, which is registered in
Wilmington,  Delaware , claims anyone who scans documents to be e-mailed infringes its patents for the technology. It’s sent
thousands of letters nationwide to companies and non-profit
organizations demanding as much as $1,200 per employee to avoid
patent-infringement lawsuits.  The settlement limiting the firm’s ability to contact
Minnesota residents and businesses is believed to be the first
of its kind against a company derided as a “troll” for its
licensing tactics, the state said. Vermont has sued the company
under state consumer protection laws.  “Patent trolls shake down small businesses to pay license
fees they may not owe to avoid threats of costly litigation,”
Minnesota Attorney General Lori Swanson said in a statement.
“While this settlement and court order may affect one patent
troller, the practice of patent trolling will continue until
Congress enacts laws to prohibit such activity.”  Retailers have reported a rise in letters demanding
compensation for using common technology such as Wi-Fi
connections to the Internet, tracking customer shipments and
adding maps to website.  President  Barack Obama  has backed legislative proposals to
curb lawsuits against users of technology and the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission is considering a broad inquiry into whether the
tactics hamper innovation and competition.  Consent Needed  To send any further letters to Minnesota businesses, MPHJ
must give the attorney general’s office 60 days’ notice and
obtain its consent, according to the agreement.  “They can’t do what they’ve been doing,” said Ben
Wogsland, a spokesman for the Attorney General’s Office.
“They’re going to have a steep, steep row to hoe to convince
Attorney General Swanson they have something legitimate here.”  The agreement doesn’t restrict the company’s ability to
file patent-infringement suits, nor does it involve any
allegations of wrongdoing, MPHJ said in an e-mailed statement.  “MPHJ welcomes this review process, as the questions that
have been raised by the  Minnesota  AG went to the form of MPHJ’s
licensing and infringement inquiry letters, not the substance,
and MPHJ prefers any such immaterial issues to be resolved in
advance, so that it can focus on its lawful licensing activity
without further interference,” according to the statement.  Ricoh, Xerox  Brian Farney  of Farney Daniels in Georgetown,  Texas , a
lawyer representing MPHJ, said the patents cover a network
system to scan documents so they can be sent over a local area
network as attachments to e-mails. Since the system includes
both scanners and local area networks, there’s no single
manufacturer that could sign a broad licensing agreement to
cover users of the technology, he said.  “We can’t go after the manufacturers,” he said in an
interview. “We do have a valid patent which has been reiterated
by the patent office, and we have a lot of people using it.
What’s a patent owner to do?”  Ricoh Co.,  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  have each
 asked  the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  to take a second look
at the MPHJ patents, claiming they don’t cover new inventions,
according to Scott Daniels, a patent lawyer with Westerman Hattori in  Washington , who writes about such review requests.  Nebraska Effort  Farney said MPHJ tries to identify companies that are using
the technology, such as accounting firms. Letters were sent in
error to a Vermont non-profit group that helps disabled veterans
get jobs, he said.  Farney also said the company doesn’t pursue anyone who
responds by saying they don’t infringe the patents. Wogsland
said businesses in Minnesota complained they weren’t able to
reach anyone at MPHJ and kept getting letters.  The Nebraska Attorney General’s office has written to
Farney Daniels, telling it to stop any patent-enforcement
efforts pending the outcome of an investigation. Farney said the
letter pertained to a different client, Activision TV Inc.,
that’s sued companies including  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  and  Build-A-Bear Workshop Inc. (BBW)  over patents for remote-control electronic
display systems.  Vermont Suit  Farney said MPHJ’s activities are different from companies
that seek small amounts from a large number of users rather than
get licensing agreements with manufacturers.  “If the patents were written in a way that Xerox and Ricoh
infringe, we’d be happy to go after them and it would save all
this hassle,” Farney said.  MPHJ first agreed to stop activity earlier this year when
the investigation began and has told the state that no Minnesota
business has paid licensing fees, she said.  The Vermont suit, filed in June, has been mired in a
dispute over whether the case will be heard in state or federal
court.  The inventor, former Maryland resident Laurence Klein, has
retired and transferred his patents. An earlier owner of the
patents, Project Paperless LLC, filed two suits that were
settled and a third, against companies including Hewlett-Packard
and Xerox, was dropped last year because the patents were being
transferred to MPHJ.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 