-- Insurance Ratified as Detroit Fuels Biggest Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-08-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/insurance-ratified-as-detroit-fuels-biggest-rally-muni-credit.html
Detroit’s record bankruptcy may cost
bond insurers more than $1 billion in claims. Yet the filing is
also boosting the appeal of guaranteed municipal debt as the
companies pledge to cover Motor City investors in full.  Insured municipals are beating the overall $3.7 trillion
market for the first time since 2007, before the financial
crisis stripped insurers, including  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  and
 MBIA Inc. (MBI) , of their top credit grades. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show guaranteed debt lost 4.2 percent through
yesterday, less than the overall market’s 5 percent drop.  Companies that back Detroit’s debt are on the hook for at
least $1.9 billion of unsecured debt, and also insure most of
the insolvent city’s water and sewer securities.  Assured
Guaranty  and MBIA have said they would ensure bondholders
receive full payment, reaffirming their value to individuals
shaken by the nation’s biggest muni bankruptcy, said Alan Schankel at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  “The benefit of insurance has gotten more visible because
of Detroit, so investors are valuing it more than they did six
months ago or a year ago,” said Schankel, head of fixed-income
research for the Philadelphia-based company. “That’s reflected
in trading levels.”  Buying Detroit  Michigan’s biggest city, with about 700,000 residents,
sought  bankruptcy protection  July 18, listing about $18 billion
in debt. Investors such as Tom Metzold at Eaton Vance Management
in  Boston  and Robert Amodeo at Western Asset Management Co. in
 New York  have said they’re buying insured Detroit utility
securities, showing confidence in pledges to repay bondholders.  The financial crisis that peaked in 2008 cost bond insurers
their top ratings amid losses on subprime-mortgage-backed debt.
While Build America Mutual Assurance Co. last year became the
first new insurer since  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Assurance Corp. in 2007, just 3.5 percent of local debt sold in
the first half of 2013 had the protection, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Insurers once covered more than half the market.  The backing was traditionally a draw for individual
investors, who own about 70 percent of municipal debt. Insurance
reduces the interest issuers pay by from 0.1 percentage point to
0.15 percentage point, Schankel said. That can lower the cost of
borrowing by hundreds of thousands -- or even millions -- of
dollars as the debt is repaid over periods of decades.  Surging Yields  “If there were never any losses, no one would buy
insurance,”  Wilbur Ross , who controlled about 14.8 million
Assured Guaranty shares, or 8.1 percent, in June, said by e-mail. “The performance of insured munis clearly demonstrates
the value.”  Interest rates  dropping to the  lowest  levels since the
1960s last year also depressed insurers’ share of the market as
investors favored higher-yielding securities, including those
without guarantees.  Yields on local-government debt have since surged to the
highest rates since April 2011,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.
That makes it more economical for borrowers to pay for coverage
of their bonds.  The rise in demand for insurance was on display in May when
the Plum Borough School District, about 13 miles (21 kilometers)
east of Pittsburgh, retained Build America Mutual to back a
$70.2 million deal, the insurer’s biggest deal since it began
offering the guarantees last year. The general-obligation bonds
have an underlying rating of A+ from  Standard & Poor’s , its
fifth-highest grade.  Insurance Savings  A 10-year tax-exempt portion was priced to yield 2.6
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compared with a
2.76 percent average yield during the week of the sale for an
 index  of similarly rated debt.  Bond insurers benefit from increased demand “anytime
there’s noise in the market,” said Richard Holzinger, New York-based Build America Mutual’s head of  investor relations .
“Insurance always does better when you have wider credit
spreads,” he said by telephone.  Jay Brown , MBIA’s chief executive officer, said in an Aug.
8 conference call with investors that “muni-bond defaults have
historically resulted in a greater appreciation of the value of
bond insurance.”  Such defaults are rare. U.S. corporate securities rated
BBB+, S&P’s third-lowest investment grade, have an average
default rate of about 6 percent after 15 years, compared with
about 0.2 percent for similarly rated munis, according to the
New York-based rating company.  Losing Streak  The broad muni index declined for three straight months
through July, the longest losing streak since January 2011, Bank
of America data show. During that three-month period, insured
bonds lost less compared with top-rated debt.  The extra yield investors demand to own 30-year insured
general-obligation debt rather than AAAs narrowed to  0.35
percentage point  July 26, the least since April 2011, and
remained at that level through this month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The spread reached 1.07 percentage points
in early May, the most since the data begin in 1993.  “Detroit and other distressed situations gave investors a
certain amount of comfort in insurance guaranteeing timely
payments,” said Dorian Jamison, a municipal analyst at Wells
Fargo Advisors in  St. Louis . “That really helped insured bonds
outperform during this weakness we’ve seen this summer.”  Equity Risk  While Detroit may burnish the value of bond protection, it
has raised questions about the viability of the insurers as they
confront the prospect of more distressed debt, said David Litvack, head of tax-exempt fixed income research at U.S. Trust,
a New York-based unit of  Bank of America Corp.   Assured Guaranty still has  gained  44 percent this year
through yesterday, yet it has fallen 11 percent in New York
trading since Detroit sought court protection. MBIA has  dropped 
12 percent in the same period in New York, while it is still up
54 percent for 2013. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  of shares has advanced 15
percent this year, despite  losing  2.6 percent since July 18.  “The municipal-bond investor may perceive bond insurance to
be more valuable, but the people who want to invest in bond
insurers’ stock may not perceive it so favorably,” Litvack said
by telephone. “There’s greater perceived risk in the market and
more potential for bond insurers to lose money.”  Still, first-time muni defaults declined to 32 this year
through Aug. 12 as the recovery that began in June 2009
continues, according to Municipal Market Advisors. That compares
with 54 during the same period in 2012 and 77 in 2011, research
from the Concord, Massachusetts, based company shows.  Rising Receipts  State tax receipts rose 8.6 percent in the first quarter of
this year compared with the same period in 2012, the 13th
straight quarterly increase, the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute 
of Government in  Albany , New York, said this month in a report.  Top-rated local governments such as Columbus, Ohio, and
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , are set to issue debt this week amid
$4.7 billion in sales,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  ratio  of 30-year top-rated muni yields to those for
comparable U.S. Treasuries is near the highest in more than a
year. The proportion fell to 119 percent yesterday after
reaching 125 percent Aug 9, the most since June 1, 2012. The
higher the percentage, the greater the relative value of
municipal securities compared with Treasuries.  Following is a pending sale:  Charelston County Airport District in Charleston,  South
Carolina , plans to sell about $175 million in revenue bonds as
soon as today in part to finance the expansion and improvement
of terminal facilities at the airfield. Interest on the debt is
exempt from South Carolina and regular federal income taxes. The
bonds are rated A1 with a negative outlook by Moody’s Investors
Service, its fifth-highest grade, and mature as late as July
2043.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit is managing the
sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  