-- Intel Leads $17 Million Financing of Maginatics
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-08-20T20:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/intel-leads-17-million-financing-of-maginatics.html
Maginatics Inc.  is assembling a
roster of some of the biggest U.S. technology companies as
investors, adding  Intel Corp. (INTC)  to the list, as the storage
startup aims for mass adoption.  The Mountain View, California-based company said today it
raised $17 million in a funding round led by Intel’s venture
arm, with participation from Comcast Ventures and  China ’s
WestSummit Capital. Existing investors --  EMC Corp. (EMC) ’s venture
unit,  VMware Inc. (VMW)  and Atlantic Bridge -- also contributed.  Maginatics, founded in 2010, is competing in an
increasingly crowded storage market as large businesses seek new
solutions to handle the archiving and backup of surging amounts
of data while letting employees access and collaborate on
documents from a multitude of devices. Rather than only selling
directly to information-technology departments, Maginatics is
bringing in investors that can also serve as business partners
to help get the product into customers’ hands.  “Being a startup and going to financial companies,
semiconductor companies and media companies, it helps with
credibility,” said Amarjit Gill, co-founder and chief executive
officer of Maginatics. Without big partners, “we would have to
work much harder to get this in the market.”  Gill, who previously sold companies he co-founded to Google
Inc., Apple Inc. and Broadcom Corp., declined to comment on the
valuation. Maginatics has raised $27 million including an
earlier funding round.  VCs Pounce  The company will use the additional capital to bolster its
marketing, sales and business development, Gill said. The
company will expand to 60 to 65 employees in the next 12 months,
from about 40 now, he said.  Venture capitalists have been flocking to storage in the
past two years. Nimble Storage Inc., which provides high-speed
systems for data centers, raised $40.7 million in September from
investors including Sequoia Capital and Accel Partners. Cloud-storage provider Egnyte Inc. raised $16 million in July 2012
from a group led by Google’s venture arm, and Ethernet storage
company Coraid Inc. reeled in $50 million in late 2011 from
Crosslink Capital and other investors.  In some cases, Maginatics is competing with file-storage
providers Box Inc. and Dropbox Inc., though unlike those
services, it doesn’t have a consumer offering. Maginatics’s
software, MagFS, is downloaded on computers and mobile devices,
automatically storing documents and files and letting co-workers
collaborate.  “MagFS enables this transition by helping companies serve
highly-distributed operations and seamlessly migrate workloads
to the cloud,” Lisa Lambert, vice president of Intel Capital,
said in a statement today.  While the company declined to disclose its revenue, the
average client pays tens of thousands of dollars a year,
according to Bruno Raimondo, head of product at Maginatics.  Intel, the world’s largest semiconductor maker,  rose  1.1
percent to $22.52 at the close today in New York. The stock has
gained 9.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  