-- Iran Signals Possible Changes in Nuclear Oversight
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-08-20T16:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/iran-signals-possible-changes-in-nuclear-oversight.html
Iran  may assign its Foreign Ministry
to oversee talks with world powers on the country’s nuclear
program, a move that could give President Hassan Rohani more
sway over the negotiations and help end Western sanctions.  Rohani, 64, will name a new team and chief negotiator to
conduct talks, Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Araghchi told
journalists in Tehran.  “Maybe the foreign minister, or anyone else that’s deemed
adequate” could take over, Araghchi said. His comments were
translated into English by Press TV, which broadcast the news
conference. “We are waiting for the president’s decision.”  Iran’s Supreme National Security Council, which reports to
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , determines national
security policies. The president appoints the Council’s
secretary, who in the past has led the country’s nuclear
negotiations. National security issues would continue to be
formulated by the council and approved by Khamenei even if the
negotiators changed, Araghchi said.  “Bringing the nuclear dossier to the Foreign Ministry will
streamline the process for making tactical decisions,” said Ali
Vaez, a senior analyst at the  International Crisis Group  in
 Washington . “The strategic decisions will be made at the SNSC,
where other players also have a say.”  Greater Transparency  Rohani, who was inaugurated on Aug. 4, has called on the
U.S. and the European Union to drop sanctions imposed to stop
the country’s uranium enrichment program. He’s also offered to
make the program more transparent to ease Western suspicions
that Iran’s nuclear work is not peaceful, as the Iranians claim,
and ultimately designed to produce weapons. Over the past year,
the sanctions have crippled Iran’s economy, sending inflation
above 35 percent and halving the value of the rial.  In five rounds of negotiations, starting in April 2012,
Iran’s previous chief nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , failed
to resolve differences with the six powers, made up of the U.S.,
 Russia ,  China , the U.K.,  France  and  Germany .  Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif will probably be
named as the lead negotiator, which would send a very strong
signal, said  Trita Parsi , author of “A Single Roll of the Dice:
Obama’s Diplomacy with Iran,” and president of the National
Iranian-American Council in Washington, which has called for the
removal of Western sanctions against Iran.  ‘Political Capital’  “It means Iranians are putting much more political capital
into the diplomatic process,” Parsi said. “If the Foreign
Ministry and individuals like Zarif and Rohani are in the lead
and have a stronger voice then, there are clearly reasons to
believe that the Iranians are going to show greater intent on
reaching a deal.”  As a former ambassador to the  United Nations , the U.S.-
educated Zarif, 53, who speaks fluent English, got to know
influential Washington politicians. Zarif was confirmed by the
parliament last week.  Khamenei, the ultimate decision maker on all major affairs
of state, said on Aug. 3 when he endorsed Rohani for the
presidency that he approves of his “prudent” and measured
foreign policy approach in dealing with the West.  Putting the talks under the Foreign Ministry’s purview
would strengthen the president’s hand, said Suzanne Maloney, a
senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution ’s Saban Center for
Middle East Policy in Washington.  “From the perspective of the broader powers of the
presidency it would be important to see this shift occur,”
Maloney said. It would give Rohani “some greater degree of
direct responsibility and authority over the negotiations.”  Rohani, a former nuclear negotiator a decade ago, made the
only deal with Western powers to suspend Iran’s enrichment
program in 2003. Now, he has a chance to oversee another deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  