-- IRS Nonprofit Scrutiny Included Look for ACORN Successors
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-08-20T18:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/irs-nonprofit-scrutiny-included-look-for-acorn-successors.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  told
its employees to watch out for applications for tax-exempt
status by successors to Acorn, the now-defunct Democratic-leaning community organizing group.  Congressional Democrats, who released the  recently
unredacted information  today, maintained that such scrutiny
undermines the idea that the U.S. tax agency’s policing of
political groups was limited to Tea Party organizations.  Acorn, the Association of Community Organizations for
Reform Now, disbanded in 2010 after hidden videos showed workers
offering advice on opening a prostitution business.  “This new information should put a nail in the coffin of
the Republican claims that the IRS’s actions were politically
motivated or were targeted at only one side of the political
spectrum,” Representative  Elijah Cummings , a Maryland Democrat,
said in a statement. “It is time for  House Republicans  to stop
trying to score political points and start to focus on reforming
the IRS.”  Republicans have insisted that Tea Party groups and other
organizations that aid Republicans were subject to longer IRS
delays as they awaited confirmation of their tax-exempt status.  Congressional Inquiries  The IRS disclosed in May that it had put Tea Party groups’
applications under extra scrutiny, and apologized. Since then,
at least four IRS officials have been pushed out of their jobs,
congressional committees have opened inquiries and the  Justice
Department  has begun a criminal probe.  The information released today after the IRS relaxed its
reading of privacy rules doesn’t explain in detail how Acorn-like groups were to be treated. Acorn conducted voter
registration drives and helped prepare tax returns for low-income people.  The new information also shows that “Emerge” groups were
subject to extra attention from the IRS. In 2012, the IRS
revoked the tax-exempt status of affiliates of  Emerge America ,
which trained Democratic candidates for office and was deemed
too political to qualify for tax-exempt status.  The IRS’s treatment of Emerge shouldn’t be compared with
how Tea Party groups were singled out by name, said Ali Ahmad, a
spokesman for the Republican-controlled House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee.  “The fact that Emerge was initially approved for tax-exempt status, but had it revoked after its improper behavior
came to light, underscores how much more stringent the IRS was
with Tea Party applicants,” he said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  