-- Israel Shekel Set for Month Low on Bets Regulator to Buy Dollars
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-08-20T09:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/israel-shekel-set-for-month-low-on-bets-regulator-to-buy-dollars.html
Israel ’s shekel headed for the
weakest level in almost a month on bets the  Bank of Israel  will
continue to buy dollars to stem a rally in the best-performing
major currency this year.  The shekel depreciated 0.1 percent to 3.5774 a dollar at
11:58 a.m. in Tel Aviv, trimming the 2013 advance to 4.4
percent, the most among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The yield on Israel’s benchmark 4.25 percent bonds
maturing in March 2023 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 3.95 percent.  The central bank this month intervened in the foreign-currency market after the shekel touched a two-year high,
stoking bets that policy makers will continue a dollar-purchase
program started in May even before a new governor is named.
Since  Stanley Fischer  stepped down from the helm of the
regulator at the end of June, two nominees have withdrawn their
candidacies. Karnit Flug, Fischer’s deputy, is acting governor.  “The central bank has been more aggressive in the past
week or two in buying dollars, showing its presence in the
market to curb appreciation,” said Moshe Nir, a trader at
Mercantile Discount Bank Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “Foreign banks and
local investors are closing shekel positions on expectations
that the bank will buy dollars as necessary.”  The Bank of Israel slowed its currency buying program in
July, purchasing $255 million compared with $1.44 billion in
June. The regulator lowered  interest rates  in two surprise moves
in May and announced a $2.1 billion foreign currency purchase
plan to stem the shekel’s rally and support the economy.  The stronger currency makes exports, which account for
about 40 percent of the country’s gross domestic product, less
competitive, the Manufacturers Association of Israel warned this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  