-- Mistry Hotel Spinoff to Cut Debt as U.S. Grows: Corporate India
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-08-21T10:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/mistry-hotel-spinoff-to-cut-debt-as-u-s-grows-corporate-india.html
Investors in  Indian Hotels Co. (IH) , the
unprofitable owner of  New York ’s Pierre hotel, say the company
should sell part of its overseas business to trim its debt pile
and focus on reviving growth at home.  The luxury chain controlled by Tata Sons Ltd. had 38.18
billion rupees ($602 million) of  debt  as of March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company, with 22 resorts from
the U.S. to Mauritius,  reported  a loss of 191 million rupees for
June quarter as costs increased and said it plans to spin off
its foreign holdings by March.  A stake sale will allow Chairman Cyrus Mistry to exploit
reviving growth in the U.S. even as  India ’s $1.8 trillion
economy expands at the slowest pace in a decade. The
depreciation of the rupee,  Asia ’s worst performing currency this
year, may lure overseas tourists to the nation’s heritage sites
such as the Taj Mahal, helping boost revenue at the nation’s
hotel operators, according to Krishnakumar Srinivasan, head of
equities at Sundaram Asset Management Co.  “We would like them to focus on their Indian assets rather
than overseas assets, which have been a drag on the balance
sheet,” said Nilesh Shetty, an associate  fund manager  with
Quantum Asset Management Co., who added to his holding of Indian
Hotels last month. A stake sale “will help unlock value of
those assets, de-leverage and improve liquidity.”  The company is working on a restructuring plan to move all
its overseas assets into a “step-down subsidiary” and
estimates to complete revamping the business by March, Anil Goel
executive director for finance at Indian Hotels told reporters
on August 12. He didn’t elaborate.  Pierre Rates  Average room rates at the Pierre hotel in New York gained
for the first time in three years in the 12 months ended March
31, according to company data. Tariffs rose 4.2 percent to $623,
data show. Rates at the company’s Campton Place hotel in  San
Francisco  increased 16.2 percent and St. James Court in  London 
by 15.2 percent in the past two years.  In the U.S., retail sales rose in July for a fourth
consecutive month, showing American households are regaining
momentum as employment climbs. Banyan Tree Holdings Ltd. to John Pritzker, the billionaire son of Hyatt Hotels’s founder, are
betting a revival in the world’s biggest economy will boost
 travel demand .  Europe Growth  Blackstone Group LP, the largest manager of private-equity
real estate funds, has decided to sell its London West Hollywood
hotel in  California  for $195 million, according to a person with
knowledge of the deal, while Banyan Tree, a Singapore-based
operator of spas and resorts, is seeking to expand its presence
in  Europe  and the Americas.  Pritzker purchased the remaining 50 percent stake in
closely held Commune Hotels and Resorts for an undisclosed
amount earlier this month.  A report by the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said Aug. 14 that gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.3 percent last quarter after shrinking
0.3 percent in the previous three months. The growth brought to
a close six straight quarters of contraction -- the longest
stretch since the euro’s debut in 1999.  “There is definitely a big improvement in the U.S. and
Europe too is looking better,” said Chennai-based Srinivasan.
“If a hotel property has a niche and some kind of a comparative
advantage, it will definitely find appetite with private equity
and strategic investors overseas.”  Indian Hotels  shares  plunged 4.6 percent to 40.9 rupees in
 Mumbai , extending this year’s loss to 35 percent, versus the 8
percent decline in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex.  Changing Strategy  Mistry is changing strategy from aggressively pursuing
acquisitions to “consolidate” the group’s assets, said A.K. Prabhakar, senior vice president of equity research at Anand
Rathi Financial Services Ltd.  Former Chairman  Ratan Tata  sought to expand the group by
offering to acquire  Orient-Express Hotels Ltd. (OEH) , owner of New
York’s 21 Club restaurant and the Hotel Cipriani in  Venice . The
proposal was rejected by Orient-Express in November, saying the
bid undervalued the company.  “Your opportunistic proposal was made at a time when the
price of Orient-Express shares has been significantly
depressed,” the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company said in a
letter to Indian Hotels. “Our board has unanimously concluded
that your proposal significantly undervalues Orient-Express, and
that now would be a highly disadvantageous time to sell.  The Tata group company offered a premium of 43 percent to
Orient-Express’s 20-day average price then. Indian Hotels owns
6.9 percent of Orient-Express.  Final Call  Goel said the board has not taken a final call on whether
it wants to pursue Orient-Express with a higher offer.  The hotel operator, which runs the 112-year-old  Taj Mahal 
Hotel in Mumbai,  narrowed  its group loss for the June quarter to
190.9 million rupees from 333.6 million rupees last year on
higher sales and lower finance costs. The company’s finance
costs fell 10 percent to 393.7 million rupees, data show.  The company is looking to sell stakes in its overseas
assets to pare debt and bolster earnings to counter the ‘‘dismal
performance of the domestic business,” said Sumant Kumar, a
Mumbai-based analyst with Elara Securities (India) Pvt., who
upgraded his recommendation for the stock to buy on Aug. 13.
“This will change the game for Indian Hotels. It will be a huge
positive.”  Indian Hotels has opened two new hotels with 175 rooms in
India since April and plans to add 1,575 rooms across 12
domestic properties by March next year, according to an Aug. 12
company presentation. Another 1,553 rooms are planned for the
year ending March 2015 in Asia’s No. 3 economy, it added.  India Plans  The oversupply of Indian hotel rooms, which increased 24
percent in the year through March and lagging behind demand by 3
percentage points, isn’t deterring the company from building
more, Raymond Bickson, managing director of Indian Hotels said
at a briefing  on May 30. India has 200,000 rooms versus 5
million in the U.S., which has a smaller population, and 3
million in  China , according to Bickson.  “India is outpacing the growth of many other economies,”
he told reporters. “We still need a lot of convention
facilities, hotels, rooms to keep up with that.”  The rupee has crashed about 28 percent to 63.42 per dollar
in the past two years, the biggest tumble since the government
pledged gold reserves in exchange for loans from the
 International Monetary Fund  in 1991. UBS AG is predicting that a
drop to 70 is possible.  That will have a  “positive rub-off” on the domestic
operations of companies that run luxury hotels and resorts,
according to Sundaram’s Srinivasan.  The hotel industries average luxury room rates slipped 18
percent in the four years through 2012, while a brutal gang rape
in  New Delhi  last year deterred women visitors.  “The earlier strategy helped in scaling up the business
while the current strategy will help them in making the business
profitable,” said Prabhakar. “It seems the wise thing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  