-- Lithuania Urges Belarus to Halt Nuclear Project on Safety Issues
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-08-20T12:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/lithuania-urges-belarus-to-halt-nuclear-project-on-safety-issues.html
Lithuanian Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius demanded neighboring Belarus stop work on its first
nuclear power plant until it proves the project complies with
international treaties and nuclear safety standards.  Lithuania  sent Belarus two diplomatic notes over the past
month to protest earth-moving and other initial work for the
plant near the border town of Ostrovets, 40 kilometers (25
miles) from Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital, Butkevicius said.  “We have many concerns about safety and information we’ve
asked for hasn’t been provided,” the premier said today on
Lithuanian public radio. “We urge Belarus to refrain from
unilateral actions, we await their response and expect them to
abide by international treaties they’ve signed.”  A United Nations committee in April said Belarus wasn’t
abiding by the terms of the  Espoo Convention  on cross-border
environmental issues at the site chosen for its plant or
information provided to neighboring states and the public. The
former Soviet republic plans to erect two Russian-built reactors
at Ostrovets to reduce its dependence on imported Russian gas.  “Under requirements of the Espoo Convention, construction
of this plant definitely can’t begin,” Butkevicius said.
“We’re going to actively seek to draw the attention of
international organizations, stressing that the environmental
impact assessment with Lithuania hasn’t been completed.”  Formal Procedures  Belarusian Foreign Ministry Spokesman Andrey Savinykh said
his country provided “precise and detailed” answers to all of
Lithuania’s questions almost a year ago, and the Baltic neighbor
has since ignored offers to hold consultations on disputed
issues.  “We have the impression that Lithuania actively seeks to
avoid participating in measures foreseen in the Espoo
Convention,” Savinykh said today by phone from Minsk.
“Lithuania is not ready for dialogue, and I would rather not
speculate on its motives.”  The Geneva-based Implementation Committee for the Espoo
Convention, in its  April decision , said Belarus at times
approached requirements for dialogue with abutting countries as
“mere formalities,” not fully addressing key issues and
sometimes not responding at all to specific queries.  Belarusian President Aleksandr Lukashenko fixed Ostrovets
as the site for the new nuclear plant by decree in September
2011, before an environmental impact assessment had been
completed. Since then the government has failed to explain why
that site is better than alternatives and detail “the specific
impact on human health and safety,” the committee said.  Latvia, Poland and Ukraine, which also share borders with
Belarus and are parties to the Espoo Convention, hadn’t lodged
objections to the Belarusian nuclear plant, the Implementation
Committee said in its report.  Russia , which isn’t a party to the
treaty, is helping to finance the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  