-- IVG to Ask Court to Oversee $4.3 Billion Debt Restructuring
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-08-20T16:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/ivg-will-ask-court-to-supervise-4-3-billion-debt-restructuring.html
IVG Immobilien AG (IVG) , the German
property company that’s lost most of its market value, said it
will file for court protection to reorganize 3.2 billion euros
($4.3 billion) of  debt  after talks with creditors failed.  IVG will apply today with the Bonn District Court to
initiate a proceeding similar to U.S. bankruptcy reorganization,
the company, based in the same city, said in a statement. The
procedure protects companies from claims while they try to reach
a court-approved agreement.  “Despite weeks of intensive mediations and negotiation
efforts on the the part of IVG, the individual creditor groups
were unfortunately unable to agree on a consensual solution
taking into account all stakeholder interests,” Chief Executive
Officer Wolfgang Schaefers said in the statement.  IVG, once  Germany ’s biggest publicly held property company,
saw its  value  plummet since 2007 after demand for its office
buildings fell in the wake of the financial crisis. IVG owns
about 5 billion euros of office buildings in  Europe  and manages
15 billion euros of real estate for private and institutional
clients, including a fund that owns a 50 percent stake in
 London ’s Gherkin tower.  IVG fell 4.8 percent to 8 cents at the 5:30 p.m. close in
 Frankfurt , giving the company a market value of 16.6 million
euros. The shares reached a high of about 35 euros in 2007.  Creditors’ Proposal  On Aug. 12, IVG said it was examining a proposal by lenders
that would wipe out most of the company’s share capital. The
creditors include Cerberus Capital Management,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
Third Avenue Management LLC,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , according to two people with knowledge of the
talks. Aurelius Capital Management LP is also a creditor,
according to a July 23 statement from Aurelius.  IVG is negotiating with holders of 2.4 billion euros of
syndicated loans, a 400 million-euro hybrid loan and a 400
million-euro convertible bond, the property company said on May
31. At the time, IVG proposed a debt-for-equity swap and said it
must reduce borrowings by 1.75 billion euros to bring its loan-to-value ratio to “a normal market level.”  IVG’s debt now exceeds 80 percent of its asset value and
the company plans to bring it closer to 60 percent, according to
a person with knowledge of the company’s financial position. IVG
owes money to more than 200 lenders, the person said.  Stakeholders’ Interests  IVG decided on a filing for the self-administration
procedure because it offers “the best tools for successfully
implementing the initiated restructuring of IVG in the interests
of all stakeholders,” according to today’s statement.  If no agreement with creditors is reached, German law
allows the court to appoint an insolvency administrator to sell
company assets and distribute the proceeds to creditors,
depending on seniority.  Properties held in IVG’s client funds can not be sold to
repay creditors, IVG spokesman Oliver Stumm said.  IVG is being advised by financial consultants at Rothschild
Group, and lawyers at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and
Goerg Partnerschaft von Rechtsanwaelten.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  