-- Jai-Alai Operator Seeks Bankruptcy After Lender Dispute
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-08-20T18:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/jai-alai-operator-seeks-bankruptcy-after-lender-dispute.html
Florida Gaming Centers Inc., which
operates a casino and jai-alai frontons in Miami, sought
bankruptcy protection after a dispute with its lender.  The company listed debt of $138.3 million and assets of
$180 million in Chapter 11 documents filed yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Miami. Its parent,  Florida Gaming Corp. (FGMG) , and
two other affiliates also sought court protection.  Florida Gaming opened a Miami casino in January 2012 to
bolster its revenue as the fading popularity of jai-alai, often
considered the world’s fastest sport with balls whizzing around
sometimes faster than 180 miles per hour, threatened its
viability, according to court papers.  The company “is now thriving and is a success by every
measure but one: its relationship with its lender,” Daniel Licciardi, an executive vice president, said in court papers.
The bankruptcy filing was “brought about by ABC Funding’s
relentless effort to wrest control of Miami Jai-Alai and the
casino,” he said.  Florida Gaming borrowed $87 million from a syndicate of
lenders, led by agent ABC Funding LLC, to repay existing debt
and fund the construction of the 60,000-square-foot casino,
according to court filings.  Technical Default  Florida  Gaming said ABC Funding determined that it was in
technical default of the financing agreement and moved to
foreclose on its assets. The casino operator said in court
papers that it made all required payments.  The casino has more than 1,050 slot machines, a poker room
and table games, as well as offering concerts and boxing
matches, according to court documents. The company also has a
Fort Pierce, Florida, location with jai-alai courts and inter-track wagering on horse and dog racing.  The company previously negotiated a sale of virtually all
its assets to fellow casino operator Silvermark LLC for
$115 million in cash and $14 million in assumed liabilities,
court documents show. A provision in the financing agreement
required Florida Gaming to make an additional payment to the
lender if the assets are sold to third party. Jefferies LLC was
hired to determine that amount, about $26.8 million, and valued
the company at more than $180 million.  Florida Gaming said in court papers that the lender delayed
the sale in an attempt to get more money and interest and to
take ownership of the assets.  ‘Best Avenue’  After the sale to Silvermark unraveled, the casino operator
decided the bankruptcy filing was the “best avenue to realize
and maximize the residual equity in Florida Gaming Centers Inc.
-- which may exceed $50 million -- for the benefit of its
creditors, shareholders” and other parties, according to court
documents.  The company says on its  website  that it’s the world’s
largest jai-alai operator and has been hosting matches since
1926.  The case is In re Florida Gaming Centers Inc., 13-bk-29597,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  