-- JPMorgan Said to Face Justice Department Probe of Energy Trading
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-08-20T21:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/jpmorgan-said-to-face-justice-department-probe-of-energy-trading.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  faces a Justice
Department probe of its energy-trading practices after the bank
settled a regulator’s market-manipulation complaint last month,
a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  is scrutinizing
the conduct at issue in JPMorgan’s settlement with the  Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission , said the person, who asked not to
be named because the investigation isn’t public. The inquiry is
in an early stage, the Wall Street Journal reported late
yesterday. Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Bharara, and
Mark Kornblau at JPMorgan declined to comment on the probe.  J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp. agreed last month to pay
$410 million in penalties and forfeited gains, and gave up its
claims to $262 million of disputed payments, to settle the
FERC’s allegations that the bank manipulated power markets to
enrich itself at the expense of consumers in  California  and the
Midwest from 2010 to 2012. While the deal released the New York-based company and its employees from future enforcement actions
by the regulator, it didn’t preclude other U.S. authorities from
pursuing their own investigations.  The FERC said JPMorgan’s energy-trading unit, which is
overseen by commodities chief Blythe Masters, engaged in 12
bidding strategies in wholesale energy markets from September
2010 to November 2012, resulting in tens of millions of dollars
in overpayments from grid operators. The agency announced the
violations July 29 after investigating for more than a year.  FERC’s Discussions  JPMorgan used strategies such as offering below-market
rates for some hours of energy production, then charging
exorbitantly high rates for hours that state bidders agreed to
pay for the plants to “ramp” production, the FERC said.  Masters, 44, was told in an October 2010 document that the
firm’s bidding strategies would enable it to produce $1.5
billion to $2 billion in gains through 2018, according to the
FERC. The FERC didn’t take action against any individuals.  JPMorgan accepted the facts in the settlement agreement
without admitting or denying wrongdoing, the FERC said at the
time. The firm announced last month that it’s looking for ways
to exit the physical commodities business, which includes energy
trading.  FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff has stepped up scrutiny of
corporations as the agency wields policing powers that were
expanded in the wake of Enron Corp.’s 2001 collapse. Since 2011,
the regulator has revealed at least 13 probes of energy-market
gaming.  Wellinghoff said in an interview last month that other
government entities are free to pursue penalties against
JPMorgan’s employees and that the FERC would cooperate with
them. He said he wasn’t aware of any separate investigations.  “We have had some discussions with some agencies that I
can’t disclose at this time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  