-- Kerry Clears Officials to Return From Benghazi Suspension
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-08-20T20:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/kerry-clears-officials-to-return-from-benghazi-suspension.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  is
reassigning four officials put on leave after criticism of their
conduct in connection with the deadly attack on a U.S. facility
in  Libya  almost a year ago, according to Marie Harf, a State
Department spokeswoman.  Kerry decided after his own review to end their paid
administrative leave and reassign the State Department officials
to different positions, Harf told reporters in  Washington .  The department determined “that there was no breach of
duty by these four employees,” and that appointing them to new
jobs was “the right answer,” Harf said.  While Kerry’s actions were consistent with a State
Department Accountability Review Board’s finding that no one
should be fired over the September attack at the U.S. facility
in Benghazi, Republican lawmakers leading a House investigation
criticized the decision as part of a “charade.”  “Instead of accountability, the State Department offered a
charade that included false reports of firings and resignations
and now ends in a game of musical chairs where no one misses a
single day on the State Department payroll,” Representative
 Darrell Issa  of  California , chairman of the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, said today in a statement.  Public Relations  “It is now clear that the personnel actions taken by the
department in response to the Benghazi terrorist attacks was
more of a public relations strategy than a measured response to
a failure in leadership,” he said.  The four State Department employees were put on leave last
year by then-Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  following a
critical assessment of their performance before and during the
attack on the diplomatic outpost in Benghazi, in which U.S.
Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans were
killed.  “These are people with real lives and real careers, and we
can’t just take action that’s not warranted against them just to
make us all feel better,” Harf said.  The Accountability Review Board appointed by Clinton
concluded that performance shortcomings weren’t serious enough
to justify firing the individuals, who were put on paid
administrative leave pending further review.  The four are Eric Boswell, the assistant secretary of state
for diplomatic security; Charlene Lamb, the deputy assistant
secretary responsible for embassy security; Raymond Maxwell,
deputy assistant secretary for the Maghreb affairs; and one
other security official.  Finding Terrorists  “I am highly disappointed that no one at the State
Department will be held accountable in any real way over the
failures that led to the tragedy in Benghazi,” said Tennessee
Senator Bob Corker, the top Republican on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, in a statement.  Harf said the administration is “focused on bringing to
account those that are responsible for this tragedy in Benghazi
-- and that means finding the terrorists who actually
perpetrated this horrible tragedy.”  Questions about the Obama administration’s handling of the
attack have become a partisan issue, particularly on whether
scrutiny should have extended to the upper levels of the State
Department including actions or failure to act by Clinton and
other top administration national security officials.  Along with Issa’s investigation, some Senate Republicans
including  John McCain  of  Arizona  have called for creation of a
select Senate committee to pursue further investigation of the
incident.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  