-- KKR Forms $580 Million Maritime Lender With Balance Sheet
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-08-20T14:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/kkr-forms-580-million-maritime-lender-with-balance-sheet.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
led by Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , created a unit to lend
to the maritime industry, including assets such as drilling rigs
and shipping vessels.  The unit, called Maritime Finance Company, will be seeded
with $580 million, of which 45 percent will come from KKR’s
balance sheet, its mid-market merchant banking unit and its
publicly traded  KKR Financial Holdings LLC (KFN)  division, according
to a statement today from the New York-based firm. Maritime
Finance will be led by Kristan Bodden and Gabriel Tolchinsky,
former partners at advisory firm Helios Advisors LLC.  KKR joins  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
asset-management unit and  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  in stepping
into the lending void left by European lenders and private
investors, who pulled back after the 2008 recession sent the
shipping industry into its worst slump since the 1970s. In
 Germany , investors lost 2.3 billion euros ($3.1 billion) last
year as the number of insolvencies by shipping companies surged,
according to estimates by Hamburg-based researcher Fondsmedia.  “This is an area that has historically been served by
European banks,” Bodden said in the statement. “The current
dislocation in the European banking sector has created a
substantial funding gap in maritime asset financing.”  Bankruptcy Protection  The biggest oil tankers, able to hold 2 million barrels of
cargo each, were  losing  almost $7,700 a day on the benchmark
Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage at this year’s low in February,
according to data from the Baltic Exchange in London. Plunging
freight rates forced Overseas Shipholding Group Inc., the
largest U.S. oil-tanker operator, to file for bankruptcy
protection in November, about a year after rival General
Maritime Corp. Other companies in the industry driven into
bankruptcy include Korea Line Corp. and Britannia Bulk Plc.  KKR Financial Holdings, known as KFN, deployed $150 million
to the new KKR unit, said KFN Chief Executive Officer Craig Farr. KKR’s balance sheet, the largest among peers, was valued
at $6.9 billion as of June 30, including $2 billion in cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  