-- Kodak Reorganization Approval Affirms Move From Cameras
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-08-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/kodak-bankruptcy-reorganization-plan-approved-by-new-york.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , which dominated
the photography industry before being hobbled by digital
competition, won court approval of a plan to exit bankruptcy as
a commercial printing company that sells nothing to consumers.  The plan, which cuts about $4.1 billion of debt, was
approved yesterday by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in
 Manhattan . It affirms Kodak’s move away from cameras, film sales
and consumer photo developing, which made it a household name,
to focus on printing technology for corporate customers.  Kodak “is in many ways a new operation” after shedding
its best-known businesses, Gropper said. “This is on a day when
many are losing retirement benefits, when many are finding that
their recovery as a creditor is just a minute fraction” of what
they expected.  Secured claims will be paid in full under the plan, while
shareholders will receive nothing. Unsecured creditors with
estimated claims of as much as $2.2 billion will be paid 
4 cents to 5 cents on the dollar. In court papers, Kodak called
the plan a “comprehensive compromise” between the company and
its creditors.  Gropper rejected claims from some  shareholder  groups that
Kodak and its bankruptcy experts were hiding value. In court
yesterday, he said that even if Kodak were worth far more than
it claimed, that value would go to unsecured creditors and
shareholders still wouldn’t get anything.  47,000 Jobs  Kodak, based in Rochester,  New York , filed a Chapter 11
petition in January 2012 after spending $3.4 billion on earlier
attempts to turn the company around. By then, Kodak had already
 shed 47,000 employees  since 2003, closed 13 factories that made
film, paper and chemicals, and shuttered 130 photo laboratories.  The company entered court protection with about 17,000
employees and will exit the case with about 8,500, after
previously agreed unit sales and spinoffs.  The photographic and consumer print products associated
with Kodak’s brand for generations were  sold  during the
bankruptcy or spun off to settle pension claims. Its commercial
printing businesses will continue making presses and technology
to print documents, publications and product packaging.  The company will soon emerge “as a technology leader
serving large and growing commercial imaging markets -- such as
commercial printing, packaging, functional printing and
professional services -- with a leaner structure and a stronger
balance sheet,” Antonio M. Perez, Kodak’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said in a statement.  ‘A Leader’  While the new Kodak won’t be the company of “popular
imagination,” it will again “be a leader in its chosen
field,” its lawyer, Andrew Dietderich, said in court yesterday.  The plan hinges on Kodak selling $406 million of new stock.
The rights offering for 85 percent of the company’s equity will
be backstopped by a creditor group that includes GSO Capital
Partners and BlueMountain Capital Management.  Creditors holding more than half of the company’s unsecured
bonds agreed to invest new money in Kodak to boost their equity
ownership through the rights offering, David Kurtz, the head of
restructuring for Lazard Freres & Co., said in an interview.  “When you go back to the beginning of the case, there was
a lot of uncertainty and skepticism and negative speculation
about whether Kodak would ever see a going-concern Chapter 11
confirmation,” Kurtz said. “And here we are with the
overwhelming support of our creditors.”  Touch Screens  Under the reorganization plan, Kodak will also focus on a
new technology -- touch-screen sensor components for smartphones
and computer tablets -- and continue producing film for the
 movie industry .  Kodak plans to rely on $895 million in loans to finance the
bankruptcy exit, according to court papers. The reorganized
company will have an estimated enterprise value in the range of
$785 million to $1.38 billion, Kurtz said in an Aug. 2 filing.  Kodak raised cash for the reorganization by selling
businesses including camera film, photo kiosks, an online
picture-sharing service and commercial document scanners, and
auctioning its digital-imaging patents. The patents related to
the capture, manipulation and sharing of digital images, while
the kiosks include those used by consumers and by theme parks to
get pictures of passengers on rides.  Business Spinoffs  Kodak in April spun off its personalized- and document-imaging businesses for $650 million to its U.K. pension plan in
a deal that settled $2.8 billion in claims against the company.
It also reached a deal to resolve environmental liabilities in
New York by establishing a trust and contributing $49 million.  The company, which sold the first consumer camera 125 years
ago, was founded by  George Eastman , who developed a method for
dry-plate photography before introducing the Kodak camera in
1888, according to the company’s website.  It went on to invent film, enabling Thomas Edison to
develop the motion picture camera, as well as Brownie cameras
selling for $1 and Kodachrome film. It also invented the digital
camera -- a technology it failed commercialize.  Kodak’s revenue at the time of the bankruptcy filing had
fallen by half since 2005 to $7.2 billion in 2011. The company’s
losses since 2008 had exceeded $1.76 billion.  “Kodak is one of the best-known names of American
business,” Gropper said yesterday. “Its decline in bankruptcy
is a tragedy of American economic life. I’ve reviewed dozens of
letters from Kodak shareholders asking how the company in which
they invested fell so far.”  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-bk-10202,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  