-- Kudelski Sees More Demand for Security After NSA Spying Programs
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-08-20T15:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/kudelski-sees-more-demand-for-security-after-nsa-spying-programs.html
Kudelski SA (KUD) , a Swiss digital
security company, said it’s accelerating investment in its
cybersecurity unit as demand climbed after recent revelations
about government surveillance.  “We see a very high demand,” Chief Executive Officer
Andre Kudelski said in a phone interview. “The revelations have
just woken people up that there is vulnerability. If some
elements can be done by governments, you can imagine that
pirates can also do things. That’s the way people are starting
to think. That is not science fiction, it’s just reality.”  Kudelski Security, introduced in November 2012, helps
companies protect data and limit piracy risks. The offering has
made faster progress than expected, so more investment was
pumped into it in the six months to June 30, and accelerated
investment will continue in this half, the CEO said. Global
spending on cybersecurity is set to rise about 10 percent to  $46
billion  by the end of this year, according to ABI Research, a
London-based market intelligence firm.  The U.S. National Security Agency has been covertly
collecting electronic records on millions of Americans and
storing the information in a searchable database, according to
information revealed in June by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden. European Union regulators are now probing possible
violations of the bloc’s data protection rules because of large-scale surveillance by U.S. spy programs.  The company hired 106 people in the first half, primarily
in the cybersecurity business, and this unit remains a priority
for future growth, Kudelski said.  Kudelski, which also makes secure systems for products
ranging from digital television to electronic voting and
smartcards, today reported a first-half operating profit of 16.9
million Swiss francs ($18.4 million), compared with a 2.5
million-franc operating loss a year earlier.  The shares fell 2.4 percent to 12.4 francs as of 5:25 p.m.
in Zurich trading, paring their advance to 30 percent this year
and giving the company a market value of 667 million francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  