-- Kurds to Meet Sept. 15 in First Regional Summit to Unify Stand
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-08-20T14:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/kurds-to-meet-sept-15-in-first-regional-summit-to-unify-stand.html
Kurdish groups from  Iraq , Turkey,
Iran and Syria will start a three-day congress on Sept. 15 aimed
at forging a united political stance amid rising instability,
according to the Kurdistan Regional Government.  The talks will be held in Erbil, the capital of the Kurdish
region in northern Iraq, according to a statement on the website
of the KRG that controls the semi-autonomous area. The event
will bring together 600 Kurds and 300 foreign guests, it said.  This will be the first such congress held on Kurdish
territory and the first to bring together all Kurdish parties
and groups from across the political spectrum, KRG spokesman
Kawa Mahmoud said in a July 23 interview. The meeting is meant
to unify positions of Kurds from all four nations and isn’t
aimed at creating a unified, centralized leadership, he said.  A wave of unrest across the  Middle East  has fueled
aspirations among some Kurds of forging their own state in the
region they call “Kurdistan,” a land straddling the borders of
eastern Turkey, northeast Syria, northern Iraq and northwestern
Iran.  The Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, has been waging a war
with Turkish authorities for about three decades and both sides
began talks this year aimed at ending it. The conflict has left
about 40,000 people dead.  Kurdish communities in Syria have taken control of their
regions since the outbreak of unrest in the country in 2011. In
Iran, many Kurdish political activists remain in jail.  In Iraq, Kurdish uprisings were crushed under the Arab-dominated regime of  Saddam Hussein , which was ousted by a U.S.-
led invasion in 2003. Since then, the Kurdistan Regional
Government has cemented its control over three provinces in
northern Iraq, with a president, a cabinet and a parliament as
well as its own armed forces.  The region has 45 billion barrels of oil and has attracted
international companies such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp (XOM) , DNO International ASA,  Genel Energy Plc. (GENL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  