-- Neuberger Joins Pimco in Seeing Value in Emerging-Market Selloff
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-08-20T07:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/neuberger-joins-pimco-in-seeing-value-in-emerging-market-selloff.html
The worst emerging-market debt sell-off in more than a decade is leading fund managers to favor the
securities on prospects growth will pick up in the second half
as the global economy recovers.  Neuberger Berman Group LLC prefers local-currency bonds as
developing nations take a “mostly neutral to accommodative”
monetary-policy stance, limiting the risk of higher U.S. rates,
according to an Aug. 19 press statement from the New York-based
company overseeing $214 billion. Pacific Investment Management
Co., owner of the world’s biggest bond fund, sees value in the
yield premium on the notes, an Aug. 14 research report shows.  “We believe that investors have made too much of slowing
growth in  emerging markets ,” Rob Drijkoningen, co-head of the
developing-nation bond team in the Hague at Neuberger Berman,
said in the statement. “Emerging-market debt should continue to
benefit from the long-term trend of inflows, as fixed-income
investors add exposure to emerging markets, which are
structurally underrepresented in their portfolios.”  Dollar-denominated bonds  in developing countries’ posted a
0.8 percent loss since the end of June, after declining 6.1
percent in the second quarter, which was the worst performance
since  Russia ’s debt default in 1998, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Local-currency notes  fell 2.5 percent this quarter in
dollar terms, extending a 7 percent drop in the previous three
months, the biggest since September 2011, the GBI-EM Global
Diversified Index shows.  ‘Structural Case’  “From a fundamental point of view, we see value in the
higher yields available on many EM bonds, both in local currency
and U.S. dollars,” Ramin Toloui, the Singapore-based co-head of
emerging markets at Pimco, wrote in the research note last week.
It didn’t provide details on specific markets.  A global economic recovery and stronger growth from  China 
in the second half of the year will be supportive for emerging
debt markets, according to a separate report from Neuberger
Berman posted on its website and dated August.  Economic growth in developing countries will probably
accelerate “modestly” to 5.3 percent for all of 2013, after
expanding 4.8 percent in the first half, and gather pace to 6.1
percent in 2014, Neuberger said in the report. After a
disappointing first six months, China could grow 7.6 percent
this year, accompanied by a series of reform measures as its new
government settles in, according to the report.  In Europe, the Middle East and  Africa , Neuberger favors the
currencies of  Israel , Czech Republic,  Hungary , Nigeria and
Russia, as opposed to those in  Turkey , South Africa and  Poland .  “We believe the structural case for emerging-market debt
remains strong, as investors increasingly recognize the economic
significance, improved credit quality and depth of EM economies
and markets,” Gorky Urquieta, Atlanta-based co-head of the
emerging-market debt team, said in the Aug. 19 press statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  