-- New Zealand to Offer Shares in Meridian as Installment Receipts
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-20T00:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/new-zealand-to-offer-shares-in-meridian-as-installment-receipts.html
New Zealand will offer shares in
Meridian Energy Ltd., its largest power company, as installment
receipts, allowing investors until 2015 to pay in full.  The government is selling as much as 49 percent of the
state-owned company in an initial public offering and expects
the shares to list on the stock exchange in early November,
Finance Minister  Bill English  said in a statement. Investors
will pay 60 percent on application, with the remainder due 18
months later.  Meridian’s IPO will be New Zealand’s largest, and the
second asset sale in Prime Minister John Key’s plan to raise
NZ$5 billion ($4 billion) to NZ$7 billion to pay for new
infrastructure and reduce the nation’s reliance on borrowing.
The government is betting the deferred payment plan will lure
investors disappointed after shares of Mighty River Power Ltd.,
offered in May, dropped from their IPO value.  “Between the first and second installments, investors will
receive the full dividends paid out in that period, which will
make the dividend yield higher,” English said.  The government raised NZ$1.7 billion from the sale of a 48
percent stake in Mighty River Power Ltd. in May. It also plans
to sell part of Genesis Power Ltd. next year and reduce its
holding in Air  New Zealand  Ltd.  Mighty River shares have dropped to NZ$2.22 after being
sold in the IPO at NZ$2.50 apiece.  Meridian owns seven hydro-electric plants on New Zealand’s
 South Island  and five windfarms, one of which is in  Australia .
It had net income of NZ$295 million in the year ended June 30 on
total assets of NZ$7.74 billion, including a NZ$101 million one-time gain on the sale of an asset.  Aluminum Smelter  Earlier this month, the company agreed a new electricity
supply deal with the nation’s only aluminum smelter, allowing
for lower prices in exchange for owners Rio Tinto Group and
 Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  committing to the plant until January 2017. It
wrote down the value of its generating assets by NZ$476 million
because of the lower price.  The lead managers for the Meridian sale are Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Macquarie Group Ltd. and a partnership of Deutsche
Bank AG and Craigs Investment Partners.  The government today named ASB Bank Ltd., ANZ Bank New
Zealand Ltd. and Forsyth Barr to a retail syndicate to help
market Meridian shares.  The government will also set a share price cap for New
Zealand individual investors, which will be announced when the
offer document is lodged. The cap may be less than the IPO price
set by institutions, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  