-- New Abortion Restrictions in States Are 0 for 8 in Courts
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-20T19:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/new-abortion-restrictions-in-states-are-0-for-8-in-courts.html
State legislatures trying to curtail
abortions have suffered a 0-for-8 losing streak after court
challenges to their new laws this year.  The laws, all but one signed by Republican governors, drew
on ideas from a playbook created by an anti-abortion group.
Democrats plan to use the attempted curbs to boost 2014
congressional fundraising and increase voter support, calling
the laws part of a “War on Women.”  Four states’ statutes attacked the core of the U.S.  Supreme
Court ’s rulings that a woman has a right to the procedure before
a fetus is viable. Efforts to bar abortions after six, 12 and 20
weeks of pregnancy were halted in  North Dakota ,  Arkansas  and
 Idaho . An appeals court struck down  Arizona ’s 20-week ban. Laws
imposing restrictions on doctors were blocked in North Dakota
and two other states.  Trying to ban abortions before a fetus can live outside the
mother’s womb “flies in the face” of U.S. Supreme Court
rulings, said  Paul B. Linton , a lawyer with the Chicago-based
Thomas More Society whose group, an opponent of abortion, isn’t
involved in defending early-pregnancy curbs.  Efforts to limit early-pregnancy abortions are unlikely to
succeed, he said.  Federal Courts  “I cannot see the Supreme Court upholding any of these
laws with respect to the pre-viability applications,” Linton
said in an interview, adding: “I can’t see those laws being
upheld by lower federal courts.”  A judge in Bismarck, North Dakota, supported that view on
July 22 in temporarily striking down a state law barring
abortions at the sixth week of pregnancy, when a fetal heartbeat
can typically be detected, except in cases of medical emergency.  “The state has extended an invitation to an expensive
court battle over a law restricting abortions that is a blatant
violation of the constitutional guarantees afforded all women,”
U.S. District Judge Daniel L. Hovland wrote.  It has been 40 years since the Supreme Court in Roe v. Wade
established a woman’s constitutional right to terminate an early
pregnancy. Thirty states limited or prohibited abortions at the
time. Colorado became the first to legalize it in 1967, after
about 80 years of legislation against the procedure in the U.S.,
according to the pro-choice  National Abortion Federation .  Curb Procedures  The high court reiterated its stance in “Roe” in 1992’s
 Planned Parenthood  of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey. The
decisions didn’t end legislative attempts to curb the procedure.  Leading the anti-abortion campaign in the states are the
Washington-based groups  Americans United for Life  and  National
Right to Life Committee . The latter organization started
lobbying before “Roe,” said Mary Spaulding Balch, its state-legislation director.  “Not a single year has gone by where we didn’t pass some
piece of substantive legislation,” she said. “Our state
affiliates have been in the trenches from the beginning.”  Americans United for Life publishes an annual review of
laws in states titled “Defending Life,” a guide for lawmakers
that contains model legislation.  “We believe that in the end, the abortion issue ought to
be left to the states, that it was a serious judicial error for
the United States Supreme Court to put itself in the position of
being the abortion control board for the country,” said Ovide Lamontagne, the organization’s general counsel and a two-time
Republican candidate for governor of New Hampshire. “We are
essentially providing a resource for legislators across the
country.”  ‘Defending Life’  Model bills in “Defending Life” and proposals by state
affiliates of the National Right to Life Committee have been the
impetus for some of the bills.  “Some people call it the playbook,”  Jordan Goldberg ,
state advocacy counsel for the New York-based  Center for
Reproductive Rights , said of “Defending Life.”  “If you look, you will see a lot of the legislation that’s
pending,” based on the models, Goldberg said in a phone
interview. “It’s not as if the people in North Dakota woke up
one day and said, ‘We have a real problem with the admitting
privileges.’”  Her organization, the  American Civil Liberties Union  and
 Planned Parenthood , have led the legal opposition to laws
targeting abortion.  Admitting Privileges  Laws resembling Americans United for Life’s proposal to
require doctors performing abortions to have admitting
privileges at hospitals within 30 miles of their facilities
passed in  Mississippi  and North Dakota.  Those laws were temporarily blocked by judges who found
they likely burdened a woman’s right in states where doctors
would be unable to obtain the privileges and sole clinics would
be forced to close.  Similar laws now blocked would have shuttered three of five
clinics in  Alabama  and in  Wisconsin  would have closed two of
four and curtailed services at a third.  Proponents of North Dakota’s law argued it was needed to
guarantee emergency care for abortion patients. It would have
closed the Red River Women’s Clinic in Fargo.  State Judge Wickham Corwin said abortions performed there
are “extremely safe and effective” pre-viability procedures,
making the statute unnecessary.  Undue Burden  In his July 31 decision, the judge also said the law posed
an undue burden on women and that it ran afoul of the Supreme
Court’s “Casey” decision.  Of the three hospitals within the specified 30-mile radius
of the Red River clinic, Corwin said, one is affiliated with the
Catholic Church and can’t be involved with abortions; the second
-- a U.S. veterans’ hospital -- is barred from doing them by
federal law; and the third has an annual minimum patient-admission requirement for a doctor’s affiliation.  “The legislature has shown open disdain for the rights
clearly protected by the federal Constitution,” Corwin wrote.  Two hundred miles to the west in Bismarck on July 22,
Hovland, the federal judge, was similarly critical in calling
the fetal-heartbeat law a “blatant violation” of  women’s
rights .  Upon signing that measure into law in March, Republican
Governor Jack Dalrymple acknowledged its uncertain future by
saying its chance of surviving a court challenge was “in
question.” He called it “a legitimate attempt by a state
legislature to discover the boundaries of Roe v. Wade.”  Real Restrictions  “The courts are incredibly important stopgaps, but nobody
should be sanguine to think the courts are the solution to
this,” Louise Melling, the ACLU’s deputy legal director, said
in a telephone interview, adding that resistance is needed in
the state legislatures.  “It’s important that people realize the impact of these
restrictions is real,” Melling said. The New York-based group
earlier this year launched a  web page , dedicated to the
proposition that the abortion rights issue is a women’s issue.  An adjacent page states that more than 300 abortion-restrictive laws have been introduced by state legislators this
year.  Steven R. Morrison, a constitutional-law professor at the
University of North Dakota in Grand Forks, said some lawmakers
don’t understand the constitutional implications of their work.  “They truly believe abortion is murder,” Morrison said.
“Why wouldn’t you pass a law that prohibits it? But we don’t
live in a theocracy, we live in a democracy, and they’re
ignoring the case law as it stands.”  Futile Attempt  Even a futile attempt to curb abortion has moral, political
and legal value, said Donald P. Judges, a  University of Arkansas 
law professor.  “For some it’s to make a point to their constituents or
perceived constituents,” said Judges, the author of “Hard
Choices Lost Voices: How the Abortion Conflict Had Divided
America, Distorted Constitutional Rights, and Damaged the
Courts.”  In his state, a measure curbing abortions at the 12th week
of pregnancy was passed this year by the legislature over
Governor Mike Beebe’s veto. Then it was blocked in court by U.S.
District Judge Susan Webber Wright.  Drawing conclusions about trends should await final rulings
on the merits of cases challenging state restrictions and
subsequent appeals, Lamontagne, of Americans United for Life,
said in an e-mail. “Trial courts apply the law as they
understand it to be, and they are not always correct,” he said.  Peter Rofes, a Marquette University law professor in
 Milwaukee , said there’s a positive side to investing “the time,
the effort, the money to engage the challenge” of proposing
laws almost certain to prompt lawsuits they may not survive.  “It’s a victory for those who seek to keep it in the
nation’s consciousness,” he said.  Current Court  Rofes predicted the federal cases will rise at least to the
regional appeals courts of appeal. Wisconsin Attorney General
J.B. Van Hollen has filed papers signaling his intention to
appeal an Aug. 2 ruling by a U.S. judge temporarily blocking the
state’s hospital affiliate law.  Judges, the Arkansas law professor, agreed.  “I don’t think the current court is inclined to revisit
Roe,” he said. “Until there’s a one-justice switch, I think
it’s going to rest in the lower courts.”  Chief Justice  John Roberts  and associate justices  Antonin Scalia ,  Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito  are perceived as the
most likely to vote to revisit the issue and perhaps alter the
status quo, Rofes said.  Justices Anthony Kennedy, Steven Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsberg,  Sonia Sotomayor  and Elena Kagan are widely viewed as
unwilling to fundamentally alter the law, he said.  National Right to Life is pushing for a different kind of
legislation, barring abortion at the 20th week of a pregnancy on
the ground that a fetus at that point can feel pain.  Neural Pathways  Such measures have been passed in the U.S. House of
Representatives and 10 states, most recently  Texas .  “Pain is a subjective experience, no matter who is
experiencing it,”  Cassing Hammond , a professor at  Northwestern
University  in  Chicago  and a doctor of obstetrics and gynecology,
said in a phone interview. Neural pathways that transmit that
sensation and cerebral development needed to process it as pain
typically don’t fully develop in a fetus until at least the 23rd
week of a pregnancy, he said, and possibly not until the 29th.  “We simply do not have evidence that those pathways are in
place” at 20 weeks, he said, even if neuroscience has advanced
since Roe. “These bans do not make good scientific sense.”  Hammond served as chairman of the National Abortion
Federation’s board from 2010 to 2012. He said his views are
“not about politics. It’s about providing safe care to
patients.”  Linton of the Thomas More Society said of the pre-viability
fetal-pain laws, “I would like to see these bills upheld. I
just don’t think they will be.”  An Arizona law criminalizing abortions performed at or
after the 20th week of pregnancy was struck down May 21 by a San
Francisco-based federal appeals court. Prohibiting the procedure
before fetal viability is unconstitutional, the court said.  State lawmakers based the statute on “the documented risks
to women’s health and the strong medical evidence that unborn
children feel pain during an abortion at that gestational age,”
according to the appeals court ruling.  The state has until Sept. 28 to petition the U.S. Supreme
Court for review. Americans United for Life was among the groups
filing briefs in support of the law. Arguing against it were
attorneys from the Center and the ACLU.  Balch of National Right to Life said her organization hopes
the Supreme Court finds a compelling state interest in
protecting the life of a child that can feel pain, based on
science that wasn’t available in 1973.  “It hasn’t been before the court before, and we would
welcome that challenge,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 