-- Newcastle Rejects Arsenal Cabaye Bid, Wants $31 Million: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-20T10:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/newcastle-rejects-arsenal-cabaye-bid-wants-31-million-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Cabaye Bids  Newcastle United  will seek as much as 20 million pounds
($31 million) for France midfielder Yohan Cabaye after rejecting
a “derisory” offer of about 10.2 million pounds from Arsenal,
the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The Gunners also made a bid for Juventus midfielder Paul
Pogba, who’s valued at 20 million pounds by the Italian
champion, the newspaper added.  French club Paris Saint-Germain offered 15 million pounds
for Cabaye following Arsenal’s bid, the  Independent reported .  Arsenal Wants Richards  Arsenal is interested in signing Manchester City defender
Micah Richards to help alleviate its injury crisis and Gunners
manager  Arsene Wenger  still hasn’t given up on acquiring
Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Separate Bids  Manchester United  is expected to return with separate
offers for Marouane Fellaini and Leighton Baines after Everton
rejected as “derisory and insulting” a joint bid of 28 million
pounds for the pair, the  Guardian reported .  Although Everton is adamant that England left-back Baines
is not for sale and wants to keep Belgium midfielder Fellaini,
United’s prospects of signing them may be improved by lodging
separate bids, the Guardian added.  Cissokho Signing  Liverpool is set to make Aly Cissokho its fifth offseason
addition by signing the French defender on loan from Valencia,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  Cissokho had a medical yesterday and Liverpool has the
option of making the left-back’s move permanent at the end of
the season for 4 million pounds, the newspaper added.  Center-Half Shortage  Manchester City may renew its efforts to sign a defender
after  Vincent Kompany  sustained a groin injury in yesterday’s
4-0 win against Newcastle, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The injury leaves City with just one fit center-half as
manager Manuel Pellegrini continues to pursue Real Madrid
defender Pepe and Atletico Madrid’s  Martin Demichelis , the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  