-- Nissan to Offer Cummins Diesel Engine for Titan Pickup
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-08-20T22:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/nissan-to-offer-cummins-diesel-engine-for-titan-pickup.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which has
struggled to win over U.S. buyers of large pickups, said it will
offer a diesel engine in its redesigned Titan truck, a first for
a Japan-based automaker.  The 5-liter, V-8 turbo diesel will be supplied by  Cummins
Inc. (CMI) , Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan said in a statement
yesterday. Details of the next Mississippi-built Titan, which
hasn’t been fully revamped since its 2003 introduction, aren’t
being disclosed at this time, the company said.  “Truck owners told us there’s a demand for the performance
and torque of a diesel in a capable truck that doesn’t require
the jump up to a heavy-duty commercial pickup,” Fred Diaz, vice
president for North American Nissan sales and marketing, said in
yesterday’s statement. “There is no question that the new Titan
will turn heads.”  Nissan missed expectations a decade ago with  Japan ’s first
pickup that appeared to match the size and power of the trucks
that are a cornerstone of U.S. sales for  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC. Nissan never met an
initial target of selling 100,000 Titans a year, and delivered
just 10,020 this year through July, a sixth the volume of Toyota
Motor Corp.’s Tundra, and a fraction of the sales of Ford’s F-Series, GM’s Silverado and Chrysler’s Ram pickups.  U.S. full-size pickup sales jumped 23 percent this year
through July, according to Autodata Corp., as an improving
economy encourages buyers to replace their aging trucks. Large
pickups account for a majority of earnings for U.S. automakers,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Diesel Appeal  Owners of large pickups are among the most loyal to GM,
Ford and Chrysler. Nissan hired Diaz, 47, earlier this year
after the executive headed  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler’s Ram brand and Mexican unit.  Diesel engines appeal to drivers who need enhanced power
and towing capability, and are a common option for GM, Ford and
Ram trucks. Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota, which is readying a
revamped Tundra, has no plans to add a diesel powertrain at this
time, said Bill Fay, the company’s group vice president for U.S.
sales, in an interview in  San Diego .  The diesel engines will be built at a Cummins factory in
Columbus,  Indiana , for installation at Nissan’s Canton,
Mississippi, plant. Nissan didn’t provide investment figures or
say whether additional U.S. manufacturing jobs would result from
the project.  Cummins is also based in Columbus, south of Indianapolis.
The company supplies a  6.7-liter turbo diesel engine  for
Chrysler’s Ram Heavy Duty truck. Nissan’s North American unit is
based in Franklin,  Tennessee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in San Diego at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  