-- No Bezos Bait Means Postmedia to Torstar Slump
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-08-20T13:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/no-bezos-bait-means-postmedia-to-torstar.html
Canadian newspaper stocks including
 Postmedia Network Canada Corp. (PNC/A)  are the worst-performing in  North
America , with no sign of the buyout bids from billionaires such
as  Jeff Bezos  that have stoked their U.S. peers.  Postmedia, publisher of The National Post, has dropped 25
percent this year, the biggest decline among 15 North American
newspaper companies tracked by Bloomberg.  Torstar Corp. (TS/B) ,
publisher of Canada’s top-selling daily, The Toronto Star, has
also fallen 25 percent, while  Glacier Media Inc. (GVC) , a publisher in
smaller markets, is next with an 18 percent loss.  With the exception of Sacramento-based  McClatchy Co. (MNI) , U.S.
newspaper stocks have gained this year, boosted by buyouts from
billionaires. Bezos, founder and chief executive officer of
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , agreed to pay $250 million for the Washington
Post on Aug. 5, two days after  John Henry , billionaire owner of
the Boston Red Sox baseball club, struck a deal to buy the
Boston Globe. They followed  Warren Buffett , the world’s third-richest man, who has built an empire of small-town papers in the
U.S. in the last two years.  The data do not include Mexican publishers held by larger
media conglomerates.  “The fact that there is some smart money buying newspapers
in the U.S. has probably provided support for those papers,”
said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst with Bloomberg Industries in a
Aug. 15 phone interview from  New York . “Now in Canada, you
don’t have that. I think that’s the difference.”  Ignite Interest  The average price target for U.S. publishers suggest stocks
could rise 18 percent as the newspaper deals re-ignite interest
in the industry, Sweeney said in an Aug. 6 report.  Paul Godfrey , chief executive officer of Toronto-based
Postmedia, said the trend of wealthy investors buying up
newspapers could come to Canada as well in the next five years,
though he declined to comment on whether there’d been approaches
for Postmedia properties.  “I speak to the major shareholders on a regular basis,”
Godfrey said by phone from Toronto yesterday. “I don’t see them
getting tired of being in the business. Does that mean they’d
never sell, if somebody comes knocking on the door and offers
them a return? Who knows what could happen? But they’ve not
given me any indication that they’re ready to run for the
hills.”  Sales Declines  Postmedia owns major metropolitan dailies including The
Montreal Gazette, the  Ottawa Citizen  and Calgary Herald.
Although the company sold the Victoria Times Colonist to
Vancouver-based Glacier Media in 2011, Godfrey says the company
won’t sell more papers individually and its move to centralize
operations from sales to newspaper coverage underscores this.  Postmedia, whose  largest shareholders  include U.S. hedge
funds, has a dual class share structure where the majority of
voting shares are controlled by Canadian investors to comply
with laws on media ownership. Godfrey owns about 11 percent of
Postmedia A shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares were unchanged at C$1.50 at 9:55 a.m. in Toronto
today for a market value of C$70 million ($68 million). Third
quarter sales  dropped  9.5 percent to C$191.8 million from a year
earlier, the seventh straight quarter of year-over-year declines
while its adjusted loss per share was four cents compared with a
seven cent profit a year earlier.  Wealthy Owners  Torstar’s revenue fell 12 percent to C$336.6 million in the
second quarter, the sixth quarter of year-over-year declines.
Adjusted profit fell 34 percent to 29 cents per share from the
earlier period. Glacier Media’s adjusted profit tumbled 57
percent to three cents in the second quarter from a year
earlier.  Glacier Media did not return calls made to their media line
requesting comment on stock performance.  Canada  is no stranger to wealthy individuals owning its
newspapers, with nationally-distributed Globe and Mail,
controlled by the Thomsons, the country’s wealthiest family,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaire’s Index.  Torstar also has a dual share structure with its voting
shares owned by a trust controlled by five families.  An exodus of advertisers from newspapers into digital
platforms such as Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. has meant years
of revenue declines at publishing companies on both sides of the
border. In the U.S., a 60 percent drop in advertising since 2005
caused publishers to start charging readers for online content,
a move that is now starting to offset advertising declines,
according to an Aug. 15 Bloomberg Industries report.  Digital Subscribers  “A lot of the trends the U.S. newspapers are experiencing
are out ahead of the Canadian newspapers,” Lorenzo DeMarchi,
Torstar’s chief financial officer, said yesterday. “So I think
the experience they’ve had on paywalls has been a bit sooner and
there has been, on balance, results that have been more
encouraging because they’ve started a bit sooner.”  Digital subscribers at the  New York Times (NYT)  rose 40 percent
to 738,000 by the end of the second quarter and digital
subscription revenue jumped 44 percent, helped offset a 7
percent decrease in print ad revenue, according to the Bloomberg
Industries report. The shares have risen 35 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg data.  Abbe Serphos, a spokesman for the New York Times, referred
requests for comment to the  statement  accompanying the company’s
second quarter results on Aug. 1 which attributed increased
operating profit to “the ongoing evolution of our digital
subscription initiatives” and the “moderation of declines on
the advertising side.”  Canadians Slower  Gannett Co Inc. (GCI) , publisher of  USA Today , posted a 6 percent
increase in circulation thanks to its online paywall, offsetting
the 5 percent decrease in advertising, and a new digital
subscription model at McClatchy Co., which publishes in smaller
markets, resulted in a five percent circulation gain compared to
a seven percent fall in ad sales, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  “We do expect that the growth in our digital-only revenue
business will help to get revenues going in the right
direction,” said Ryan Kimball, assistant treasurer at
McClatchy, by phone from  Sacramento  yesterday. Gannett, based in
McLean,  Virginia , did not respond to phone messages requesting
comment left with its media relations line yesterday.  “There appears to be a slight easing of the revenue trends
that we haven’t seen in Canada,” DeMarchi said.  Canadian papers have been slower to implement digital
subscriptions, with The Toronto Star and Postmedia papers only
erecting paywalls this year.  Sales Declines  At Postmedia, digital revenue increased 2.2 percent in the
third quarter from the year earlier period compared with a 14
percent decline in print ad revenues, according to its earnings
report. At Torstar, digital revenue in the company’s media
segment fell 10 percent in the second quarter, outpacing the 9.8
percent declines in print advertising revenue.  Faced with a deeper recession in 2009 and longer recovery
U.S. papers posted steeper revenue declines than Canadian peers
and so were forced to adopt digital strategies earlier,
according to Bill Wolfe, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service
who covers Canadian newspaper companies.  “They are behind in terms of dealing with the 21st century
and reinventing themselves as digital businesses,” Moody’s
Wolfe said by phone from Toronto. “It’s happening at a
different pace. It’s starting later and it will finish later,
but it’s going to end up in the same place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  