-- No Peace at Mines Exacerbates Risk: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-08-20T12:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/no-peace-at-mines-exacerbates-default-risk-south-africa-credit.html
More than a year after South
 Africa ’s worst mining violence since the end of apartheid,
platinum mines are still striving to restore peace, a factor
driving up the nation’s default risk faster than for emerging-market peers.  Contracts insuring South Africa debt against non-payment
for five years have increased 109 basis points to 244 since Aug.
16, 2012, when 34 people died as police opened fire on
protesting mineworkers at  Lonmin Plc (LON) ’s Marikana mine. That’s a
bigger jump than for any investment-grade country, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts for  Mexico , which has a
similar credit rating, climbed 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 125 in the same period.  Labor unrest that began last year at Marikana spread across
Africa’s largest economy, prompting Fitch Ratings, Standard &
Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service to downgrade South Africa
for the first time since white minority rule ended in 1994. Wage
disputes continue at platinum and gold mines, while a strike by
30,000 workers shut production at carmakers including  General
Motors Co. (GM) , Toyota Motor Corp. and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG.  “Investors are waiting to see how South Africa resolves
the labor issues,” Victor Mphaphuli, a portfolio manager at
Stanlib Asset Management, which oversees the equivalent of $50
billion, said by phone from Johannesburg yesterday. “It’s
something that still sits there, that’s hanging over our
market.”  External Shocks  Current account and fiscal deficits, slower economic growth
and the lowest interest rates in more than 30 years leave South
Africa vulnerable to external shocks, Mphaphuli said. The nation
needs average inflows of 16 billion rand ($1.6 billion) a month
to finance the  shortfall  on its current account, according to
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , Africa’s largest bank.  Foreign investors have  sold  a net 6.23 billion rand of
bonds since May 22, when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S. may reduce monetary stimulus that has
helped boost demand for emerging-market assets. Inflows have
dropped to 24.8 billion rand this year, compared with 63.1
billion rand a year earlier, according to JSE Ltd., which runs
the nation’s stock and bond exchanges.  The economy expanded an annualized 0.9 percent in the first
quarter, the slowest pace since a 2009 recession. That’s making
it harder for Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  to rein in the
fiscal deficit, a concern raised by Moody’s, S&P and Fitch when
downgrading South Africa, starting in September.  Budget Gap  The budget gap for the fiscal year that ended in March is
estimated at 5.1 percent, according to the National Treasury.
The nation posted a current account shortfall of 5.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the first quarter, compared with 3.2
percent in  Brazil  and 1 percent in Mexico.  Auto workers are asking for a 14 percent wage increase,
while the National Union of Mineworkers has asked for 60 percent
increases for entry-level jobs. The inflation rate probably rose
to 6.2 percent in July, above the central bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent range for the first time since April 2012, a report may
show tomorrow, according to the median  estimate  of 20 economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  “It remains difficult to see an easy way out without more
strike action, output loss, low levels of inward investment and
violence,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based  emerging-markets  economist at Nomura International Plc, said in an e-mail
on Aug. 15. “It’s hard to say the lessons of a year ago have
been learnt.”  Output Contracts  Mining output, which accounts for more than 50 percent of
exports, unexpectedly shrank 6.2 percent in June, while
manufacturing production slowed to 0.4 percent from 2.2 percent
a month earlier, the statistics agency said Aug. 8. Strikes have
already shaved 0.3 percent off growth this year, President Jacob Zuma said June 13.  “The backdrop looks poor for emerging markets, but it
boils down to the other factors that are specific to South
Africa, like the current-account deficit, the budget deficit,”
Stanlib’s Mphaphuli said. “South Africa’s twin deficits seem to
stand out in comparison with its peers. That would have an
impact on the currency and push up the cost of insuring the
debt.”  The rand appreciated 0.6 percent to 10.1453 per dollar as
of 1:52 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring its decline this year to 16
percent, the most of 24 emerging-market currencies monitored by
Bloomberg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December
2026 dropped six basis points to 8.54 percent after climbing 20
basis points yesterday to 8.60 percent, the highest since
January last year.  ‘Global Fears’  Inflows into South Africa’s bond market could resume as
yields rise and the Fed provides more clarity on monetary
stimulus, according to John Cairns, a strategist at  FirstRand
Ltd. (FSR) ’s Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg.  “For South Africa, the rand and all emerging markets the
key issue is whether stronger core economies and higher core
yields will slow or reverse capital inflows,” Cairns wrote in
an Aug. 19 note. “The short-term answer is yes, hence the
current bout of weakness. On a multi-month basis the issue is
less clear: South Africa has seen inflows resume aggressively
each time the global fears die down.”  South African yields may have to rise further to attract
foreign investment, Mphaphuli at Stanlib said. South African 10-year bonds offer a real yield of about 1.6 percentage points,
based on the 10-year break-even rate, a measure of investor
expectations for inflation over the period. That compares with
U.S. Treasury yields close to 3 percent.  ‘Lost Ground’  The extra yield investors demand to hold South Africa’s
dollar debt rather than U.S. Treasuries has climbed 40 basis
points in the past month to 280, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes.  “The whole world wants dollars, and nobody wants South
African assets,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, head of dealing at
Bidvest Bank Ltd., South Africa’s biggest chain of money
changers, said by phone from Johannesburg yesterday. “If we had
a stable labor environment you wouldn’t have lost so much
ground.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  