-- Nova Scotia’s Schooner Bluenose Languishing in Dry Dock
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-08-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/nova-scotia-s-schooner-bluenose-languishing-in-dry-dock.html
The Nova Scotia schooner pictured on
 Canada ’s 10-cent coin is still languishing in dry dock almost a
year after its failed re-launch, hampering the province’s
efforts to attract tourist dollars.  The  Bluenose II , a replica of the double-masted, eight-sailed fishing vessel that once held the title of the world’s
fastest, is sitting in its Lunenburg home instead of touring the
U.S. Atlantic Coast this summer.  The ship is a symbol for the Canadian province that relies
on tourism for almost 8 percent of employment, and where locals
who call themselves “Bluenosers” drive cars with license
plates featuring the vessel. Group of Seven leaders including
U.S. President  Bill Clinton  and  France ’s  Jacques Chirac  cruised
on the ship during a 1995  summit  in the capital city of Halifax.  “I’d love to see the Bluenose back and floating again and
having all the tourists going on it because it’s a beautiful
symbol,” Sylvain Laroche, a 55-year-old construction worker,
said in an interview in Bridgewater.  An inability to meet  Transport Canada  and  American Bureau
of Shipping  safety rules means the ship isn’t hosting groups of
tourists or docking at cities on the U.S. Atlantic coast,
drawing  summer visitors  to a province that’s struggling with the
impact of a strong Canadian dollar and the loss of ferry service
connecting it with  Maine . The Bluenose II returned to dock for
repairs after  re-launch  Sept. 29, and there is no clear date for
it to sail again.  “We were hoping to see it on the water but, you take what
you get,” Sharon Roberts of Pensacola,  Florida , said after
snapping pictures of the boat for her son, an ocean engineer in
Baltimore. “Let’s hope we get something going.”  Sea Trials  Installation of a steel rudder is the last major piece of
work before sea trials resume, according to the province’s
Communities, Culture and Heritage Minister Leonard Preyra. The
project’s cost will now exceed C$16 million ($15.5 million), he
said, up from a 2010  budget  of C$14.8 million.  “The Bluenose II is a restoration but it has to meet
modern safety standards, and the steel rudder is a significant
safety enhancement,” Preyra, 58, said in an interview in
Halifax. “Mother Nature really makes no allowances for these
ships whether they are works of art or industrial vessels, so
it’s important that they meet that standard.”  The province’s economy is struggling along with its
celebrated schooner. Toronto-Dominion Bank  forecasts   Nova Scotia 
will see 1 percent growth this year, second-slowest among the
country’s 10 provinces and compared with 1.8 percent nationwide.
Nova Scotia unemployment has averaged 2.1 percentage points
 above  the national average since 1976.  Pamela Wamback, a spokeswoman with the province’s tourism
agency in Halifax, wasn’t immediately available to comment about
the Bluenose’s impact on the provincial economy.  Tourism Jobs  Tourism accounted for 34,400 of Nova Scotia’s 448,000 jobs
and contributed about C$700 million to the C$36.4 billion
economy in 2010, according to data from the provincial
government and federal statistics agency.  The prospects for Nova Scotia’s small towns are bleak over
the next five years because of a lack of  population growth ,
employment and spending by consumers and businesses,  Conference
Board of Canada  chief economist Glen Hodgson wrote in a July 25
blog  posting . Halifax, the largest city, should be boosted by a
C$25 billion federal shipbuilding contract for the country’s
navy.  Nova Scotia Finance Minister Graham Steele yesterday
 updated  the 2013-14 budget forecast to show a C$18.3 million
surplus on revenue of C$9.5 billion, larger than the initial
estimate of C$16.4 million.  The Bluenose has made it through hard times before. The
original vessel, which has appeared on the dime since 1937, was
launched as a fishing and racing schooner in 1921 in Lunenburg.
It smashed into a Haitian reef after it was turned into a cargo
vessel. The replica Bluenose II was launched by a local brewing
family as an advertising symbol in 1963 and turned over to the
province in 1971 for one dollar, paid for with 10 dimes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Lunenburg, Nova Scotia, at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  