-- NRG Energy’s GenOn Must Face Emissions Suit, Court Rules
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-08-20T19:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/nrg-energy-s-genon-must-face-emissions-suit-court-rules.html
NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) ’s GenOn Energy unit
must face a lawsuit claiming that ash and contaminants from its
coal-fired power plant in Springdale,  Pennsylvania , damaged
nearby properties, an appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Appeals Court in Philadelphia today reversed a
lower-court decision dismissing the suit, rejecting GenOn’s
claims that the federal Clean Air Act pre-empts state law claims
brought by property owners over pollution.  “Based on the plain language of the Clean Air Act and
controlling  Supreme Court  precedent, we conclude that such
source state common law actions are not pre-empted,” a three-judge panel of the appellate court said in its ruling.  At least 1,500 people own or inhabit homes within one mile
(1.6 kilometers) of GenOn’s Cheswick Generating Station,
according to the complaint filed in state court in April 2012.
Homeowners seek damages claiming that odors produced by the
plant, about 18 miles northeast of Pittsburgh, made them
“prisoners in their own homes” while ash and unburned
byproducts settled on their properties.  “We see nothing in the  Clean Air Act  to indicate that
Congress intended to pre-empt source state common law tort
claims,” the appeals court said. “If Congress intended to
eliminate such private causes of action, ‘its failure even to
hint at’ this result would be ‘spectacularly odd’.”  The appeals court cited as precedent the Supreme Court’s
ruling that the  Clean Water Act , a similarly comprehensive
environmental statute, didn’t pre-empt a Vermont common law
nuisance lawsuit.  There is no “meaningful distinction” between the Clean
Water Act and the Clean Air Act, the appeals court said.  David Knox, a spokesman for Princeton, New Jersey-based
NRG, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment on
the ruling.  The case is Bell v. Cheswick Generating Station, 12-04216,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Third Circuit (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  