-- NYSE Said to Choose JPMorgan, SocGen for Euronext IPO
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-08-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/nyse-said-to-choose-jpmorgan-societe-generale-for-euronext-ipo.html
NYSE Euronext, the bourse operator
being acquired by IntercontinentalExchange Group Inc., has
tapped JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  to help
arrange the initial public offering of its European equity
operations, four people with knowledge of the matter said.  A stake in the Euronext unit, which controls markets in
 Paris , Lisbon, Brussels and Amsterdam, may be sold next year,
said the people, asking not to be named because the information
isn’t public. The sale could raise about 750 million euros
($1 billion), though the final size of the deal hasn’t been 
determined yet, two of the people said.  The IPO would end an experiment to unite the biggest U.S.
and European stock-exchange operators that began in April 2007
after New York-based NYSE Group acquired Paris-based Euronext NV
for $14.3 billion.  Jeffrey Sprecher , chief executive officer of
IntercontinentalExchange, said in December that the European
business would be reviewed for a possible sale.  Sprecher’s company agreed nine months ago to buy the New
York Stock Exchange owner for cash and stock worth about $8.2
billion at the time.  French financial regulators want to know the plans for
Euronext before approving ICE’s acquisition of NYSE, two people
said. IntercontinentalExchange, the Atlanta-based futures market
known as ICE, will retain the London-based Liffe derivatives
venue, which was part of NYSE’s Euronext acquisition six years
ago.  Regulatory Approval  “We do not have any comment except that we remain focused
on securing the final regulatory approvals in Europe,” Claire
Miller, a spokeswoman for ICE said yesterday. Adaora Anunoby, a
spokeswoman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in London, declined to comment, as
did officials at JPMorgan, Societe Generale and  France ’s
Autorite des Marches Financiers regulator.  U.S. securities regulators approved ICE’s acquisition of
NYSE Euronext last week, bringing the company one step closer to
completing the transaction. The merger still requires approval
from individual country regulators in Europe.  ICE is buying the U.S. equity-exchange operator as the
profitability of stock trading declines while derivatives
generate more income. European Union regulators approved the
deal on June 24 after blocking  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s purchase of
NYSE last year, citing concern over competition in derivatives
and post-trade clearing.  NYSE Brand  IntercontinentalExchange, which bought the New York Board
of Trade in 2007 and renamed it ICE Futures U.S., has said it
will keep the NYSE Euronext brand. The merged company will
maintain dual headquarters in Atlanta and New York.  Sprecher said Aug. 6 that the exchanges expect the deal
“will be finalized this fall.” Shareholders of both companies
approved the transaction in June.  Merging NYSE Euronext with the second-largest futures
market underscores both the growing importance of derivatives
and the diminishing influence of the New York Stock Exchange,
founded more than two centuries ago under a buttonwood tree in
New York.  Populist outcry, antitrust concern and some of the most
volatile markets on record have prevented the completion of more
than $32 billion in announced exchange transactions, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg on deals since October 2010 that
were valued at $1 billion or more.  When Euronext NV sold stock in an IPO in July 2001, the
exchange received a valuation of 2.8 billion euros. The company
raised 400 million euros selling 16.7 million new shares and
existing investors sold 12.2 million shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  