-- Obama Said to Consider Caldwell for U.S. Criminal Chief
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-08-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/obama-said-to-consider-caldwell-for-u-s-criminal-chief.html
Leslie Caldwell, former head of the
Justice Department’s Enron Task Force, has emerged as the lead
candidate to become the department’s criminal chief, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Caldwell, a partner at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, is in
the final stages of the nomination vetting process, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the selection process
is confidential. They said Caldwell will likely be offered the
job after the process is finished, which could be as soon as
next month.  In January 2002, a month after Enron’s plunge into
bankruptcy shocked the markets and raised questions about the
reliability of public companies’ financial statements, Caldwell
was tapped to head up a special task force dedicated to
identifying and prosecuting criminal activity at the Houston-based energy company.  Over the next four years, the task force brought charges
against 36 defendants, including former chief executive officers
Jeffrey Skilling and Kenneth Lay and 25 other former Enron
executives.  The task force also charged Enron’s auditing firm, Arthur
Andersen, with obstruction following the widespread shredding of
Enron-related documents in the weeks leading up to the company’s
collapse.  The criminal charge effectively put Andersen out of
business. Three years after a jury convicted the auditing firm
in June 2002, the Supreme Court overturned the verdict. Caldwell
left the task force to join Morgan Lewis in 2004.  Six Vacancies  Caldwell, if selected and confirmed, would step into the
position vacated in March by Lanny Breuer. She would oversee a
portfolio of prosecutions that include financial and health care
fraud, organized crime and wrongdoing by public officials.  The vetting process marks a step in the Obama
administration’s efforts to fill out Attorney General Eric Holder’s second-term team, which at one point this year lacked
permanent appointees in at least six top positions.  Brian Fallon, a Justice Department spokesman, and Matthew Lehrich, a White House spokesman, declined to comment on the
selection. Caldwell didn’t respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  Libor Probe  Breuer, who led the division for almost four years, oversaw
the department’s investigations into the financial crisis, as
well as the criminal side of the probe into the alleged
manipulation of global interest rates. He also directed the
largest U.S. criminal settlement, the $4 billion deal with  BP
Plc (BP/)  over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  Breuer’s tenure drew criticism from lawmakers and consumer
advocates for the lack of criminal charges brought against Wall
Street executives and firms -- a complaint that continues to dog
the Justice Department after the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression.  Lawmakers including senators Elizabeth Warren, a
Massachusetts Democrat, and Charles Grassley, an Iowa
Republican, have pushed the department for tougher settlements
in more cases against banks.  Breuer said throughout his tenure and since his departure
that, if his prosecutors had uncovered evidence to bring cases,
he would have filed charges.  Mythili Raman, a career prosecutor, has served as the
acting assistant attorney general in charge of the division
since Breuer’s departure. Raman, who was Breuer’s chief of
staff, has led the division’s continuing investigations into
Libor manipulation by the world’s largest banks, foreign bribery
and money laundering.  Raman’s Role  Raman’s experience and the continuity she brought to the
position may have played a role in the length of time it took to
replace Breuer, who announced in January he would be leaving.  In a May speech, Raman said prosecutors were pursuing
guilty pleas, criminal convictions and “significant monetary
penalties” from banks and their employees in the investigation
into the rigging of benchmark interest rates.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
have been fined more than $2.5 billion in the probe. Japanese
subsidiaries of UBS and RBS both pleaded guilty as part of their
resolutions. Traders rigged the benchmark to profit from bets on
derivatives, while banks sought to submit artificially low rates
to appear financially healthier than they were, according to
regulators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Farrell in  New York  at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  