-- Obama Weighs Decision on Cutting Military Aid to Egypt
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-08-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/obama-weighs-decision-on-cutting-military-aid-to-egypt.html
President  Barack Obama  met with his
foreign-policy advisers yesterday about how to respond to the
crackdown on Islamists by Egypt’s military-backed government,
including whether to cut off U.S. military and economic aid.  Among questions facing the president is whether to suspend
U.S. deliveries of weapons systems, including 10 Apache attack
helicopters due later this month, and whether to release $585
million in funding for Egyptian purchases of military equipment
due by the end of next month.  The Obama administration faces growing pressure from U.S.
lawmakers to halt most aid, at the risk of jeopardizing
whatever influence the U.S. has with Egypt’s military leaders
and troubling regional allies.  Israel  and Saudi Arabia
share the Egyptian military’s alarm about the Islamists'
political ambitions.  While the administration has reason to criticize the
Egyptian government’s suppression of the Islamist opposition, it
also needs to consider U.S. long-term interests with  Egypt ,
according to Hussein Ibish, a senior fellow at the American Task
Force on  Palestine  in  Washington .  “Preserving the strategic relationship that we have with
Egypt -- that is key,” Ibish said in an interview. U.S.
benefits include security cooperation on terrorism and regional
issues, Egypt’s peace treaty with Israel, preferred access
through the Suez Canal for American naval vessels and military
overflight rights, he said.  Strategic Relationship  “If we canceled the aid program to Egypt -- cut it off
altogether or make it contingent on a bunch of very broad and
difficult-to-achieve conditions -- we would be essentially
terminating that strategic relationship,” he said.  Obama met yesterday on Egypt with advisers in the White
House Situation Room. No statement was issued after the meeting.  The U.S. gives Egypt $1.5 billion a year in military and
economic aid, part of which has already been paid this year.
White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  said yesterday that U.S.
assistance to Egypt is under review “but it has not been cut
off,” disputing reports that aid is being withheld.  State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said that most aid
remains on track while the president evaluates U.S. policy,
though a small amount of economic assistance that would go to
the Egyptian government wouldn’t be paid before completion of a
legal review. Much of the money that is flowing goes to
nongovernmental organizations or for purposes such as health
programs, she said.  Mursi Toppled  Egypt’s military leaders toppled the Muslim Brotherhood-allied government of President Mohamed Mursi, the nation’s first
freely elected leader, on July 3 after growing public protest
against his actions. The military-backed interim government has
since moved against his Islamist supporters, including arresting
the Brotherhood’s spiritual leader, Mohammed Badie.  About 900 civilians and 100 police have died since the
start of the operation to break up two pro-Mursi sit-ins last
week. The government and military leaders, including the Army
commander, General Abdelfatah al-Seesi, have largely rebuffed
U.S. appeals to avoid violence and work toward reconciliation
with Islamists.  Reflecting a growing sentiment on Capitol Hill, Senators
Pat Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican, and Tim Kaine, a Virginia
Democrat, issued statements yesterday calling for a halt to U.S.
aid.  “American taxpayers should not contribute to a military
that slaughters civilians in the street,” Toomey said. Kaine
said the U.S. has had a “strategic and historic” relationship
with Egypt that’s now in jeopardy.  ‘Deteriorated Rapidly’  “The situation in Egypt has deteriorated rapidly and is
now intolerable, and our assistance relationship must change,”
Kaine said. “We can no longer conduct business as usual.”  Obama said on Aug. 15 that the U.S. was canceling the
Bright Star joint military exercise with Egypt that was
scheduled to begin next month and directed his staff to review
whether further steps were warranted. Earlier, the Pentagon
delayed the scheduled delivery of four F-16 fighter jets.  The administration has declined to determine that Mursi’s
overthrow was a coup, averting a requirement in U.S. law to cut
off aid, as it seeks to maintain some leverage with the Egyptian
military. Invoking the law would bar resuming aid unless the
president certifies to Congress that “a democratically elected
government has taken office.”  Ibish said it isn’t surprising that lawmakers are more
eager for aid cuts than the executive branch, which would have
to deal with the foreign policy and defense consequences.  Hagel’s Contacts  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel has been the main U.S.
interlocutor with al-Seesi, Egypt’s defense minister, with
little success in averting the violent crackdown even though
$1.3 billion a year of the American aid comes as military
assistance.  Ibish said it’s a mistake to think that any amount of aid
would sway leaders who think their nation is in an existential
struggle, as those in Egypt do now.  “What the aid gets you is leverage in the long run over
big-picture issues,” he said. It’s a misreading of aid to
expect it to “give you the kind of leverage where you can call
a government that feels besieged” and tell those officials what
to do, he said.  Egyptian interim Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi said
yesterday that Egypt’s army could survive without the U.S.
military aid.  “We are sorry that at this moment there is a kind of
misunderstanding” between the U.S. and Egypt, he said in an
interview with ABC News in Cairo. “There is a lot of
misunderstanding, and I’m sure that the time will work to the
benefit of both sides.”  Mutual Need  “I cannot exclude the fact that we need the U.S. as much
as the U.S. needs us,” he said.  The Obama administration put deliveries of five major
procurement programs, including F-16 fighter jets from  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  and M1A1 battle tanks from  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ,
“under review,” according to a State Department document sent
to Congress and obtained by Bloomberg News. It was dated July
16, two weeks after Egypt’s military ousted Mursi.  The 10 Apaches due for delivery this month are under a
contract with Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  valued at $171 million,
of which $163.7 million had been paid, according to the
document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  