-- Options Trades From Market Open Under Review by Exchange Owners
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-08-20T17:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/options-trades-from-market-open-under-review-by-exchange-owners.html
At least three operators of U.S.
options exchanges are reviewing trades that took place at the
beginning of the day and NYSE Amex Options said most of the
transactions may be canceled.  A “large number” of trades in tickers beginning with
letters H through L in the first 17 minutes are being examined
by NYSE Amex Options, it said in a statement. CBOE Holdings, the
largest venue,  said  it is examining trades between 9:30 and 9:41
a.m.  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. is  reviewing  options transactions
from 9:30 to 9:47 a.m., according to its website.  “Since the trades happened on more than one exchange, the
problem doesn’t appear to be related to an issue at one specific
exchange, but maybe a customer of firm,” Frederic Ruffy, a
Chicago-based senior options strategist at WhatsTrading.com,
wrote in an e-mail.  The announcements created uncertainty among professionals
as they waited to determine which transactions would stand from
the opening minutes. Option trading in the U.S. is spread out
among about a dozen venues that compete in attracting volume
through various pricing and order strategies. Chicago-based CBOE
is the largest U.S. options venue by total volume, while NYSE
and Nasdaq own about 24 percent of the market each, according to
data compiled by Chicago-based OCC.  NYSE Amex did not have any technology issues,  Eric Ryan , a
spokesman for the exchange, said in an e-mail.  Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq, and Gail Osten, of
CBOE, declined to comment.  Randy Williams  at BATS, and Molly McGregor at  International Securities Exchange  didn’t immediately
respond to phone calls and emails.  ‘Systems Issues’  Amex, a unit of NYSE Euronext, reported “systems issues”
earlier and asked that orders from the platform be removed from
marketwide price quotes, a system known as the national best bid
and offer. Options venues run by Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., Bats
Global Markets Inc. and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  routed orders away
the exchange. Amex said systems were back to normal by 9:49 a.m.
in New York.  “NYSE Amex Options is reviewing a large number of
erroneous executions that took place this morning,” the
exchange said in a note to traders. “As permitted by the rules,
we anticipate that most of the impacted trades will be busted.”  NYSE Euronext briefly halted trading yesterday in about 40
exchange-traded funds and notes when the securities were added
to a program aimed at curbing sudden price swings. They were set
off during implementation of the protocol known as limit
up/limit down that pauses securities when bid-ask spreads become
too wide, the exchange said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  