-- Morgan Drexen Sued by U.S. Consumer Agency Over Debt-Relief Fees
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-20T20:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/morgan-drexen-sued-by-u-s-consumer-agency-over-debt-relief-fees.html
Morgan Drexen Inc., a provider of
debt-relief services to consumers through law firms, charged
illegal upfront fees and deceived clients, according to a
lawsuit filed by the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The Costa Mesa, California-based firm misled thousands of
customers with claims they wouldn’t be charged upfront fees and
would be debt-free in months, the CFPB said in a statement. The
lawsuit, filed today in U.S. District Court for the Central
District of  California , said Morgan Drexen advertised debt-relief services and used a network of attorneys nationwide that
turned over most of their clients’ fees to the firm.  “This company took advantage of people who were
struggling,” said CFPB Director Richard Cordray, in a statement
today. “The company charged consumers illegal fees and deceived
them about the services provided. We will hold them accountable
for these actions.”  U.S. law bans debt-relief providers from charging for their
services before a debt is settled or reduced. The company was
charging such fees and also charged for bankruptcy services
without performing any significant work, the agency said, adding
that Morgan Drexen had more than 22,000 customers since October
2010.  The firm filed a lawsuit last month to block the CFPB
probe, claiming the bureau is unconstitutional. The CFPB lacks
the accountability the Constitution requires for a government
agency and the law provides no definition of the unfair and
deceptive practices the bureau is supposed to police, according
to the company’s lawsuit.  “CFPB has chosen to engage in procedural gamesmanship by
opening a new front to the lawsuit,” the company said in an e-mailed statement today. “This is disruptive and inefficient and
distracts from what we should be doing, which is preparing to
present arguments to the D.C. court on the constitutionality of
the CFPB structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 