-- Mortgage Insurers Face Global Regulator Call for Capital Buffers
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-08-20T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/mortgage-insurers-face-global-regulator-call-for-capital-buffers.html
Companies that insure banks’
mortgage debt should undergo regular stress tests and build up
bigger  capital buffers  to bolster their resilience to crises,
global regulators said.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , in tandem with
global market and insurance regulators, said mortgage insurers
should be required to build up long-term reserves that could be
tapped when defaults peak, and should face tougher oversight.  Mortgage insurance  is “subject to significant stress in
the worst tail events,” the regulators said in a report today.
The failure of an insurer would see increased costs fall on
lenders “at the very time that the insurance would be most
needed, potentially creating systemic risk.”  The collapse of the subprime mortgage market was one of the
major drivers of the global financial crisis in 2007. The
turmoil prompted a push by regulators to make the market more
robust and a series of probes into how banks constructed and
sold securities underpinned by this debt.  Mortgage insurance is widely used in only a few nations,
including the U.S.,  Canada ,  France  and Australia, according to
the report. In Canada and  Hong Kong , insurance is mandatory on
high loan-to-value mortgages, while in the U.S.  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,
 Freddie Mac (FMCC)  and other government-sponsored housing enterprises
require it on loans they purchase with LTV above 80 percent,
according to the report.  U.S.-based mortgage insurers include  PMI Group Inc. (PPMIQ) ,  Radian
Group Inc. (RDN) , and  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)   Misleading Investors  U.S. authorities this month sued  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
nation’s second-biggest lender, accusing it of misleading
investors in an $850 million mortgage-backed bond, while  Fabrice Tourre , a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (G)  vice president, was
found liable for fraud in a failed $1 billion investment
involving securitized mortgage debt.  The Basel committee brings together banking regulators from
27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and Japan. It prepared the
report in partnership with the International Organization of
Securities Commissions, made up of market regulators, and the
International Association of Insurance Supervisors. The groups’
report sets out a series of recommendations to national
authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  