-- Louis Gerstner III, Son of Celebrated IBM Chairman, Dies at 41
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-08-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/louis-gerstner-iii-son-of-celebrated-ibm-chairman-dies-at-41.html
Louis V. Gerstner III, the son of
the executive credited with saving  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , has died. He was 41.  He died on Aug. 14 after choking while dining in a
restaurant, according to a death notice in the  New York  Times.
Grace Brugess, a spokeswoman for the New York City Medical
Examiner’s Office, said yesterday in a telephone interview that
he died at Lenox Hill Hospital in  Manhattan  and that autopsy
results require “further testing and investigation.” His
family declined to elaborate on the death notice.  A 1996 graduate of  Princeton University , and a father of
two, Gerstner was president of the Gerstner Family Foundation,
which reported $94 million in assets in 2011. Among its biggest
pledges and grants: $2 million to the  Partnership for Inner-City
Education , which pays tuition for low-income students to attend
Catholic schools in Manhattan, the Bronx and  Staten Island , and
$4.6 million to support a study of the genetics of attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, by Massachusetts
General Hospital and the Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute of
 Harvard University  and  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  The younger Gerstner “dedicated much of his adult life to
providing educational opportunities to underprivileged
children,” the death notice said.  He was the older of two children of Louis V. Gerstner Jr.,
whose nine-year tenure as IBM chairman and CEO is often used as
a case study in corporate leadership.  IBM’s Turnaround  When he took over the Armonk, New York-based company in
1993, IBM was facing bankruptcy or breakup. Gerstner led a
turnaround in management, marketing and compensation that
boosted IBM’s market value from $29 billion to about $168
billion in 2002 and, as he wrote in his 2002  memoir , turned the
company “into a market-driven rather than an internally
focused, process-driven enterprise.”  The elder Gerstner previously led RJR Nabisco Inc. and
American Express Co. He retired in 2008 as chairman of Carlyle
Group LP, the world’s second-largest manager of alternative
assets such as private equity and real estate. He remains a
senior adviser at the Washington-based firm.  Louis Vincent Gerstner III was a graduate of  St. Paul’s
School  in Concord,  New Hampshire , Princeton and  Columbia
Business School , where he received a master’s in business
administration in 2000.  He worked as an analyst for the private-equity firm
Forstmann Little & Co. and, according to a 2000 PR Newswire
release, was joining the management team of a fund called J Net
Ventures I, which was to make Internet-related investments for J
Net Enterprises Inc.  Active Philanthropist  The New York Post reported in 1999 that Gerstner was among
“a new generation of philanthropists” that had formed a group
called the  Young Lions  to raise funds for the  New York Public
Library .  He married Mary Gervaise Lawhorne, another Princeton
graduate, in 1999, in a ceremony on St. Simons Island, off the
Georgia coast, according to a wedding announcement in the New
York Times.  The death notice says his children, Grace and Olivia, are
among his survivors, along with his sister, Elizabeth Gerstner,
a neurologist at  Massachusetts General Hospital , and his
parents, Louis Jr. and the former Elizabeth Robins Link.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  