-- Pakistan Court Charges Musharraf for Killing of Bhutto
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-08-20T05:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/pakistan-court-charges-musharraf-for-killing-of-benazir-bhutto.html
A Pakistani court indicted  Pervez Musharraf  in the 2007 assassination of former Prime Minister
 Benazir Bhutto , escalating legal challenges to the ex-military
dictator since he ended his self-exile in March.  Charges were read out to Musharraf that he was complicit in
Bhutto’s killing as he failed to provide adequate security at a
political rally she was attending, public prosecutor Chaudhary
Mohammad Azhar told reporters after a brief court appearance by
the former general.  “Musharraf was charged for murder, criminal conspiracy for
murder and facilitation of murder,” Azhar said. “He denied the
charges.” Six other people were also indicted and the hearing
was adjourned till Aug. 27, state-run Pakistan Television
reported, citing court proceedings.  Musharraf, who returned to Pakistan in an unsuccessful bid
to contest May’s parliament election, is also facing possible
prosecution over his suspension of the country’s constitution
toward the end of his rule and the death of a Baluch separatist
leader, Nawab Akbar Bugti. He has been kept under house arrest
in Islamabad since his arrest April 19.  The former president was brought to a special anti-terrorism court in Rawalpindi, near the capital, under tight
security as he faced threats to his life, a defense lawyer,
Afshan Adil, said outside the court. Musharraf survived at least
four assassination attempts by Islamic extremists while in power
from 1999 to 2008.  Political Comeback  The former army chief seized power after overthrowing the
government of Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  in a 1999 coup and
stepped down as president in 2008 to avoid impeachment charges.
He left Pakistan and lived mainly in London and Dubai for more
than four years.  Bidding for a political comeback, Musharraf vowed to fight
the election that brought Sharif back to power in May, only to
be barred from standing by poll officials citing his emergency
decree of 2007.  Bhutto was killed in a gun and suicide bomb attack at a
rally in Rawalpindi in December 2007. A United Nations report,
released in 2010, said her death may have been prevented had
security forces taken proper steps after death threats were made
against her.  Musharraf’s administration said former Pakistani Taliban
leader Baitullah Mehsud ordered Bhutto’s murder after she
criticized the Taliban for terrorist attacks in  Pakistan  and
announced she would help the U.S. eliminate the group.  The Pakistani chief prosecutor investigating the Bhutto
case was shot dead May 3 by unidentified gunmen in Islamabad
while he was heading for a hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  