-- Penny Stock Fraud Leader Arrested in Thailand, U.S. Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-20T19:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/penny-stock-fraud-leader-arrested-in-thailand-u-s-says.html
A Canadian citizen accused of
leading a $140 million fraud scheme involving about a dozen
penny stocks was arrested with an associate in  Thailand , the
U.S. said.  Sandy Winick and Gregory Curry, 63, are expected to face
extradition to the U.S. where they have been charged along with
seven others accused of participating in the fraud, prosecutors
said today in a statement.  Winick, 55, orchestrated the scheme to inflate the value of
worthless stocks and market them to investors in about 35
countries, the U.S. said. Winick ran a second scheme in which
some of the investors were falsely told they could recoup their
losses by paying an “advance fee,” prosecutors said.  “With the help of our friends in Thai law enforcement, we
once again showed that fraudsters cannot hide from the law,”
Loretta E. Lynch, U.S. attorney in Brooklyn, New York, said in
the statement.  The scheme took place from 2008 to July 2013 and involved
the creation of phony consulting businesses and law firms, fake
press releases about the penny stocks, and call centers that
operated in Vietnam, Thailand and Canada, according to the
indictment.  Minimal Assests  Hundreds of the victims live in Brooklyn, Long Island and
the New York borough of Queens, and the accused planned to open
a Brooklyn call center, prosecutors said.  Stocks included Winick’s holding company  Blackout Media
Corp. (BKMP) , along with  Resource Group International (RSGR) , Imusic Worldwide
Inc.,  WGI Holdings Inc. (WGIH) ,  Talisman Holdings Inc. (TMHO) ,  Nikron
Technologies Inc. (NKRN) , Tal-Cap Inc.,  RainEarth Inc. (RNER) ,  Sync2 Networks
Corp., (SYNW)   MASS Petroleum (MASP) , Liquid Gold International and  Foy
Johnston Inc. (FOYJ) , according to the indictment.  Known as “file cabinet businesses,” the companies had
minimal assets, were thinly traded, and were owned or controlled
by the defendants, according to prosecutors.  Winick faces charges including conspiracy to commit
securities fraud, conspiracy to commit wire fraud, wire fraud,
securities fraud and false impersonation of an officer of the
U.S. He faces as many as 20 years in prison for each count of
conspiracy to commit wire fraud, wire fraud and  securities
fraud , according to prosecutors.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Winick, 13-cr-00452, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  