-- Peru Yields Fall From Eight-Week High on S&P Upgrade; Sol Rises
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-08-20T18:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/peru-yields-fall-from-eight-week-high-on-s-p-upgrade-sol-rises.html
Peru’s dollar bonds rose, pushing
yields down from the highest level in eight weeks, after
 Standard & Poor’s  raised the country’s credit rating.  The yields on the nation’s dollar bond due in March 2019
fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.32
percent at 12:33 p.m. in Lima, the biggest drop since Aug. 2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yields rose
yesterday to 3.39 percent, the highest level since June 24.  S&P increased Peru yesterday to BBB+, three levels above
junk, from BBB, with a stable outlook. Other ratings companies
will probably follow S&P, President  Ollanta Humala  told
reporters in Lima today.  Investors “hadn’t priced in this upgrade,” Walther Benavides, a bond trader at  BBVA Banco Continental  in Lima, said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  The sol appreciated 0.4 percent to 2.8180 per  U.S. dollar 
after declining yesterday to a two-year low of 2.83, according
to prices from Datatec.  Economic growth has allowed Peru’s government to boost
savings and cut debt, making the country less vulnerable to a
drop in export prices and other external shocks, according to
S&P. The upgrade makes Peru the highest-ranked major Latin
American economy after Chile, which is four levels higher at AA-. Brazil and Mexico are a level lower at BBB.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Peru at Baa2, two levels
above junk, with a positive outlook.  Fitch Ratings  ranks Peru at
an equivalent BBB with a stable outlook.  “The confirmation of the upgrade by other rating companies
may not come that quickly as they wait for more effective action
by the government to soften the impact of reductions in  tax
revenue ,” Benavides said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  