-- PG&E Says Gas Penalty Would Push to Brink of Bankruptcy
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-08-20T18:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/pg-e-says-gas-penalty-would-push-to-brink-of-bankruptcy.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of California’s
largest electric utility, said it may be pushed to the edge of
bankruptcy if state regulators impose a proposed $2.25 billion
penalty for a deadly 2010 pipeline explosion.  If approved, the company would pay a total of $4 billion,
including money already spent on pipeline upgrades and safety
work, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tony Earley said in
an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York today. The
San Francisco-based company would need to sell about $2 billion
in additional stock, he said.  “The risk is you can’t raise that capital and you end up
in bankruptcy,” Earley said. Investors would have to buy stock
that they “would never get a return on” because the money
couldn’t be recovered from customers. “If I was a shareholder,
I wouldn’t be buying PG&E stock under those circumstances.”  Last month, staff of the  California  Public Utilities
Commission changed a prior recommendation and called for PG&E to
pay $2.25 billion in penalties for the explosion that killed
eight people in San Bruno, California, including a $300 million
fine for violating safety rules. An earlier proposal would’ve
given the company credit for money already spent on upgrades and
safety work.  The penalty is more than four times the company’s net
income last year and is 15 years worth of earnings for the gas
business, Earley said. Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s have said they would review California’s regulatory
system if the full penalty is assessed.  PG&E Bankruptcy  PG&E put its utility unit into bankruptcy in 2001 after
electricity costs tripled in the aftermath of the state’s
deregulation of power markets. Earley said if the gas unit were
a separate business, “I would’ve just turned the keys in.”  A spokeswoman for the commission didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  “Penalties should hurt a little,” said Mindy Spatt, a
spokeswoman for the Utility Reform Network, a customer advocacy
group based in San Francisco. “PG&E seems to think penalties
shouldn’t hurt at all. They’re just whining.”  The five-member commission still must vote on a penalty,
and a decision is expected by year-end, Earley said. The
commission has asked PG&E to file an explanation by tomorrow of
how it intends to finance the proposed penalty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in New York at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  