-- Philippines Floods Shut Markets, Offices for Second Day
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-08-20T12:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/philippines-shuts-markets-offices-for-second-day-on-flooding.html
At least eight people were killed
and more than 100,000 fled their homes amid heavy rains for a
third day that swamped as much as 60 percent of the Philippine
capital and nearby provinces.  Forty one are injured  and four are missing as torrential
rains overflowed dams and rivers and triggered landslides in
provinces in the biggest island of  Luzon , according to the
latest bulletin of the disaster and risk-reduction agency. At
least 20 percent of the Manila region remains submerged as of 7
p.m. from as much as 60 percent around midday, Office of Civil
Defense spokesman Major Rey Balido said by phone.  President Benigno Aquino suspended work in government
offices in Manila for a second day, prompting  Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas  and exchanges to keep currency, bonds and stock
markets closed. Five provinces including Cavite and Laguna have
declared a state of calamity. Mayor Strike Revilla of Bacoor in
Cavite, south of Manila, said the flooding in his town is worse
than 2009 when typhoon Ketsana swamped Luzon and killed more
than 400. A road leading to Aquino’s office was flooded, Aquino
spokeswoman Abigail Valte said.  The monsoon rain is being enhanced by storm Trami, located
540 kilometers (336 miles) east of the northern province of
Batanes as of 4 p.m. The  Philippines , regularly battered by
cyclones, topped a list of 10 countries most affected by natural
disasters in 2012, with 2,360 deaths, according to a report by
Brussels-based  Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of
Disasters . Trami is forecast to head to Taiwan tomorrow.  Passenger vessel M/V Super Shuttle Ferry 10 encountered
engine trouble after leaving the Bogo pier in Cebu and ran
aground after it was dragged by strong monsoon winds, coast
guard station commander Winiel Azcuna said. All 63 passengers
were rescued, he said. On the Aug. 16 sea collision in Cebu, the
worst Philippine maritime disaster in five years, 65 are
confirmed dead, Azcuna said.  ‘Shocking’  The weather bureau kept the rainfall alert at orange, the
second-highest in a three-color scale as of 7:30 p.m., warning
of “heavy to intense rain” and flooding.  “The extent of the coverage is shocking; there are
torrential rains even in Ilocos Sur and Laguna,” Francis Tolentino, chairman of the Metropolitan  Manila  Development
Authority, told local radio DZMM. “After 3 days, the ground is
saturated, a little rain will trigger floods.”  The current monsoon dumped 174 millimeters of water for 24
hours yesterday compared with 323 millimeters in August 2012
when almost half of the Manila region was submerged, Meno
Mendoza, a government weather forecaster said in a phone
interview. Typhoon Ketsana brought 455 millimeters of rain over
a comparable 24-hour period, he said.  Latest Bulletin  Of the 131,000 who fled their homes, almost 41,000 are in
evacuation centers and more than 90,000 people stayed with
friends and relatives as floodwaters rose, while 32 homes were
destroyed, according to the risk-reduction agency.  Roads leading to the airport were flooded earlier today,
prompting the cancellation of 162 local and international
flights, according to disaster agency’s latest report.  The La Mesa Dam overflowed and three other dams neared
spilling level, the government’s 6 p.m. bulletin showed.  A mandatory evacuation was ordered near the Marikina river,
one of the worst hit during Ketsana in 2009, after the water
swelled to critical level, Interior Secretary Mar Roxas said in
a televised briefing. Sirens were sounded to ask residents to
move to evacuation centers, according to a DZMM radio report.  Floods were as high as four feet in parts of Bulacan, north
of the capital and in the city of Manila, some streets were
submerged from waist down. In Cavite, Revilla said 50 of 73
villages are flooded up to chest level.  Video footage by  ABS-CBN Corp. (ABS)  show people trapped on their
roofs or wading through floodwaters. Portions of the 24-kilometer Epifanio de los Santos Avenue that connects the
capital to north and south provinces were submerged in waist-level water earlier today.  Cash Withdrawals  Bangko Sentral will service cash withdrawals of banks
tomorrow during a public holiday so lenders can replenish their
automated teller machines, Deputy Governor Nestor Espenilla said
in a statement. Lenders like  Bank of the Philippine Islands ,  BDO
Unibank Inc. (BDO)  and  Security Bank Corp. (SECB)  said they opened branches
not affected by flooding.  At least 15 people were killed a year ago when torrential
rains flooded the Manila region and halted trading for a day on
Aug. 7. Philippine Stock Exchange Chief Operating Officer Roel Refran told Bloomberg Television it’s been some time since the
equities market faced such disruption.  “Two days in a row is totally extraordinary,” he said.  When trading resumes on Aug. 22, the exchange is prepared
should share prices track the decline in the region, Refran
said. Financial markets and offices are shut nationwide tomorrow
for a holiday.  “The floods were deeper last year, but this current
monsoon covered a wider area,” Balido said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  