-- Polish Industry Grows Most in 18 Months as Recovery Gathers Pace
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-08-20T12:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/polish-industry-grows-most-in-18-months-as-recovery-gathers-pace.html
Polish  industrial output  increased
the most in 18 months in July in a sign that the European
Union’s largest eastern economy is recovering from a slowdown.  Production rose 6.3 percent from a year earlier after
increasing 3 percent in June, the  Central Statistical Office  in
Warsaw said today. That’s above the 5.3 percent median estimate
in a  Bloomberg survey  of 30 economists. Industry grew 1.5
percent from the previous month.  Economic growth  accelerated from a four-year low in the
second quarter as the euro area,  Poland ’s biggest trading
partner, exited a record-long recession, the statistics office
said last week. The central bank ended a nine-month cycle of
interest-rate cuts in July, with Governor  Marek Belka  saying
that “the road to recovery is open.”  The zloty extended gains after the data were released,
trading at 4.2255 per euro at 2:05 p.m. in Warsaw, appreciating
0.6 percent from yesterday. The yield on two-year government
zloty debt fall 4 basis points to 3.09 percent.  In a separate report, the office said producer prices
dropped 0.8 percent from a year earlier, less than the 0.9
percent median contraction predicted by 26 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg. Prices advanced 0.2 percent from the previous
month.  Improving demand from abroad helped Poland record its third
monthly  trade surplus  in June, the first time this has happened
since the data series began in 2000. Manufacturing expanded for
the first time in 16 months in July as new orders increased,
HSBC Holdings Plc said on Aug. 2, citing data compiled by  Markit
Economics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  