-- Porsche Plaintiffs Lose Bids For Access to Probe Files
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-08-20T13:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/porsche-plaintiffs-lose-bids-for-access-to-probe-files.html
A Merckle Group unit and two other
companies were denied access to Stuttgart prosecutors’ files
that might have helped their civil lawsuits against Porsche SE
over the failed bid for  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   The Stuttgart Higher Regional Court rebuffed an attempt to
collect information from the investigation of former Porsche
executives Wendelin Wiedeking and Holger Haerter, according to a
judgment published in a database of court rulings. The Merckle
unit, HWO GmbH, can’t be considered a victim of the alleged
crimes, the judges said.  “Investors damaged by market manipulation aren’t victims”
under the rules governing access to the files, the judges wrote.
Market manipulation rules “do not directly aim to protect the
investors, but only the public interest in truth and
trustworthiness of price building at  stock exchanges .”  The ruling is a setback for plaintiffs in the German cases
against Porsche, which are seeking more than 5 billion euros
($6.7 billion) combined. German law grants only limited access
to information from parties to lawsuits. Gaining access to
findings by prosecutors in a criminal probe is a way to obtain
additional evidence.  The Stuttgart Higher Regional Court spokesman Stefan
Schueler said that the tribunal rejected bids by three
companies, declining to identify them. The HWO ruling was in
June, while the other two rulings were last week.  The civil suits are part of a series of cases Porsche has
faced since it  disclosed in October 2008  it controlled
74.1 percent of VW, partly through options, and was seeking to
acquire 75 percent and eventually take it over. The announcement
caused Volkswagen’s stock to surge as short sellers raced to buy
shares borrowed in a bet that VW would fall.  HWO spokeswoman Vivien Kraft declined to comment today.  Wiedeking, Porsche’s former chief executive officer, and
Haerter, the former chief financial officer, were charged in
December with market manipulation. Both deny the allegations.  The cases are OLG Stuttgart, 1 Ws 112/13, 1 Ws 149/13 and 1
Ws 150/13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  