-- Pound’s August Gain to Franc Proving Too Much: Market Reversal
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-21T16:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/pound-s-august-gain-to-franc-proving-too-much-market-reversal.html
The British pound is reversing its
best monthly gain in a year against the Swiss franc as trading
patterns suggest its rise was too much, too soon.  Sterling advanced last week to a more than two-month high
of 1.4592 francs, breaching the upper boundary of its 20-day
Bollinger band and signaling that the pair had overreached.
Options traders were paying the highest premium in almost six
months to buy the pound versus the franc on Aug. 16, also
setting it up for a U-turn, 25-delta risk reversal rates show.  “We’re definitely catching some pretty critical levels --
a solid resistance zone,” said Chris Tevere, a senior currency
strategist and chartered market technician at Gain Capital Group
LLC in New York. “This is the kind of make-or-break level
where, if people think sterling is too strong, they might try to
fade it.”  The pound has climbed 3.7 percent in August versus a basket
of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the biggest monthly gain since
January 2009, as unemployment claims dropped more in July than
economists forecast. Sterling bears view the data strength as
temporary, with the  Bank of England  remaining prepared to loosen
monetary policy.  Carney Effect  BOE Governor  Mark Carney  took the unprecedented step
earlier this month of saying the central bank probably won’t
raise its  benchmark   interest rate  from a record-low 0.5 percent
until unemployment falls to 7 percent, pressuring the currency.  Carney’s dovish guidance did little to slow an increase in
the pound. Sterling has climbed 1.4 percent against the dollar
since the comments on Aug. 7, the biggest gain among 16 major
peers tracked by Bloomberg, and rose 0.5 percent versus
 Switzerland ’s currency, to 1.4444 francs as of 12:36 p.m. in New
York. The pound’s 2.6 percent gain versus the franc in August is
the most on a monthly basis since July 2012.  “The Bank of England is likely to reiterate in the future
that it still has options open to keep monetary policy very
loose, cut rates or even do quantitative easing if required,”
Michael Sneyd, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
 London , said in an Aug. 15 phone interview.  The British currency has been testing the upper limit of
its 20-day Bollinger band versus the franc since breaking it on
Aug. 15. The measures, developed by  John Bollinger  in the 1980s,
are used by technical analysts to identify the turning point in
an asset’s trajectory.  ‘Too Extreme’  Options traders were paying a 0.37 percent premium to buy
the pound against the franc on a three-month basis as recently
as Aug. 16. That was the largest premium since June 27 and
suggested that bearish bets on the  currency pair  may have been
overextended.  “Sterling’s rise looks far too extreme, so we expect some
unwind of the overvaluation of the pound,” BNP’s Sneyd said.
“We would expect a decline as investors unwind some of that
over-optimism that they’ve priced into the currency.”  The pound’s advance hasn’t dissuaded foreign-exchange
strategists, who for the first time since June are boosting
their outlook for sterling against the euro as conviction grows
that U.K. economic growth will outstrip that of continental
 Europe . Futures traders last week also added the most bets in
more than a year that European rates will rise more slowly than
those in the U.K.  Surprise Index  Britain’s  unemployment rate  remained at 7.8 percent in the
second quarter, while  jobless claims  declined by 29,200 in July
to 1.44 million, twice as fast as  predicted  by economists, the
 Office for National Statistics  said Aug. 14.  Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for the U.K.
climbed to 113.3 on Aug. 19, the highest level since October
based on end-of-month values, and more than double the reading
for the  euro region .  “The data has been very supportive for sterling,”  Mike Moran , a senior currency strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in
New York, said in an Aug. 15 phone interview. “It’s been much
stronger than the market gave it credit for.”  As economic data improve, the U.K. still must rely on
capital from money markets to compensate for its existing trade
gap, according to Morgan Stanley’s  Hans Redeker . A stronger
pound jeopardizes these inflows by making the U.K. more
vulnerable to a potential depreciation in the currency, he said.  International Monetary Fund data show the U.K. currently
has a current-account deficit of 4.3 percent of gross domestic
product.  Germany  has a surplus of 5.7 percent.  “Money markets only come in if they think sterling is
trading at a low enough level to protect them against potential
currency losses,” Redeker, the London-based head of global
foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley, said in an Aug. 15
phone interview. “They fear money-market flows are not going to
come in, so we could see sterling back under selling pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  