-- Protege-Backed Expedition Shuts Asia Volatility Fund After Loss
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-08-20T02:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/protege-backed-expedition-shuts-asia-volatility-fund-after-loss.html
Expedition Advisors Ltd., backed by
New York-based Protege Partners LP, is returning investor
capital in its Asia  volatility  hedge fund after losses.  Expedition’s hedge fund, which sought to profit from stock
swings in Asia outside of  Japan , lost 14 percent since its May
2012 inception, according to its March newsletter, the last one
sent out to investors and non-investors in the fund and obtained
by Bloomberg News.  “A prolonged period of suppressed volatility combined with
a low ’vol of vol’ environment created a very difficult backdrop
for our core strategy,”  Craig James , Hong Kong-based chief
investment officer of Expedition, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Given the current climate, it was decided that money would be
returned to our strategic investor.”  The company is closing the fund as central bank easings
globally increased market liquidity and subdued stock swings.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility  Index (VIX)  averaged
about 16 since May 1, 2012, one-fifth of the 80.9 reached on
Nov. 20, 2008, when economic slowdown at the height of the
global financial crisis threatened corporate profits. The index,
known as VIX, measures the cost of using options as insurance
against declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  James declined to comment beyond the statement. Jay Suresh,
who helped open Protege’s Singapore office in 2010, didn’t reply
to an e-mail message from  Bloomberg News  seeking comment.  The fund had about $50 million at its inception, according
to a person familiar with its assets.  Expedition’s is at least the second Asia volatility hedge
fund to shut since last year. Sharp Peak Vega Feeder Fund, which
invested in over-the-counter equity derivatives such as options
and volatility swaps, closed after losing 18 percent between its
October 2011 inception and June 2012, people with knowledge of
the matter told Bloomberg News in October.  James headed Asia investment of AM Investment Partners LLC,
a New York-based hedge fund set up by two former Deutsche Bank
AG executives, before founding Expedition last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  