-- Prudential Hires Deutsche Bank’s Garcia for Real Estate
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-08-20T20:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/prudential-hires-deutsche-bank-s-garcia-for-real-estate.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, hired Frank Garcia as a
managing director to invest in commercial properties as the firm
expands its main U.S. real estate fund.  Garcia will be the fourth portfolio manager at Prudential
Real Estate Investors’ core open-ended equity real estate
strategy, the  Newark , New Jersey-based insurer said today in a
statement. He previously managed property investments at
 Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Prudential is expanding in core real estate as the insurer
uses the strategy to diversify retirement plans and draw in
investors beyond the U.S. The company invests in real estate to
generate fee income and back insurance policies. The real estate
unit, with $53 billion in assets, has hired dealmakers to expand
in  Latin America  and Asia, and this month promoted Eric Adler to
chief executive officer.  Garcia’s “background will be particularly helpful as we
seek opportunities to invest on behalf of a growing client
base,” Cathy Marcus, senior portfolio manager for the real
estate fund, said in the statement.  Garcia, who started yesterday, is based in San Francisco
and reports to Marcus. He’s also worked at Spieker Properties
and CB Commercial, Prudential said. Garcia has a bachelor’s
degree from the University of the Pacific, where he studied
business administration.  Core funds typically invest in established properties in
major cities. The strategy uses a low level of financial
leverage, according to  Prudential’s website .  Deutsche Bank  Jay Miller assumed Frank Garcia’s responsibilities at
Deutsche Bank as lead portfolio manager of the U.S. value-added
real estate fund, and clients were informed of the change in
May, according to a person familiar with the matter who asked
not to be identified because there was no public announcement.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, is seeking to
add fee income by overseeing more funds for outside investors
after starting an asset-management unit last year. The New York-based insurer this month won a commitment of as much as $5
billion from SunTrust Banks Inc. for commercial  mortgage loans .  Prudential  climbed  0.2 percent to $78.09 at 4:15 p.m. in
 New York . The stock has climbed 46 percent this year, while
MetLife has gained 45 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  