-- PSV Draws 1-1 With AC Milan in Champions League as Celtic Loses
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-20T23:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/psv-ties-ac-milan-1-1-in-champions-league-playoffs-celtic-loses.html
PSV Eindhoven and AC Milan drew 1-1
in the opening game of their Champions League soccer playoff, as
Celtic lost 2-0 to Shakhter Karagandy in Kazakhstan.  Zenit St. Petersburg, Real Sociedad and Viktoria Plzen won
last night as the playoff round of Europe’s elite club
competition began. The winners of the two-game series advance to
the 32-team group stage.  PSV rallied in the second half in the Netherlands in a
matchup of former European Cup winners.  Seven-time champion Milan took the lead in the 15th minute
as fullback Ignazio Abate made a run down the right side and
sent a cross which an unmarked Stephan El Shaarawy headed past
goalkeeper Jeroen Zoet.  Mario Balotelli ’s shot was tipped onto the crossbar by Zoet
moments later and Milan’s Christian Abbiati dived to save a shot
from Adam Maher, who also hit the crossbar with another effort.  PSV, the 1988 European champion, drew even in the 60th
minute as Tim Matavz headed in the rebound after Abbiati
couldn’t control Jeffrey Bruma’s shot from outside the area.  In Astana, Shakhter Karagandy took a big step toward
becoming the first Kazakh team to reach the group stage with its
home win against Celtic, the 1967 European champion.  Shakhter went in front in the 12th minute as Andrei
Finonchenko cut in front of Celtic’s Joe Ledley and knocked the
ball past goalkeeper Fraser Forster.  Celtic’s Kris Commons hit the crossbar in the first half
and James Forrest headed straight at goalkeeper Aleksandr Mokin
from six yards out (5.5 meters) with 17 minutes left. Sergei
Khizhnichenko made it 2-0 five minutes later with a header.  Hat Trick  Zenit got three goals in the final 30 minutes to rout
Champions League newcomer Pacos Ferreira 4-1 in Portugal.  Roman Shirokov opened the scoring the 27th minute and Andre
Leao tied the game for Pacos in the 58th minute. Shirokov put
Zenit back in front two minutes later and a free kick from
Aleksandr Kerzhakov hit the crossbar and went in off goalkeeper
Matias Degra for an own goal to make it 3-1. Shirokov then
completed his hat trick in the 90th minute.  Real Sociedad marked its first Champions League appearance
since the 2003/04 season with a 2-0 win at Lyon.  Antoine Griezmann put the Spanish club in front after 17
minutes as he twisted for a mid-air volley past goalkeeper
Anthony Lopes. Haris Seferovic made it 2-0 early in the second
half by sending a volley from the edge of the penalty area on
the left side past Lopes.  Marian Cisovsky, Vladimir Darida and Michal Duris scored to
give Viktoria Plzen a 3-1 home win against Maribor, which got a
goal from Ales Mejac.  AC Milan, Celtic, Zenit, Real Sociedad and Maribor will
host the return matches Aug. 28.  The other five Champions League playoffs begin tonight as
Arsenal visits Fenerbahce, Schalke hosts PAOK, Austria Vienna is
at Dinamo Zagreb, Ludogorets hosts Basel and Legia Warsaw
travels to Steaua Bucharest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 