-- Rate Surge With Rising U.S. Confidence a Positive Sign
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-08-20T20:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/rate-surge-with-rising-u-s-confidence-a-positive-sign-economy.html
Concern that a surge in U.S. bond
yields will curb the expansion is overblown, says money manager
 James Paulsen . When coupled with gains in confidence, higher
borrowing costs are a healthy sign for the world’s largest
economy.  “Confidence is at the center of everything here,” said
Paulsen, the chief investment strategist at Wells Capital
Management in  Minneapolis  with $340 billion in assets under
management. “If I had to pick one overriding thing, it’s
confidence that’s been running through the financial markets and
the economy this year.”  Since 1967, stocks have risen at a 12.8 percent annualized
rate in months when bond yields and the Conference Board’s
 consumer confidence  measure rise in tandem, according Paulsen’s
research. When borrowing costs increase and confidence drops,
stocks -- a proxy for investors’ views on the direction of the
economy and corporate profits -- have fallen at a 6.4 percent
rate.  Currently, consumers are the least pessimistic in more than
five years, homebuilders are the most upbeat since 2005 and
purchasing managers say their factories are churning out goods
at the fastest pace in almost a decade. That improving economic
outlook is one reason that  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  may opt to slow the monthly pace of $85 billion in bond
purchases as soon as the Fed’s Sept. 17-18 meeting.  Treasury Yields  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to
2.88 percent late yesterday, reaching two-year highs for a third
consecutive day, as investors become increasingly convinced the
Fed next month will reduce how much stimulus it pumps into the
economy. The yield had been as low as 1.63 percent on May 2.  Yields on U.S. corporate bonds from the riskiest to most-creditworthy borrowers have climbed to 4.23 percent from a
record-low 3.35 percent on May 2, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Index. They
reached a one-year high of 4.3 percent on June 25.  So far this year, rising yields have been accompanied by
improving confidence. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index early
this month reached the highest reading since January 2008. The
New York-based Conference Board’s confidence gauge in June and
July also had the strongest two months in more than five years.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s measure in July
reached a six-year high, before falling this month.  Consumers’ Psyche  “Consumers are so far saying, ‘OK, employment is
improving, growth is improving, maybe not evenly, maybe not
fast, but it is improving,’” said  Adrian Miller , director of
fixed-income strategy at GMP Securities LLC in  New York . “The
back-up in  interest rates  of late, dramatic as it may be from
early May, is not yet at a level that would creep into the
psyche of the consumer as being a problem.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reached a record high on
Aug. 2, and though the index has since dropped from that peak,
equities remain up 15.4 percent so far this year through
yesterday. Stocks rose, after a four-day drop in the  S&P 500 , as
retailers’ results surpassed estimates. The S&P 500 climbed 0.4
percent to 1,652.35 at the close in New York.  “You have bond yields going up, but you have the equity
market doing well,” Drew Matus, deputy U.S. chief economist at
UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and a former
analyst at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , said in an Aug.
16 interview on Bloomberg TV.  “What does that tell you?” said Matus. “It tells you the
equity markets are going up because the economy is doing well or
that bond yields are going up because the economy is doing well,
not necessarily because of expectations of what the Fed may or
may not do.”  Withdrawing Stimulus  The rise in yields is being closely monitored by Fed
officials as they gauge whether the economy is strengthening to
the point that they can withdraw stimulus or whether the rise in
rates threatens to derail growth by raising borrowing costs and
choking off activity.  Bernanke said in Senate testimony on July 18 that the rise
in interest rates had led to an “unwelcome” tightening in
financial conditions. He said that better growth expectations
were also behind the rise in rates and added that “a benefit”
of higher rates “is that some concerns about building financial
risks are mitigated in that way.”  Homebuilders, among the groups most sensitive to a jump in
borrowing costs, continue to gain confidence even as rates rise.
The national average 30-year fixed  mortgage rate  was at 4.40
percent last week compared with a record low 3.31 percent in
November, according to  Freddie Mac .  Builder Sentiment  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 sentiment  index climbed to 59 in August, the highest since
November 2005.  “People are overreacting to a little run up in interest
rates,”  Donald Tomnitz , the president and chief executive
officer of D.R. Horton Inc., the largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, said on a July 25 teleconference. “It may delay those
purchases, but it’s not going to be a permanent effect.”  Not everyone is sanguine about the effects on housing from
higher rates.  “One of the fundamental underpinnings to this recovery has
been the recovery in the housing market,” said Mark Luschini,
chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC. “Rising rates could choke up one of the
things that helping boost household net worth, which is good for
spending, as well as work counterproductively to things the
Federal Reserve is attempting to do.”  Manufacturing Gauge  Manufacturing is another area that’s shown increased
confidence. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory gauge 
jumped in July to the highest level in more than two years. The
4.5-point increase in the purchasers’ gauge from the prior month
was the biggest since June 1996, the group’s production measure
was the strongest since May 2004, and orders also advanced.  Since 1960, there have been only eight cases in which the
ISM index has seen comparable “outsized” gains in production
and orders that did not reflect rebounds from “sharp” declines
a month earlier, according to research by  Joseph Carson ,
director of global  economic research  at AllianceBernstein LP in
New York, with $435 billion in assets under management.  Six of those periods occurred in the very early stages of
an economic recovery following a recession, and in all cases
gross domestic product picked up over the next year, he said.  “The manufacturing survey really surprised me in terms of
its strength,” said Carson. “It’s a gain that usually signals
the start of the cycle, which is really surprising given that we
are in the fifth year of this cycle.”  Economic Recovery  The recovery from the last economic slump started in June
2009, according to the  National Bureau of Economic Research , the
accepted arbiter of when U.S. recessions begin and end.  The recent jump in interest rates “reflects both a
reassessment of economic performance and a reassessment of the
Fed’s intentions,” Carson said.  Carson isn’t the only one taken aback by recent strength in
economic data. The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index, a daily
gauge of how close analysts get to predicting the actual outcome
of economic reports, reached 40.6 on Aug. 15, the highest level
of the year. A higher index shows results of the most-recent
data are more positive and surprising.  Bond yields began jumping in May when Fed officials started
discussing the possibility that monthly bond purchases would be
trimmed this year. The  Federal Open Market Committee  will opt
for tapering at the September meeting according to 65 percent of
48 respondents in an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg survey. The median
estimate called for purchases to be cut to $75 billion.  “We haven’t seen the disaster that some had feared and now
they can think about tapering,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut,
and a former Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond economist. “You
have the opportunity to pull back. The market is prepared for
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  