-- RBA Signals Rate Cuts Remain on Table as Currency Important
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-08-20T03:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/rba-signals-currency-important-as-rate-cut-option-remains-1-.html
Australia ’s central bank said the
currency’s direction will be important in setting policy and
signaled further interest-rate cuts remain a possibility,
according to  minutes  of its Aug. 6 meeting at which it reduced
its benchmark rate to a record-low 2.5 percent.  “Regarding the communication of this decision, members
agreed that the bank should neither close off the possibility of
reducing rates further, nor signal an imminent intention to
reduce rates further,” the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said in
 minutes  of the meeting released in Sydney today. “The course of
the exchange rate would be important.”  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board cut rates by 2.25
percentage points since late 2011 as growth slowed and
unemployment rose. The Australian dollar, which declined 12
percent in the past six months, dropped as traders boosted bets
on a rate reduction in December to more than 50 percent.  “A rate cut remains possible should the business sentiment
and the non-mining economy show no meaningful signs of picking
up in the next few months, or if the Australian dollar
unexpectedly rallies,” said Alvin Pontoh, Singapore-based
strategist at TD Securities.  The Aussie fell to 90.85 U.S. cents at 12:44 p.m. in
Sydney, from 90.94 cents before the minutes were released. It
has gained 1.8 percent since the quarter percentage point rate
reduction on Aug. 6.  Traders raised bets on a rate cut in December to 55
percent, from 47 percent odds before the minutes were released,
while pricing in a lower chance for a September reduction,
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  ‘Below Trend’  “With growth expected to remain below trend for longer and
inflation to remain within the target even with the effects of a
lower exchange rate, members concluded that a lower level of the
cash rate would better contribute to achieving sustainable
growth in demand consistent with the inflation target,” the RBA
said in the minutes. “The board would continue to examine the
data over the months ahead to judge whether monetary policy was
appropriately configured.”  The RBA this month reduced its growth forecast to 2.25
percent in the year to December 2013, compared with 2.5 percent
forecast three months earlier. Australia’s unemployment rate
held at an almost four-year high of 5.7 percent in July as fewer
people sought work, government data showed Aug. 8.  “Employment growth was continuing, but at a pace below the
rate of growth of the  labor force ,” the minutes said. “Wages
growth was slowing.”  Housing Pickup  Even so, there are signs that the central bank’s almost
two-year easing cycle is impacting areas of the economy.
Australian  house prices  climbed by the most in more than three
years in the second quarter and  consumer confidence  rose 3.5
percent this month after the RBA’s latest rate cut.  “Borrowing for housing had picked up, as had dwelling
prices, and there had been an increase in leading indicators of
dwelling construction, but to date this had been moderate rather
than strong,” the central bank said in the minutes.  While Australia’s terms of trade, a ratio of export prices
to import prices, peaked in 2011, Australian industry has been
squeezed by a currency that held above $1 from mid-June last
year to May 9, the longest stretch above parity with the  U.S.
dollar  since the Aussie was freely floated in 1983.  The currency “had declined since the previous meeting,
though remained high by historical standards,” the minutes of
the Aug. 6 meeting showed. “It was possible the  exchange rate 
would decline further over time, which would assist in
rebalancing growth in the economy, though it would also be
affected by developments in other countries.”  China Gloom  The Australian dollar has depreciated as  China ’s outlook
darkened and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled
for the first time May 22 that a tapering of bond purchases that
devalued the greenback may be on the cards.  The minutes showed board members were briefed on staff
forecasts for global growth: “Aggregate growth of Australia’s
major trading partners -- including China -- was expected to be
a bit below its decade average in 2013 before picking up
somewhat in the following year.”  Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who has called the end of
Australia’s China-led mining boom, has set an election for Sept.
7 and is framing the vote as a battle between David Cameron-style austerity from the opposition and his own program that
allows the budget to remain in deficit to cushion growth. Polls
show the opposition Liberal-National coalition leading Rudd’s
 Labor party  on economic management.  Australian business confidence slumped to an eight-month
low and remained “extremely poor” in the key  mining industry 
as rate cuts and a weaker currency failed to encourage
companies, a private report showed Aug. 13.  “The path of business investment spending would be
affected by the turning of the cycle in resources investment,
where indicators continued to suggest that a decline was likely
over the next several years,” the RBA minutes showed. “Near-term prospects for business investment outside the resources
sector remained subdued.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  