-- RBNZ Imposes Restrictions on Low-Deposit Home Lending
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-20T05:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/rbnz-imposes-restrictions-on-low-deposit-home-loans-from-oct-1.html
New Zealand ’s central bank will
impose restrictions on low-deposit home lending from Oct. 1 to
guard the financial system from a bubble that has made houses in
the nation the fourth most overvalued in the world.  Loans for more than 80 percent of a property’s value must
account for no more than 10 percent of a bank’s new lending,
from about 30 percent now, the  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  said
in a statement. The  New Zealand dollar  declined after Governor
Graeme Wheeler said the kiwi is “over-valued relative to what
would be sustainable long-term.”  Wheeler wants to curb the excesses of the  property market ,
concerned that the banking system is getting over-exposed to any
sudden collapse in house  prices. (QVNZTOTY)  He has been reluctant to raise
 interest rates  because that may stoke demand for the New Zealand
dollar, hurting exports and hindering an economic recovery.  “If they were to whack up  interest rates  right now, when
rates are still so low elsewhere, there is that risk that the
currency gets pushed up further,” said  Nick Tuffley , chief
economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “They will be hoping
that these restrictions have an impact on  house prices  and
reduce the need to put interest rates up.”  The New Zealand dollar fell to 79.90 U.S. cents at 4:50
p.m. in Wellington from 80.23 cents immediately before the
statement. The two-year interest rate swap yield fell to 3.45
percent from 3.55 percent.  Interest Rates  The central bank has held the  official cash rate  at a
record-low 2.5 percent since March 2011. Wheeler on July 25 said
the RBNZ expected to keep the cash rate unchanged through the
end of 2013.  “While higher policy rates may well be needed next year as
expanding domestic demand starts to generate overall inflation
pressures, this is not the case at present,” Wheeler said
today. “Any OCR increases in the near term would risk causing
the New Zealand dollar to appreciate sharply, putting further
pressure on New Zealand’s export and import competing
industries.”  Wheeler today reiterated that as much as 30 percent of new
loans were being made with loan-to-valuation ratios of more than
80 percent, up from 23 percent in late 2011.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said in May that New Zealand’s homes were the fourth most
overvalued in the developed world, behind only  Belgium ,  Norway 
and  Canada . Prices rose 8.1 percent in July from a year earlier,
the fastest pace since January 2008, according to Quotable Value
New Zealand, a government research company.  House Prices  The central bank expects home-loan restrictions to curb
house-price growth, reducing the risk of a slump in values  that
would damage the financial system and the economy, Wheeler said.
Allowing for exemptions including bridging loans, refinancing of
existing loans and lending under a government plan for low-income earners, the effective limit on lending with a high loan-to-valuation ratio is 15 percent, he said.  The measures are temporary and will be eventually removed
“if there is evidence of a better balance in the housing
market,” Wheeler said. If they are not effective, they will be
removed “but in this case their removal might necessitate
higher interest rates than otherwise” or the use of other
prudential tools, he said.  Wheeler has an agreement with Finance Minister  Bill English 
to also use tools that require banks to hold additional capital
or increased funding from long-term sources. He selected loan
restrictions because they can damp asset prices more directly,
he said.  Sweden, Canada  New Zealand joins nations such as  Sweden  and Canada in
imposing loan limits. In Canada, house prices across 11 cities
rose 1.8 percent in June from a year ago, the slowest since
October 2009, after the nation in June 2012 reduced the amount
homeowners could borrow against the value of their property.  Still, in Sweden, which in October 2010 capped mortgages at
85 percent of a property’s value, apartment prices jumped 11
percent in the 12 months through June compared with a 3 percent
gain the previous year, according to Svensk Maeklarstatistik.  In New Zealand, the proposals have raised concerns that
first-home buyers who may struggle to raise a 20 percent deposit
will be shut out of the market. Government-owned  Kiwibank  today
said it would give priority to those buyers over people seeking
investment properties.  Wheeler urged that priority be given to increasing housing
supply. Supply contraints have been driving price increases in
the nation’s biggest city of Auckland. More building and limits
on lending will help reduce the risk of a house-price boom,
Wheeler said.  “Provided LVR restrictions help to dampen house-price
inflation, they will also assist monetary policy,” he said.
“As such, they increase the flexibility available to the
 Reserve Bank  in determining the timing and magnitude of future
adjustments to interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  