-- Treasuries Near Cheapest Level in Two Years Before Fed Minutes
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-08-20T01:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/treasuries-near-cheapest-level-in-two-years-before-fed-minutes.html
Treasuries were near the cheapest
level in two years as investors look to tomorrow’s minutes of
the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting for signs on when policy
makers plan to curb their bond-buying program.  The 10-year  term premium , a model that includes
expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation, was 0.50
percent yesterday, the most since July 2011. The Fed’s first
step may be to trim its monthly debt purchases in September by
$10 billion to $75 billion, according to the median estimate of
analysts in a Bloomberg survey completed last week.  “The Treasury market is pricing in September tapering to
the full,” said Makoto Suzuki, a senior bond strategist at
Okasan Securities Co. in Tokyo. “A moderate recovery is
continuing in the  U.S. economy .”  U.S. 10-year  yields  were little changed today at 2.87
percent as of 10 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 2.5 percent note due in August
2023 was 96 26/32. The yield climbed to 2.90 percent yesterday,
the highest level in two years.  U.S. government securities due in a decade and longer
plunged 9 percent in the six months through yesterday, the
biggest loss of 144 debt indexes tracked by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  An indicator of momentum used by some investors signaled
that Treasuries are oversold. The 14-day  relative-strength index 
for the 10-year yield has risen above the 70 threshold that
indicates it may be about to reverse direction. The last time it
exceeded that level was July 5, which was followed by a two-week
rally.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 policy makers may
start reducing their unprecedented bond-buying program this year
and end it entirely in mid-2014 if the economy achieves the
sustainable growth the central bank has sought since the
recession ended in 2009.  Reports this month have shown gains in manufacturing,
spending and housing starts along with a decline in the
 unemployment rate .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at
   wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  