-- Repsol Wins Dismissal of Bridas N.Y. Suit Over YPF Pact
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-08-20T20:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/repsol-wins-dismissal-of-bridas-n-y-suit-over-ypf-pact.html
Repsol SA (REP)  won the dismissal of a
lawsuit brought by units of  Argentina ’s Bridas Group in New York
seeking to prevent the Spanish oil producer from blocking a
$1.5 billion shale-gas project.  The group’s Virgin Islands-based Bridas International and
Bridas Energy Holdings units sued Madrid-based Repsol on Jan. 3
in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan, saying the company
threatened in letters to try to block the deal with YPF SA.  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
government seized YPF, the country’s biggest oil producer, from
Repsol in April. Justice Shirley Werner Kornreich threw out the
suit today, citing a related complaint filed by Repsol in  Spain 
shortly after Bridas filed its suit in  New York .  “No sophisticated investor ought to part with its money --
especially when that sum is in excess of a billion dollars --
absent reasonable assurances that its investment is on solid
legal footing,” Kornreich wrote. “However, a declaratory
judgment would ’not serve a practical end’ in resolving the
parties’ dispute because a judgment by this court is not going
to absolve Bridas of liability in the Spanish action nor will it
provide assurances that all will go smoothly for Bridas in
Argentina.”  Argentina’s Bridas Group is an oil producer controlled by
the billionaire Bulgheroni brothers and China National Offshore
Oil Corp.  Mario Calafell Loza, a spokesman in Argentina for the
Bulgheroni brothers, wasn’t immediately available to comment on
the ruling, his assistant in his Buenos Aires office said by
phone.  The case is Bridas International SA v. Repsol SA,
650018/2013, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  