-- Solar Manufacturers May Boost Capacity as Demand Surges
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-08-20T22:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/trina-joins-sunpower-and-jinko-in-solar-turnararound.html
Three major solar manufacturers are
producing panels at full speed and contemplating plans to expand
capacity to meet surging demand in Asia.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the third-largest panel producer,
increased its forecast for panel shipments this year to as much
as 2.4 gigawatts from an earlier range of 2 gigawatts to 2.1
gigawatts, according to a statement yesterday. That matches the
Changzhou, China-based company’s estimated annual production,
and it may boost capacity next year.  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  and  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS)  said they’re also
running their factories at maximum and mulling ways to boost
output. The industry has been battered by excess production that
drove panel prices down 61 percent since the start of 2011.
Rising demand in Asia is soaking up the surplus and will prompt
the biggest producers to expand factories, said Angelo Zino, an
analyst at Standard & Poor’s in New York.  “I think it’s safe to say that we’ll see a number of tier
one manufacturers add capacity, probably in 2014,” Zino said in
an interview yesterday.  Trina shipped 647 megawatts of panels in the second
quarter, up 54 percent from a year earlier. It expects to
deliver as much as 680 megawatts this quarter.  “We do have some little bit of room, but sooner or later
we have to think about how we can expand our capacity,” Chief
Financial Officer Terry Wang said on a conference call with
analysts yesterday. The company will “think about maybe next
year the capacity expansion.”  Busy factories are boosting margins. Trina’s gross margin
was 11.6 percent in the second quarter, up from 1.7 percent in
the prior quarter.  ‘Bad Downturn’  “The solar industry was put into a bad, bad downturn, a
horrendous margin environment,” said Dan Ries, an analyst with
Maxim Group LLC in New York. “New markets,  China ,  Japan , are
growing, more than offsetting slowing markets like Europe. If
you hold capacity constant, demand continues to improve, you’ll
get to a healthy balance and then after that to a shortage.”  Trina’s American depositary receipts, each worth 50
ordinary shares, gained 15 percent to $7.82 at the close in New
York.  The 102-member  NYSE Bloomberg Global Solar Energy Index (SOLAR)  has
gained 37 percent this year as demand surges in Asia. Japan is
promoting wider use of solar power after closing nuclear
facilities following the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster. China
has said it expects to install 10 gigawatts of solar panels this
year.  Boosting Capacity  Jinko reported Aug. 14 its first profit since 2011, buoyed
by strong demand in Japan and China. Chief Executive Officer
Chen Kangping said during a conference call that the Shangrao,
China-based company expanded annual production capacity to 1.5
gigawatts from 1.2 gigawatts, which won’t be enough to meet its
2013 forecast of 1.5 gigawatts to 1.7 gigawatts of panel
shipments. The factories are running at about 90 percent of
capacity now.  “We are almost sold out until October,” Chief Marketing
Officer Arturo Herrero said on the call. “I wish we could have
more megawatts in our production.”  SunPower said on July 31 that it’s exploring ways to
increase capacity, including expanding a joint venture with  AU
Optronics Corp. (2409)   “As we look at the balance of this year and then deep into
next year we see ourselves fully allocated,” Chief Executive
Officer Tom Werner said on a call with analysts.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. is the largest panel
manufacturer by 2012 shipments, followed by Suntech Power
Holdings Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  