-- Royal London Considers More Acquisitions After Buying Co-Op Unit
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-08-20T13:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/royal-london-considers-more-acquisitions-after-buying-co-op-unit.html
Royal  London  Group, which last month
bought Co-Operative Bank Plc’s insurance and investment units,
said it wants to make additional acquisitions with assets of
more than “a couple billion” pounds.  Royal London Chief Executive Officer Phil Loney said the
insurer plans to expand the group pensions and asset-management
businesses as well as the company’s Ascentric wrap platform,
which helps manage a client’s investments.  “We wouldn’t want to buy very small books of business --
they are not economic,” Loney, 48, said in a telephone
interview today after the company reported first-half profit
doubled. “They need to be above a couple billion of assets
under management for us to be interested.”  The U.K.’s biggest customer-owned life insurer completed
the purchase of Co-Op’s life and insurance asset-management
businesses after agreeing to buy the units in March for about
219 million pounds ($343 million). The acquisition increases
Royal London’s assets under management by 20 million pounds to
70 million pounds, which will be reflected in the full-year
results.  Loney said the company doesn’t plan to move into new
businesses.  “We have got most of the exposure to the parts of the
market that we want to be in,” said Loney, hired in 2011 from
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  Once the Co-Op “integration is
successfully completely, absolutely, we’re still open to further
with-profit back-book acquisitions.” With-profits policies pay
customers a share of a fund’s profit in the form of a bonus.  Profit Rises  Royal London said today first-half pretax profit doubled to
226 million pounds, boosted by the introduction of the Retail
Distribution Review, a ban on financial advisers taking
commissions from fund companies that came into effect this year.  Total new life and pensions business climbed 10 percent to
1.95 billion pounds while group funds under management increased
3 percent to 51.1 billion pounds, the company said in a
statement. Royal London Asset Management reported net new
business inflows of 308 million pounds compared with 310 million
pounds of outflows for the same period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  