-- Rupee Drops to Record on Fed Tapering Concern
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-08-20T13:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/rupee-drops-to-record-on-concern-fed-tapering-to-spur-outflows.html
India ’s rupee plummeted past 64 per
dollar for the first time on concern foreign outflows will
accelerate as the Federal Reserve prepares to trim stimulus.  Overseas funds have pulled about $12 billion from local
debt and equities since May 22 when Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
first signaled the central bank may pare its $85 billion monthly
bond-buying program. The Fed may start tapering in September, 65
percent of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said this month.  The rupee, which sank as much as 1.5 percent to touch an
unprecedented 64.12 a dollar, pared most of the losses on
speculation the Reserve Bank of India intervened to arrest the
slide, said two traders with knowledge of the matter, asking not
to be named as the information isn’t public. It ended the day at
63.23.  “Financial markets have developed something of an
obsession with the Federal Reserve’s likely tapering,” ABN Amro
Group NV analysts Georgette Boele and  Nick Kounis  wrote in a
report today. “We expect a strong U.S. employment report and
the Fed to announce a tapering of asset purchases at the
September” policy meeting, they wrote, adding that the dollar
is likely to rally.  One-month implied volatility for the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, rose
1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 14.95 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The currency’s spot rate  2.3
percent yesterday, the most since September 2011.  No Fix  The slowest economic growth in a decade and a record
 current-account  deficit have left Asia’s No. 3 economy
vulnerable to a pullout of funds. Pictet Asset Management SA
sees no immediate policy fix as demand collapses for Indian
rupee bonds, while UBS AG says a drop in the currency to 70 per
dollar is possible.  The Reserve Bank of India on Aug. 14 announced measures to
limit foreign-currency outflows from local companies and
residents, and boosted efforts to lure investment. India will
seek to increase capital inflows with steps including allowing
state-owned financial companies to issue “quasi-sovereign”
bonds to finance long-term infrastructure investment, Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said Aug. 12.  This followed the RBI’s efforts last month to stem currency
depreciation through an increase in two interest rates and by
draining liquidity from the banking system.  “The rupee is at risk of completely losing its anchor,”
 Bhanu Baweja , the global head of emerging-market cross-asset
strategy at UBS, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV India
yesterday. “You’re in a situation where no rupee forecast is
sacrosanct.”  Debt Holdings  Global funds cut  holdings  of local debt to a 19-month low
of $28.4 billion on Aug. 13 as the U.S. prepares to withdraw
monetary stimulus that boosted demand for emerging-market
assets. U.S. home sales are forecast to climb to a three-year
high, according to a survey before data due tomorrow.  “We continue to believe that tapering will begin at the
September meeting and, hence, support the U.S. dollar,
especially against high-yielding currencies,” Barclays Plc
analysts Sudakshina Unnikrishnan and Hamish Pepper wrote in an
e-mailed report yesterday. “Weakness in the rupee has been
particularly pronounced following a continued sell-off in Indian
government bonds.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 1.1 percent to
65.15 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts declined 1.1 percent to 65.30. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  