-- S. Africa Yields Rise to 19-Month High as Emerging Markets Slide
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-08-20T07:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/s-africa-yields-rise-to-19-month-high-as-emerging-markets-slide.html
South African bonds extended
declines, driving yields on benchmark securities to 19-month
highs, and the rand slumped to a six-week low after the biggest
sell-off in the nation’s debt since June.  Emerging-market stocks  fell for the fourth day after U.S.
Treasury yields touched a two-year high. Currencies from India’s
rupee to Indonesia’s rupiah weakened amid an exodus that’s seen
investors withdraw $8.4 billion from emerging market exchange-traded funds this year. Foreign investors  sold  a net 1.94
billion rand ($190 million) of South African bonds yesterday,
the most in a day since June 25, JSE Ltd. data show.  “The risk is clearly for more rand and local bond weakness
as the emerging market sell-off continues and threatens to
become a rout,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“ South Africa  certainly hasn’t escaped the emerging-market
sell-off.”  Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026
climbed six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.66
percent, the highest level since January 2012. South Africa’s
currency depreciated as much as 0.2 percent to 10.2263 per
dollar, the weakest level since July 8. It traded at 10.2188 as
of 8:42 a.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its loss in the past four
trading days to 2.4 percent.  The rand extended declines amid concern labor disputes in
the mining, automobile and textile industries may drag down
South Africa’s economic growth. About 30,000 auto workers
started a strike yesterday, shutting production at carmakers
including  General Motors Co. (GM) , Toyota Motor Corp. and Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG. Gold and platinum mines and textile producers
are locked in wage talks.  “Although  emerging markets  across the board have come
under sustained pressure, locally the rand as always remains
vulnerable to local factors,” Mohammed Nalla, the head of
strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, said
in a note. “Amongst these is the potential for  strike action ,
the effects of which would undoubtedly outweigh any benefit to
the export sector of a weaker rand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  