-- MTS Earnings Beat Estimates on Wireless-Data Demand
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-08-20T13:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/mts-earnings-beat-estimates-on-wireless-data-demand.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) ,  Russia ’s
largest wireless carrier, reported second-quarter earnings
topping analysts’ estimates as subscribers spent more on data
and increased its full-year profitability forecast.  Operating income before depreciation and amortization rose
10 percent to 44.4 billion rubles ($1.3 billion), Moscow-based
MTS said today. Analysts projected 42.4 billion rubles, the
average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 5
percent to 97.5 billion rubles.  MTS, controlled by billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov, is
trying to stay ahead of  OAO MegaFon (MFON)  and  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  as
Russia’s mobile-data usage grows. MTS is pushing tariff plans
with unlimited voice and selling cheaper smartphones to get more
users to surf the Web and watch video on their handsets.  “The quarterly numbers came in strong, and upgraded full-year guidance is a good signal for investors,” Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at Otkritie Capital, said by phone.
“For the second quarter in a row, MTS is showing the fastest
data revenue growth among Russian operators.”  Second-quarter Oibda margin expanded to 45.5 percent of
sales from 43.6 percent a year earlier, and MTS boosted its
full-year margin forecast to “more than 43 percent” from an
earlier projection for about 42 percent.  MTS  rose  as much as 2.2 percent and added 2 percent to
293.50 rubles at 5:21 p.m. in Moscow. It had gained 17 percent
this year through yesterday.  Russia Revenue  Data revenue in Russia rose 40 percent to 11 billion
rubles. Billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s MegaFon has the largest
data revenue among Russian operators, with the carrier boosting
it 29 percent last quarter to 11.6 billion rubles. This month,
MegaFon agreed to acquire mobile-data operator Scartel to gain a
faster network.  MTS is “working hard on increasing our data revenue,”
Chief Executive Officer Andrei Dubovskov told reporters in
Moscow. It aims to cover 600 Russian cities with a faster
network by the end of 2014 and the plan won’t be affected by
MegaFon’s Scartel purchase, Dubovskov said.  Net income was 29 billion rubles, after a loss of 23.1
billion rubles in the year-earlier period, when the company had
expenses for shutting down its Uzbekistan operations after a
dispute with the local government. In the latest quarter, MTS
had a gain after a settlement of a disagreement with a rival
over assets in Kyrgyzstan prompted the company to reverse
earlier write-offs.  Sales a year earlier were 92.8 billion rubles, excluding
Uzbekistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  