-- MTS-to-MegaFon Gap Narrows Amid Demand: Russia Overnight
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-08-21T09:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/mts-to-megafon-gap-narrows-amid-demand-russia-overnight.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) ,  Russia ’s
largest wireless carrier, rallied the most in almost nine months
in  New York  and narrowed its discount to  OAO MegaFon (MFON)  as a surge
in data demand bolstered its profitability outlook.  American depositary receipts of MTS climbed 4.5 percent
yesterday, the most since Nov. 29, rebounding from the cheapest
level in a month relative to  MegaFon , the nation’s second-largest wireless carrier. The Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity Index
of the most-traded Russian stocks in the U.S. snapped a three-day slump. MTS added 1.3 percent by 12:21 p.m. in Moscow today,
extending yesterday’s 2.5 percent gain.  MTS, controlled by billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov,
boosted its profitability forecast yesterday as subscribers
spent more on data. The company is pushing tariff plans with
unlimited voice and selling cheaper smartphones to get more
users to surf the Web and watch video on their handsets.
Yesterday’s rally drove the ADRs to the highest valuation in
almost four months, narrowing its discount to MegaFon, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “MTS is closing the gap to MegaFon,” Anna Kurbatova, an
analyst at BCS Financial Group in Moscow, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “With good performance and data some
investors could start hesitating about MegaFon being the
ultimate investment.”  MTS boosted its full-year margin forecast to more than 43
percent from an earlier  projection  for about 42 percent. The
shares extended this year’s rally to 12 percent to trade at
almost 9.5 times estimated earnings, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s MegaFon trades at
about 12 times projected profit.  ‘Working Hard’  MTS is “working hard” on increasing data revenue, Chief
Executive Officer Andrei Dubovskov told reporters in Moscow. The
company aims to cover 600 Russian cities with a faster network
by the end of 2014, he said. MegaFon, which has the largest data
revenue among Russian operators, agreed to acquire mobile-data
operator Scartel earlier this month to gain a faster network.  Russia’s total mobile revenue climbed 9 percent to 837.4
billion rubles ($25.4 billion) last year, according to AC&M
Consulting. Data revenue surged 33 percent to account for 100.7
billion rubles of that total.  Shares of MTS jumped to a five-month high of $20.82 in New
York yesterday and advanced as much as 1.6 percent in Moscow
today. MegaFon rose 0.4 percent in Moscow, while gaining 0.1
percent to $33.43 in London, trimming the depository receipts
surge to 40 percent this year.  Russian ETF  The Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity gauge rose 0.6 percent to
91.43. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest exchange-traded fund dedicated to Russian equities, added 0.7 percent to
$26.37.  Futures contracts on the dollar-denominated RTS gauge 
fell 0.5 percent to 130,710. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in  stock futures , rose 1.9 percent to
23.01.  VTB Capital, the investment bank of Russia’s second-biggest
lender, reiterated a buy rating for MTS with a price target of
$23.00. BCS also  recommends  buying the stock, with a price
target of $23.50.  “MTS has reported solid second-quarter results,” Ivan
Kim, an analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow, said in an e-mailed
report today. “Management remains focused on data and has
achieved good progress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  