-- San Diego Foes May Skirt Mayor’s Promised Recall Battle
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-20T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/san-diego-foes-may-skirt-mayor-s-promised-recall-battle.html
San Diego  Mayor Bob Filner says 
he'll fight a recall effort stemming from sexual-harassment 
allegations. He may not get a chance to make good on his 
pledge.  Filner, 70, stayed away from city hall yesterday after
taking two weeks off for counseling while saying he wouldn’t 
quit. While the first Democrat to lead San Diego since 1992
was away, more women -- including a great-grandmother -- 
joined those saying he made unwanted advances.Leading state
 and local Democrats have asked him not to come back.  As opponents began gathering the almost 102,000 signatures
needed to set a March recall vote, the Republican city attorney
and outside lawyers unveiled legal strategies to oust the mayor
more quickly and at less cost. Both alternatives, including one
to be presented to the City Council Aug. 28, would rely on court
action and involve claims that he misused city funds.  “It’s just a shameful chapter that has to be brought to an
end,” said Kenneth Lounsbery, a partner at the Lounsbery
Ferguson Altona & Peak LLP law firm. He’s prepared to put a case
against Filner before a San Diego County grand jury over the
mayor’s June trip to Paris and a $100,000 payment to the city. A
court finding of malfeasance could force Filner to step down.  Political Backlash         Admonitions  from all nine council members and U.S.
Senators  Dianne Feinstein  and  Barbara Boxer , both Democrats,
haven’t persuaded Filner to resign. Since a trio of former
supporters on July 11 publicly accused the mayor of sexual
misconduct, 16 women -- including his former spokeswoman, two
college officials and community leaders -- have said he behaved
inappropriately toward them.  “If the goal is to remove someone from office who has
become unhinged, I would say the 3060 process is the way to do
it,” Lounsbery said, referring to the  state law  that lets a
grand jury act against public officials for official misconduct.  Filner served 10 terms in Congress before becoming
mayor of the city of 1.3 million, the country's eighth-most 
populous. After the accusations of unwanted advances, 
inappropriate sexual comments and groping were made public 
in July, the mayor apologized and sought treatment, while
maintaining that his conduct fell short of sexual harassment.  Peggy Shannon, 67, was among the latest to make public
allegations about the mayor’s behavior. The great-grandmother
works in city hall as a volunteer in an office serving older
residents and said last week that Filner had made “sexual
advances” as she tried to do her job.  No Sightings  While Filner didn’t appear to enter his office yesterday,
local ABC News network affiliate KGTV said the mayor’s lawyers
met with San Diego City Attorney Jan Goldsmith and  Gloria Allred , a Los Angeles lawyer who represents Irene McCormack
Jackson, 57, a former Filner spokeswoman. The  Associated Press 
reported that Allred said a settlement was being negotiated for
McCormack Jackson, who sued the mayor claiming he suggested that
she go without underwear at work and held her in a headlock.  Filner, who is divorced, has since apologized for
“intimidating contact” that he said was ‘inexcusable.” He has
said he plans to fight to keep his job.  On Aug. 18, KGTV said a poll it commissioned with U-T San
Diego, a local newspaper, showed 81 percent of 600 adult city
residents said Filner should leave office. Just 14 percent said
he should stay, and almost three-quarters said they would sign a
recall petition. The Survey USA telephone survey on Aug. 16 had
a margin of error of plus or minus 3.2 percentage points.  Legal Strategies  Yet the mayor’s future may hinge on his handling of
municipal funds and a city-issued  credit card , the lawyers say.  Goldsmith has advised council members that a provision in
the municipal charter may be used to force Filner to step down
if he made unauthorized payments with city funds.  A vote may be taken at the Aug. 28 meeting on pursuing such
an action in San Diego County Superior Court, based on  reports 
that the mayor used his city credit card for $975 in personal
expenses such as travel, restaurant bills and a blender, said
Katie Keach, deputy chief of staff to council President Todd
Gloria. The 35-year-old Democrat would replace the mayor on an
acting basis if Filner resigns.  Filner’s credit card charges “further demonstrate his lack
of fitness for office,” Gloria said in a written statement.  Lounsbery cited local media reports that Filner withdrew
objections to an apartment complex after its developer made a
$100,000 payment to the city, and that public funds were
improperly used for the mayor’s June trip to Paris. Both may be
cause for grand jury action, he said.  Grand Jury  California counties  empanel  grand juries each year to
investigate reports of official misconduct, and refer cases for
prosecution.  The mayor hasn’t publicly responded to accusations of
misusing his city credit card or funds. Spokeswoman Lena Lewis
didn’t respond to a telephone call or e-mail seeking comment on
the matter. James Payne, his lawyer in a sexual-harassment
lawsuit  brought  by McCormack Jackson, said by e-mail that he
couldn’t comment on other allegations.  Payne provided Filner’s statement responding to the recall
campaign, in which the mayor outlined his accomplishments since
taking the job in December and expressed his commitment to the
city. He didn’t mention allegations of misconduct.  The recall campaign began in earnest Aug. 18 as volunteers
fanned out over the downtown Gaslamp nightlife district and the
finish line of a half-marathon footrace to gather signatures.  Recall Rally  “He’s not going to go on his own,” said Michael
Pallamary, a land-use consultant and recall committee chairman,
at a rally outside  city hall  Aug. 18. “Why would he? He’s a
psychopath. He’s a narcissist. He’s a predator. He’s a criminal
menace.”  About 300 people donned turquoise and yellow T-shirts
emblazoned with slogans such as “Please resign Mayor Filner!”
at the rally. Shay Hill, 39, said she has a 6-year-old daughter
and believes that the mayor’s conduct constitutes an “assault
on women.”  Rachel Laing, a recall campaign spokeswoman, said
supporters include Democrats, Republicans and independent
voters. She said Pallamary and supporters have raised more than
$100,000 to pay for the drive.  “The best thing for everybody would be a resignation,”
Laing said by telephone. “We have an unremorseful predator who
isn’t necessarily acting rationally. He’s not going to give
in.”  Court Pressure  The legal alternatives may pressure Filner into resigning
and let the city avoid a costly, time-consuming recall that
wouldn’t necessarily be successful, said  Steve Erie , who teaches
politics at the  University of California  at San Diego. Just
collecting the needed signatures to force a public referendum on
Filner represents a significant hurdle, he said.  “You’re talking about getting 15 percent of the voters at
the end of summer when so many people are out of town,” Erie
said by telephone.  The mayor isn’t without supporters.  Attempts to oust him suggest that his opponents are
desperate, said Enrique Morones, an immigrant-rights activist
who said he has known Filner for 20 years.  “There are a lot of people who were upset that he was
elected in the first place,” Morones said by telephone. “Some
of those people were just looking for a way to take him down and
they saw these allegations as an opportunity. We don’t want to
have a circus or a kangaroo court.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  