-- Schaeuble Deployed on German Campaign to Rally Votes for Merkel
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-08-20T10:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/schaeuble-deployed-on-german-campaign-to-rally-votes-for-merkel.html
Wolfgang Schaeuble , the 70-year-old
German finance minister, negotiated his country’s post-Cold War
reunification and has served in five cabinets under two
chancellors. He’s fighting for four more years.  “People sometimes see me as one of the older politicians,
but I still count myself among the young, hopeful CDU
politicians,” Schaeuble, a wheelchair user who will turn 71
four days before Germany’s Sept. 22 election, said during a
campaign rally in the western town of Guetersloh yesterday.  Schaeuble, Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s key minister
throughout the debt crisis that emerged in  Greece  in 2009 at the
start of her second term, is throwing himself into campaigning
to try and win her a third. Schaeuble is “hungry for action”
and keen to remain in his post,  Volker Kauder , parliamentary
caucus leader of Merkel’s bloc, said in an Aug. 13 interview.  As Merkel heads south to Bavaria today for two rallies in
Erlangen and in Dachau, her Social Democratic challenger and
first-term finance minister,  Peer Steinbrueck , is set to
campaign in western Germany with former SPD Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder . Schaeuble, who is scheduled to make more than 30
appearances in the five weeks to the election, will hold four
rallies alone today in and around the port city of Hamburg.  ‘Animal Spirit’  “Schaeuble is a pure political animal,” Fredrik Erixon,
the director of the European Centre for International Political
Economy in Brussels, said in a telephone interview. “If there
ever was something in politics called an animal spirit, then
Schaeuble embodies it.”  Germany ’s second-favourite politician after Merkel,
according to an FG Wahlen poll released on Aug. 16, Schaeuble is
deploying his credibility with voters to try and secure a repeat
of the current coalition between his and Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc with the Free Democratic Party. His campaign
message so far is that the coalition has delivered on the
economy, yet voters mustn’t take a continuation for granted.  The election’s “on a knife’s edge” and it’s a “dangerous
calculation” to think that Merkel has already won, Schaeuble
told a rally today in the northern town of Ahrensburg. “Every
vote counts.”  Support for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its
Bavarian sister party, the  Christian Social Union , dropped one
percentage point to 40 percent in a weekly Emnid poll for Bild
am Sonntag newspaper on Aug. 18. The Free Democrats gained a
point to 6 percent, a result that would probably allow a repeat
of the government if replicated on Election Day.  ‘Radiates Competence’  Steinbrueck’s SPD lost a point to 24 percent and its Green
party ally was also down a point at 12 percent. The Left Party
was unchanged at 8 percent. Emnid polled 1,883 voters on Aug. 8-14. No margin of error was given.  “Just like Merkel, Schaeuble radiates competence and
assurance,” Peter Matuschek, head of politics at pollster
Forsa, said by telephone. “He’s a strong campaigner” and
“represents continuity and experience in relation to the euro-area crisis.”  Schaeuble, who was Chancellor Helmut Kohl’s chief of staff
and then interior minister, has been partially paralyzed and in
a wheelchair since he was shot by a deranged assailant at a
campaign rally in 1990.  Yesterday, in his first official appearance after returning
from summer vacation, Schaeuble pitched into the campaign that
will determine who runs  Europe ’s biggest economy. His message
mixed hope and economic achievement with warnings about the
uncertainty that would come with a change of German government.  Officials are “on the right path” to resolving the euro
area’s woes, he said yesterday, citing the lower yields on
Italian and Spanish bonds as evidence that financial markets
“believe the euro will remain stable.”  ‘Strong Europe’  “I’m not saying that the problems are resolved,” he said.
“Only that we have to stay on this path,” ensuring that Europe
becomes more competitive. “We don’t want a German Europe, but
rather a strong Europe.”  Saying the government “has kept its word” on the economy,
he contrasted the Merkel administration’s action on financial-market regulation with the election pledges of Steinbrueck,
saying that “my valued predecessor -- a not-so valued candidate
for chancellor -- promises things that are not so easy to
implement in reality.”  Schaeuble cited the recent increase in private consumption
as evidence “the people have trust” and that “people say the
end of the world is a way off yet.” Neither has the euro
collapsed, he told the audience. “Catastrophes will always be
forecast,” he said. “But that’s not always quite true.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Birgit Jennen in Berlin via 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Ahrensburg, Germany via 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  