-- Sept. 11 Defendant Says Guantanamo Food Isn’t Adequate
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-08-20T21:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/sept-11-defendant-says-guantanamo-food-isn-t-adequate.html
One of the accused plotters of the
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon
asked to leave a court hearing today because of “problems with
the food” at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  “This is one sort of psychological torture,” Ramzi bin al
Shibh, a Yemeni who is alleged to have helped finance the Sept.
11 hijackers, said through an interpreter. He won the military
judge’s permission to leave the courtroom after complaining that
food isn’t provided when he meets his lawyer and citing failings
in meal preparation that he didn’t specify.  A prison spokesman said a standard halal lunch was provided
for bin al Shibh today.  “The defendant complained that his lunch did not include
condiments such as olives and honey,” the spokesman, Navy
Captain Robert Durand, said in an e-mailed statement.  The adequacy of prison meals was the latest distraction to
bog down proceedings in the biggest U.S. terrorism case.  Entire weeks of pre-trial hearings have been lost because
of weather or technical issues, while other logistical concerns
and related legal matters have slowed proceedings.  Today’s hearing focused mostly on technical procedural
issues governing the handling of classified information.
Reporters not attending the court session in Cuba watched a
closed-circuit video feed of the hearing at Fort Meade in
Maryland, near  Washington .  Bin al Shibh, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and three others are
accused of plotting the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks that used
hijacked passenger airplanes to kill almost 3,000 people at the
World Trade Center in  Manhattan  and the Pentagon in  Virginia , as
well as aboard a plane that crashed in a field in rural
 Pennsylvania .  Terrorism, Murder  The defendants are charged with conspiring to finance,
train and direct the 19 hijackers who seized the four planes, as
well as terrorism, hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in
violation of the laws of war and attacking civilians. A trial is
at least a year away.  The debate over food began when the court hearing resumed
after a lunch break. Bin al Shibh’s attorney, James Harrington,
said his client felt ill because of the food he ate. Bin al
Shibh, in addressing the court, didn’t repeat that assertion.  The judge, Army Colonel James Pohl, allowed bin al Shibh to
leave the courtroom after the defendant said he was doing so
voluntarily.  The four other defendants chose not to come to court today.
Two of them have cited illnesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Fort Meade,  Maryland , at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  