-- SJM Partners With Versace to Build Luxury Hotel in Macau
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-08-20T11:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/sjm-partners-with-versace-to-build-luxury-hotel-in-macau.html
SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , Asia’s biggest
casino company, said it signed an agreement with Italian fashion
house Gianni Versace SpA to build a hotel under the luxury
company’s brand at its upcoming Macau gambling resort.  The five-star Palazzo Versace hotel will be built at SJM’s
planned resort on Macau’s Cotai area, Asia’s equivalent of the
 Las Vegas Strip , the companies said in a statement today.  SJM in May received government’s final approval to develop
its first resort in Cotai that will include 2,000 hotel rooms
and about 700 gambling tables. The company currently runs 20 out
of 35 casinos in Macau and has none on the Cotai Strip, which is
growing more popular with mainland Chinese tourists.  The Hong Kong-based company didn’t disclose the cost or
timetable for Palazzo Versace hotel in today’s statement.  The casino operator last week joined  MGM China Holdings
Ltd. (2282)  and  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  in reporting higher
profits in Macau, the world’s biggest gambling hub and the only
place in China where casinos are legal. New attractions, added
hotel rooms and an improved rail connection are drawing more
mainland Chinese visitors to the former Portuguese colony.  Macau raked in $38 billion in casino revenue last year,
with two-thirds of that coming from the high-stake gamblers, or
so-called VIPs. Deutsche Bank AG has estimated that the city’s
casino revenue will rise 17 percent to $44.5 billion this year.  The hotel will be the first Palazzo Versace in Asia. It has
projects in Australia and Dubai. Its projects feature luxurious
spas, penthouses and landscaped gardens with promenades and
fountains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  