-- Slovenian Bank Capital Needs May Exceed $1.6 Billion
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-08-20T09:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/slovenian-bank-capital-needs-may-exceed-1-6-billion.html
Slovenia’s bank rescue may cost more
than the central bank’s forecast of 1.2 billion euros ($1.6
billion) in new capital, depending on an audit that will show
its first results next month.  The reviews of asset quality and stress tests demanded by
the European Commission on Slovenia’s state-controlled Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. 
should be done by September, Matej Krumberger, the director of
bank supervision at  Banka Slovenije  in the capital Ljubljana,
said today. The first transfer of bad loans to a government-run
“bad bank” should happen in October, he said, four months
later than planned.  Burdened by non-performing loans equaling about a fifth of
the economy, the Adriatic nation’s mostly state-owned banks
pushed Slovenia to the brink of a bailout in March after
Cyprus’s rescue triggered a sell-off in weaker euro-region
economies. Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek has eschewed outside
aid and pledged to fix the banks by raising their capital and
shifting non-performing loans to the bad bank.  “The final estimate will have to wait until the results of
the asset quality review and stress tests,” Krumberger said in
an e-mailed response to questions by  Bloomberg News . “It’s
possible there will be an increase in their capital needs,
depending on assumptions and measures of caution as well as the
value of transfers of bad liabilities.”  The yield on the benchmark dollar-denominated bonds
maturing in 2022 declined 3 basis points, or 0.03 percent, to
6.582 percent at 11:01 a.m. in Ljubljana from 6.61 percent
yesterday, which was the highest since July 15, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows.  Expanded Review  The European Commission wants faster audit results from
more banks than NLB and Nova Kreditna, and an expanded sample of
10 lenders would be available in early October, Krumberger said.  Bratusek’s government wants to swap 3.3 billion euros of
bad loans from its three main banks for about 1.1 billion euros
of state-guaranteed bonds, it said in a plan in May. The first
package of 100 million euros of loans from NLB to the bad bank
was delayed in June after the European Commission rejected
Slovenia’s valuations of the debt.  “Bank stress tests and evaluation of asset quality of
banks are taking longer than initially assumed,” Timothy Ash,
an emerging-markets economist at  Standard Bank  in  London , said
in an e-mail today. “I understand the European Commission and
the  European Central Bank  are being much more rigorous as they
want to assume that the problems in the banks are resolved in
one big hit.”  Slovenia must accelerate its plans to fix the financial
industry to reduce market pressure on its borrowing costs, which
have been above or near the 6 percent level since March, James Howat of  Capital Economics  in London, said in a report
yesterday. The economy is set to recover only in 2015 after an
estimated decline of 2.4 percent this year, the economic
institute said in June. That will increase pressure on borrowers
struggling to repay non-performing loans that the central bank
estimated at 7 billion euros in a June report.  NLB reported a loss of 91.2 million euros in the first six
months, with loan-loss provisions declining to 145 million euros
from 166.5 million euros a year earlier, the Ljubljana-based
bank said Aug. 9. Nova Kreditna posted a net loss of 44.2
million euros, compared with a loss of 33.7 million euros in the
same period a year earlier, it said July 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  