-- Soho China 1st-Half Core Profit Doubles on Property Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-20T09:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/soho-china-1st-half-underlying-profit-doubles-on-property-sales.html
Soho China Ltd. (410) , the biggest
developer in Beijing’s central business district, said
underlying profit in the first half more than doubled with
increased earnings from property sales.  Profit excluding revaluations  climbed to 537 million  yuan 
($88 million), from 233 million yuan a year earlier, according
to a statement to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange today. Revenue
doubled to 2.5 billion yuan.  Chief Executive Officer Zhang Xin last year steered the
company toward what it called a build-and-hold model from a
build-and-sell model to take advantage of more stable and
predictable rental income rather than sales proceeds.  “The company’s earnings rose because it has sold more
properties left over from last year to book in the period,”
Alan Jin, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., said before the results. “But a lot of
uncertainty remains with this company because it will take at
least four or five years for its new model to take effect and
Soho doesn’t have a good track record for holding properties,”
he said, rating the stock at underperform.  Grade-A office rents in Beijing fell 2.2 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months to 387 yuan per
square meter (10.76 square feet) each month, the first quarterly
decline in almost four years, as the country’s economy slowed,
according to property broker Knight Frank LLP.  Fully Confident  “We are fully confident about the development potential of
the office markets in Beijing and Shanghai,” Chairman  Pan Shiyi 
said in today’s statement. Demand for prime office buildings in
the two centers “remained robust, whereas the supply in these
two cities remained constrained in prime locations.”  Including property revaluations, net income more than
tripled to 2.1 billion yuan, or 0.4 yuan a share in the first
half of the year, from 613 million yuan, or 0.12 yuan, a year
earlier.  Soho shares rose 0.3 percent to HK$6.42 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong, reversing an earlier decline of as much as
1.4 percent following the results. The stock has gained 3.2
percent this year, compared with the  Hang Seng Index (HSI) ’s 3 percent
loss.  The company said it will pay an interim dividend of 0.12
yuan per share.  As it moves to the new business strategy, Soho will hold
most of the unsold properties under development as self-owned
investment properties and will also finish selling the
“leftover” properties that were put on the market before it
changed the model, it said.  The developer said it leasing performance improved in the
first half, with SOHO Century Plaza, its first wholly-owned
investment property in  Shanghai  fully leased.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  