-- Spanish Banks Lead European Falls on Loan Quality Concern
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-08-20T11:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/spanish-banks-lead-european-falls-on-loan-quality-concern.html
Spanish and Italian banks led
declines for shares in  Europe  after data for bad loans revived
concern over asset quality and speculation increased that the
 Federal Reserve  will cut bond purchases.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) ,  Spain ’s sixth-biggest bank, slid
9.3 percent to 3.56 euros at 12:53 p.m. in  Madrid , the biggest
drop since November and the most on Europe’s Stoxx 600 Banks
Index, which lost 2.2 percent.  Italy ’s  Banco Popolare di Sondrio
Scrl  fell 4.1 percent to 4.12 euros.  “There was quite a lot of good news coming out of the
peripheral countries and then yesterday we got a reality
check,” Peter Braendle, who manages about 500 million Swiss
francs ($543.4 million) at Swisscanto Asset Management AG in
Zurich, including shares of Spain's  Bankinter SA (BKT)  and  Unicredit 
SpA (UCG)  in Italy, said in a phone interview. “The news on bad loans 
in Spain is that not everything is over and that the problems 
facing the banks are ongoing.”  Economic slumps in Spain and Italy mean more companies and
consumers are falling into default, hurting profit at banks as
they set aside more provisions to cover the losses. Weak
economies in southern Europe are fuelling pessimism in markets
already concerned that the Fed, which will publish minutes of
its July meeting tomorrow, will start withdrawing stimulus.  Spanish non-performing loans accounted for a record 11.6
percent of total lending in June compared with 9.7 percent a
year previously and 11.2 percent in May, the Bank of Spain said
yesterday.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest bank, said last month
its bad loan ratio climbed to 5.2 percent of total loans from
4.8 percent in March. Second quarter profit at  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank, slumped after non-performing
loans rose about 30 percent from a year earlier.  Benefits of more bond purchases by the Fed “are likely to
be negligible” as U.S. inflation picks up, Richmond Fed
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said in interview in Richmond Times-Dispatch newspaper on Aug. 18.  Fed policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  are
contemplating how to end a third round of quantitative easing
that has swelled the Fed’s balance sheet to a record $3.65
trillion.  -- Editors: Mark Bentley, Dylan Griffiths  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Charles Penty at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  