-- Standard Bank Targets Corporate Clients in Angola
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-08-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/standard-bank-targets-corporate-clients-in-angola.html
Standard Bank Group’s (SBK)  Angolan unit
is targeting corporate clients with annual revenue of more than
$100 million as it benefits from the lowering of the credit
ratings of Portuguese competitors due to the economic crisis in
the African country’s former ruler.  The long-term debt of the South African bank, the
continent’s biggest lender, is  rated  by Moody’s Investors
Service at Baa1, the third-lowest investment grade rating while
Lisbon-based Banco Espirito Santo SA is rated Ba3, the third-highest junk, or non-investment grade, level, matching
 Portugal ’s assessment.  “We are the only bank in the market that is a subsidiary
of an investment-grade bank,” Chief Executive Officer Pedro
Coelho said in an interview at his office yesterday in Luanda,
the capital. “This brings us to an interesting position with
clients who are concerned with the quality of the balance
sheet.”  Standard Bank , which started operations in Angola in 2010
after gaining a license the year before, is the latest major
lender to gain a license in Africa’s second-biggest oil
producer. The $114 billion economy is forecast by the  World Bank 
to expand by 7.2 percent this year as 23 banks vie for market
share in an country recovering from a 27-year civil war that
ended in 2002.  The Johannesburg-based company is expanding to 27 branches
in Angola by the year’s end from one branch three years ago. It
won’t focus on retail banking because it lacks the scale to
compete effectively in that market, Coelho said.  The focus is on clients in the oil and gas industries, as
well as companies in import-export, construction and food and
beverages, he said.  Top Five  The lender offers banking services, including home loans,
to the employees of some of its bigger corporate clients, and
currently has about 20,000 customers, he said.  With the top five banks in  Angola  controlling more than 80
percent of the market smaller lenders will probably combine,
Coelho said. Other banks operating in the country include local
lenders Banco BIC SA and Banco Angolano de Investimentos SA.  “In order to be relevant, a bank has to be in the top
five” Coelho said. He couldn’t give details on his bank’s
market position and declined to say whether the lender would
make any acquisitions in Angola.  While the government is pushing for more lending in areas
such as business starts and home ownership, Coelho said the
industry is hampered by lack of access to capital markets.  Bond Market  Angola’s  bond market  is supposed to start this year,
according to the  Capital Markets  Commission, while  stock trading 
is forecast by about 2016. Banks, telecommunication and energy
companies are expected to list on the exchange, Coelho said.  “There is a big commitment from the government” to
develop capital markets starting with fixed income securities
trading, he said. “Angola is the right size to have an
important exchange in the African context.”  South Africa  has sub-Saharan Africa’s  biggest  stock
exchange, followed by  Nigeria .  In order for the stock exchange to “become a reality”
Angola needs to develop asset management and pension fund
industries, Coelho said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  