-- Syrians Surge Into Iraq to Escape Collapse in Homeland
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-08-20T15:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/syrians-surge-into-iraq-to-escape-collapse-in-homeland.html
An economic collapse fueled by
bombings is pushing tens of thousands of Syrians to cross into
neighboring  Iraq  in the largest exodus since  Syria ’s civil war
erupted more than two years ago, the  United Nations  refugee
agency said.  A group of 2,000 to 3,000 people is expected to cross into
northern Iraq today, following about 30,000 others who have made
the same trip since Aug. 15, Dan McNorton, a spokesman for the
UN High Commissioner for Refugees, told reporters today in
Geneva, according to an agency e-mail summarizing his comments.  The surge began when the semi-autonomous Kurdistan Regional
Government in northern Iraq opened the Peshkhabour bridge over
the Tigris River to let in several hundred people camped in the
area since earlier last week, McNorton said.  Syria’s economy has been crippled by an insurgency against
President Bashar al-Assad’s government that began in March 2011
and international sanctions that have affected its oil and
banking sectors. The pound, which traded at 47 to the dollar
before the conflict, plunged as low as 345 a dollar last month,
prompting the central bank to sell foreign currencies to support
it.  Video  on the UNHCR’s YouTube Inc. channel showed women and
children with plastic bags for luggage waiting at the border to
enter northern Iraq. Syrians are traveling for days to escape
growing violence, food and electricity shortages and the lack of
jobs, according to the video.  About 23,500 people are living with host families or
staying at mosques, schools and makeshift UN tents, McNorton
said. UNHCR erected a new transit site at Kawergost, near Erbil,
the capital of Iraq’s Kurdistan region, about 210 kilometers
(130 miles) east of the Syrian border, he said. The site will
house as many as 9,000 refugees, he said.  Al-Qaeda Attacks  Massoud Barzani , president of the Kurdish government in
Iraq, visited Kawergost yesterday and flagged locations for
additional transit camps, according to McNorton. Barzani on Aug.
10 said he would be prepared to defend ethnic Kurds in Syria if
reports of attacks against them by al-Qaeda-linked groups were
confirmed.  Escalated fighting between Assad’s troops and an opposition
coalition has boosted ethnic Kurds’ efforts to create their own
state in the region straddling the borders of eastern Turkey,
northeast Syria, northern Iraq and northwestern  Iran .  Kurdish groups from the four countries will meet in Iraq
next month at their first regional summit to build political
unity against rising instability, according to a Kurdish
Regional Government spokesman.  The UN has been working accommodate the 155,000 Syrian
refugees in Iraq who arrived before the recent surge. The Domiz
refugee camp, built earlier this year to house 15,000 people
near the city of Dohuk, about 50 kilometers southeast of the
Iraqi border with Syria and  Turkey , is now overcrowded with more
than 55,000 residents, McNorton said.  The UN estimates that the new Darashakran refugee camp will
open in the next several weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  