-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Fall; PNC Sells $750 Million of Debt
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-08-20T22:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/u-s-company-credit-swaps-fall-pnc-said-to-sell-benchmark-debt.html
The cost to protect against losses
on corporate bonds in the U.S. fell for the first time in a
week. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. issued $750 million in
its first three-year, fixed-rate offering in seven months.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North American
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 2.1 basis points to a mid-price of 82.2 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest
one-day drop since July 26.  Retailers from  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  to Best Buy Co. reported
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates, indicating that U.S.
consumers, whose activity accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy, are regaining confidence.  Home Depot’s comparable-store sales jumped the most in 14
years and are “helping ease some concerns about  consumer
spending ,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate
credit for Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in  New York . A
boost for employees and vendors, it also indicates improvement
in residential construction, he said. “It’s showing that after
some housing inflation, consumers are reinvesting into likely
their largest investments.”  Rising Risk  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, climbed for six of seven
trading sessions before today, and rose 6.1 basis points last
week, the largest advance since the period ended June 21.  The Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a central
repository for the market, reported $5.7 billion of credit swaps
trades today on the current series of the CDX investment-grade
index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The Moody’s Investors Service Liquidity-Stress Index for
speculative-grade companies increased to 3.6 percent through the
middle of August from 3.4 percent at the end of July, analysts
for the ratings company led by John Puchalla said in a research
note dated yesterday. The index, which declines when liquidity
positions improve, is up from a record low of 2.8 percent at the
end of April.  Junk Issuance  Speculative-grade companies, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , have issued $241.6
billion of debt this year, compared with $203.2 billion by this
time last year, Bloomberg data show.  Moody’s index tracking the extent to which junk-rated
companies are at risk of violating their debt covenants fell to
2.1 percent in July from 2.2 percent in June, according to the
report. That’s up from the record low of 1.7 percent in April.  “Most companies have had comfortable cushion under their
financial maintenance covenants,” the analysts wrote in the
report. The index “signals a low risk of covenant violations
for most over the next 12-15 months,” they wrote.  PNC, the second-largest U.S. regional bank, sold the 1.3
percent notes due October 2016 to yield 62 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The securities are expected to be rated A2 by
Moody’s.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 0.6 basis point to 131.6
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt increased 10.3 to 574.9.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 15.6 basis points to 404.5, Bloomberg prices show.  In  London , the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings narrowed 0.6 basis point to 102.4,
Bloomberg prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  