-- Turkey’s Erdogan Assails Israel, Arab States on Egypt Response
-- B y   O n u r   A n t   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2013-08-20T13:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/turkey-s-erdogan-assails-israel-arab-states-on-egypt-response.html
Turkey ’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  accused Israel and Muslim states in the Middle East of
undermining democracy in Egypt, where the military overthrew a
Muslim Brotherhood-backed president.  Erdogan, a Brotherhood ally, lashed out against wealthy
Arab states for offering financial assistance to Egypt’s new
military-backed government. And he accused Israel of anti-democratic rhetoric used to justify the toppling of Egypt’s
Islamist President Mohamed Mursi by the military last month.  Israel, he said, has promoted the argument that elections
alone don’t make a democracy.  “What are they saying about Egypt? That democracy is not
about the ballot box. Who’s behind this? Israel,” Erdogan told
members of his ruling  Justice and Development Party  at an Ankara
meeting today. “We have the documents to back this,” he added,
without providing them.  Democracy in Egypt will prevail despite “betrayal” by
regional countries, Erdogan said.  “This is a statement well worth not commenting on,”
Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said of
Erdogan’s allegations against  Israel .  Israel has said nothing publicly about Mursi’s removal.
Israel Radio reported that Erdogan was citing a former Israeli
justice minister who said before Mursi’s election last year that
if the Muslim Brotherhood were to win the vote, then it wouldn’t
remain in power for long.  Allies Ousted  “Erdogan’s language is fairly strident, as clearly the
Turkish prime minister and the ruling party has been ruffled by
the ousting of its allies” from power in Egypt, Tim Ash, chief
emerging-market strategist at  Standard Bank  in  London , said in
an e-mailed note.  Although Erdogan’s criticism of Israel’s regional policies
is not uncommon, his comments on Arab states put Turkey on a
collision course with other regional U.S. allies Saudi Arabia,
the United Arab Emirates and  Kuwait , which have pledged billions
to the new Egyptian government.  During his 11 years in power, Turkey has nurtured ties with
Muslim states in the  Middle East  while rupturing diplomatic
relations with traditional ally Israel over the killings of nine
Turks by Israeli commandos on a Gaza-bound flotilla in 2010.  “There is a mentality in the Arab world and the Muslim
world that says we can help if the West cuts off assistance,”
Erdogan said today. “They are endorsing the dictators.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  