-- Sesa Gains Most in 8 Years on India Stake Sale Expectations
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-08-20T11:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/vedanta-units-gain-on-indian-government-s-stake-sale-expectation.html
Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) ,  Sterlite Industries
(India) Ltd. (STLT)  and  Hindustan Zinc (HZ)  Ltd., controlled by billionaire
 Anil Agarwal , soared in Mumbai trading on optimism the Indian
government will expedite its plan to sell stakes in Hindustan
Zinc and Bharat Aluminium Co.  Sesa Goa, an iron ore miner, rose 16 percent to 151.10
rupees, the most since Sept. 19, 2005, at close of trade in
Mumbai. Sterlite Industries ( India ) Ltd., the nation’s top
copper producer, surged 9.8 percent to 83.10 rupees, the most
since May 18, 2009. Hindustan Zinc, of which the government owns
29.5 percent, gained 13 percent to 119.20 rupees.  “The government is in need of money to cut its rising
current account deficit so it appears there will be extra effort
to push the stake sale through,” said Abhisar Jain, an analyst
at Centrum Broking Pvt. in Mumbai. “Vedanta merged Sesa and
Sterlite and the merged entity will benefit from the cash
surplus that Hindustan Zinc has but hasn’t been able to utilize.
It also stands to benefit if the sale were to take place via an
open auction as valuations have fallen.”  Sterlite Finance Director Tarun Jain declined to comment.
Sterlite owns 64.9 percent in Hindustan Zinc.  Vedanta Group offered 170 billion rupees ($2.7 billion) for
the Indian government’s remaining stakes in Hindustan Zinc and
Bharat Aluminium, Vishwapati Trivedi, the then secretary at the
 Ministry of Mines , said March 22 last year. Vedanta, in August
last year, sought shareholder approval to raise by 15 percent
its offer to buy the stake in Hindustan Zinc, which has cash and
equivalents of $3.4 billion, according to Bloomberg-compiled
data.  Sale Approval  Agarwal’s plan to buy stakes may falter as the government
insists on parliament’s approval for the deal, three people
familiar with the decision said Jan. 18.  The legal hurdles have been overcome and the stake sale in
Hindustan Zinc may take place via an open auction, CNBC-TV18
channel reported, citing unidentified officials in India’s
 Finance Ministry .  Lack of full control at Hindustan Zinc has undermined
decision-making at Vedanta. In 2010, Vedanta’s plan to buy  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) ’s Skorpion zinc mine in  Namibia  through Hindustan
Zinc failed after the Indian government didn’t ratify the deal.
Vedanta completed the purchase through Sterlite.  India’s current-account deficit widened to an unprecedented
4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year ended
March 31, while the pace of economic growth dropped to a decade-low 5 percent, according to official figures.  Sesa Goa on Aug. 17 said its  merger  with Sterlite has
become effective. Trading in Sterlite shares will be suspended
from Aug. 27, it said today in an exchange filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  