-- Reinhart Says Fed to Start QE Unwinding Before New Chief
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-08-20T21:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/vincent-reinhart-says-fed-to-start-qe-unwinding-before-new-chief.html
Cutting back the Federal Reserve’s
unprecedented monthly bond purchases is “firmly on the table”
to get underway before a new chairman takes over in January,
said  Vincent Reinhart , chief U.S. economist for Morgan Stanley
in New York.  “They really want to start the business of tapering,”
Reinhart said today on the Bloomberg television’s “Street
Smart” with Sara Eisen and  Adam Johnson . “They’ve lost
confidence in the instrument, they don’t think it sends an
 important signal .”  The Federal Open Market Committee will opt for tapering its
$85 billion in monthly asset purchases at the Sept. 17-18
meeting, according to 65 percent of 48 respondents in an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg survey. The median estimate called for purchases to
be cut to $75 billion.  The pullback of quantitative easing will begin partly
because “they want the process of unwinding the program in
place before the next chairperson,” said Reinhart, former
director of the Federal Reserve’s Division of Monetary Affairs.  President Barack Obama must decide who will replace
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke when his term ends in January. Obama
has said he is considering potential successors, including
 Lawrence Summers , Obama’s former top economic adviser, and  Janet Yellen , the current Fed vice chairman.  Summers, Obama  Summers is the person the president is more comfortable
with, Reinhart said.  Obama “Probably would prefer  Larry Summers , the question
is can it be done,” he said. “If you’re loaded up for loyalty
and you want a fight in the Senate, that’s Larry Summers.”  A Bloomberg survey of 63 economists published Aug. 14 found
that Yellen will probably be Obama’s pick to lead the central
bank, with 65 percent picking her as the favorite. Twenty-five
percent said the president will pick Summers to lead the bank.  Reinhart also said the U.S. economy’s biggest risk “is not
domestic” as fiscal constraints have peaked and wealth
improves.  “The biggest unknown is the rest of the world,” Reinhart
said. “Look at  emerging markets . They’ve got to absorb a
significant renormalization in  interest rates . That’s going to
be a test in a lot of economies.”  India’s rupee plummeted past 64 per dollar for the first
time today on concern foreign outflows will accelerate as the
 Federal Reserve  prepares to trim stimulus. Overseas funds have
pulled about $12 billion from local debt and equities since May
22 when Bernanke first signaled the central bank may pare its
bond-buying program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  