-- Wood Group Drops on Lower Engineering Unit Outlook: London Mover
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-08-20T15:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/wood-group-drops-on-lower-engineering-unit-outlook-london-mover.html
John Wood (WG/)  Group Plc, a U.K. oil-services provider active in Africa and the  Middle East , fell the
most in almost two years in London trading after cutting the
profit outlook at its engineering division.  The shares  slumped  8 percent to 831 pence at the close in
London, the biggest drop since October 2011. That gives the
company a market value of 3.1 billion pounds ($4.9 billion).  The engineering unit is expected to deliver earnings growth
of 10 percent to 15 percent this year, the Aberdeen, Scotland-based company said today. That’s lower than the previous
estimate of about 15 percent, reflecting project delays and a
weaker market in  Canada , it said.  Wood Group said the completion of Mafumeira Sul in Angola
and Australia’s Ichthys projects by year-end will pose
“challenges to growth in 2014.”  The share-price reaction “reflects a reduction in
management’s outlook for growth in its engineering business,
both for 2013 and 2014, partly driven by company-specific
project phasing and partly driven by deferrals of projects in
the  Gulf of Mexico ,” Katherine Tonks, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in London, said in an e-mail.  Profit before tax and exceptional items climbed to $186.6
million in the first half compared with $160 million a year
earlier, Wood Group said. It raised the dividend by 25 percent
to 7.1 cents a share.  The company renewed contracts in the North Sea and had
“strong” growth in the U.S. liquid-rich oil shales, it said.  “Activity levels generally remain healthy and we believe
the group is well positioned for future growth,” Chief
Executive Officer Bob Keiller said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  