-- WTI Falls for Second Day; Fed Tapering Speculation Grows
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-08-20T12:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/wti-crude-little-changed-after-dropping-first-time-in-seven-days.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for a second day amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce bond purchases next month, curbing investor appetite for
commodities and other higher-risk assets.  Futures slid as much as 1.2 percent, following a decline
yesterday that snapped the longest rising streak in almost four
months. U.S. central bankers gather this week in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , to discuss monetary policy. Crude inventories probably
shrank by 1.25 million barrels to 359.2 million last week, the
lowest since September, according to a survey before a report
from the Energy Information Administration tomorrow.  “There is a lot of uncertainty about future Fed policy and
leadership,” said Guy Wolf, global head of market analytics at
Marex Spectron Group in London. “Until that is resolved I think
there will be volatility” in prices, he said.  WTI for September delivery, which expires today, dropped as
much as $1.33 to $105.77 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , and was at $106.01 as of 1:37 p.m.
in  London . It slipped 0.3 percent yesterday to $107.10, ending a
six-day rally that was the longest since April 25. The more
active October contract slid 95 cents to $105.91. Trading volume
was about 15 percent below the 100-day average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for October settlement decreased as much as $1.29, or
1.2 percent, to $108.61 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, leaving the European benchmark at a premium of $3.35
to WTI, widening for the first time in three days.  Downtrend Line  Minutes from the Fed’s July meeting will be published
tomorrow. U.S. central bankers have indicated an improving jobs
market could spur cuts to their $85 billion in monthly asset
purchases.  WTI yesterday halted an intraday advance near the downtrend
line that connects the intraday highs of July 19 and Aug. 2,
which is at $108.22 a barrel today. Sell orders tend to be
clustered around chart-resistance levels.  U.S.  gasoline stockpiles  probably fell by 1.25 million
barrels in the week ended Aug. 16, according to the median
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Distillate
inventories, a category that includes heating oil and diesel,
are forecast to have gained by 750,000 barrels.  Refinery  operating rates  probably dropped by 0.55
percentage point, the survey showed. U.S. refiners typically
boost output to meet increased fuel demand during the so-called
summer driving season from late May to early September.  Libyan Output  The  American Petroleum Institute  is scheduled to release
separate inventory data today. The industry group in  Washington 
collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  Brent will average $111 a barrel in the third quarter,
 Societe Generale  SA said today, reiterating an earlier forecast.
The Paris-based bank also maintained its fourth-quarter and 2014
projections.  Disruptions to  Libya ’s oil supply have had a “muted”
impact on prices because the market is heading into a period of
seasonally lower refinery runs, said  Mike Wittner , a New York-based analyst at Societe Generale.  Libya declared force majeure at four oil ports Aug. 18
after security guards went on strike. State-run National Oil
Corp. halted exports of crude and refined products from the Es
Sider, Ras Lanuf, Zueitina and Brega terminals, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg. Force majeure is a legal clause
suppliers can invoke when they miss shipments because of
circumstances beyond their control.  The country produced 800,000 barrels a day last month, half
the rate of a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey of
output from the 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Libya holds  Africa ’s largest oil reserves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  