-- WTI Drops to One-Week Low on Fed Speculation, Libya Start
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-08-21T13:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/wti-oil-fluctuates-after-biggest-loss-in-two-months-in-new-york.html
West Texas Intermediate crude traded
near its lowest in more than a week amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will reduce economic stimulus and as Libya prepared to
open some oil ports closed by labor unrest.  Futures lost as much as 0.7 percent. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  will publish minutes of a July meeting today,
with 65 percent of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
predicting the Fed will taper bond purchases in September.
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  said the Seaway pipeline, which
carries crude from the U.S. storage hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma , to
the  Gulf Coast , is operating normally.  “The latest news could lead to increasing Libyan oil
production in the short term,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst
at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in Vienna. “If Libya is
going back to normal, although we are very far from that, this
would be a drag” for prices, he said.  WTI for October delivery slid as much as 76 cents to
$104.35 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $104.94 as of 2:09 p.m. London
time. The volume of all futures traded was about 1 percent below
the 100-day average. The September contract expired at $104.96
yesterday after losing 2 percent, the biggest one-day closing
loss since June 20.  Brent for October settlement lost as much as 92 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $109.23 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $4.87 to WTI. The spread was $5.04 yesterday, the widest
since June 28.  Fuel Supplies  The Seaway line, which can carry 400,000 barrels a day from
Cushing to Houston, is functioning normally, Enbridge spokesman
 Rick Rainey  said by phone. Genscape Inc., a Louisville,
Kentucky-based energy information company, reported it was
“essentially shut” yesterday after decreased power consumption
was observed at all pumping stations.  An Energy Information Administration report today may show
U.S. crude  stockpiles shrank  by 1.5 million barrels last week.
Inventories dropped 1.2 million barrels in the week ended Aug.
16, data from the industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute 
showed yesterday, said two people familiar with the report.  Gasoline inventories fell 3.7 million barrels, according to
the API data. Supplies probably decreased 1.5 million, a  median
estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed before today’s report from the
EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical unit showed.  Libyan Output  Distillate supplies, including heating oil and diesel,
declined 1.8 million barrels, according to the API. They are
projected to increase by 1 million, the survey showed.  Refinery  operating rates  are expected to have slid by 0.5
percentage points. U.S. refiners typically boost output to meet
increased fuel demand during the summer driving season from late
May to early September.  Libya  prepared to open some ports as the government vied
with nation’s Petroleum Facility Guard for control of export
facilities. The Zueitina and Hariga terminals are ready to
resume exports, the Oil Ministry said yesterday. The country’s
navy said it would seize any tankers attempting illicit
loadings.  Libya produced 800,000 barrels a day of crude last month,
half the rate a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey of
output from the 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. It holds Africa’s largest oil reserves.  WTI may rebound on technical support, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows. Futures yesterday halted their decline near an
upward-sloping trend line connecting the lows of June 24 and
Aug. 8., which is at about $104.90 a barrel today. Buy orders
tend to be clustered around chart-support levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  