-- Euro Rises With Franc, Pound on Emerging-Market Flows
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-08-20T21:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/yen-rises-as-stock-declines-spur-safety-demand-rupiah-tumbles.html
The euro and franc strengthened as
slides in Asian stocks and currencies signaled investor
repatriation of assets from  emerging markets .  The dollar extended a drop against the majority of its
most-traded peers after a measure of U.S. economic activity was
weaker than forecast. The yen strengthened for the first time in
three days against the dollar.  India ’s rupee fell to a record
and Indonesia’s rupiah slumped to the lowest level since April
2009 on concern funds will flow out of Asian markets as the
 Federal Reserve  reduces its bond-purchase program.  “There has been a portfolio flow shift away from emerging
markets, generally speaking, given some of the moves in non- Japan  Asian currencies,” Brad Bechtel, the managing director at
Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a phone
interview. Today’s euro “move had an element of a barrier run.
There was a barrier at $1.3450 in the options space. People
definitely tried to gun that down and they were successful at
doing that.”  Barriers refer to  price levels  where options or other
orders are clustered.  The euro gained 0.6 percent to $1.3417 as of 5 p.m.  New
York  time and touched $1.3452, the highest level since Feb. 14.
The common currency rose 0.3 percent to 130.51 yen. Japan’s
currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 97.27 per dollar after
advancing to 95.81 on Aug. 8, the strongest since June 19.
Switzerland’s franc climbed 0.7 percent to 91.73 centimes
against the dollar. It advanced 0.1 percent to 1.2309 per euro.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 1.7 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500  Index of U.S. stocks  rose 0.4 percent.  Euro, Pound  The euro and pound are being supported by the broader
global focus on diverging performance between emerging- and
developed-market currencies, said  Ian Stannard , strategist at
Morgan Stanley in  London . That strength won’t last as attention
turns to the Fed, he said.  Gains in the euro will likely be limited to $1.3460, he
said, while sterling is likely to top out at $1.5750, from
$1.5668.  The greenback declined after the Federal Reserve Bank of
Chicago’s  national activity index  for July was minus 0.15 from a
revised minus 0.23 in June. A Bloomberg survey forecast a
reading of minus 0.10. A number below zero indicates below-trend
growth in the national economy.  The Fed will publish minutes of its July meeting tomorrow
that may offer clues as to whether policy makers will start
reduce their $85 billion of monthly bond purchases as soon as
their gathering in September. The  Federal Open Market Committee 
holds its next meeting on Sept. 17-18.  ‘Guessing Game’  “It feels like it’s still a guessing game for the Fed
tapering,”  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales in New
York at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , said in a phone interview.
“It’s been fairly data-stagnant the last couple of days. You
haven’t really seen anything in particular more than the dollar
just taking a beating.”  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $32 billion, compared with $28 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $5.6 billion, the
largest share of trades at 17 percent. Options on the Australian
dollar-U.S. dollar rate totaled $5 billion, or 15 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 18 percent less than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Aussie-greenback options
trading was 104 percent more than average.  Asia Currencies  Japan’s currency rose 2.6 percent in the past month, the
best performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 1.1
percent, while the dollar dropped 1.2 percent.  “The weakness in some of the emerging-Asian currencies and
modest strength in the yen would be consistent with a major  risk
aversion ,” Robert Sinche, global strategist at Pierpont
Securities Holdings LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a
telephone interview. As for the euro and franc, “you have
European investors who are pulling money back from emerging-market exposure. Apparently there was a lot of that.”  India’s rupee dropped 0.2 percent to 63.23 per dollar after
slumping to a record 64.12.  Indonesia’s currency fell 1.9 percent to 10,685 per dollar
after sliding to 10,728, the weakest since April 2009. The
rupiah is the only currency within an expanded basket of major
currencies to have declined against the dollar every August for
nine years. It’s down 4.5 percent since July 31.  Antipodean Dollars  The Australian and New Zealand currencies slid after
comments from the nations’ central banks.  Minutes released today of the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s
Aug. 6 meeting signaled further interest-rate cuts remain a
possibility.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler
announced lending restrictions to curtail  house prices  and said
the currency is “over-valued relative to what would be
sustainable long-term.”  The kiwi tumbled 1.1 percent to 79.79 U.S. cents, while the
Aussie lost 0.4 percent to 90.71 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  