-- Zimbabwe Manufacturers Ask Government to Cut Taxes, Mint Coins
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-08-20T08:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-20/zimbabwe-manufacturers-ask-government-to-cut-taxes-mint-coins.html
Zimbabwe ’s manufacturers asked the
government to cut taxes and mint coins to boost demand for local
goods, stimulate the economy and help reduce the perception of
risk in the economy.  Local currency coins, paired with the current multi-currency system, would boost local trade, the  Confederation of
Zimbabwe Industries  said in a letter to the government obtained
by Bloomberg News. The government should also cut income and
value-added taxes to promote spending and boost production, the
Harare-based group said.  “Currently the high cost of production is rendering local
goods uncompetitive,” the group said. “There is need to
stimulate consumption in the local market.”  Zimbabwe needs to manage perceptions of political risk to
businesses and restore confidence in the financial markets to
extend four years of economic growth after President Robert
Mugabe was re-elected on July 31. Mugabe plans to seize control
of foreign-owned mines without paying for them and pay for
stakes in banks as part of a program to accumulate $7 billion in
assets for blacks,  Saviour Kasukuwere , the minister in charge of
the program said on Aug. 6. The stock market has plunged 21
percent since the polls, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Since disputed elections in 2008, the government dropped
the Zimbabwean dollar for the rand and U.S. dollar in 2009 to
help quell inflation that soared to an estimated 500 billion
percent. There is often a shortage of smaller-denomination bills
in the foreign currencies, making it harder to do business. The
economy shrunk 39 percent in the eight years through 2008 after
Mugabe began a campaign to seize white-owned farms to
redistribute to black subsistence farmers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  