-- 
‘Angry Birds’ Game Is Poised to Fly Onto Web-Enabled TVs Via Roku Accord

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-06-01T04:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/-angry-birds-poised-to-fly-onto-web-enabled-tvs-via-roku-accord.html
Roku Inc. , the television set-top box
maker spun off by  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , is adding the “Angry Birds”
game to its service, marking the first time the popular title
played on iPhones and iPads has been available on TVs.  Three versions of ‘Angry Birds’ will be available for
purchase later this year, Chief Executive Officer Anthony Wood
said in an interview. Players in the game fire birds from
slingshots at fortresses of pigs who have stolen their eggs.  Casual games would help closely held Roku boost revenue as
more companies vie to offer products on Web-enabled TVs. Sony
Corp., Nintendo Co. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  stream games, movies and
TV shows on their game consoles. “Angry Birds” has been a top-
selling application on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and later iPad since
its debut in December 2009.  “We think casual games are going to be big on TV,” Wood
said. Customers wanting to play the game will need to buy a new
Roku Player coming out this year, he said, declining to reveal
details of its cost or new features.  Roku’s set-top boxes provide Internet links that allow TV
viewers to watch movies rentals from Netflix or pipe music from
services such as Pandora through their home entertainment
systems. Samsung Electronics Co.,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and other
television makers are introducing sets that let users stream
content directly from the Web without a set-top box.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Apple Inc. also are vying to deliver
popular TV shows and movies through consumer electronic gear.  Revenue Sharing  Roku, based in Saratoga,  California , will get 30 percent of
the revenue from sales of the game, “Angry Birds” short videos
and merchandise sold through its Internet TV platform, Wood
said. Roku is negotiating with other casual-games makers to
deliver additional titles, he said.  Helsinki-based Rovio Mobile Oy, maker of “Angry Birds,”
and other publishers of iPhone games are trying to develop
cross-media franchises based on their hit digital characters.  “Roku’s strong platform enables us to introduce the full
’Angry Birds’ experience of games, videos and merchandise to the
TV,” Peter Vesterbacka, Rovio’s chief marketing officer, said
in a statement.  Roku, which has sold more than 1 million of its devices,
plans to continue cutting the price of its boxes, which sold for
$115 in May 2008 and now go for as little as $60.  Netflix hired Wood in 2007 to help the DVD-rental company
move develop an online service. Netflix planned to release its
own box until Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings decided to
stay out of the hardware business. Wood created a separate
company, and Netflix backed it with $6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  