-- 
Insider Trading Investigation Reaches Expert Networkers With Jiau Trial

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/-expert-networker-jiau-faces-trial-in-u-s-insider-trading-investigation.html
Prosecutors and lawyers for Winifred Jiau, an ex-Primary Global Research LLC consultant accused of
passing nonpublic information to hedge fund managers, will
present their opening arguments to jurors today, a judge said.  Jiau is charged in a five-count indictment that includes
conspiracy,  securities fraud  and  wire fraud , for allegedly
passing inside tips about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL)  She is the first expert networker to go on trial for
insider-trading charges and, if convicted, may face as long as
25 years in prison.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan said the jury,
which was selected yesterday, will begin hearing opening
statements today. After the jury was dismissed yesterday, Jiau’s
lawyer, Joanna Hendon, told Rakoff that she would concede to the
jury that her client worked as an expert networker and provided
information to hedge fund managers.  Hendon said she would also argue the information that the
U.S. said her client passed wasn’t “material,” or information
that a reasonable investor would consider important to trade
upon or have a bearing upon a company’s stock.  “Sure she got the information, sure she is paid thousands
of dollars, it was nonpublic, sometimes, not always,” Hendon
told Rakoff. “She was happy to get it to her sources, she is
happy to make  hedge funds  happy, but at the end of the day, the
information she had was not material to any trades.”  Guilty Pleas  Jiau is one of 13 people charged since November in the
expert-networking probe by federal prosecutors in the office of
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. That investigation is
part of a larger probe of illegal stock-tipping. Eight have
pleaded guilty to federal charges.  Her case is one of several overlapping insider-trading
rings stemming from the probe of New York-based hedge fund
Galleon Group LLC. Its co-founder,  Raj Rajaratnam , was convicted
of directing the largest hedge fund insider-trading ring and
faces almost 20 years in prison at his July 29 sentencing. His
former deputy,  Zvi Goffer , is on trial in Manhattan federal
court on related charges.  Assistant U.S. attorneys Avi Weitzman and David Leibowitz,
who are prosecuting Jiau’s case, have previously argued that she
passed inside information obtained from sources at Nvidia and
Marvell to Noah Freeman, a Boston hedge-fund manager who pleaded
guilty and is cooperating with the U.S., and to Samir Barai,
founder of Barai Capital Management LP in New York.  Implicating Jiau  Freeman and Donald Longueuil, another former hedge fund
manager who pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges brought by
Bharara’s office, worked as portfolio managers at SAC Capital
Advisors LLC, the hedge-fund firm run by  Steven Cohen .  Last month, Barai and Sonny Nguyen, a former analyst with
Nvidia, both pleaded guilty to insider trading charges in
federal court in  New York  and implicated Jiau in their schemes.  Prosecutors said that Nguyen will testify for the
government at Jiau’s case and indicated that Freeman could also
be a witness for them.  When he pleaded guilty, Barai said he participated in calls
with Jiau in 2008 in which she provided tips to him about
Marvell, a Santa Clara, California-based maker of chips for
personal computers and mobile phones.  Barai is also cooperating with the U.S., prosecutors said.
If he provides “substantial assistance,” to their case,
prosecutors said they will submit a letter to his sentencing
judge seeking a reduced sentence because of his cooperation.  Nvidia Earnings  Nguyen said in court last month that he passed tips to Jiau
about  Santa Clara , California-based Nvidia’s quarterly earnings
before they were publicly announced. Nvidia is a maker of
graphics chips. He said he conspired with Jiau and a Marvell
employee he identified as Stanley Ng to pass and receive tips
from 2007 to 2008.  Rakoff yesterday rejected a bid by Hendon to obtain copies
of secret recordings she said were made by Freeman of other
hedge fund colleagues and associates in an attempt to aid the
investigation. Weitzman argued they weren’t admissible because
they didn’t involve a conspiracy with Jiau and shouldn’t be
turned over. Judge Rakoff agreed.  Freeman’s lawyer, Benjamin Rosenberg, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office after business
hours seeking comment about the alleged recordings.  Hendon also argued yesterday that so many others passed
insider tips that whatever her client is accused of passing was
insignificant.  “There are so many professionals out there that have
earnings information that there is an argument out there about
whether any fiduciary duty was ever breached,” Hendon told
Rakoff.  Fund Liaison  In November, Bharara’s office accused Don Ching Trang Chu,
another former consultant with Primary Global Research, of being
a liaison between expert networking consultants and hedge fund
clients.  The U.S. alleged that Chu established a relationship with
Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a former partner at  San Jose , California-
based Spherix Capital LLC. Lee was employed as an analyst by SAC
Capital Advisors from 1999 to 2004.  Lee, who has been linked to Rajaratnam’s insider-trading
ring, has pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the U.S. along
with his partner Ali Far.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  