-- 
Madoff Trustee Irving Picard Wins $43.9 Million Fees for Four Months’ Work

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-01T18:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/madoff-trustee-wins-43-9-million-fees-for-four-months-1-.html
Irving Picard , who is liquidating con
man Bernard L. Madoff’s estate at a cost so far of $318 million,
won a bankruptcy judge’s approval of $43.9 million in fees for
himself and his firm for four months’ work.  Picard’s law firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP, charged $43.2
million for Oct. 1 to Jan. 31, while the trustee’s bills were
$713,799, according to court documents. Arriving late at a
 Manhattan  court hearing after a delayed train, Picard asked U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  to approve the fees, which he
said he discounts by 10 percent, because of his “hard work” on
behalf of investors in the  Ponzi scheme .  The trustee denied that he personally received one-third to
one-half of all his firm’s fees in the Madoff case, as a lawyer
estimated in a filing. He didn’t say what financial arrangement
he had with his firm.  Lifland approved the fees, saying he was required to
approve compensation recommended by the Securities Investor
Protection Corp., which hired Picard for the liquidation.  Separately, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff yesterday
questioned Picard’s fees at a hearing over whether Rakoff would
rule on a $58.8 billion Picard suit against defendants including
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , which said the case raised issues beyond the
jurisdiction of a  bankruptcy court .  “I just keep reading in the papers how much is being paid
to Picard,” Rakoff said. Asking why Picard’s firm had sent four
lawyers to the hearing, he said he was considering whether to
take over the subject of fees from bankruptcy court as well.  “I will see whether I need to withdraw the reference on
payment of fees,” he said. The process of moving the issues
from bankruptcy court to district court is known as withdrawing
the reference.  SIPC Called ‘Profligate’  After being told that SIPC paid Picard’s fees, Rakoff
referred to the investor protection body as “profligate.” He
told an SIPC lawyer attending the hearing, “If you are happy
paying for all these lawyers, it needn’t concern the court.”  Rakoff said he’d publish an order tomorrow specifying what
issues he would take on in the UniCredit case.  Picard has filed 1,000 suits and is processing more than
$17 billion in claims, lawyers told Lifland today. Through
March, Picard was personally paid $3.6 million and his  law firm 
was paid $145.6 million, bringing fees for all professionals to
$318 million since Madoff’s 2008 arrest, according to court
filings.  About $346.3 million of the money advanced by SIPC for use
by the Madoff estate was consumed by fees and other
administrative expenses, while about $779.3 million was used to
pay customer claims, according to court filings.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 