-- 
Lagarde Has No Emerging-Market Rival for IMF Job, Storchak Says

-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   A n n a   U l a e v a
-- 
2011-06-01T09:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/lagarde-has-no-emerging-market-rival-for-imf-job-storchak-says.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  faces no real competition from emerging markets in her
bid to lead the  International Monetary Fund , though it’s high
time for a non-European to take over, said Russian Deputy
Finance Minister Sergei Storchak.  “We’re in the strange situation of having another European
in line for this job, but a European whose personal and
professional qualities make her almost impossible to compete
with,” Storchak said in an interview in Moscow yesterday. “She
has the right background, perfect English and the ability to
lead negotiations.”  Russia  and other developing nations, including  Mexico  and
 South Africa , are seeking to break a half-century-old tradition
of filling the IMF managing director’s post with a European.
Lagarde, who has won endorsements from across  Europe , said
yesterday during a visit to  Brazil  that being French is neither
an advantage nor a drawback to her candidacy.  Major developing economies have struggled to come up with a
consensus candidate to replace  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  as IMF
chief. Russia and other former Soviet republics backed Grigori Marchenko, chairman of the Kazakh central bank, while Mexico
nominated its central bank governor, Agustin Carstens. Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said yesterday that South Africa may
still advance its own candidate before the June 10 deadline.  “It’s very tough to compete with Lagarde,” Storchak said.
“The Europeans acted in unison and that’s it.”  Failed Attempts  The IMF aims to complete the selection of a new managing
director by June 30. European Union member states hold about 31
percent of the  votes  and the U.S. almost 17 percent. Emerging-
market and  developing countries  boosted their share to 42
percent from 40.5 percent under Strauss-Kahn’s management.  Russia, which holds 2.4 percent of votes in the IMF, failed
in previous attempts to gain a greater say in international
financial institutions for emerging markets. In 2007, when
Strauss-Kahn was elected, Russia supported Josef Tosovsky, a
former Czech prime minister and central bank governor.  “We took a risk then and in Strauss-Kahn we didn’t get a
terribly reliable ally,” Storchak said. “I am sure he
remembers that very well.”  The new IMF head faces the “challenge” of reforming the
voting system, which doesn’t fully take into account the size of
countries’ economies, Storchak said.  “Countries that back in the day got some preferences don’t
want to lose them, while other countries that want to raise
their significance have no way to change anything,” he said.  The IMF, which made a record $91.7 billion in emergency
loans last year and provides one-third of the EU’s rescue
packages, has promised transparency in the selection process.  Strauss-Kahn resigned from the post last month to defend
himself against charges that he sexually assaulted a maid at a
Manhattan hotel. Lagarde would be the first woman to lead the
IMF since its founding in 1945.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Ulaeva in Moscow at 
 aulaeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  