-- 
Thai Vote May Spur Inflation, Forcing Higher Rates as Thaksinomics Returns

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-06-02T10:43:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/thai-election-may-force-rates-higher-as-parties-promise-handouts.html
Thailand ’s election may force the
central bank to add to seven interest-rate increases in the past
year, as promises of higher wages and handouts by politicians
threaten to spur inflation.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has pledged to raise the
minimum wage by 25 percent, give cash to the elderly and
guarantee farmers’ incomes to appeal to voters loyal to exiled
former premier  Thaksin Shinawatra . The opposition Pheu Thai
party, led by Thaksin’s sister, has promised tablet PCs, rice-
price guarantee schemes, high-speed trains, dams, and a new
city.  The policies promoted by both the government and opposition
would put the onus on the Bank of Thailand to contain inflation
that’s accelerated to a 32-month high. Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  raised the benchmark rate to 3 percent yesterday
and the bank said it “stands ready to take necessary action”
against inflationary pressures.  “With the economy on a strong footing over the background
of high commodity prices, we already have inflation concerns for
Thailand,” said Wellian Wiranto, a Singapore-based economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc. “The ramp-up in  government spending  overall
will not help the situation.”  Thailand’s benchmark stock index has risen 2.6 percent this
year, outperforming those in  Hong Kong ,  Japan ,  Shanghai ,  Taiwan ,
 Singapore , and  Malaysia , as companies including meat producer
Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl benefited from economic growth. The
one-year onshore interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive a floating payment, added six basis points to 3.22
percent after yesterday’s rate increase.  Rates Still Low  Borrowing costs remain “low” and “supportive of economic
growth,” while the pace of rate increases is “still
appropriate,” Bank of Thailand Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said yesterday. The central bank is concerned
that policies that focus on spending in the election will affect
inflation and growth, he said.  “It’s a good thing to help low-income earners, but we need
to increase productivity at the same time,” Prasarn told
reporters in Bangkok today. “We need to do both. If we only
raise the wage, it will hurt our competitiveness.”  The July 3 election in  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest
economy will pit Abhisit’s Democrat party against allies of
Thaksin, who was ousted in a 2006 coup and has lived overseas
since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power. About 100
people have been killed following disputes over the last
election in 2007.  Pheu Thai, led by Yingluck Shinawatra, blames Abhisit for
rising costs, and has pledged a larger increase in the minimum
wage than the ruling Democrat party.  Thaksinomics  Thaksin, premier from 2001 to 2006, introduced a debt
moratorium for farmers, fuel and electricity subsidies as part
of a set of populist policies dubbed “Thaksinomics” at the
time. In April, he pledged to build dams and railways and raise
minimum rice prices if the Pheu Thai party wins elections.  Abhisit’s government has capped diesel tariffs and applied
price controls to items such as eggs and cooking oil to shield
Thailand’s 67 million people from the impact of inflation, which
surged to 4.19 percent in May. The current leader has mimicked
Thaksin policies by offering free electricity, crop-price
guarantees and minimum-wage increases.  “Thailand has come to a point where it is no longer
possible for policy makers to ignore grassroots and the poor,”
said Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “Regardless of who becomes the
government, policy makers will be forced to essentially move
towards a more welfare-state style of economic system with many
of the election promises being followed through on.”  Nine Coups  The struggle to secure a mandate in a country that has had
nine coups and more than 20 prime ministers since  King Bhumibol Adulyadej  took the throne in 1946 may herald a shift toward more
populist policies, putting pressure on monetary policy as well
as government finances.  “Such populist policies will become addictive and will be
difficult to reverse as it becomes the norm,” said Kobsidthi Silpachai, head of capital markets research at Kasikornbank Pcl
in Bangkok. “It will strain the budget” while the subsidies
and handouts will encourage excessive consumption, boosting
imports, weakening the baht and pushing up inflation, he said.  Thaksin-linked parties have won the past four national
elections on support in northern areas for cheap health care
plans and microcredit policies.  Democrats ‘Confident’  The ruling Democrat party is “confident” it will win more
votes in the northeastern bastion of ex-leader Thaksin because
of the government’s policies to deal with rising prices, Prime
Minister Abhisit said in a May 28 interview. The Democrat party
won 20 of 208 seats allotted for individual candidates in the
north and northeast regions in the 2007 election.  Efforts to boost pay and increase spending on health and
education will change Thailand’s economic growth strategy from
an export-led model to one that relies more on domestic demand,
Santitarn said. That means monetary policy will gain importance
as it controls domestic demand, he said.  “The central bank is now in a vigilant mode,” said
Thanomsri Fongarunrung, an economist at Phatra Securities Pcl,
who forecasts the key rate will rise to 3.5 percent by end-2011.
“They are acting preemptively on rising inflation pressure.
They are quite concerned about rising wages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  