-- 
Rice Soaring 50% in Thailand as Thaksin Seeks Votes in World’s Top Shipper

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-06-02T10:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/thai-rice-prices-seen-rising-50-as-thaksin-seeks-rural-votes.html
Rice prices in  Thailand , the biggest
exporter, may jump 50 percent by the end of the year under a 
plan by the party favored to win the July 3 election to buy 
the grain directly from farmers, said millers and traders.  Yingluck Shinawatra’s Pheu Thai party plans to reinstate a
policy introduced by her brother, fugitive former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra , to buy unmilled rice at 15,000 baht ($496) per
metric ton, twice the current level. That would raise costs for
exporters and boost the price of shipments to about $750 per ton
from $500, according to a survey of eight millers and traders.  Rice has lagged behind gains in foodstuffs such as corn and
wheat over the past year and the grain may be “the commodity
which is separating us from a food crisis,” the United Nations
Food and Agriculture Organization said in March. A jump in
prices in Thailand may boost demand for cheaper grain from
 Vietnam , the second-biggest shipper, and  India .  “If this measure is taken, world prices will definitely
increase as Thailand represents one-third of world trade and
cannot be ignored,” said Mamadou Ciss, chief executive officer
of Singapore-based broker Hermes Investments Pte, who correctly
predicted in 2006 that prices would double. “In the past, these
programs had a direct effect on the market. Of course there will
be resistance from the buyers, but at the end of the day it’s
rice or no rice.”  Rough-rice futures in  Chicago  have climbed 32 percent in
the past 12 months to $14.645 per 100 pounds as corn more than
doubled and wheat rallied 74 percent. Thai rice-export rates
have dropped 10 percent this year, with the benchmark 100
percent, grade-B variety set at $499 per ton on June 1.  ‘Key Policy’  “It makes no sense that every agricultural product in the
world has gone up except for rice,” said Pichai Naripthaphan, a
candidate for the opposition Pheu Thai party and former deputy
finance minister. “When Pheu Thai becomes the government, we’ll
urgently implement the rice-pledging and farmer-credit policy.
This is our key policy to win votes, not only this time but in
every election.”  Pheu Thai is a successor to parties loyal to Thaksin that
won the past four Thai elections. Pheu Thai would win 43 percent
of the vote if elections were held now, compared with 37 percent
for Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrat party, according
to a  Dusit Poll  that surveyed 4,694 people from May 23 to May 28.  In 2008, when Thaksin’s allies were last in power and the
government had a similar policy, it bought 5.4 million tons of
rice from about 700,000 farmers, according to the Internal Trade
Department. Local prices rose to a record 17,000 baht per ton in
April that year and export rates hit an all-time high of $1,038
per ton the following month after India,  China  and Vietnam
curbed shipments, spurring unrest from  Haiti  to  Egypt .  Thaksin’s Stockpile  Under Thaksin’s plan, purchases were designed as collateral
for loans to be redeemed when market prices advanced. Instead,
rice ended up sitting in warehouses, boosting stockpiles to a
record 6.1 million tons in 2009, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . Yingluck hasn’t said how much rice
her government may buy if Pheu Thai wins.  Thailand is on pace to export 10 million tons of rice this
year, compared with global shipments of 31 million tons,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. World rice
production will total 451.6 million tons this year, outpacing
consumption of 448.4 million tons and helping replenish
inventories by 3.4 percent to 97 million tons, an eight-year
high, according to the USDA.  “The increase in Thai prices will make Vietnam and all
competitors very happy,”  Concepcion Calpe , senior economist at
the FAO, said by phone from  Rome . “Certainly there will be an
impact on the world price. Prices will be higher, but I don’t
expect them to jump as there is abundant supply.”  ‘Great Impact’  Global food prices reached a record in February, driving 44
million more people into extreme poverty, the  World Bank  said
that month. That’s helped boost inflation from Beijing to
Brasilia, forcing central banks to raise  interest rates  and
contributing to unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa.  “There will be a great impact in the world market” if
Pheu Thai’s policy is implemented, said Sumeth Laomoraphorn,
chief executive officer of C.P. Trading Co., Thailand’s fourth-
largest exporter. “Pheu Thai believes that Thailand should be
acting as a worldwide price leader.”  Other millers and traders in the export-price survey were
Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat, director at Novel Commodities SA’s
Thai office, who correctly forecast a rally late last year;
Sermsak Kuonsongtum, director of Chaiyaporn Group, the third-
largest exporter; Chookiat Ophaswongse, honorary president of
Thai Rice Exporters Association; Wichai Srinawakul, vice
president of the Thai Rice Mills Association; Korbsook Iamsuri,
president of the Thai Rice Exporters Association; and Banjong Tungjitwattanakun, vice president of the Thai Rice Mills
Association.  Stockpiles ‘Bearish’  Banjong forecasts Thai export prices would immediately rise
10 percent after a Pheu Thai victory, and climb to $800 per ton
by the end of the year.  “Although the use of the pledging scheme could provide a
degree of upward price pressure in the international market, in
itself a large and growing stockpile could also be quite
bearish,” Darren Cooper, a senior economist at the London-based
International Grains Council, said in a May 27 e-mail.  Pheu Thai plans to talk with rice-exporting nations about
forming a cartel to control global supply, Pichai said. The
party will also give credit cards to farmers to buy seed and
fertilizer, he said.  About 35 percent of Thailand’s 67 million people made their
living growing crops last year, according to data from the
Office of Agricultural Economics. Agriculture accounts for about
10 percent of Thai gross domestic product, which the  finance
ministry  expects to grow at 4.5 percent.  Abhisit’s Alternative  Abhisit ended Thaksin’s rice-buying program after he took
power in 2008, and adopted a system under which the government
paid about 4.2 million farmers the difference between the market
price and the guaranteed level of 11,000 baht per ton.  “Most farmers support the income-insurance scheme because
it is the first policy where all farmers can benefit,” Abhisit
said in a May 28 interview. Thaksin’s policy “distorted the
market and made Thai rice exports less competitive.”  Abhisit has pledged to increase the guaranteed price level
to 12,000 baht if his party wins the election.  Pheu Thai’s plan “would be a strong incentive for farmers
to supply paddy to the government, but could distort the
market,” said Cooper from the International Grains Council.  “I’ve been working so hard but I’m still in debt,”
Patcharin Prasertsin, a 34-year-old mother of two, said as
Abhisit campaigned in Yasothon province where her husband grows
rice. “Pheu Thai can make the price higher as it did before.
Good prices will generate more income than the compensation
policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  