-- 
Thailand Raises Rate for Fourth Time This Year After Inflation Accelerated

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-06-01T09:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/thailand-raises-benchmark-rate-for-fourth-time-this-year-to-curb-inflation.html
Thailand raised  interest rates  for
the fourth time this year to damp accelerating inflation, as
parties contesting the general election next month pledge to
counter the impact of higher costs.  The Bank of Thailand voted unanimously to boost the one-day
bond repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3
percent, it said in Bangkok today, adding to increases of the
same amount each in January, March and April. All 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the move.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrats and the main
opposition party have promised to raise wages and extend caps on
food and diesel costs as they vie for votes. The central bank
said it will continue raising rates at a “gradual pace” and that
 core inflation  may exceed its 3 percent ceiling in the second
half, as the economy weathers disruption from  Japan ’s earthquake.  “Market players think that we still need to increase rates
further,” said Nalin Chutchotitham, a Bangkok-based analyst at
Kasikornbank Pcl. “Domestic demand remains on an upward trend.”  The  Thai baht  rose 0.2 percent to 30.27 against the dollar
as of 3:27 p.m. local time, while the benchmark SET Index of
stocks declined 0.9 percent. The baht has fallen 1 percent this
year, the worst performer in a basket of 10 most-traded Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, aiding exports while providing
less of a buffer against global oil and food costs.  Accelerating Inflation  Borrowing costs remain “low” and “supportive of economic
growth,” while the pace of rate increases is “sill appropriate,”
Bank of  Thailand  Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said.
The central bank is concerned that “populist policies” in the
election will affect inflation and economic growth, he said.  Thailand’s consumer prices climbed 4.19 percent in May from
a year earlier, the fastest pace since September 2008, a
separate report showed today. Core inflation, which excludes
fresh food and fuel prices, accelerated to 2.48 percent. The
central bank uses core inflation to guide monetary policy.  Asian neighbors from  India  to  China  facing price pressures
have responded with rate rises. Some have permitted currency
gains, with the baht this year lagging behind the 5.2 percent
jump in  Indonesia ’s rupiah, the 1.9 percent rise in  Malaysia ’s
ringgit and the 1.6 percent climb in the Philippine peso.  Higher meat and prepared-food prices boosted inflation last
month, while the cost of vegetables and oil eased,  Permanent
Secretary  for Commerce Yanyong Phuangrach said today. He
reiterated the government’s forecast for inflation of 3.2
percent to 3.7 percent in 2011.  Thailand’s gross domestic product climbed 2 percent in the
first quarter from the previous three months, the fastest pace
in a year. Growth in 2011 may exceed the central bank’s 4.1
percent forecast, Paiboon said.  General Election  The government has capped diesel tariffs at under 30 baht
(99 U.S. cents) per liter and controlled prices of goods such as
eggs to shield Thailand’s 67 million people from price gains.  The July 3 election in  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest
economy will pit Abhisit’s ruling Democrat party against allies
of fugitive ex-Premier  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted in a
2006 coup and lives overseas. About 100 people have been killed
following disputes over the last election in 2007.  The main opposition Pheu Thai Party, led by Thaksin’s
sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, has used billboard advertisements
to blame Abhisit for rising costs. The prime minister pledged in
February to boost the minimum wage by 25 percent over two years,
while Pheu Thai has promised a larger increase.  Industrial Output  Political uncertainty could affect the economy going
forward, Paiboon said. Election campaigning may lead to as much
as 40 billion baht of spending, adding to price pressures,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Thai industrial output fell the most in 20 months in April
after the March 11 earthquake in Japan, Thailand’s largest
trading partner, disrupted supply chains.  Local companies such as  Aapico Hitech Pcl (AH) , an auto parts
maker, have cut revenue forecasts as the interruptions reduce
vehicle production in Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy.  “Slower growth is inevitable in the second quarter because
of Japan’s disaster, but any harm will prove temporary,” said
Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney.
“The central bank has plenty of work to do to keep inflation in
check.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  