-- 
Alberto Vilar, Gary Tanaka Sue Munder Capital Management for $15 Million

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-01T18:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/alberto-vilar-gary-tanaka-sue-munder-capital-management-for-15-million.html
Alberto Vilar and Gary Tanaka, the
technology investors convicted in 2008 of a scheme to defraud
their Amerindo Investment Advisors Inc. clients, sued Munder
Capital Management and two former directors of the Amerindo
Technology Fund for $15 million.  Vilar and Tanaka, in a filing yesterday in state court in
 Manhattan , claim funds belonging to Amerindo were fraudulently
transferred. The two-page document, which was filed on behalf of
themselves and Amerindo, doesn’t include details of the alleged
fraudulent transaction.  After Vilar and Tanaka, Amerindo’s founders, were arrested
in 2005, the firm’s board hired Munder Capital to oversee the
fund. In addition to Munder Capital, the suit names as
defendants John Rutledge and Charles Parker, who were
independent directors of the Amerindo Technology Fund, a
$103 million mutual fund.  Vilar, 70, was sentenced to nine years in prison and
Tanaka, 67, to five years. Prosecutors claimed the men stole
$40 million from investors. Vilar, an opera fan and
philanthropist, and Tanaka, who owned thoroughbred race horses,
are serving their terms in federal prison.  Rutledge didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment. Parker couldn’t be immediately located. Eric Starkman,
an outside spokesman for Birmingham, Michigan-based Munder
Capital, didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking
comment.  David Burger, the lawyer who signed the summons with notice
filed yesterday, had no immediate comment on the nature of the
dispute.  The case is Vilar v. Rutledge, 651494/2011, New York State
Supreme Court, New York Co. (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  