-- 
Asia Rising Attracts Hedge Funds From Algebris to Soros Betting on Revival

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-06-01T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/algebris-soros-join-global-hedge-funds-reversing-post-lehman-asia-exodus.html
When a magnitude-9 earthquake struck
Japan on March 11, Ivan Vatchkov, who moved to  Singapore  from
 London  last year to run the Asian assets of Algebris Investments
LLP, adjusted the hedge fund’s bets within minutes.  “There have been a number of occasions when being here has
made a critical difference,” said Vatchkov, the chief
investment officer at the Asian unit of London-based Algebris.
“You’re in a better shape to react to events in real time.”  Vatchkov is a product of the renewed focus on the world’s
fastest-growing region as global  hedge funds  reverse their 2008
retreat from Asia, when markets were roiled by the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Whereas satellite offices with
little decision-making influence were the norm pre-crisis,
global firms are now committing to three-to-five-year plans as
 Asia  becomes the “destination for and source of capital,” said
Ho Han Ming, a Singapore-based partner who advises hedge funds
at law firm Clifford Chance LLP.  “We’ve seen the first wave of managers opening up,” Ho
said. “There are still people considering making the move, but
the first-mover advantage has been taken.”  Hong Kong  and Singapore have been wooing hedge funds as the
U.S. and European Union have stepped up regulation. Singapore is
set to become the second-largest global asset management center
by 2025 after  New York , with the growth in public and private
capital available in Asia and more regulation in the U.S. and
 Europe , PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a report last year.  Soros, Fortress  Global firms such as New York-based Soros Fund Management
LLC and  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  are setting up shop in
Asia. They are reversing the pullback by managers including
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM)  in
the wake of the financial crisis.  “Those that have been able to navigate the financial
crisis in Asia well -- that’s a reflection of the larger
managers -- recognize that there are opportunities through
crises,” said Tim Rainsford, the Hong Kong-based managing
director of Man Investments in Asia. “Today in Asia you really
have to show face. By showing face that means remaining and
showing commitment to markets. The managers that do that will
then attract good investors.”  Investors allocated more than $3.6 billion in net new
capital to Asian hedge funds in the first quarter, accounting
for only 11 percent of the $32 billion in new capital given to
hedge funds worldwide, according to Chicago-based  Hedge Fund
Research Inc.   Is Bigger Better?  The largest 20 percent of funds oversee almost 80 percent
of Asian hedge-fund assets, up from about 73 percent in 2005,
Eurekahedge said in a September report.  That may well change as global funds raise Asia’s profile
and investor interest in the region eventually spills over to
locally based managers, said  Clifford Chance ’s Ho.  “That’s when the regional managers will hopefully get
airtime,” he said. “When investors reach out directly to local
managers, this would provide more transparency to a region which
may continue to be viewed by some as the still slightly exotic
 Far East .”  Och-Ziff’s OZ Asia Master Fund fell 31 percent in 2008. The
size of the fund dropped to $1.5 billion last year, from $2.4
billion in 2008, even as it returned 34 percent in 2009 and 10
percent in 2010, according to its annual report.  The Artradis Barracuda Fund, run out of Singapore, fell
almost 17 percent last year and about 14 percent in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Artradis Fund
Management Pte, which oversaw about $800 million as of Dec. 31
compared with about $4.9 billion in 2008, closed down in March
and returned money to investors after it lost money from wagers
on price swings in the last two years.  Room for All  The Amoeba Capital Asia Fund, which closed in 2010 as its
assets shrunk to $135 million from a peak of $750 million,
gained 5.1 percent last year through August. The Singapore-based
firm bet on rising and falling stocks in Asia outside  Japan .  The tough asset-raising environment for smaller managers
contributed to about 100 Asian hedge fund closures last year,
according to Eurekahedge.  The increasing number of global hedge funds is unlikely to
crowd out smaller local managers, said Ng Nam Sin, assistant
managing director of the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the
country’s regulator.  “There will always be room for large and niche players as
long as they continue to add value to investors,” he said.  Asia-focused hedge funds rose 8.6 percent in 2010,
underperforming the 10.9 percent average gain by global peers,
according to Eurekahedge Pte, a data provider in Singapore. This
year, Asia funds returned 2 percent, compared with the average
global industry gain of 2.8 percent.  Asia Expansion  About 25 of the biggest global hedge-fund firms are seeking
to expand in Asia, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG report
last year. About 75 percent of the top 100 global hedge funds,
ranked by Alpha Magazine based on assets managed, will likely
have a presence in Asia, according to the Zurich-based bank’s
prime brokerage unit.  DiMaio Ahmad Capital LLC, a New York-based based asset
manager specializing in credit markets, opened an office in
Singapore, according to the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory
Authority, which regulates businesses in the city-state.  Boston-based Sirios Capital Management LP, co-founded by
former MFS Investment Management portfolio manager  John Brennan ,
and  Minneapolis , Minnesota-based Whitebox Advisors are also
seeking to open offices in the city-state, according to filings
with the regulator.  In the Zone  Fortress’s Adam Levinson, co-chief investment officer of
global macro funds, moved to Singapore from New York in January
to lead the firm’s Asia-specific macro-trading activities from
the newly opened office. It started an Asia-focused macro hedge
fund in March which rose 3.5 percent that month. Asian macro
funds on average gained 1.9 percent in March, according to
Eurekahedge.  Fortress aims to increase its team in Singapore to about 25
people from 20 by the end of the year, Thomas Kang, president of
Fortress Asia, said in April. The firm closed its Hong Kong
office at the end of 2008.  “Being in the time zone is something which is recognized
as being beneficial,” said Rainsford of Man Investments, a unit
of  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge fund.
“In the years gone by, hedge funds would have tried to capture
those opportunities by running a night desk or night trading
operations.”  Proven Resilience  GLG Partners Inc., which Man acquired in October, obtained
its Hong Kong trading license in December and moved Andrew Thatcher to the city from London to develop its Asian business.  The Asia-Pacific region overtook  North America  last year as
the world’s biggest derivatives market amid increasing demand
for futures and options contracts in the region’s fast-growing
economies, according to data from the Washington-based Futures
Industry Association.  China  is encouraging greater use of the yuan for
international trade and investment to reduce reliance on dollars.
Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s real estate investment trust raised
10.5 billion yuan ($1.6 billion) in April in Hong Kong’s first
stock sale in the Chinese currency.  Algebris’s global financials hedge fund, which invests in
the equity, debt and derivatives of financial and real estate
companies, has been increasing its Asia holdings, said Vatchkov.
Algebris manages $1.3 billion.  “The importance of the region to global growth has
increased and the resilience of the region after the financial
crisis has been proven,” he said. “People should be less
skittish about staying in the region now; as far as I’m
concerned, I’m certainly staying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  