-- 
Taliban Insurgency, IMF Freeze May Force Pakistan Budget Cut

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-06-01T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/taliban-insurgency-imf-freeze-may-force-pakistan-budget-cut.html
Pakistan  may cut a power subsidy and
raise the company  tax rate  to offset war costs and convince the
 International Monetary Fund  to end a 12-month freeze on its loan
disbursements.  The steps may help narrow the budget deficit to a four-year
low of 4.5 percent of gross domestic product in the year ending
June 30, 2012 from 5.5 percent of GDP in the previous 12 months,
Standard Chartered Plc said. Finance Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh is scheduled to unveil the plan in Islamabad tomorrow.  Curbing  government borrowing  will assist the South Asian
nation slow inflation and minimize the risk of higher  interest
rates  that are choking economic growth. Pakistan wants the IMF
to release funds under an $11.3 billion credit program amid U.S.
congressional anger over the discovery of al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden near Islamabad last month.  “Next year’s budget is critical to reversing the fortunes
of the ailing economy,” said Sayem Ali, a Karachi-based
economist at  Standard Chartered . “Pakistan is in a stagflation
trap.”  The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index gained 1.2 percent
yesterday, and the Pakistan rupee weakened 0.1 percent to 86.01
against the dollar. The  stock index  has advanced 32 percent in
the past year.  Consumer prices in Pakistan rose 13.23 percent in May from
a year earlier, the fastest pace in  Asia  after  Vietnam . The
economy may expand 2.4 percent in the current fiscal year, the
slowest since 2009, according to government data.  Government Finances  Shaikh aims to improve government finances amid delays in
assistance from overseas donors.  Pakistan hasn’t received funds from the IMF since May 2010
after the country failed to meet  budget-deficit  targets attached
to the loan first issued in 2008. The Washington-based lender
urged Pakistan last month to reduce the shortfall and plans the
next round of talks in July to review progress.  “Budget making in the Pakistani context is becoming
irrelevant,” said Khalid Iqbal Siddiqui, head of research at
Invest & Finance Securities Ltd. in Karachi. “At best, it’s for
the consumption of donors and lenders who want to see their
recommendations built into macroeconomic targets and these
targets are sure to be revised down the road.”  The government, which pledged May 28 to increase spending
on roads, education and healthcare by 58 percent to 730 billion
rupees ($8.5 billion) in the 12 months starting July 1, failed
to meet a similar pledge last year.  U.S. Aid  For now, funds from the U.S., a key donor in the past six
years, has become less certain after bin Laden’s killing in the
town of Abbottabad 30 miles from  Pakistan ’s capital. The U.S.
has provided $14.6 billion in economic and military aid since
2005 to support investment and fight Taliban militants along the
border with  Afghanistan .  Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who leads
the Foreign Relations Committee and was an architect of a 2009
bill committing $1.5 billion annually to Pakistan, said last
month many members of the U.S. Congress are questioning that aid
after bin Laden was found sheltering in the country.  The U.S. expects Pakistan’s leaders to take “decisive”
action against extremist groups, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in Islamabad May 28 even as she expressed her
nation’s “commitment to working with and supporting Pakistan.”  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s administration, seeking
to strengthen the economy by narrowing the budget deficit, may
scrap the power subsidy, which may have cost the government
about $2.43 billion, or 1.5 percent of GDP in the current year,
said Asif Ali Qureshi, executive director at Invisor Securities
Ltd. in Karachi.  Company Tax  The government may also increase the corporate tax rate to
37.5 percent from 35 percent, Standard Chartered’s Ali said.  Ali said the move will send a “wrong signal to the
market” because it shows the government’s inability to bring
new businesses into the tax net and that it “can only penalize
those who are already paying taxes.”  “If the corporate tax rate is raised, it will discourage
further investment,” said Muhammad Ali Tabba, Karachi-based
chief executive officer of  Lucky Cement Ltd. (LUCK) , Pakistan’s biggest
cement maker. “The taxation structure is the biggest problem in
Pakistan. There is absolute imbalance.”  Even so, Pakistan’s central bank extended a six-month pause
in rate increases on May 21, opting to wait for the budget for
signs the government will tighten fiscal policy and help contain
price pressures.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan says inflation in the nation is
being stoked by higher government borrowing, which has surged 67
percent to 614 billion rupees since July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  