-- 
Allstate’s Greffin Invests in Property, Infrastructure

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-06-01T20:08:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/allstate-invests-in-real-estate-infrastructure-to-guard-against-inflation.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the home and auto
insurer with more than $80 billion in fixed-income investments,
is scaling back bond holdings and buying real-estate equity and
infrastructure assets as it prepares for rising inflation.  “We should favor alternatives and inflation protection
over fixed income,” Chief Investment Officer Judy Greffin told
investors today. “That allocation should shift from what we
think is still good fixed income, yet relatively rich. We’re
going to shift that to be more into inflation protection, which
includes real assets, also into infrastructure, assets with more
global content, and real estate.”  The U.S.  Federal Reserve  and Treasury Department have
pumped money into the economy since 2008 through bank bailouts,
government stimulus and near-zero  interest rates . Allstate
rivals including Liberty Mutual Holding Co. and  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  have predicted inflation will increase
and shortened the durations of their bond holdings.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against six currencies, including the euro,
dropped 5.6 percent this year through yesterday.  Allstate’s holdings outside of bonds include $4.1 billion
in limited partnership interests such as private-equity, real-
estate and hedge funds. The investment in real-estate funds
jumped 29 percent in the 12 months ended March 31, to $685
million, according to company filings.  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. home insurer, is
seeking to maintain yields in its investment portfolio as the
company recovers from writedowns in 2008 and 2009 and claims
tied to natural disasters. The insurer is increasing prices for
residential coverage after results missed the company’s targets.  Home Insurance  “Overall returns have been inadequate” in the homeowners’
segment, Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate said today in a
slide presentation for its Investor Day.  Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson  needs to cushion
losses from natural disasters, including April tornadoes in
Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia and  Virginia . Catastrophes cost the
firm $1.4 billion that month, the insurer said on May 12.  Allstate “significantly reduced” the potential for losses
on earthquakes and hurricanes by curtailing the sale of
homeowners’ policies in the most vulnerable regions and buying
reinsurance, the firm said.  Allstate slipped 94 cents, or 3 percent, to $30.44 at 4:01
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer
has dropped 4.5 percent this year, compared with the 2.2 percent
decline of the 24-company KBW Insurance Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  