-- 
Altria Loses Bid for End of U.S. Tobacco Sales Oversight

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-01T19:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/altria-lorillard-lose-bid-to-dismiss-u-s-racketeering-lawsuit.html
Tobacco companies including  Altria
Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA unit lost a bid to dismiss the
federal government’s 1999 racketeering case.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler in  Washington  ruled
today that her authority over the case wasn’t ended by a 2009
law that empowered the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to
monitor the industry and establish restrictions on the sale,
promotion and distribution of tobacco products.  The defendants, which also include  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco and  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ’s Lorillard Tobacco,
argued that the FDA’s new role meant court oversight of the
industry is no longer needed.  Kessler said the cigarette makers continue to challenge the
law that created the FDA’s regulation of the industry and if
they prevail, “it will be all the more necessary for them to be
restrained by this court from any future violations” of the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.  In 2006, Kessler found that the companies violated the law
by conspiring to hide the dangers of cigarettes. She ordered the
companies to stop marketing cigarettes as “light” and “low-
tar” and to make statements about the health effects of smoking
in newspapers and magazines and on cigarette packages.  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Europe ’s largest cigarette
maker, was dropped from the lawsuit in March after Kessler said
a 2010 ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court in a securities case
restricts the U.S. from finding liability in “what is
essentially foreign activity.”  Government ‘Pleased’  “At first blush, we’re pleased,” Charles Miller, a
Justice Department spokesman, said of the ruling.  “We continue to believe that the FDA is the appropriate
agency to regulate tobacco products and are considering our
appellate options,” said Steven Callahan, a spokesman for
Altria.  Greg Perry, a spokesman for Lorillard, declined to comment
immediately. Representatives at Reynolds American’s public
relations department didn’t immediately reply to a phone message
seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., 99-cv-02496,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 