-- 
American Airlines Told by Judge to Let Orbitz Use Its Data

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-06-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/american-airlines-must-let-orbitz-use-data-judge-says-orbitz-shares-jump.html
American Airlines  was ordered by a
judge to let  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  resume ticket sales, the same
day Sabre Holdings Inc. asked a federal court in  Texas  for
permission to sue the carrier over access to flight data.  Illinois Circuit Court Judge Lee Preston in  Chicago 
yesterday ordered  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American to reinstate Orbitz.com’s
and Orbitz for Business’s ability to ticket its flights. Preston
overturned a decision denying a request by Travelport LP for a
preliminary injunction. Travelport owns about 48 percent of
Chicago-based Orbitz.  “The court agreed with Travelport that an injunction
should have been granted against AA in December which would have
prevented AA from terminating its contracts with Orbitz,”
Travelport said in an e-mailed statement.  Orbitz jumped 91 cents, or 42 percent, to $3.13 at 6:03
p.m. yesterday after regular  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares declined 9 cents in regular trading
yesterday. AMR fell 18 cents to $6.09 yesterday.  On Dec. 21, after defeating Travelport’s bid for an
injunction, American stopped displaying data and selling tickets
through Orbitz. American has developed a system of its own,
Direct Connect, which provides fare pricing and options directly
to larger online travel agencies. The carrier also is trying to
use its system to provide more products to customers and boost
revenue.  ‘Exact Opposite’  “This is the exact opposite conclusion than that of the
judge who heard the evidence,” Fort Worth, Texas-based American
Airlines said in a statement. “We are evaluating our options,
but in the meantime, we will, of course, comply with the judge’s
order.”  Travelport, which compiles flight schedule and fare data
from airlines and distributes it to travel agents, is owned by
New York-based  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   Sabre Holdings Corp. yesterday escalated its fight with
American over the distribution of flight fares and schedules to
travel agents by asking a court for permission to sue the
carrier for antitrust violations.  Sabre filed a motion to intervene as a defendant and file a
counterclaim in a lawsuit brought by American in federal court
in Fort Worth. American called the claims “meritless” and
added Sabre as a defendant in the case.  Expiration Date  Yesterday marked the expiration of an agreement between
American and Sabre to suspend legal action while they tried to
negotiate an agreement. Chris Kroeger, Sabre Travel Network
senior vice president, said in the statement that the company
would “continue to pursue through negotiations a distribution
agreement with AA.”  American acted illegally in trying to force agents to use
its proprietary technology to access all of the airline’s data,
Sabre said in a statement. In doing so, American is trying to
“eliminate” global distribution systems like Sabre, the
Southlake, Texas-based company said.  Sabre, the biggest U.S. global distribution system, and
American have been disputing the control and dissemination of
data consumers use to book flights through travel agents. The
U.S.  Justice Department  said May 20 that it was investigating
possible antitrust violations by Sabre and other global
distribution system operators.  American, through a variety of means, “seeks to destroy
the ability of travel agents, corporate travel purchasers, and
the traveling public to make apple-to-apple price comparisons,”
Sabre said in the proposed complaint.  Asks to Intervene  Sabre asked to intervene in a suit American filed in April
against Travelport and Orbitz. Closely held Sabre was spun off
by American in 2000 and acquired by units of buyout firms TPG
Capital and  Silver Lake  in 2007.  “American’s decision to include Sabre to the antitrust
lawsuit comes after American attempted for several months to
resolve disputes over distribution of the airline’s fares and
schedules,” the airline said in its statement. In a separate e-
mailed statement, American called Sabre’s claims “a spurious
attempt to distract the public and its subscribers from the
serious implications of its own anticompetitive behavior.”  The cost to protect Sabre’s debt from default for five
years jumped to the highest since September 2009. Credit-default
swaps on the company’s debt added 7.6 basis points to 774.1
basis points, according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The Illinois case is Travelport v. American Airlines,
10CH48028, Circuit Court of Cook County,  Chancery Division 
(Chicago). The Texas case is American Airlines Inc. v.
Travelport Ltd., 11-cv-244, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Fort Worth ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 