-- 
Anadarko Liable by Law for Gulf Oil Spill, U.S. Lawyers Say

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-06-01T20:04:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/anadarko-liable-by-law-for-bp-gulf-oil-spill-u-s-lawyers-say.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  is liable
under federal oil pollution laws for environmental damage caused
by the April 2010 blowout of the Macondo well and the  Gulf of
Mexico  oil spill that followed, the U.S. government said.  The exploration and production unit of Anadarko, which
owned most of the company’s 25 percent stake in the  BP Plc (BP/)  well,
asked a federal judge in New Orleans to dismiss it from a
 Justice Department  lawsuit. The government claimed
environmental-law violations in the largest offshore oil spill
in U.S. history. It also sued other companies involved in the
well, including BP.  The government asked U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  to
deny Anadarko E&P Co.’s motion to drop it from the case and find
the Woodlands, Texas-based parent and its affiliate liable under
the Oil Pollution Act and the  Clean Water Act .  “Liability under OPA and CWA is so straightforward here
that the court -- rather than dismissing the complaint -- should
enter summary judgment in favor of the  United States ,” the
government said. “Defendants are liable as a matter of law.”  John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman, said the company
is reviewing the filing.  Any owner of an offshore lease that causes oil pollution is
liable for damages or fines resulting from that spill, the U.S.
said.  Shares of Lease  Anadarko held a 2.5 percent and the exploration unit a
22.5 percent share in the lease when the Macondo blew out and
the BP oil spill began, the Justice Department said.  “These two sets of facts alone suffice to establish
liability under both the Clean Water Act and OPA, because the
elements of liability are few, liability is strict, and defenses
are limited,” the government said.  Anadarko E&P in April asked to be dismissed from the case,
contending it didn’t have an interest in the lease at the time
of the accident. The unit assigned its interest to the parent
company before the well blow-out, it said in court papers.  An assignment of an offshore lease or interest “is
ineffective unless it is approved” by federal regulators, the
U.S. said in court papers. The assignment to Anadarko E&P’s
parent wasn’t approved by regulators until April 28, 2010, so
the exploration unit “was a lessee on the day the discharge
commenced and OPA liability accrued,” the U.S. said.  Government lawyers also said that the court shouldn’t view
Anadarko and the E&P unit as separate entities with different
liabilities. U.S. claims against either company “should not be
dismissed on any ground until the relationships between the two
Anadarko defendants is more fully explained,” the Justice
Department said.  The case is U.S. v. BP Exploration & Production Inc., 10-
04536, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New
Orleans ), combined in In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  