-- 
Lance Armstrong’s Lawyers Demand On-Air Apology for ‘60 Minutes’ Report

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-06-01T20:10:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/lance-armstrong-s-lawyers-demand-on-air-apology-for-60-minutes-report.html
Lance Armstrong’s attorneys demanded
an on-air apology from  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “60 Minutes” following
accusations that Armstrong tested positive for a banned
substance at the 2001 Tour of Switzerland cycling race.  Attorneys John Keker and Elliot Peters write in the May 31
letter, a copy of which was provided to Bloomberg News, that the
accusations by former Armstrong teammate Tyler Hamilton are
“incorrect, false and broadcast in error.” Hamilton’s
interview was featured May 22 on “60 Minutes.”  “A record of all positive tests recorded during that race
demonstrates that Mr. Armstrong did not test positive,” the
lawyers said in the letter to  CBS News  Chairman Jeff Fager.
“Had there been a positive test, it would be easy to prove.”  CBS News said its story was “truthful, accurate and
fair.”  “ Lance Armstrong  and his lawyers were given numerous
opportunities to respond to every detail of our reporting for
weeks prior to the broadcast and their written responses were
fairly and accurately included in the story,” Fager, who also
is executive producer of “60 Minutes,” said in a statement.
“Mr. Armstrong still has not addressed charges by teammates
Tyler Hamilton and George Hincapie that he used performance-
enhancing drugs with them.”  Hamilton said in the “60 Minutes” interview that he saw
erythropoietin, or EPO, in Armstrong’s refrigerator and that he
witnessed his U.S. Postal Service teammate inject the banned
substance, which boosts the number of oxygen-carrying red blood
cells and improves stamina, while Armstrong was winning the
first of his record seven  Tour de France  titles in 1999.  Armstrong Denials  Armstrong  rejected those accusations . Armstrong, 39, who
retired from cycling in February, has said repeatedly that he
has never failed a drug test. He won the Tour de  France  every
year from 1999 to 2005 after surviving testicular cancer that
spread to his brain.  Hamilton tested positive for doping at the 2004 Athens
Olympics and later was suspended twice for using performance-
enhancing drugs.  On May 23, the International Cycling Union called
Hamilton’s accusations of a coverup of a 2001 Tour of
Switzerland positive drug test by Armstrong “completely
unfounded.”  Armstrong is being investigated by federal prosecutors in
 Los Angeles , said a person familiar with the matter who declined
to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Floyd Landis , another former teammate of Armstrong who was
stripped of the 2006 Tour de France title because of doping,
sent cycling authorities e-mails last year accusing Armstrong
and U.S. Postal team officials of breaking anti-drug rules.
Armstrong and other team officials denied those accusations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  