-- 
U.S. Manufacturing Probably Expanded at Slower Pace Amid Supply Disruption

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-01T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-expanded-in-may-at-slower-pace.html
U.S. manufacturing probably expanded
in May at the slowest pace in seven months, partly a reflection
of the supply interruptions stemming from the earthquake in
 Japan .  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
fell to 57.2 last month from 60.4 in April, according to the
median estimate of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. Other reports may show
construction spending rose in April and companies added to
payrolls last month.  The slowdown in manufacturing, the industry at the
forefront of the economic recovery, may prove temporary as
Japan’s factories resume output of components used by American
producers. Companies like  Deere & Co. (DE) , which raised its 2011
earnings forecast, are also benefiting from global demand that
may keep fueling growth later this year.  “The steamy pace of manufacturing is slowing down, but we
know it’s going to get better,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief
financial economist at Jefferies & Co. in  New York . “The
Japanese earthquake and tsunami caused disruptions in supply
lines, which have reduced output substantially in the second
quarter.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report is due at 10 a.m.
today New York time. Estimates ranged from 53 to 60.  The Commerce Department is projected to report a 0.3
percent rise in April construction spending after a 1.4 percent
increase a month earlier, according to the median forecast in
the Bloomberg survey.  ADP Employer Services  ADP Employer Services will release May employment data at
8:15 a.m. Companies added 175,000 workers to their payrolls last
month after a 179,000 April gain, the Bloomberg survey median
showed.  U.S. manufacturing, which has been benefiting from a pickup
in exports to countries like China and  Brazil , began to cool in
the aftermath of Japan’s earthquake in March and higher raw
material costs. Industrial production stalled in April as
disruptions related to Japan’s crisis led to a plunge in U.S.
auto output, a Federal Reserve report showed May 17.  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, said its
North American and China vehicle production will return to
normal in August as parts suppliers recover from Japan’s record
earthquake.  Civic Production  In the U.S., production of Honda’s Civic small cars will
continue to be slowed by limited supplies of some parts, the
Tokyo-based company said in a statement May 26. Output of the
2012 models, which went on sale in April, will be at about 50
percent, it said.  “The light at the end of the tunnel is glowing brighter
for us, represented by this significant improvement in our
production situation,” John Mendel, executive vice president of
U.S. sales, said in the statement.  Deere, based in Moline,  Illinois , said on May 18 that
earnings will be $2.65 billion in the fiscal year through
October, more than the $2.5 billion forecast in February.  The manufacturer’s forecast includes a negative impact of
about $300 million in sales and $70 million in operating profit
because of disruptions from Japan. Global demand for agriculture
and construction equipment will drive profits, the company said.  Share Prices  The recent slowdown in manufacturing has been reflected in
share prices. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery
Index, made up of 53 companies including Caterpillar Inc., Deere
and Cummins Inc., has dropped 6 percent since April 29, compared
with a 1.4 percent decrease for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  The  U.S. economy  began 2011 on a weaker note, growing at a
1.8 percent annual rate in the first three months of this year
after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace in the fourth quarter,
according to Commerce Department figures.  The slowdown will “probably prove temporary,” with
manufacturing data and financial markets improving, Federal
Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said during
a May 6 press conference.  Dudley said he expects the impact of rising commodity
prices on inflation to be “transitory.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  