-- 
Apple iPhone Developers Sued Over Ways to Access Applications

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-06-01T15:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/apple-iphone-developers-sued-over-ways-to-access-applications.html
Seven developers of applications for
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone were sued by a  Texas  company that owns
patents for ways to interact with customers through the software
programs.  The suit, filed yesterday by  Lodsys LLC  in Marshall, Texas,
came after Apple sent a letter warning the company to leave the
developers alone. In the May 23 letter, Apple General Counsel
Bruce Sewell said Apple has a license to the Lodsys patents and,
by extension, its application developers were covered as well.  Closely held Lodsys, which had sent letters to the
developers last month demanding licensing fees, said in a
 posting  on its website that it filed the suit faster than it
planned “in response to Apple’s threat, in order to preserve
its legal options.”  “Apple appeared to give the developer community what they
wanted,” Lodsys said on its website. “Unfortunately for
developers, Apple’s claim of infallibility has no discernible
basis in law or fact.”  Among the companies targeted by the complaint are Combay
Inc., maker of Mega Poker Online Texas Holdem; Iconfactory Inc.,
maker of Twitterrific for the iPhone, iPad and Mac; Shovelmate,
developer of 69 Positions; Quickoffice Inc., maker of
Quickoffice Connect; Richard Shinderman, who made Hearts and
Daggers; and Wulven Game Studios, maker of Shadow Era.  Also named was Illusion Labs AB, which makes Labyrinth for
both the iPhone and the Android operating system developed by
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  Neither Apple nor Google was named in the complaint.  Apple Letter  In its letter, Cupertino, California-based Apple claimed
that Lodsys was trying to get paid twice for the same use of its
patents, and asked Lodsys to “immediately withdraw all notice
letters” sent to third-party developers.  “Because Apple is licensed under Lodsys’ patents to offer
such technology to its App Makers, the App Makers are entitled
to use this technology free from any infringement claims by
Lodsys,” Sewell wrote.  The complaint was filed in Marshall, Texas, which is
considered to be a favorable venue for patent owners. Some 19
percent of all open patent cases are being handled in the
Eastern District that includes Marshall, according to Greg
Upchurch, director of research for St. Louis-based LegalMetric
Inc., which compiles litigation data for law firms and
companies.  The case is Lodsys LLC v. Combay Inc., 11cv272, U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 