-- 
Aquarius Platinum To Expand Everest Mine Production, May Idle Blue Ridge

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-06-01T16:35:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/aquarius-to-boost-everest-platinum-production-to-250-000-ounces-from-2017.html
Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , the world’s
fourth-largest producer of the metal, said it may idle the  Blue
Ridge  mine and instead expand its Everest operation in South
Africa at a cost of about 850 million rand ($125 million).  Blue Ridge, shut for redevelopment since August, “could
not be operated economically” at prevailing South African-
currency prices for platinum group metals, London-based Aquarius
said in a statement today. Platinum has dropped 7.6 percent in
rand terms from its 2011 high.  “A write down now looks likely” on Blue Ridge, which
Aquarius bought for $113 million in 2009, at the June 30 fiscal
year end, Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note today.  Aquarius and larger rivals Anglo American Platinum Ltd.,
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. and Lonmin Plc mine chiefly in
 South Africa . They are grappling with rising labor, power and
diesel costs along with gains in the rand against the U.S.
currency that curb the benefit of advancing dollar metal prices.  Aquarius plans to accelerate investment at its more-
efficient Everest venture, with the goal of increasing output to
about 250,000 ounces a year starting 2017, from about 190,000
ounces. The proposal would prolong the life of the mine to more
than 30 years from six, the platinum miner said.  Aquarius fell 1.8 pence, or 0.5 percent, to 341 pence at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, bringing its gain in the last six
months to 3.3 percent. Lonmin, the world’s third-largest
platinum producer, declined 8.9 percent to 1,595 pence over the
past six months.  ‘Poor Asset’  Everest’s expansion “should now offset disappointment in
the Blue Ridge department,” Louise Collinge, an analyst at
Evolution Securities Ltd. in  London , said in a note, describing
Blue Ridge as a “poor asset.”  Everest is a “better,” and “lower-cost” mine than Blue
Ridge, Gavin Mackay, Aquarius’s business development executive
said by phone from London today.  “I wouldn’t say it was a bad buy,” Mackay said of Blue
Ridge. It’s too early to say whether the mine will be written
down, he said. “Platinum assets come up for sale infrequently
and you need to be opportunistic, and you can’t tell what the
platinum price is going to be.”  Aquarius is the only company among platinum group metal
suppliers “that does not hesitate to shut production if it
fails to deliver acceptable returns,”  Leon Esterhuizen , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in London, said in a note.
Aquarius is “agile,” London-based Liberum Capital said.  Richest Reserves  Aquarius raised its stake in Platinum Mile Resources Ltd.
to 91.7 percent from 50 percent for 115.5 million rand, it said
today. That adds to the company’s May agreement to acquire the
Booysendal South mining properties, on land next to the Everest
mine in the Bushveld complex in northern South Africa, which
contains the world’s richest platinum reserves.  The company “continues to find avenues for growth at very
competitive prices,” Esterhuizen said.  The estimated cost of including Booysendal South in the
Everest mine plan will be confirmed by further technical study,
Aquarius said in its statement. The initial estimated cost is
“very low” compared with what other producers are spending,
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Liam Fitzpatrick said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 