-- 
Marathon Paying High Price for Texas Assets, Analysts Say

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-06-01T20:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/marathon-paying-high-price-for-eagle-ford-assets-analysts-say.html
Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  must show it’s
getting a good deal by purchasing oil and gas leases in southern
 Texas  for the above-average price of $3.5 billion, analysts said.  Marathon will buy leases on 141,000 net acres from Hilcorp
Resources Holdings LP with production equivalent to 7,000
barrels of oil a day, the Houston-based producer said in a
statement. KKR & Co., the New York-based private-equity firm,
took an initial stake of 40 percent in closely held Hilcorp last
June, KKR said in a separate statement.  Marathon is paying the equivalent of about $21,000 an acre,
topping an earlier price of $16,000 per acre in the Eagle Ford,
according to  Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-based analyst for  RBC
Capital Markets . Marathon Chief Executive Officer Clarence Cazalot said it’s misleading to compare prices because the
Hilcorp deal includes acreage in prime areas of the Eagle Ford.
The company said the purchase in the Eagle Ford shale formation
may boost its reserves by 100 million barrels by year-end.  “In terms of the economics, it’s too early to tell just
given the richness of the multiple,” said Pavel Molchanov, an
analyst with Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston who has
a “market perform” rating on Marathon shares and owns none.
“But strategically I think this is a good direction for
Marathon to go in.”  Marathon fell $1.52, or 2.8 percent, to $52.65 as of 4:35
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today,
the stock had climbed 46 percent for the year.  Marathon said in January that it will spin off its refining
and marketing businesses June 30 as Marathon Petroleum Corp.
Marathon Oil Corp. will then operate as an independent
exploration and production company.  Growth Rate  The company said it now sees a 5 percent to 7 percent
compounded average annual growth for production from 2010 to
2016, compared with a previous forecast of 3 percent to 5
percent a year. Cazalot told investors on a conference call
today that output growth rates of more than 10 percent aren’t
sustainable or profitable.  The Eagle Ford shale-rock formation holds oil, petroleum
liquids and gas. Producers use hydraulic fracturing to release
the fuel, injecting a mixture of water, sand and chemicals.
Marathon’s announcement comes after Korea National Oil Corp.
said March 21 it would pay $1.55 billion to  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  for a joint-venture stake in the Eagle Ford.  Cazalot, in a telephone interview today, said acreage is
worth different prices depending on the location. “A good part
of what we are buying here lies in the core, what we believe to
be some of the most profitable portions of the trend,” he said.  Another Purchase?  Marathon said today it may have the opportunity to buy
another 14,000 net acres. The company said production from the
Hilcorp assets is expected to rise to the equivalent of about
80,000 net barrels of oil a day by 2016. Marathon said the
Hilcorp transaction is expected to close Nov. 1.  Mark Gilman, an analyst with the Benchmark Co. in New York,
said questions remain about Marathon’s price and assumptions
regarding the Eagle Ford assets.  “It’s very expensive and their assessments in my mind
regarding resource potential are aggressive,” said Gilman, who
has a “sell” rating on Marathon shares and owns none.  Marathon “is paying at the top end of the transaction
range for Eagle Ford acreage,” said Ann Kohler, an analyst with
CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who has a
“buy” rating on Marathon shares and doesn’t own any. Kohler
said she understands that all acreage isn’t equal as Marathon
looks to add projects that include petroleum liquids.  “Certainly it positions them extremely well in one of the
top liquids-rich plays in the country,” she said.  Marathon’s deal values KKR’s stake in Hilcorp at $1.13
billion, the New York-based firm said today in its statement.
KKR had invested $400 million and tripled the number of
horizontal rigs Hilcorp operated in the Eagle Ford shale to six.  “The day for exit came sooner than we expected. Over the
course of a year, we did enough drilling to delineate the
position and prove the economics of the play,” said Marc S. Lipschultz, a partner at New York-based KKR who oversees energy
and infrastructure.  Barclays Plc served as a financial adviser to Marathon and
Baker Botts LLP was its legal adviser. Jefferies & Co. Inc.
advised Hilcorp and Andrews Kurth LLP provided legal advice.
Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett LLP served as legal adviser to KKR.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  