-- 
Asian Stocks Rise, Led by Tech Companies as Nokia Loses Share; Tepco Drops

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-06-01T10:23:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/asian-stocks-fall-on-signs-u-s-economy-slowing.html
Asian stocks rose, driving the
regional benchmark index to its highest level in three weeks, as
rivals of Nokia Oyj gained after the mobile-phone maker lowered
its sales and profit forecasts.  HTC Corp. (2498) , a Taiwanese maker of smartphones using Google
Inc.’s Android and Microsoft operating systems, advanced 2.1
percent in Taipei.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s third-
largest mobile phone maker, gained 1.3 percent in Seoul. Tokyo
Electric Power Co., owner of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant at the
center of the worst nuclear accident in 25 years, slumped 5.7
percent in Tokyo after Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit said
the utility’s future as a listed company is uncertain.  “Nokia’s cut of its forecast does help the shares of its
more aggressive competitors,” Sam Hsieh, a Taipei-based  fund
manager  at Fuh Hwa Investment Trust Co., who helps oversee the
equivalent of $7.8 billion. “But Nokia has been weak for a long
time, so investors have mostly priced that in. Any impact would
be short-term.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent to 136.62 as
of 7:14 p.m. in  Tokyo , heading for its highest close since May
11. About the same number of stocks rose and fell on the 1,016-
company gauge, which last week completed its longest streak of
weekly losses in two years as concern deepened over Europe’s
debt crisis and amid speculation a slowing global recovery will
crimp earnings.  Australian, Chinese Data  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed after a
report showed the country’s economy shrank in the first quarter
by the most in 20 years after flooded coal mines, railways and
farmland hurt exports.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average
increased 0.3 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 0.8 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index dropped 0.2 percent.  China ’s
Shanghai Composite Index was little changed, erasing losses of
as much as 0.6 percent, after a report showed the nation’s
manufacturing expanded in May at the slowest pace in nine months
as the government extended a campaign to cool inflation and the
 property market .  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.1 percent
today. In  New York , the index advanced 1.1 percent yesterday
after  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the group of euro-area
finance ministers, said European Union leaders will decide on
additional aid for  Greece  by the end of June and have ruled out
a “total restructuring” of the country’s debt.  Consumer Confidence  Stocks in the U.S. gained even after the Institute for
Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its business barometer fell
more than expected. Consumer sentiment unexpectedly decreased in
May to the lowest level in six months as Americans grew
concerned over the outlook for jobs and the economy, while a
measure of  home prices  dropped to a nine-year low.  “There’s still some uncertainty about the outlook for the
 U.S. economy ,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager in
Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index lost 1 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 7 percent by the S&P
500 and 1.8 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 13.6 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.6 times for the S&P 500 and 11.2 times
for the Stoxx 600.  A gauge of information technology companies posted the
biggest advance among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. All but two of the sub-indexes advanced.  Nokia Rivals  Nokia’s rivals rallied after the manufacturer said mobile
phone sales will “substantially” fall short of its projected
range this quarter as it lost market share to Apple Inc.’s
iPhone and Google’s Android, the fastest-growing smartphone
platform.  HTC increased 2.1 percent to NT$1,245 in Taipei. Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co., which manufactures iPhones and iPads,
gained 1.5 percent to NT$102. LG Electronics increased 1.3
percent to 98,500 won in  Seoul . Samsung Electronics Co., the
world’s second-biggest maker of mobile phones by sales, added 1
percent to 911,000 won.  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , Malaysia’s fifth-biggest bank by assets,
jumped 7.4 percent to 9.90 ringgit in  Kuala Lumpur , its biggest
advance since November 2008. CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and
Malayan Banking Bhd. won Malaysian central bank approval to
begin separate merger talks with RHB Capital, triggering a
takeover battle that may create Southeast Asia’s biggest bank.  Tepco Plunges  International Container Terminal Services Inc. (ICT) , the largest
Philippine port operator, increased 4.5 percent to 52.35 pesos.
The company offered to buy the rest of Singapore-based rival
Portek International Ltd. for S$171 million ($139 million) to
add terminals in Asia, Africa and  Europe .  Among stocks that dropped, Tokyo Electric Power, or Tepco
as Japan’s largest electric utility by sales is known, slumped
5.7 percent to 299 yen in Tokyo. The shares have fallen about 86
percent since the March 11 earthquake crippled the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  “For now, the company and the government plan to maintain
the utility’s listing,” Merrill Lynch said in a Japanese-
language report dated yesterday. “Depending on the future
direction of politics, that may change.”  Chubu Electric Power Co., Japan’s third-biggest utility by
sales, lost 2.2 percent to 1,254 yen after Merrill Lynch cut its
rating on the stock to “neutral” from “buy.” Smaller rivals
Hokuriku Electric Power Co. and Hokkaido Electric Power Co. both
declined more than 2 percent after the brokerage lowered its
recommendation on the stocks to “underperform” from
“neutral.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 