-- 
Latvian Referendum Won’t Postpone Dollar Bond Sale, Prime Minister Says

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-06-01T08:47:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/latvian-referendum-won-t-postpone-dollar-bond-sale-prime-minister-says.html
Latvia  won’t postpone its first
international bond sale since 2008 because of a referendum to
dissolve parliament, Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said.  Market reaction hasn’t been "too negative" since May 28,
when President Valdis Zatlers called for the public vote,
Dombrovskis said in an interview late yesterday in Riga, the
capital. The government and the central bank will start investor
meetings this week to sell dollar bonds, he said.  “We aren’t changing our plans,” Dombrovskis said. “Of
course, the president’s decision is going to cost us money. So
far it seems like this will not be too costly.”  Zatlers urged Latvians to dissolve the parliament elected
in October after lawmakers failed to lift the immunity of a
deputy targeted by an anti-corruption probe. Dombrovskis said he
supports the call for new elections and backs Zatlers bid for
re-election in a parliamentary vote tomorrow.  The yield Latvia’s 2018 dollar bonds sold in 2008, the
country’s last international offering, rose 5 basis points
yesterday to 4.97 percent, compared with almost 12 percent in
March 2009.  Latvia’s five-year credit default swaps, which investors
use to protect against default or speculate on a borrower’s
creditworthiness, fell 4 basis points to 195.375, according to
data provider CMA. Latvian CDS prices reached almost 1,200 basis
points in March 2009.  2011 Bond Plan  The country plans to raise as much as 1.5 billion euros
through international bond offerings this year as it builds up
financing to begin repaying the 4.4 billion euros it used from a
bailout led by the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Union. Latvia expects to complete the loan program this year.  The referendum won’t have an immediate impact on Latvia’s
BB+ credit rating, one step below investment grade which has a
positive outlook,  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday. Fitch
Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service assign their lowest
investment grades to the country’s debt.  The referendum, which doesn’t require a minimum turnout to
be binding, is scheduled for July 23 and may pave the way for
new parliamentary elections two months later if approved by
voters.  Lawmakers’ failure to lift the immunity of the deputy shows
that parliament feels comfortable in an “atmosphere of
political schemes, lies and impunity,” Zatlers said when he
called for the referendum.  ‘Surprise to Everyone’  “I think it came as a surprise to everyone," Dombrovskis
said. ‘‘We had a meeting that was the very same day. The
president didn’t clearly tell about his intention.’’  Dombrovskis has been prime minister since March 2009,
rising to the post when the previous government collapsed four
months after it had sought its 7.5 billion-euro bailout.  Latvia, which implemented tax increases and spending cuts
equal to about 16 percent of gross domestic product since the
crisis began, plans further measures to narrow the  budget
deficit  to 2.5 percent next year and adopt the euro in 2014.  The measures may harm Dombrovskis’ Unity bloc in an early
election. The party won 33 seats in the 100-member legislature
in October.  ‘‘Since the election, we have had to continue Latvia’s
economic stabilization program, which people know isn’t going to
be popular,” he said. Still, “we think that the president took
an important decision to substantially reduce the role or
oligarchs in politics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  