-- 
Latvian GDP Estimates ‘Optimistic’ as Europe Slows, RBS Says

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-06-01T12:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/latvian-gdp-estimates-optimistic-as-europe-slows-rbs-says.html
Latvia’s forecasts for economic
growth of 3.3 percent this year and 4 percent next may be too
optimistic as western  Europe ’s expansion slows and banks
restrict lending, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  While efforts to slash spending, raise taxes and keep the
currency pegged to the euro helped Latvia recover from a
“brutal recession,” additional cuts may be needed this year to
curb inflation, Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at
RBS in  London , said today in an e-mailed note.  Official projections “appear optimistic against this
backdrop: the weakening of global/European growth and also
little evidence of an upturn in domestic credit growth,” Ash
said. “The weaker growth/recovery outlook could also strain
budget targets, albeit admittedly the Latvian authorities have
shown a strong ability to rein in the expenditure side.”  Latvia ’s economy expanded 3.4 percent in the first quarter,
following a contraction of more than 20 percent after the Baltic
nation turned to the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund  for a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.8 billion) loan program in
2008. The government has implemented austerity measures equal to
16 percent of gross domestic product to comply with bailout
conditions as it plans to adopt the euro in 2014.  “Most foreign commentators (including yours truly) argued
at the time, that given the shear extent of external imbalances,
the only option for the Latvian authorities was to abandon the
fixed exchange rate regime, devalue, and go for growth,” Ash
said. “The shear extent of the fiscal adjustment undertaken was
nothing if not remarkable.”  Government policies have led to wage cuts of more than 30
percent and a current-account surplus of 8.6 percent in 2009
after a deficit of 22 percent two years earlier.  ‘Brutal Consequences’  The ability “to force through such an aggressive domestic
depreciation/deflation, with brutal consequences for the real
economy, for unemployment, and for overall budget provision, in
defense of the fixed exchange rate regime, has been one of the
enduring lessons of the crisis,” Ash said.  Latvia’s unemployment rate rose to a record 17.3 percent in
March 2010 from 4.8 percent before the crisis. The jobless rate
dropped to 13.9 percent in April.  Policy makers in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  are trying to
rein in spending after accepting their own bailout packages
because of ballooning debt and budget deficits.  Greece has faced strikes and street protests in the face of
austerity measures that pushed unemployment to 14.2 percent in
the fourth quarter.  It is “difficult to imagine a West European economy
forcing through such a brutal fiscal adjustment in defense of a
rigid exchange rate regime,” Ash said. “Perhaps Greece is
currently showing just how difficult it is to live up to the
Latvian experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  