-- 
Australia Must Raise Debt Ceiling, Treasury Secretary Says

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-01T05:13:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/australia-must-raise-debt-ceiling-treasury-secretary-says-1-.html
The Australian government may have
difficulty operating unless lawmakers approve an increase to the
country’s gross debt ceiling, Treasury Secretary Martin
Parkinson said.  “I couldn’t imagine the parliament would be so foolish not
to do so,” Parkinson told the Senate Economics estimates
committee in Canberra today about approving the laws. “Were
that to be the case, it would have serious ramifications for the
operations of government and I would imagine the government in
those circumstances would be forced to find other ways.”  The government introduced laws to parliament on May 10 to
raise the gross debt ceiling to A$250 billion ($277 billion)
from the current A$75 billion to deal with budget deficits. The
opposition Liberal-National coalition, which is leading opinion
polls ahead of an election due in 2013, has accused the
government of being addicted to debt and opposes the plan.  Labor Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  relies on support from
four lower house lawmakers that aren’t part of her party or the
Liberal-National coalition to pass legislation after the August
2010 election delivered the closest result for 70 years. The
debt laws are yet to be debated in parliament.  Australia ’s economy shrank in the first quarter by 1.2
percent, the most in 20 years, after rains flooded coal mines,
railways and farmland which hurt exports from the world’s
biggest coal and iron ore shipper, figures released today
showed. That has reduced tax revenue.  Surplus Planned  The government will end 23 years of spending growth to
reverse budget deficits forecast to be A$49.4 billion in the
year ending June 30 and A$22.6 billion the following year,
according to its budget released on May 10. A Newspoll opinion
survey published six days later showed Gillard’s standing among
voters slipped to its lowest since she became leader in June
2010.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts Australia’s gross
government borrowings will shrink to 21.8 percent of the economy
in 2015 from 22.3 percent last year, giving it the smallest debt
burden among developed nations after  Estonia ’s 5.2 percent. The
U.S.’s obligations will swell to 109 percent of its economy from
92 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  