-- 
Australia’s Economy Shrinks Most in 20 Years as Floods Hurt Coal Exports

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-01T06:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/australia-s-economy-shrinks-most-in-20-years-as-floods-hurt-coal-exports.html
Australia ’s economy shrank in the
first quarter by the most in 20 years as floods hurt exports,
even as stronger business investment underscored the central
bank’s forecast for a rebound in the second half of the year.  Gross domestic product fell 1.2 percent from the previous
three months, when it rose a revised 0.8 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. Exports slumped 8.7 percent,
subtracting 2.1 percentage points from GDP growth, today’s
report showed, while machinery and equipment spending jumped 6
percent, adding 0.4 point.  The nation’s dollar rose after the report showed the
contraction was smaller than a drop of as much as 2 percent that
economists including Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty had
forecast. While  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens
has held  interest rates  at 4.75 percent for the past five
meetings to help Queensland state recover, investors today
boosted bets he’ll raise borrowing costs by August.  “The market was braced for a really big negative so it’s a
bit of a relief,” said Su-Lin Ong, senior economist at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Sydney. “The report looks mostly to be
reflecting the impact of the Queensland floods on exports;
outside of exports, domestic demand is actually pretty
resilient.”  RBA Outlook  The local currency rose to as high as $1.0752 before
trading at $1.0732 at 4:35 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0672 yesterday
in  New York . The RBA has pledged to look past data distorted by
the natural disasters and said rates will need to rise “at some
point” to contain inflation.  Household spending, which accounts for 55 percent of GDP,
increased 0.6 percent in the first quarter, adding 0.3
percentage point to growth, today’s report showed. Dwellings
rose 4.6 percent, adding 0.3 point.  Compared with a year earlier, the economy expanded 1
percent in the first quarter, today’s report showed, matching
economists’ median forecast.  Traders bet there’s an 12 percent chance Stevens will boost
the benchmark rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 5
percent at a meeting June 7, a 32 percent chance in July and 50
percent in August, interbank cash-rate futures showed.  The quarterly decline was the biggest drop since
Australia’s last recession in 1991 and compared with the median
of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey for a 1.1 percent
fall in GDP.  Regional Slowdown  Global growth, including the economies of some of
Australia’s biggest trading partners, shows signs of weakening.  China ’s manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in nine
months in May, a survey of companies released today showed.
 India ’s growth in three months to March 31 was the weakest in
five quarters, and  Japan ’s industrial production rose less than
economists forecast in April, reports showed this week. Those
three countries accounted for 51 percent of Australia’s total
exports so far this year.  Today’s GDP data showed Australia’s household savings ratio
climbed to 11.5 percent from 9.7 percent in the previous quarter,
the highest level since 2009. Insurance payouts following the
January floods contributed to the rise, said  Bill Evans ,  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) ’s chief economist.  The report, coupled with Australia’s government budget
released last month that aims to cool inflation and return to a
surplus by 2013, will make it difficult for the RBA to raise
rates next week, economists said. “However, the RBA is almost
certain to maintain the strong hawkish rhetoric to ensure that
markets and the community ‘have been warned,’” Evans said.  Aussie’s Advance  The nation’s currency has risen 29 percent in the past year
as companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  increase hiring to meet
Chinese and Indian demand for iron ore and coal, pushing
unemployment below 5 percent.  Driving the economy is mining investment the government
estimates will be A$76 billion ($82 billion) next fiscal year.
BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, is expanding its iron
ore operations in Western Australia state’s Pilbara region.  The local dollar reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest
level since it was freely floated in 1983. The currency’s
strength is hurting exporters including Henderson, Western
Australia-based shipbuilder  Austal Ltd. (ASB)   The RBA’s benchmark interest rate of 4.75 percent is the
developed world’s highest, raising debt payments for homeowners.
 Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  and  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , Australia’s biggest
department store chains, reported declines in quarterly sales on
May 11.  Rebound Predicted  In a quarterly review released last month, the RBA forecast
growth will be 4.25 percent this year, unchanged from its
February estimate. Consumer prices will rise 3.25 percent over
the period, from a previous prediction of 3 percent, and  core
inflation  will quicken to 3 percent from 2.75 percent, it said.  Disrupting trade were floods in Queensland in January that
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called the nation’s most expensive
natural disaster. Queensland produces 80 percent of steel-making
coal exports from Australia, the world’s biggest supplier, and
grows more than 30 percent of the country’s fruit and vegetables.  The impact was reflected in the GDP breakdown in states at
the center of Australia’s biggest resources boom. Queensland’s
economy contracted 0.6 percent in the three months through March
from the previous quarter, while Western Australia’s GDP surged
3.2 percent.  Expanding resource projects helped Australia post record
employment growth last year before hiring cooled in the first
four months of 2011. Still, the number of unemployed Australians
in April fell to the lowest level since January 2009.  “The economy will rebound in the second quarter, but it
will take some time before the coal industry, in particular, is
back up to full speed,” said  Stephen Walters , chief economist
for Australia at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  