-- 
Tax ‘Subsidies’ at GE, Boeing and Verizon Targeted by Group

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-01T18:34:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/tax-subsidies-at-ge-boeing-and-fedex-targeted-by-d-c-group.html
Eleven U.S. corporations including
 General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  together
reported $62 billion in domestic profits in 2010 while paying a
negative 3.6 percent federal tax rate, according to data
released today by  Citizens for Tax Justice .  The Washington-based interest group, which is backed by
labor unions, hopes the data will help persuade President Barack Obama to abandon his efforts to rewrite the corporate tax code
without collecting additional revenue. The organization said the
figures make the case for using a corporate tax overhaul to
generate more revenue.  “Our elected officials have a duty to the American public
to make reducing or eliminating the vast array of corporate tax
subsidies the centerpiece of any deficit-reduction strategy,”
Bob McIntyre, the director of Citizens for Tax Justice, said in
a press release accompanying the report.  Included in the report is General Electric, whose chief
executive,  Jeffrey Immelt , serves on Obama’s Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness. Citizens for Tax Justice said the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company’s effective  tax rate  during 2010 was a
negative 64 percent on $5.1 billion in U.S. profits.  “GE is fully compliant with all tax laws,” company
spokesman Andrew Williams said in an e-mailed statement. “There
are no exceptions.”  ‘Small’ Liability Anticipated  GE plans to file its 2010 federal  tax return  by September
and anticipates that it will have a “small” tax liability,
Williams said in the statement.  Many factors can contribute to high domestic profits and
low federal tax rates for U.S. companies, such as the results of
audits of previous years’ returns and the effects of losses.
Also, companies can take deductions for domestic expenses
related to income they earn overseas. The U.S. doesn’t tax
overseas profits until they are brought home.  Short-term incentives for accelerated depreciation, which
Congress enacted in 2008, 2009 and 2010, cause companies to
report lower current tax expenses, said Martin A. Sullivan, a
contributing editor at Tax Analysts, a nonprofit organization in
 Falls Church , Virginia. Such companies will pay more taxes in
the future when they are unable to take depreciation deductions
they would otherwise receive.  In general, Sullivan said, the current tax expense listed
on the 10-K forms filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission indicates general information that illuminates a
company’s tax situation without showing actual payments.  Tax Payments Private  “There is no way in the world you can find out how much
tax a corporation pays to the IRS from eyeballing its 10-Ks, and
believe me, I’ve tried,” he said.  Sullivan said the group’s decision to focus only on
domestic profits ignores a trend that would make companies’ tax
payments appear even smaller. Many companies have used transfer
pricing, or movement of intangible assets within a company, to
shift profits outside the U.S. to low-tax countries.  Besides GE, Boeing and Wells Fargo, Citizens for Tax
Justice included in the data  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , American
Electric Power Company Inc., E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.,
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  FedEx Corp. (FDX) ,  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , IBM, Yahoo! Inc., and  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX)  Information from FedEx was for 2008 and 2009 only; the
company’s 2010 fiscal year ended yesterday and was not included
in the study’s 2010 calculation.  Together, the 12 companies earned $171 billion in U.S.
income between 2008 and 2010 while paying an effective federal
tax rate of a negative 1.5 percent in that period.  ‘It’s Not Them’  Representative Richard Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat and
senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, said the
current tax code is responsible for the low tax rates paid by
the corporations.  The companies “hired good tax attorneys and accountants,”
he said in a brief interview. “It’s the code. It’s not them.”  Similar data released by Citizens for Tax Justice more than
20 years ago helped spur the 1986 tax overhaul, the last major
rewrite of the U.S. tax code.  The top tax rate for U.S. corporations is 35 percent. House
Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, a Michigan
Republican, has proposed lowering that rate to 25 percent
without providing details. The committee plans to hold a hearing
tomorrow exploring the macroeconomic effects of a tax overhaul
on companies. Executives from Boeing,  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR) ,
 Perrigo Co. (PRGO)  and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  are scheduled to testify.  Citizens for Tax Justice said the data it released today is
a “preview” of a broader study of the tax rates paid by
Fortune 500 companies.  The interest group said it based its findings on company
filings with the SEC that specify the companies’ tax expense.
That number can be different from what companies pay in taxes to
the  Internal Revenue Service , which is kept private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net 
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  