-- 
Axa Targets EU6 Billion Operating Profit Amid Asian Growth

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-06-01T16:34:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/axa-targets-10-earnings-growth-as-it-expands-in-asia-sells-canada-unit.html
Axa SA (CS) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
insurer, aims to reach operating profit of more than 6 billion
euros ($8.6 billion) in 2015 as it expands in Asia and scales
back in Britain and  Canada , Chief Executive Officer Henri de
Castries said.  Axa rose 1.5 percent in Paris trading after the company set
profit goals and agreed to sell its Canadian business to  Intact
Financial Corp. (IFC) , the country’s largest property and casualty
insurer, for C$2.6 billion ($2.7 billion).  “We have the ability to transfer know-how” to accelerate
growth in emerging markets,de Castries said at a Paris meeting
with investors broadcast on Axa’s website. “Market turbulences
too often have hidden the inherent strengths of Axa.”  Axa will aim for 10 percent annual growth in operating
earnings per share through 2015, the company said. Total
operating profit should reach at least 6 billion euros in 2015,
de Castries told journalists at a meeting today. That compares
with 3.88 billion euros last year.  To fund expansion in faster-growing Asian economies, Paris-
based Axa is seeking to lower costs and cut business in some
developed markets, including the U.K. Axa said today it expects
to reduce costs by 1.5 billion euros by 2015 “in mature
markets.”  De Castries, 56, who at the height of the global financial
crisis had to drop the firm’s 2012 earnings goals, is counting
on growth in  Asia . The insurer, along with AMP Ltd., completed
in April a A$13.3 billion bid for Melbourne-based Axa Asia
Pacific Holdings Ltd. to take control of businesses in a region
where wealth is growing at the world’s quickest rate.  Faster Growth  Axa aims to double property-and-casualty revenue and double
life-insurance new business value in high-growth markets by
2015, the company said in a presentation on its website.
Operating earnings should grow by 2 1/2 times over the same
period.  “We have got no intention to make a capital increase to
finance our growth,” de Castries told journalists. In high-
growth markets outside of Asia, Axa may look at possible
acquisitions in  Brazil , de Castries said today, without naming
any takeover targets.  Axa rose 1.5 percent to 15.06 euros in Paris, giving the
company a market value of about 34.9 billion euros. Axa has
risen 21 percent in 2011 while  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s largest
insurer, has gained 6.5 percent. Axa shares are rebounding after
a 25 percent drop in 2010.  “They’ve got every interest to go toward high-growth
markets like Asia,” said Valerie Cazaban, who helps manage 100
million euros at Stratege Finance and doesn’t own Axa shares.
“Axa, as all the  insurance industry , is undergoing a
complicated transition with turbulent markets and savings
declines in developed countries.”  Asia, China  The French insurer last year sold most of its U.K. life-
insurance businesses at a loss, while clients at its fund-
management units withdrew 64 billion euros of assets as U.S.-
based Axa Rosenberg Group LLC suffered a coding error.  Axa’s profit dropped 24 percent in 2010.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,
Europe’s largest bank by assets and owner of a 5.2 percent stake
in Axa, booked a 534 million-euro impairment in the fourth
quarter of 2010 on its holding because the insurer’s stock had
often traded below book value since the start of the financial
crisis.  Axa, by completing the deal on Axa Asia Pacific, gained
direct control of its operations in Asian countries stretching
from  India  to  Indonesia .  The French insurer is also seeking growth in the Chinese
market. De Castries flew to Beijing in October to seal a life-
insurance partnership with Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. ICBC bought a 60 percent stake in Shanghai-based AXA-
Minmetals Assurance Co., while the French insurer holds 27.5
percent and China Minmetals Corp. owns 12.5 percent.  Ending Outflows  In asset management, Axa had 13 billion euros in outflows
in the first quarter, mostly at New York-based AllianceBernstein
LP, the company said May 5.  Overall, Axa expects a “turnaround of net flows” this
year at its fund-management business, which should be able to
attract 4 percent to 5 percent of net new money as a percentage
of assets under management between 2012 and 2015, the company
said.  Axa also expects adjusted return on equity, a measure of
profitability, of 15 percent in 2015, it said. Axa’s adjusted
ROE was at 12 percent last year, up from 11 percent in both 2008
and 2009. That measure of profitability stood at 20 percent in
2007, before the worst global financial crisis since the 1930s
took hold.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 