-- 
May Gurney Sees ‘Significant’ Growth in Waste, CEO Says

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-01T15:44:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/may-gurney-sees-significant-growth-in-waste-ceo-says-1-.html
May Gurney Integrated Services Plc (MAYG) ,
which maintains Britain’s canals, expects “significant” growth
in municipal-waste collection as local authorities try to meet
recycling targets, Chief Executive Philip Fellowes-Prynne said.  May Gurney should gain business because its curbside
sorting programs can separate recyclables more efficiently than
the authorities can, Fellowes-Prynne said. Full-year profit rose
1.5 percent as it gained more business filling potholes, the
Norwich, England-based company said in a statement today.  The company is the fifth-biggest municipal waste collector
in the U.K. with an 8 percent market share, the CEO said. About
half of U.K. waste is collected by local governments, down from
53 percent last year, and that total may decline to 40 percent
in five years as they outsource contracts, Fellowes-Prynne said.
Britain faces fines if it doesn’t meet European Union targets to
reduce landfill waste.  “We see the pressure on in-house services continuing,”
Fellowes-Prynne said in a telephone interview. “We see the
opportunities to grow as quite significant.”  May Gurney is seeking acquisitions in both its government-
and utility-services units, and is considering possibilities
including vehicle fleet management and generation of renewable
and fossil fuel power, he said.  “We have no debt, and we have cash,” he said. He wouldn’t
say whether the company is close to a deal.  May Gurney rose 1.75 pence to close at 272 pence at 4:30
p.m. in  London . The shares have risen 8.4 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 191 million pounds ($313
million).  Net income rose to 13.3 million pounds in the year ended
March 31, from 13.1 million pounds a year earlier, the company
said. Sales climbed 18 percent to 571.4 million pounds.  May Gurney said it planned to raise its full-year dividend
by 20 percent to 6.6 pence per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  