-- 
Bailed-Out Nigerian Banks May Seek London Listing Before Funding Deadline

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-02T16:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/bailed-out-nigerian-banks-may-seek-london-listing-before-funding-deadline.html
Nigerian lenders bailed out by the
 central bank  in 2009 may seek to list on the  London  Stock
Exchange to raise funds before a deadline to recapitalize, said
Ibukun Adebayo, the LSE’s head of primary markets for the Middle
East and Africa.  Some of the eight lenders that received funds from the
Central Bank of Nigeria have contacted the LSE about possible
listings, Adebayo said. The central bank has ordered lenders to
boost capital by Sept. 30 or it will withdraw interbank
guarantees.  “Financial services in Nigeria are an area where we see
increases in listings,” said Adebayo in an interview in London
yesterday. He declined to say how many banks had approached the
bourse because the discussions are confidential.  The central bank provided 620 billion naira ($4 billion) to
eight of the nation’s 24 lenders after loans to equity
speculators contributed to 700 billion naira of non-performing
debt, according to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission
in Abuja. Governor Lamido Sanusi fired the chief executives of
the distressed lenders and set up Asset Management Corp. of
Nigeria, or Amcon, to buy bad debts from the banks to help
recapitalize them before matching them with potential buyers.  The bailed-out lenders are  Afribank Nigeria Plc (AFRIBANK) ,  Bank PHB
Plc (PLATINUM) , Equatorial Trust Bank Ltd.,  FinBank Plc (FIRSTINL) ,  Intercontinental
Bank Plc (INTERCON) ,  Oceanic Bank International Plc (OCEANIC) , Spring Bank Plc and
Union Bank of Nigeria Plc.  Meeting Deadline  Oceanic Bank said it will meet the central bank’s deadline
for completing its recapitalization and has received “several
expressions of interest,” spokeswoman Monye Mpho said by phone
from Lagos today. Oceanic Bank will choose the bidder that
offers the “best value,” she said.  Oceanic Bank slumped for the seventh day, losing 4.8
percent to 1.6 naira at the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos. Union Bank
dropped 4.9 percent to 2.51 naira. Intercontinental Bank
retreated 4.7 percent to 1.23 naira, Afribank fell 4.6 percent
to 1.45 naira and FinBank slumped 4.8 percent to 59 kobo.  Oceanic Bank is yet to sign an accord with a potential
investor after talks collapsed with First Bank of Nigeria Plc,
the country’s third-biggest lender.  FinBank has signed an agreement to merge with  First City
Monument Bank Plc (FCMB) , FCMB said on May 5. Union Bank said on March
23 it signed an agreement with African Capital Alliance under
which the group will invest $750 million into the bank.  Access Bank Plc will merge with Intercontinental Bank,
Access said on March 27.  The LSE has 18 companies trading on its main market and 56
on its Alternative Investment Market that are incorporated or
have operations in sub-Saharan Africa. Four African companies
have global depositary receipts listed on the exchange,
including Lagos-based lenders  Diamond Bank Plc (DIAMONDB)  and  Guaranty
Trust Bank Plc. (GUARANTY)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  