-- 
Barclays Sees Dinar at 95 to Euro in 3 Months, Barclays Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-06-01T14:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/barclays-sees-dinar-at-95-to-euro-in-3-months-barclays-says.html
The Serbian’s currency may rise to 95
dinars to the euro, the highest since November 2009, in three
months, before the central bank starts trimming borrowing costs,
London-based  Barclays Capital  said in a note to clients.  “While inflation (and the policy rate) is likely to peak
this month or next, we do not think” the National Bank of
Serbia “will begin cutting rates until September at the
earliest,” Barclays’ analysts said in a note dated May 31.  The dinar traded at 97.21 to the euro at 12:50 p.m. in
Belgrade, according to Bloomberg data, down from yesterday’s
official close of 96.7744 to the euro.  The National Bank of Serbia has fought double-digit
inflation by raising the two-week repurchase rate benchmark rate
4.5 percentage points since August 2010 to 12.5 percent,
Europe’s highest. Central bankers will meet again on June 9 to
discuss monetary policy.  The dinar,  Europe ’s top performer among currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, has gained more than 9 percent to the euro this
year with “flush financing,” including stronger foreign direct
investments and foreign bond buying, the main reasons behind the
appreciation.  The currency was one of the world’s poorest performers
until 2011, dropping by almost 40 percent between late 2008 and
2010 as investors fled emerging markets on concern the region
would be hurt by the global financial and economic crisis.  ‘Behind Us’  “While we acknowledge that the bulk of dinar appreciation
is likely behind us for this year, we see a window of
opportunity in the next three months, before the NBS begins
cutting rates, possibly in September or the fourth quarter, to
take advantage of the more attractive carry,” Barclays said.  Barclays also sees  Serbia  entering a “period in which
several positive economic factors are likely to coincide with
lower  interest rates .”  Inflation will probably peak by this month and prospects
have improved for the Balkan country to win European Union
candidacy in 2011 after arresting and extraditing former Bosnian
Serb general, Ratko Mladic, to the Hague war-crimes tribunal, to
stand trial for crimes against humanity and genocide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  