-- 
Barnes & Noble Takeover Seen 41% Above Malone’s $1 Billion Offer: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-06-01T17:25:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/barnes-noble-takeover-seen-41-above-malone-s-1-billion-offer-real-m-a.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  investors are
betting they can extract the biggest price increase in America
after billionaire  John Malone  offered to buy the bookstore chain
at an 81 percent discount to sales.  The New York-based company yesterday traded 15 percent
above the $17-a-share bid from Malone’s Liberty Media Corp., the
most since the deal was announced last month and the widest gap
of any all-cash takeover in the U.S., according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Barnes & Noble may get $24 a share, said Mediatech
Capital Partners LLC, 41 percent higher than Malone’s bid and
almost double the stock’s average price before the offer.  While the largest U.S. bookstore chain has been exploring a
sale since August as the shares slumped to a 15-year low of
$8.77, Barnes & Noble’s revenue is projected to jump to a record
this year helped by sales of the Nook e-reader, which competes
with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle.  Ron Burkle , the largest investor
after founder  Leonard Riggio , boosted his stake four days after
Malone’s bid at an 8.8 percent premium to the deal price. Now,
traders are betting on a sweetened offer from Malone or Burkle,
according to Capstone Global Markets LLC and Mediatech.  “The market believes that the intrinsic value for Barnes &
Noble is much higher,” said  Sachin Shah , a special situations
and merger arbitrage strategist at Capstone in New York. Burkle
is “going to try to get the best price,” he said. “Why would
he acquire shares if he knew the stock was worth $17?”  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble,
declined to comment. Heather Lipp, a spokeswoman for Liberty
Media, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment. Frank Quintero, a spokesman for Burkle and his Yucaipa Cos. investment
firm, also didn’t respond to a request for comment.  All-Cash Bid  Liberty of Englewood,  Colorado , offered $17 a share in cash
on May 19, a 40 percent premium to the 20-day trading average,
to buy 70 percent of Barnes & Noble. The deal is contingent on
Riggio, the company’s chairman, keeping his 30 percent stake and
a management role. A board committee is evaluating the proposal,
which values the retailer at about $1 billion plus $278 million
in net debt.  Barnes & Noble’s shares dropped 5.9 percent to $18.46 at
1:23 p.m. today in New York.  Malone, Liberty’s 70-year-old chairman, is betting on
increased sales of the Nook e-reader and digital books for the
device, as well as a boost from Borders Group Inc. closing
stores after filing for  bankruptcy protection  in February.  The offer values Barnes & Noble at 0.19 times its $6.95
billion of revenue in the 12 months through January.  Cheapest Since 2000  That’s the cheapest for any takeover of a U.S. retailer
greater than $500 million since Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim 
bought the 85 percent of CompUSA Inc. he didn’t already own in
2000. Slim acquired what was then the largest U.S. computer
superstore chain at an 83 percent discount to revenue, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barnes & Noble closed at a one-year high of $19.62
yesterday. The price implied that arbitragers are expecting at
least $158 million more from Liberty or a competing offer, the
data show.  “Clearly people are betting that maybe Burkle comes
back,” said Peter Lobravico, New York-based vice president of
merger arbitrage trading and sales at Wall Street Access.  It took nine months for a buyer to materialize after Barnes
& Noble hired Lazard Ltd. to explore a sale. Some potential
bidders balked at a purchase because of how long it may take the
chain to generate more digital sales, two people with knowledge
of the process, who asked not to be identified because
negotiations weren’t public, said in March.  Stock Risk  If Barnes & Noble is left without a buyer, investors risk
the shares retreating 37 percent from yesterday’s close to their
20-day average of $12.35 before Malone’s proposal.  “If Liberty sweetens it, I don’t know how much more they
go,” said  Michael Souers , an equities analyst for  Standard &
Poor’s  in  New York  who expects the shares to reach $19. “The
stock might be getting a little ahead of itself in terms of
investors hoping for a bigger offer.”  Liberty’s “expectation” is that the $17-a-share offer
will be successful and represents fair value, Chief Executive
Officer Greg Maffei said at a Barclays Plc conference May 24.  Burkle’s Yucaipa began building its stake in Barnes & Noble
in November 2008, acquiring 8 percent of the stock at an average
of $14.68 a share. A year later, the Los Angeles-based
investment fund boosted its position to almost 17 percent with
purchases averaging $19.86 a share.  The company’s board then adopted a so-called poison pill to
prevent an unwanted takeover if an investor accumulates more
than 20 percent. Burkle, 58, lost a bid in court last year to
invalidate the defense.  Burkle Considered Bid  Yucaipa considered a buyout of Barnes & Noble at $25 a
share before deciding it would be “a waste of time” because of
the Riggio family’s stake, Burkle testified in July.  Now, Yucaipa holds just under 20 percent of Barnes & Noble,
after purchasing an additional 603,000 shares at an average of
$18.49 on May 23, four days after Malone’s $17-a-share offer,
according to a regulatory  filing .  “Burkle would like to take it private. He made that very
clear last year,” said Porter Bibb, managing partner at
Mediatech, a New York-based investment bank. If Burkle and
Aletheia Research and Management Inc., the company’s third-
largest shareholder, don’t get a price they think they deserve,
it may lead to a lawsuit, he said.  Liberty will probably complete the deal at about $23 or $24
a share, Mediatech’s Bibb said. That would represent a premium
of as much as 41 percent to the current offer, or a boost of
about $422 million.  Building the Nook  While the company could afford to pay $22.60 a share, it
will probably only go as high as $20, estimates Robert Routh, a
New York-based analyst with Phoenix Partners Group LP.  Barnes & Noble suspended its dividend and sacrificed
profits to build its digital book business since introducing the
Nook in October 2009. The company claims about 22 percent of the
e-reader market and 27 percent of e-book sales in the U.S.,
according to a February report from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Seattle-based Amazon released the Kindle about two years earlier
and controls 67 percent of the e-reader market and 58 percent of
e-book sales, according to Goldman.  The Nook helped drive a 7.3 percent increase in revenue at
stores open a year in the quarter ended Jan. 29, the first gain
since 2007. Total revenue is projected to gain 5.6 percent to
$7.4 billion in the fiscal year ending April 2012, while the
company is expected to record a second consecutive net loss,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Run Away’  Getting Riggio’s support is necessary for anyone to pull
off an acquisition, according to Wall Street Access’ Lobravico,
who isn’t convinced that Riggio is a willing seller.
Shareholders’ best bet is to hold out for a higher bid from
Liberty, S&P’s Souers said.  “It’s more likely they will sweeten the offer than run
away,” Souers said. “It makes sense for Barnes & Noble
shareholders to wait it out and hope for a better offer.”  Overall, there have been 10,378 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $1 trillion, a 22 percent increase from the
$820.6 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at +1-212-617-7261 or  rajello@bloomberg.net . 