-- 
BHP Billiton Wins $580 Million Tax Dispute Over Iron Plant Loan Write Offs

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-06-01T02:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/bhp-wins-580-million-dispute-with-australia-tax-office-over-writeoffs.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  won a $580 million
dispute with the Australian tax office as the country’s top
court ruled the world’s biggest mining company wasn’t liable for
additional taxes sought by the government.  The High Court of  Australia  today upheld a Federal Court
ruling that BHP properly wrote off debt for building a more than
A$2 billion ($2.1 billion) hot-briquetted iron plant at
Boodarie, Western Australia.  The ruling is a windfall for Melbourne-based BHP, which
already paid half the taxes in dispute in accordance with the
tax office policy and will recover the payment.  Tax authorities disputed BHP’s handling of the write off
because the mining company borrowed from its finance unit to pay
for part of the plant’s construction beginning in 1995.  Ernst & Young LLP, an international accounting firm, valued
the outstanding loan at A$346 million in May 2000, and BHP wrote
off the remainder of A$1.85 billion as irrecoverable bad debt.  BHP claimed A$603 million of  tax deductions  related to the
loan in the 2003 to 2006 income years.  The Australian Tax Office disallowed most of the
deductions, saying the finance unit didn’t deal with the
processing plant unit at arm’s length, since both companies were
BHP subsidiaries.  Limited Recourse  As a result, the tax office said, the financing was
“limited recourse debt,” which means the obligation imposed by
law on a debtor to pay the creditor is limited, such as in the
case of a parent company being able to assume the outstanding
portion.  In such a case, tax deductions for bad loans are reduced,
according to the law.  Federal Court of Australia Judge Michelle Gordon in 2009
 ruled  the finance unit had a right to call for a repayment of
the loan, to sue for repayment and to force the processing plant
company into bankruptcy if necessary, which meant the two units
acted in an unrelated fashion and the loan was unlimited,
allowing BHP to take the full deductions.  Gordon’s decision was upheld by the Full Court of the
Federal Court of Australia on appeal.  The case is: Commissioner of Taxation v. BHP Billiton Ltd.
File No.: M117-120/2010.  High Court  of Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  