-- 
Billionaire Sawiris Leads Egypt Businessmen Back in Politics

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-06-02T13:07:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/billionaire-sawiris-leads-egypt-businessmen-back-in-politics.html
Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris 
is leading businessmen back into politics after the revolt that
toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  also brought the downfall of
several wealthy entrepreneurs.  The head of mobile-phone network  Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE (ORTE) ,  Egypt ’s third-biggest listed company, is blunt about his
aims. His newly founded Free Egyptians Party will promote
capitalism, “attract honest businessmen who create jobs” and
challenge the Muslim Brotherhood, the frontrunner in September’s
election, Sawiris said at a May 14 public debate in Cairo.  “We don’t agree that the word businessmen should be an
insult,” said Sawiris, who’s worth $3.5 billion according to
Forbes magazine.  Many of the millions of Egyptians who took to the streets
demanding Mubarak’s removal blamed the country’s tycoons as well
as its president for ills such as corruption and poverty. After
Mubarak’s Feb. 11 overthrow, graft investigations along with
labor and political disputes brought many businesses to a
standstill, sent Egyptian shares plunging and reduced foreign
investment to a trickle.  The economy shrank 7 percent in the January-March period
from the previous three months, as exports and tourism revenue
slumped and companies went bankrupt, Finance Minister Samir Radwan said on April 20. Growth may slow to 1 percent this year,
the lowest since 1992, the  International Monetary Fund  says.  That’s the backdrop for what contestants say will be
Egypt’s first free election. While Sawiris’s party and rivals
haven’t drawn up detailed policies yet, they’re starting to hand
out leaflets and place ads on television and in the press.  Image Problem  Sawiris isn’t the only business leader to get involved.
Hisham el-Khazindar, co-founder of private equity firm  Citadel
Capital , is among the financiers of the Justice Party, and Nabil
Deabis, whose family business ranges from education to the
media, is forming a party called Modern Egypt.  Their shared problem is “how to rebuild the image of
wealthy entrepreneurs,” Moustafa el-Husseini, author of “Egypt
on the Brink of the Unknown,” said by telephone. “Part of this
is to portray themselves as the last line of defense against
Islamists and chaos.”  It’s a theme that Sawiris hammers on. At the May 14 Cairo
debate, he said like-minded parties should form a coalition to
face the Brotherhood, the biggest opposition group under
Mubarak. Ten days later in  Rome , he said he would give a “large
part” of his time to politics in Egypt “so it’s not hijacked
by extremists.”  Corruption Trials  While that may appeal to some voters, Sawiris and his ilk
still need to promote policies that don’t widen the gap between
the rich and poor or feed the suspicion they are using politics
for personal gain, say analysts including Moustapha Kamel el-
Sayyed, a political science professor at Cairo University.  It’s a goal that eluded the millionaires-turned-politicians
who shaped the economic policies of the past decade. The
government of Ahmed Nazif, who is now in prison pending a trial
on corruption charges he denies, attracted record investment
from companies such as BP Plc and  Italy ’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   Egypt’s benchmark EGX 30 stock index has dropped 24 percent
this year as revolts swept the  Middle East . The measure had
gained about 400 percent between July 2004, when Nazif took
office, and the end of 2010.  That boom under Nazif, though, wasn’t matched by rising
living standards for most Egyptians. Government data show that
about 40 percent of Egypt’s 80 million people live at or below
the United Nations poverty line of $2 a day.  Taxing Profits  In a sign the current government may have different
priorities, Radwan, a former development economist, announced a
new 10 percent capital gains tax late yesterday and increased
the top  tax rate  on corporate profits. The EGX30 fell 2.7
percent today, the most in six weeks.  Critics of the Nazif government, including the Brotherhood,
also say it doled out cheap land to real-estate companies to
build luxury homes, and failed to protect the poor from inflated
food prices, which have risen about 20 percent in the past year.  Conflict of interest is another issue. “The presence of
businessmen in political life is legitimate,” el-Sayyed said.
“But in the past period you had people in charge of
ministries” who also owned companies in the same line of work.
Without measures to prevent that, “the door is open to use
wealth to get political influence illegally.”  Former Housing Minister Ahmed el-Maghraby was sentenced to
five years in prison on May 26 after he was charged with selling
state-owned land at below-market prices to  Palm Hills
Developments SAE (PHDC) , a property developer in which he has a stake.
Former Tourism Minister Zoheir Garranah, who owned a tourism
company, got a similar sentence May 10 on profiteering charges.  Party Donations  Rules for the formation of political parties drawn up in
March by Egypt’s interim military rulers don’t limit donations,
adding to concerns that wealthy Egyptians may influence
decisions.  “This is the real issue,” Wael Khalil, an activist who
works at an IT company, said in an interview. “We are all aware
of the Brotherhood and the fundamentalists while nobody is
paying attention to this.”  The sharpest disagreements between the Brotherhood and
business-backed parties such as those of Sawiris and el-
Khazindar may be over social policy rather than the economy.  The Brotherhood, which is not allowed to campaign as an
overtly religious group and has set up the proxy Justice and
 Freedom Party , calls for a free, competitive economy in its
draft platform. It counts some wealthy members among its top
leadership, including Deputy Leader Khairat el-Shater, whose
businesses include a chain of  furniture stores .  ‘Fundamentalist Thought’  Sawiris’s Free Egyptians Party and similar groups are
appealing to voters who see the Brotherhood’s refusal to endorse
the candidacy of women and Christians to the presidency as a
sign that it would try to impose Islamic lifestyles.  It’s something Ingy Ghali, 24, came to hear at the Cairo
debate. “I am worried about the penetration of fundamentalist
thought,” she said.  Mohamed Talaat, 29, a corporate executive, said he had
already backed Sawiris. “The problem in the past was
corruption, not capitalism,” he said in an interview. “I am a
liberal and a capitalist and there is nothing wrong with that.”  Sawiris shares his view. “Busy writing the economic
program of the party,” he wrote on his Twitter account on May
22. “Not sure left-wingers will like it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  