-- 
Billionaire Deripaska Joins Russia Grain Rush as Year-Long Export Ban Ends

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-06-01T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/billionaire-deripaska-joins-russia-grain-rush-as-sales-ban-ends.html
Billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s farm in
southern  Russia  is preparing to join the surge in grain exports
that will come a month from now as the government lifts a ban on
shipments that contributed to a doubling of wheat prices.  The 75,000-hectare (185,320-acre) Kuban AgroHolding farming
company in the Krasnodar region stored about half of last year’s
harvest and will sell it to trading companies, said Andrey
Oleynik, managing director of the agribusiness at Deripaska’s
Basic Element holding company. The current crop is doing well
after rain last month, he said.  “Our winter wheat is doing very well,” Oleynik said in an
interview by phone, forecasting a 4.3 percent increase in the
crop. “It went through the winter very well, and rains in May
provided additional moisture.”  The prospect of Russian exports and a bigger harvest is
helping to contain grain prices as droughts in parts of  Europe ,
the U.S. and  China  threaten to drain global stockpiles for a
second year. While wheat traded on the Chicago Board of Trade, a
global benchmark, is 59 percent above the 10-year average, it
would have to rise another 75 percent to match the high seen in
2008. That was in the middle of a three-year period when more
than 60 food riots erupted worldwide.  Russia, formerly the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter,
banned shipments in August as its worst drought in more than a
half century ruined crops. The ban will expire July 1, Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  said May 28.  Russian wheat production will rise to 53 million metric
tons this year, compared with 41.5 million tons in 2010, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Exports will jump to
10 million tons from 4 million tons, the USDA says.  Agriculture Ministry   The country may harvest about 70 million tons of grain this
year, Oleynik said. Russia’s Agriculture Ministry estimates the
harvest at 85 million tons to 90 million tons, up from 60.9
million tons last year. That forecast is too optimistic because
soil in central Russia was dry when farmers planted winter
grains last year, Oleynik said.  Wheat  prices  in Russia rose 11 percent last week as traders
anticipated the ban will be lifted and may climb 20 percent more
this month before easing as the next harvest begins, Oleynik
said. The farm sold half of the 141,000 tons of wheat and barley
it reaped last year in the domestic market, more than the 20
percent it normally supplies locally, he said.  Russian traders started to move grain to silos in southern
Russia even before the end of the ban was announced. The Black
Sea export port of Tuapse last week said it got 85,000 tons of
wheat from Russian and Kazakh sources.  Southern Russia  Based on prices at silos in southern Russia, fourth-grade
milling wheat will cost 6,000 rubles ($215) a ton in
Novorossiysk, the main southern export hub, said Oleynik. That’s
less than the $328 being traded in  New Orleans  and 252 euros
($363) in Rouen,  France .  The resumption of exports may drive international wheat
prices 5 percent to 7 percent lower, while boosting domestic
prices 15 percent to 20 percent, according to Alexander Korbut,
vice president of Russia’s Grain Union, the largest lobby group
for cereal exporters. Russian ports can handle as much as 3.5
million tons a month, he said.  A jump in Russian prices may spur the government to curb
sales again later in the year, Andrey Sizov Jr., managing
director of agricultural researcher SovEcon, said May 28.  Most of the country’s 10 million-ton exportable wheat
surplus from the 2010 crop is kept in southern Russia and about
70 percent of it may be shipped abroad, Oleynik said. Exports in
the season starting July 1 may be 17 million tons, he said.  Food Costs  The resumption of Russian exports won’t be enough to drive
wheat prices lower, said Erin FitzPatrick, part of a team of
analysts at Rabobank in London who correctly predicted this
year’s surge in food costs. Wheat traded in  Chicago  will average
$8 a bushel in the third quarter, compared with $7.90 in the
previous three months, Rabobank forecasts.  “The weather risks that are developing in other producing
regions will be more than enough to offset any type of exports
coming of Russia,” FitzPatrick said.  European farmers are contending with the driest growing
conditions in more than three decades. The European Union warned
this month that soil moisture is now “critical” in at least
six countries after some places had their driest March on
record. France’s soft-wheat crop, the EU’s largest, will drop 12
percent, and German output will slide 7.2 percent, local
forecasters said May 18.  Farmers worldwide will reap 667 million tons of wheat in
2011-2012, trailing demand at 669 million tons, the
International Grains Council said May 26. The agency pared its
production estimate from 672 million tons in April, cutting
stockpiles to 185 million tons, the lowest since 2008-2009.  Living Conditions   Kuban AgroHolding, founded in 2002, was intended partly as
a “social project” to bring jobs and improve living conditions
in the area, according to Oleynik, who has led the business
since 2006. Besides Kuban AgroHolding, the agribusiness unit of
Basic Element also includes a stud farm for horses and a
manufacturer of non-alcoholic beverages.  Deripaska, 43, is worth $16.8 billion, making him Russia’s
sixth-richest man, according to Forbes magazine. He grew up in
Krasnodar on his grandparents’ farm, where he rode horses and
tended chickens, pigs and cows as a child, and most of the land
his  Kuban AgroHolding  owns today is nearby. He is chief
executive officer and the biggest shareholder of United Co.
Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer.  Kuban AgroHolding plans to at least double the amount of
land it farms in the next several years to 150,000 to 200,000
hectares, mostly in the south, Oleynik said. The company is also
expanding in the western Mordovia and Nizhny Novgorod regions,
where it will cultivate grain for flour mills. Kuban is also
building a slaughter house and a soy-processing plant in
southern Russia.  The Krasnador region where Kuban AgroHolding sits was
“almost the only one” spared by the Russian drought last year,
reaping 10 million tons of grain, or a sixth of the national
crop, according to local governor Alexander Tkachyov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  