-- 
Blackstone Said to Plan $1.35 Billion Office Refinancing

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-06-01T20:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/blackstone-said-to-plan-1-35-billion-refinancing-of-u-s-office-buildings.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is close to
borrowing as much as $1.35 billion from lenders including
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  to replace debt coming due on 21 office properties,
according to three people with knowledge of the refinancing.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, and New York Life
Insurance Co. plan to underwrite a two-year senior mortgage of
about $850 million, with three one-year extensions, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.
Government of Singapore Investment Corp. would provide a
mezzanine loan of $450 million to $500 million. The refinancing
is scheduled to be completed in July, one of the people said.  The office buildings, mostly in  California , came mainly
from New York-based Blackstone’s 2006 acquisition of CarrAmerica
Realty Corp. and a joint venture’s purchase that year of Trizec
Properties Inc. Some of the existing loans on the properties
were bundled into commercial mortgage-backed securities sold in
2006 and 2007, near the real estate market’s peak.  The refinancing shows institutions’ increased willingness
to make and hold loans as U.S. office occupancy improves. Life
insurers account for about one-tenth of commercial-property
financings and have been “very active” in lending to high-
quality buildings during the past year, said Richard Parkus,
head of commercial real estate debt research at Morgan Stanley
in  New York . The companies typically can lend at lower  interest
rates  than banks because they are investing their own money as
opposed to loaning out borrowed funds.  ‘Large Slice’  “The interest rates at which securitizations are getting
done today are high relative to the levels which life companies
will accept,” Parkus said. “Life companies now are taking a
very large slice of a very small pie.”  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, declined to
comment, as did  Christopher Breslin , a spokesman for  New York- 
based MetLife, and William Werfelman of New York Life. A GIC
representative also declined to comment on the refinancing,
which was reported May 27 by Commercial Mortgage Alert.  U.S. commercial property prices have rebounded more than 40
percent from their mid-2009 trough and are about 15 percent
below their 2007 peak, according to a May 5 report from Green
Street Advisors Inc., a  Newport Beach , California-based real
estate research firm.  Lender Conversation  “The deals that were underwritten in ‘06 have looked
horrible but now if I have a mortgage maturing, I should be able
to have a conversation with the lender,” said Mike Kirby,
director of research at Green Street. “The CMBS market still is
not anywhere near as big as it was so you have more volume
coming due than it’s obvious the market can handle. You have to
be a little creative in how you solve that problem.”  Banks have arranged $11.9 billion in commercial mortgage-
backed securities this year through May, compared with $11.5
billion in all of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales plummeted to $3.4 billion in 2009, choking off funding to
borrowers with maturing loans. A record $234 billion of the debt
was issued in 2007, the Bloomberg data show.  The new floating-rate loans would give Blackstone more
flexibility when it decides to sell the buildings, since fixed-
rate loans can impose prepayment costs, said two of the people
with knowledge of the financing negotiations.  The properties being refinanced include 9665 Wilshire Blvd.
in  Beverly Hills , California; Westwood Center at 1100 Glendon
Ave. and Wells Fargo Center at 11601 Wilshire Blvd. in  Los
Angeles ; the Campus at McCarthy Ranch in Milpitas, California;
 Mountain View  Gateway Center in Mountain View, California; and
the Sorrento Towers in  San Diego , the two people said.  5.7 Million Square Feet  The entire portfolio has a combined 5.7 million square feet
(529,500 square meters) of space, said one of the people.  Blackstone became the largest U.S. office-property owner
through three key acquisitions in 2006 and 2007. In addition to
Washington-based CarrAmerica, which owned 285 buildings, and
Trizec, Blackstone in 2007 purchased Chicago-based Equity Office
Properties Trust, which had held 580 buildings across the U.S.  Blackstone sold many of the buildings to pay down debt and
now holds stakes in about 400 office properties with more than
59 million square feet, according to the Equity Office website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  