-- 
Blazer Remains at Concacaf After President Fires Him Without Authority

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-01T00:30:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/blazer-remains-at-concacaf-after-president-fires-him-without-authority.html
Chuck Blazer remains general
secretary of Concacaf after Acting President Lisle Austin fired
him without authority, the regional ruling soccer body said.  “Chuck Blazer continues as Concacaf general secretary and
with the full authority of his office,”  Concacaf said on its
website  today. “Jurisdiction over the general secretary rests
solely with the Concacaf executive committee, which has taken no
action.”  Austin said in an e-mail that he sent a letter of dismissal
to Blazer just before midnight local time in his hotel room in
Zurich, where he’s attending world governing body FIFA’s
congress. Austin said he took the action because “the
confederation cannot afford to be further dragged through the
mud by its detractors.”  Blazer, who has been a member of FIFA’s executive committee
since 1996, has alleged that Mohamed Bin Hammam, the Qatari head
of soccer in  Asia , and former Concacaf president Jack Warner
offered $40,000 bribes to soccer officials in the Caribbean in
return for votes for Bin Hammam in  FIFA ’s presidential election.  Bin Hammam and Warner, who deny wrongdoing, were suspended
by the governing body pending a full inquiry. Bin Hammam
withdrew from the election, leaving three-term President  Sepp Blatter  as the sole candidate in today’s vote.  Austin said he also informed Blatter and FIFA General
Secretary  Jerome Valcke  that he’d fired Blazer, a 66-year-old
American who didn’t immediately return an e-mail and text
message seeking comment.  Nightmares for Years  Warner was replaced by Austin as president at the
 Confederation of North, Central America and Caribbean
Association Football  after being suspended. Warner, from
Trinidad, had been president of Concacaf since 1990. Austin had
been vice-president since 1992.  Blazer said in a May 29 interview that he’ll have
“nightmares” about the bribery case for years and that he was
sorry his 21-year relationship with Warner had broken down.  The scandal has roiled FIFA, a not-for-profit body that
earns $4 billion from the quadrennial  World Cup . Blatter said on
the first day of the congress that the allegations have left the
organization “unstable” and in danger.  Sponsors including  Visa Inc. (V) , the biggest bank card
network,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s biggest soft-drinks maker,
and Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by international
traffic, have said the scandal is a concern.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in Zurich at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 