-- 
German Stocks Drop on Greek Downgrade, U.S. Economy; VW Falls

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-02T15:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/bmw-deutsche-bank-daimler-linde-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks fell to a six-week low
as Moody’s Investors Service raised  Greece ’s default risk to 50
percent and a bigger-than-forecast drop in U.S. factory orders
fueled concern that the world’s largest economy is faltering.  Daimler AG (DAI)  led declines in European carmakers.  ThyssenKrupp
AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s largest steelmaker, fell with metal prices.
 Brenntag AG (BNR)  lost 1.6 percent as the company said it is seeking
loans to refinance debt.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 2 percent to 7,074.12 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, while the broader HDAX Index fell
1.9 percent. German stocks retreated yesterday amid slowing
European and Chinese manufacturing and after a private report
showed companies in the U.S. added fewer workers to payrolls
last month than economists had forecast.  “The doubts over the strength of the economic upturn and
the most recent downgrade of debt-stricken Greece by Moody’s
shaped sentiment leading to declines,” said Anita Paluch, a
sales trader at ETX Capital in  London .  Moody’s downgraded Greece to Caa1 from B1, putting it on a
par with Cuba, according to a report published late yesterday.
The move came after policy makers considered asking investors to
reinvest in new Greek debt when their existing bonds mature.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
governments should consider setting up a  finance ministry  for
the 17-nation currency region as the bloc struggles to contain a
region-wide sovereign debt crisis.  U.S. Factory Orders  A U.S. report today showed orders placed with factories
fell in April by the most in almost a year as demand for
airplanes waned and  Japan ’s earthquake restrained auto-related
supplies. Bookings for manufacturers’ goods dropped 1.2 percent
after a revised 3.8 percent gain in March, according to figures
from the Commerce Department.  German stocks maintained their losses today after a Labor
Department report showed that more Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, signaling the
labor market is struggling to pick up. The data comes before
tomorrow’s monthly government payroll report that may show a
drop in the number of people hired.  Daimler, the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury cars,
lost 2.4 percent to 47.33 euros.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest
carmaker, declined 1.1 percent to 122.95 euros. Auto-industry
stocks retreated across Europe today, falling 2 percent as a
group.  U.S. sales of cars and light trucks dropped to a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of 11.8 million last month, Autodata said,
the lowest pace since September.  ThyssenKrupp, Salzgitter  ThyssenKrupp lost 1.9 percent to 31.96 euros as aluminum,
copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc all fell on the London Metal
Exchange. Salzgitter AG retreated 1.2 percent to 49.54 euros.  EON AG, Germany’s biggest utility, tumbled 1.6 percent to
19.07 euros, while  RWE AG (RWE) , the second-largest, lost 2.2 percent
to 39.24 euros. Germany’s accelerated nuclear phase-out will put
pressure on power networks and could disturb the supply as soon
as next week, according to Matthias Kurth, who heads the Federal
Network Agency, the  Rheinische Post  reported. Kurth told the
newspaper he doesn’t exclude sporadic power failures.  Brenntag slipped for the first time in five days, falling
1.6 percent to 83.37 euros. The chemicals company that sold
shares to the public last year plans to borrow about 1.8 billion
euros ($2.6 billion) to refinance debt at a lower cost, two
people familiar with the situation said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  