-- 
BOE’s Tucker Says Clearinghouses Should Do More to Monitor Risks

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-01T17:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/boe-s-tucker-says-clearinghouses-should-do-more-to-monitor-risks.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said clearinghouses are becoming “systemic” in their
importance to the global financial system and need to do more to
monitor risks among their members.  “Central counterparties need to adopt prudent collateral
policies, but also to monitor the robustness of their clearing
members and risks from the business that they are bringing to
the CCP,” Tucker said in prepared remarks for a speech in
London today. “That means collecting and analyzing information
from clearing members on large positions taken by their
customers. I am not convinced that that is sufficiently
recognized by clearinghouses or by standard setters.”  The Group of 20 nations is encouraging greater use of
clearinghouses to cut some of the risks attached to over-the-
counter derivatives after the September 2008 collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  Because of their increasing importance,
officials should have a policy to deal with the failure of a
central counterparty that may involve either a recapitalization
or unwinding of its transaction book, Tucker said.  “It seems to me that questions about orderly resolution of
a failed CCP have to involve clarity around the extent to which
surviving clearing members pick up the pieces,” said Tucker.
“The design, management and oversight of CCPs is something that
we are going to come back to again and again.”  Clearinghouses such as London’s  LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  and Eurex
Clearing operate as central counterparties for every buy and
sell order executed by their members, who post collateral,
reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.  Crisis Capital   As well as monitoring the soundness of their members,
clearinghouses should also avoid having a margining policy that
reinforces the economic cycle and amplifies moves in financial
markets, Tucker said.  He proposed that if a CCP needs to be recapitalized, the
surviving clearing members provide the capital to protect public
finances from the “disastrous course” of financial failure.  “If the default fund were to be replenished by its
surviving clearing members, that could in principle be sorted
out at the time or it could be pre-programmed,” Tucker said.
“In practice, making it up at the time must be dangerous.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  