-- 
Bogota City Countil to Vote on ETB Sale No Sooner Than July, Vargas Says

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-06-01T22:21:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/bogota-to-vote-on-etb-sale-no-sooner-than-july-vargas-says.html
Bogota’s city council may vote no
sooner than July on a proposal that would allow the sale of the
capital’s majority stake in  Empresa de Telecomunicaciones de
Bogota (ETB)  SA, said Maria Victoria Vargas, the council’s president.  “The vote would have to be in July,” Vargas said today in
an interview in her Bogota office. “That’s if it happens at
all. The proposal may not even get past the commission.”  Colombia’s capital city is seeking a buyer to finance the
phone company’s planned expansions after a failed two-year
search for what it called “strategic” partners. The mayor’s
office will submit as soon as June 10 a proposal that would
allow the city to sell part of all of its 86.6 percent stake,
said Cristina Plazas, who was appointed to handle the proposal.  The council will have at least through the end of next
month to study the project, Plazas said by telephone from Bogota
today. Private owners would be able to make investments in
infrastructure and technology “that the government isn’t able
to make,” she said.  Plazas said she had no knowledge of potential buyers.  ETB fell 4.8 percent to 676 pesos today, the steepest drop
since March 22. The stock has fallen 37 percent in the past
year, the most among companies in  Colombia ’s IGBC Index.  Most Expensive  ETB trades at 16.8 times estimated earnings for this year,
making it the most expensive Latin American telecommunications
company tracked by Bloomberg. It’s followed by  Brazil ’s  TIM
Participacoes SA (TCSL4) , which trades at 16.7 times, and  Chile ’s
Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones SA at a ratio of 12.9.  ETB’s board recommended that Bogota seek a buyer as the
company “is not able to generate necessary funds to increase
its future value,” according to a Dec. 15 regulatory filing.  The government named Plazas as ad hoc mayor last week to
handle the share sale proposal after acting Bogota mayor Maria
Fernanda Campo declared a conflict of interest because she holds
ETB shares, according to a decree on the presidential website.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  appointed Campo, who had been
serving as education minister, to fill in for mayor Samuel
Moreno after he was suspended on May 3 for three months amid a
graft probe of alleged kickbacks from government contractors.  Santos said he has been considering nominees from Moreno’s
opposition Polo Democratico Alternativo party. He denied using
“delaying tactics,” saying he will pick a mayor by next week
after interviewing Clara Lopez, the head of Polo, according to a
statement on his website.  Vargas said an opposition mayor could block or delay a vote
on the share sale proposal. An ETB spokeswoman didn’t respond to
request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 Bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  