-- 
Bombardier Profit Rises on Plane Demand

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-06-01T11:37:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/bombardier-profit-rises-on-demand-for-business-regional-planes.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , the world’s third-
biggest commercial jet maker, said quarterly profit rose more
than analysts expected as it delivered more commercial and
business aircraft.  Net income in the three months through April 30 increased
to $220 million from $194 million, Montreal-based Bombardier
said today in a statement. Adjusted profit of 12 cents a share
beat the 9-cent average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 9 percent to $4.7 billion.  Business-jet demand is rising as corporate profits recover
while emerging markets such as India and  China  lead an
anticipated recovery in airline demand, the company said May 18.
Deliveries of  business jets  in the period rose to 61 from 56,
while commercial plane deliveries rose to 23 from 16.  “ Bombardier Aerospace  has started to benefit from a
stronger business aircraft market, especially at the high end,”
Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin said in a statement.
“Our commercial aircraft segment, although slower to recover,
is seeing an improved level of interest from customers.”  Bombardier’s CSeries, the newest product on offer in its
commercial aircraft division, has won no new orders since
 Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)  agreed to buy 40 jets and took
options for 40 more about a year ago. Some analysts have
questioned whether that indicates a lack of demand for the
narrow-body aircraft, which will seat 100 to 149 passengers.  Capacity Worry  Gary Scott , who leads the commercial aerospace division,
said May 25 that he’s more concerned with having enough capacity
to build a plane a day in four to five years than the lack of
announced orders.  Airbus SAS, based in Toulouse,  France , is the world’s
largest commercial planemaker, followed by Chicago-based  Boeing
Co. (BA)   Sales at the aerospace unit rose to $2.2 billion from $2
billion a year ago while earnings before interest and tax rose
to $141 million from $133 million. Backlog, or orders not yet
filled, rose 10 percent to $21.1 billion versus the end of
January, the company said.  Sales at the company’s transportation unit, which makes
subway cars and locomotives, rose to $2.5 billion from $2.3
billion while earnings before interest and tax was $171 million,
compared with $146 million for the same period last year. The
unit’s order backlog was worth $34 billion at April 30 compared
with $33.5 billion as of Jan. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story: Andrea Rothman in Paris
at   aerothman@bloomberg.net ; Rachel Layne in
Boston at   rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 