-- 
Bombardier Ends CSeries Order Drought With $665 Million Deal for 10 Planes

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-06-01T21:25:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/bombardier-ends-cseries-order-drought-with-deal-for-10-jets-1-.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  won the first
contract in more than a year for its new CSeries jet, with an
order for 10 aircraft from  Sweden ’s Braathens Leasing Ltd., and
is in “advanced” negotiations with more customers.  Braathens will purchase five CS100 and five CS300 planes,
and take options on 10 more, Montreal-based Bombardier said
today in a statement. The jets will be flown by Braathens’s
Malmo Aviation from its base in  Stockholm .  “We expect this order announcement to provide a sense of
relief to investors, lend greater credibility to the program,
and potentially trigger more customer interest going forward,”
Tasneem Azim, an analyst at UBS AG in Toronto, said in a report.  The agreement revives Bombardier’s efforts to establish a
market for the CSeries, designed to compete with  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
737 and Airbus SAS’s A320 family in planes with 100 to 149
seats. Bombardier, the world’s third-largest planemaker, may
have orders from 20 to 30 airline customers by the time the
aircraft enters service in 2013, Bombardier Aerospace President
 Guy Hachey  said today after the annual shareholder meeting in
 Montreal .  “We are seeing a lot of interest,” he said. The company is
in “advanced” talks with seven to ten potential CSeries
operators, discussing points such as letters of intent and
performance guarantees and has a “second handful” of
interested customers with whom negotiations haven’t progressed
as far, Hachey said later on a call with reporters and analysts.  Bombardier climbed 20 cents, or 3 percent, to C$6.95 at
4:21 p.m. today in Toronto, the highest price since May 2.  “Malmo was one of those customers I’ve been talking about
for a long time, and we finally completed a transaction,” Hachey
said.  Firm Orders  Options on the purchase would increase the transaction
value to as much as $1.37 billion, Bombardier said. The CS100
model sells for a list price of $58.3 million, and the CS300 for
$66.6 million, though airlines typically negotiate discounts.  The company now has 100 firm orders for the CSeries
aircraft, split between 38 CS100 and 62 CS300 models, and four
customers for the plane. The last order was placed by  Republic
Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)  in February 2010, with an agreement to buy
40 CS300 regional jets valued at $3.06 billion.  The company didn’t say when it expects to sign a so-called
“launch customer” that would be the first to operate CSeries
planes.  “We definitely have people interested in those positions,
in fact we have several, so we’re not concerned,” Hachey said
on the conference call. “It will be a matter of who it will be
and whether we can actually talk about it,” since some
customers prefer to keep their delivery positions private.  Quarterly Earnings  Bombardier’s quarterly earnings, reported today, show
first-quarter net income rose 13 percent to $220 million, or 12
cents a share, from $194 million, or 11 cents, a year earlier.
That beat the 9-cent average of 17 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales for the three months through April 30 increased 9.3
percent to $4.66 billion, helped by a stronger market for
business aircraft.  Bombardier reiterated this year’s plans to deliver 90
commercial aircraft, including CRJ jets and Q400 turboprops. The
company needs “a few large orders” for the CRJ to avoid cuts
next year, Hachey said.  “Most likely in the next couple of months, you will see
some activity from our side in terms of order intake, or we’ll
have to make some decisions,” Hachey said.  Bombardier will make a “slight reduction” in output of
its Q400 aircraft, at the end of this year, Hachey said  Q400 Plans  The company expects the move to affect fewer than 100
employees, and it may be able to shift them to other assembly
lines, he said.  “This will be a short valley and we’ll be required to go
back up rather quickly” in production, Hachey said. “Customers
are moving decisions to the right, but not getting out of the
market entirely.”  Overall aerospace division sales in the previous quarter
were boosted by airline demand from emerging markets such as
India and  China , Bombardier said.  Chinese carriers are among the airlines the company is
targeting with the CSeries, Hachey said. Bombardier is seeking
“great diversity” in its customer base and smaller orders fit
in with that strategy, he said.  “If we have a 100-plane order from a single client, it
fills the skyline for several months,” he said. “So you will
see a lot of clients with maybe smaller orders at first.
Eventually, there will be large orders.”  Manufacturing Sites  Bombardier will consider adding aerospace factories in
countries such as  Mexico  and  Morocco  because of planned demand
growth, Hachey said. The company already operates plants in
Canada, Mexico, the U.S. and the U.K.  “We are looking at other opportunities in  Mexico , and on
the European continent” he said. “We have a very large site in
 Belfast  that is growing very quickly, and we feel we need to
have more capability of manufacturing. Morocco is one of the
countries that we looked at. We’ve looked at other countries as
well in northern  Africa  and eastern  Europe .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 Tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  