-- 
Bovespa Falls Most in 6 Weeks on China, U.S. Manufacturing Data

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-06-01T20:33:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/bovespa-stock-index-futures-decline-before-u-s-manufacturing-report.html
The Bovespa stock index tumbled the
most in six weeks after reports showed manufacturing cooled in
the U.S. and China,  Brazil ’s biggest trading partners.  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer whose top
export market is China, fell.  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s biggest beef
producer, dropped after it was cut to “neutral” at HSBC
Holdings Plc. Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar posted its steepest two-day decline in four months as a
dispute between its controllers spurred Raymond James &
Associates Inc. to cut its rating.  The Bovespa index slid 1.9 percent to 63,411.48 at the
close of Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time, the most
since Apr. 18. Ten stocks declined on the index for each that
gained. The real weakened 0.9 percent to 1.5942 per  U.S. dollar .  “Data from U.S. and  China  weren’t so good,” said Alvaro Bandeira, a director of Rio de Janeiro-based brokerage Ativa
Corretora, in a telephone interview. “Markets around the world
didn’t respond well to the data released today, and Brazilian
stocks followed the negative trend.”  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in May at the slowest
pace in more than a year. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index fell to 53.5 last month from 60.4 in April, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Economists projected the
measure would drop to 57.1, according to the median forecast of
83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Separately, a report from ADP Employer Services showed
employment in the U.S. grew by 38,000 last month, the smallest
increase since September, from a revised 177,000 in April. The
median estimate compiled by Bloomberg called for a 175,000
advance for May.  China’s Manufacturing  China’s manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in nine
months in May as the government extended a campaign to cool
inflation and the  property market , a survey of companies
indicated. The country’s Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 52
from 52.9 in April, China’s Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in an e-mailed statement.  Vale fell 0.8 percent to 44.48 reais. JBS slumped 5.1
percent to 5.37 reais.   Pao de Acucar, Brazil’s biggest retailer, fell 1.4 percent
to 62.30 reais, bringing the two-day decline to 5.8 percent as a
dispute between its controllers spurred Raymond James &
Associates Inc. to cut its rating to “outperform” from
“strong buy.”  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  said yesterday it filed for
arbitration against the Diniz Group to make its partner meet the
obligations of a November 2006 agreement governing control of
Pao de Acucar. The statement, which didn’t elaborate, came after
Casino learned that Pao de Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz held
talks with Carrefour SA on a possible deal, according to two
people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions are private.  ‘Overweight’ Position  Credit Suisse Group AG suggested adding to an
“overweight” position in Brazilian financial stocks while
cutting holdings of utilities and phone operators as inflation
will likely ease through August.  Utilities were lowered to “market weight” in Credit
Suisse’s model portfolio of Brazilian stocks for June, while
telecommunications remained “overweight,” according to a note
to clients dated yesterday from analyst Andrew T. Campbell.  Investors poured 1.79 billion reais ($1.13 billion) into
 Latin America ’s biggest equity market in the month through May
25, after pulling 4.07 billion reais from February through
April, data from the  Sao Paulo  exchange show.  The Bovespa tumbled 13 percent from a November high through
yesterday on concern accelerating inflation will hurt economic
growth. The index trades at 10.3 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 12.5 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 6.7 for  Russia ’s Micex and 14.6 for
 India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  