-- 
Brazil Posts Second-Highest Trade Surplus in 23 Months

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-06-01T16:55:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/brazil-posts-second-highest-trade-surplus-in-23-months-1-.html
Brazil ’s trade surplus rose to the
second-highest level in almost two years in May as the country
benefits from a rise in commodity prices in the middle of a crop
harvest season.  The surplus rose to $3.53 billion last month from $1.86
billion in April, the ministry said in a statement  posted  on its
website today. The figure compares with a $3.45 billion surplus
last May and was in line with the $3.55 billion median forecast
by 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s exports rose 31 percent to a record $23.2 billion
from the same month a year earlier, while imports also reached a
record after rising 38 percent to $19.7 billion. Economists
expected exports of $23.6 billion and imports of $19.8 billion,
according to the median forecast of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “We’re seeing an important seasonal factor, with prices
favorable to Brazilian commodities, with a positive impact on
the current account,” said Daniel Ribeiro, an economist at
Credit Suisse Hedging-Griffo in  Sao Paulo . “One can say that
we’re going back to a new normal, with economic growth more
balanced and stronger on emerging markets -- to have strong
trade surpluses again, Brazil will need to increase savings and
stop buying so much.”  Flows, Policy  Policy makers forecast the current account gap will widen
to a record $60 billion this year on a 26 percent decline in the
trade surplus, as bank lending and  job creation  bolster domestic
demand and boost imports.  The real has strengthened 17 percent in the last 12 months,
the best performance among the seven major Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The yield on the interest-rate future contracts maturing
January 2012, the most traded today on the BM&F Bovespa stock
exchange in Sao Paulo, fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 12.32 percent at 12:48 p.m. New York time. The real
fell 0.3 percent to 1.5854 per dollar.  Brazilian exporters took advantage of the recent slump in
the real to bring dollar proceeds into the country, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said May 19.  The country posted dollar inflows of $45.4 billion from
January through May 20, almost twice the $24.4 billion for the
whole of 2010, according to central bank  data .  Brazil’s central bank will prolong a cycle of interest rate
increases for a “sufficient” period of time to ensure that
inflation will converge to the government’s target by the end of
next year, policy makers said in the minutes of their April 19-
20 meeting. The country targets annual inflation of 4.5 percent
plus or minus two percentage points.  Capital Goods  Banco do Brasil SA,  Latin America ’s largest lender by
assets, obtained a $200 million  credit line  from Brazil’s state
development bank, according to an e-mailed statement today. The
funds will help the bank, through its foreign units, finance
imports of Brazilian goods in neighboring countries.  The credit line aims to speed up Brazilian exports of
capital goods, the statement said. Branches in Chile, Paraguay
and  Argentina  will be the main agents of such operations, the
bank said.  Capital goods exported by Brazil are facing rising
competition abroad, the statement said. The bank expects to
increase sales of agriculture machinery, buses, industrial
equipments and trucks, the bank said in the statement.  Brazil’s state development bank is currently in talks with
20 banks in Latin America and  Africa , with a potential demand
for $600 million in trade finance, the bank said.  Robust Demand  Consumer prices breached the upper-limit of the
government’s target, hitting 6.51 percent in the year through
April, according to the benchmark IPCA index released last month
by the national statistics agency.  Domestic demand remains “robust” and is pressuring
service prices after Latin America’s biggest economy expanded
7.5 percent last year, the fastest pace in more than two
decades, policy makers said in the minutes.  The government levied a tax on foreign loans and debt sales
by banks abroad and raised capital and reserve requirements on
foreign exchange deals, while the central bank has purchased
$29.9 billion in the  spot market  from January through April in a
bid to contain the strengthening real.  Brazil will export $245 billion this year, up from a
previous estimate of $229 billion, as the country benefits from
a commodity boom, Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said May 2.  Brazil’s Paranagua Port registered record-high grain
exports in May and expects to end the month exporting 1.8
million metric tons of soybean and soybean meal, according to an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  Multilateral talks are needed on currency issues, Pimentel
said May 16, suggesting that a basket of currencies should be
adopted to serve as a reference for trade transactions.  European farmers are contending with the driest growing
season in three decades, adding to pressure on grain supplies as
drought also hits parts of  China  and the U.S., the world’s
biggest wheat exporter.  The  United Nations  says world food prices are near a record
while the  World Bank  says 44 million people have been driven
into poverty since June 2010 because of the surge in the cost of
living.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  