-- 
BRICS Countries Gain Momentum for IMF Deputy Job, Lavrov Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-06-01T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/brics-countries-gain-momentum-for-imf-deputy-job-lavrov-says.html
Emerging-market nations are gaining
the support of world leaders for a bid to nominate a deputy to
the next head of the  International Monetary Fund , Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said.  A consensus has almost been reached on selecting the new
IMF chief, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said at the Group
of Eight summit on May 27. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin the
same day said French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde’s
candidacy for the job is "very strong."  Lagarde is vying to become France’s fifth IMF chief and
maintain Europe’s hold on the position. While developing nations
have called for an end to Europe’s 65-year hold on the post,
they failed to unite behind one nominee. Brazil may back Lagarde
in exchange for "a strategic position" for the nation’s Finance
Minister Guido Mantega on the fund’s board, Rio de Janeiro-based
 O Globo  reported on May 31.  The proposal by developing nations is a "very logical
request and it was considered as very legitimate by all the
participants of the G-8," Lavrov said in an interview in Moscow
yesterday. The IMF should "give more voice to the countries, to
the emerging economies which accumulate more financial and
economic power. This fact must be reflected."  Lavrov didn’t name any candidates for the deputy’s job,
which he said is a new position that would have to be created.
The so-called BRICS emerging-market nations of Brazil, Russia,
India, China and  South Africa  aren’t seeking to replace any of
the current deputies, he said.  The job of first deputy managing director, traditionally
reserved for the U.S., is now held by  John Lipsky , who is
standing in for Dominique Strauss-Kahn. There are also two
deputy managing directors,  Naoyuki Shinohara  and Nemat Shafik.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  