-- 
Burkina Faso Soldiers Protest, Fire Shots and Loot Shops in Bobo Dioulasso

-- B y   S i m o n   G o n g o
-- 
2011-06-01T13:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/burkina-faso-soldiers-protest-in-the-city-of-bobo-diolousso-fire-shots.html
About 200 Burkina Faso soldiers fired
shots in the air at a military base in the West African nation’s
second-biggest city, Bobo Dioulasso, as civil and army unrest in
 Africa ’s biggest cotton grower extended into a fourth month.  “They fired all night,” said Aristide Ouedraogo, a
resident of the city, which is 360 kilometers (223 miles) from
Ouagadougou, the capital, by phone today. “Even this morning
they are still firing but now it is in the military base.”  The soldiers’ actions at the base, which is the army’s main
training facility, are “unacceptable,” Communications Minister
Alain Edouard Traore told reporters today. “It is enough.”  Shops were looted and stayed closed today, Zakaria
Ouedraogo, a storekeeper in the city, said by phone. It is the
latest in a series of army protests over delayed pay and
allowances, including a mutiny in the evening of April 14 that
forced President Blaise Compaore to flee the capital, returning
the next morning. He dismissed his government and fired the
heads of the army and the police.  Rising Costs  Burkina Faso  has been in turmoil since February when
students protested over the death of a pupil in police custody.
On April 30, about 3,000 Ouagadougou residents demonstrated
against the rising cost of living and a month later, a group
that represents about 8,000 cotton farmers pledged to boycott
seed-planting for the 2011-12 harvest amid calls for higher
prices for the fiber.  Companies including  Avocet Mining Plc (AVM)  and  Iamgold Corp. (IMG) 
mine for gold in Burkina Faso and had their operations disrupted
during labor disputes last month.  One of the world’s poorest countries, Burkina Faso ranks
161 out of 169 countries in the United Nations’ Human
Development Index, a measure of development that includes
education, income and life expectancy. Its gross domestic
product per capita of $517 is about half of the African rate of
$1,127, according to the  World Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Gongo in Ouagadougou via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  