-- 
Corpses, Ambition, Art Drew Americans to Paris, Says McCullough

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/cadavers-ambition-louvre-drew-americans-to-paris-says-mccullough-books.html
“ The Greater Journey ” is a
boring title for a riveting, sometimes thrilling book.
Subtitled “Americans in Paris,” it begins with stories of
aspiring artists and physicians who traveled to the French
capital in the 1830s to advance their careers.  But after several chapters the author, the celebrated
historian  David McCullough , turns it into something else: a
history of 19th-century Paris seen through American eyes.
The narrowing of focus sharpens this diffuse material.  The cast is big, and many of the once-famous names
aren’t so famous anymore, such as  George P.A. Healy , the
sea captain’s son who became one of the leading portrait
painters of the 19th century, and  George Catlin , the
painter and showman who charmed King Louis-Philippe with
his company of Iowa Indians.  “I have been in many of the wigwams of Indians of
America when I was a young man,” the king said, “and they
treated me everywhere kindly, and I love them for it.”  Among their better-remembered contemporaries was
 Samuel F.B. Morse , though Morse is no longer all that
renowned as the ambitious painter who in a single canvas,
“ Gallery of the Louvre ,” surveyed 38 of the museum’s
masterpieces. The finished work didn’t bring Morse the
glory -- or the money -- he dreamed of. He renounced
painting and put all his energy into promoting the
invention he’d been working on: the telegraph.  Medical Students  The most fascinating of McCullough’s early chapters
describes the young Americans who went to France to pursue
a medical education, which was still primitive in the U.S.
Study in Paris had two great advantages. First, you could
examine female patients; in America, “most women would have
preferred to die than have a physician -- a man -- examine
their bodies.”  Second, there were plenty of cheap cadavers to
dissect, a practice frowned on in the States. McCullough
provides a spectacularly disgusting description of the
Amphitheatre d’Anatomie, where -- amid the stench of death
and the fumes of cigar smoke -- 600 students could
simultaneously carve up corpses.  The hero of the middle part of the book is  Elihu
Washburne , the American ambassador during the disastrous
(for  France ) Franco-Prussian War and its culmination, the
1870-71 siege of Paris.  For months Parisian resolve held firm as the city
starved: “The price of a cat on the market was four times
that of a dog ... It was also generally agreed that the
flavor of a brewery rat surpassed that of the sewer rat,
due to its diet.”  Paris Commune  Washburne was one of the few ambassadors who refused
to quit the city during the siege and the horrific
insurrection that followed it, the Paris Commune, a period
of madness and carnage that outdid even the Terror of the
French Revolution -- “the Seine literally ran red with
blood.”  In the last part McCullough returns to a new
generation of the artists he clearly loves writing about.
He finishes his narrative with the century’s end. But while
a book of this grandeur calls for a grand summation,
instead he supplies a curiously brief epilogue sketching
the later years of three American artists ( Augustus Saint-
Gaudens ,  John Singer Sargent  and  Mary Cassatt ) who
practiced in Paris.  The journey McCullough refers to in his title meant
something, and I would have liked to hear him articulate
it. His reticence is no doubt a facet of his tact. Though
this is a long book, McCullough apparently considers it a
matter of honor not to rattle on. Like all great
entertainers, he leaves his audience wanting more.  “The Greater Journey” is published by  Simon & Schuster 
(558 pages, $37.50). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 