-- 
California’s Lockyer Urges Pensions to Oppose Secret Political Donations

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-06-01T18:02:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/california-s-lockyer-urges-pensions-to-oppose-secret-political-donations.html
California’s treasurer is urging the
state’s two biggest public pension funds, with $391.1 billion of
assets, to push shareholder initiatives requiring companies they
invest in to disclose political spending.  The need for increased corporate disclosure and board
oversight is greater since the U.S. Supreme Court’s Citizens
United decision in 2010, said Treasurer Bill Lockyer, a Democrat
who sits on the governing boards of both funds. The court
allowed corporations and unions to spend unlimited amounts on
ads advocating a candidate’s election or defeat.  The Washington-based  Center for Political Accountability ,
which lobbies businesses to publicize campaign expenditures,
said that almost three dozen companies are being asked at annual
meetings this year to vote on shareholder resolutions requiring
disclosure. The issue has gained potency since the U.S. Supreme
Court’s decision.  “Whether or not such contributions can be kept secret,
legally or practically, anonymous political spending denies
investors the means to evaluate their companies’ overall
spending practices and priorities,” Lockyer said in a letter to
board members of the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System  and the California State Teachers’ Retirement System.  Opponents of disclosure say that companies could be
targeted for their donations. Minneapolis-based Target Corp.
faced criticism from gay-rights advocates and calls for a
boycott after donating to a business group supporting Republican
gubernatorial candidate Tom Emmer, an opponent of same-sex
marriage.  President  Barack Obama  is considering issuing an executive
order requiring government contractors to disclose contributions
to political groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  