-- 
Cameron Guarantees Care for Elderly in Southern Cross Homes

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-06-01T12:41:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/cameron-guarantees-care-for-elderly-in-southern-cross-homes.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  gave a
guarantee that elderly people in residences run by Southern
Cross Healthcare Plc won’t lose their care as Britain’s biggest
operator of such homes struggles to reverse losses.  “It may well not be in the interests of the residents to
move them, but we have to look at that very carefully,”
Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters in London
today. “We will do what we need to do to ensure that there is
effective protection for anyone affected. We are clear that we
are putting the interests of the residents first.”  Darlington, northeast England-based Southern Cross said
yesterday it will defer 30 percent of rental payments through
September. The company reported a loss of 311 million pounds
($511 million) for the six months ending March 31. Chairman
Christopher Fisher said in a May 19 Regulatory News Service
statement that  Southern Cross  is in “critical financial
condition.”  A possible failure of the company would put 31,000
residents of its homes at risk. The opposition  Labour Party 
called on the government today to put in place a contingency
plan to guard against that eventuality.  “Thousands of very vulnerable people and their families
will be worried sick by what’s being reported about Southern
Cross,” Labour’s health spokesman, John Healey, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Ministers must get a Plan B in place if the
company can’t sort out its problems.”  Southern Cross fell 7 percent to 7.25 pence at 1:01 p.m. in
London. The shares have declined 62 percent this year.  The chairman of Parliament’s cross-party Health Committee,
Stephen Dorrell, said the government needs to make sure there is
no interruption in care for residents, though he said the
government shouldn’t consider a bailout.  “It doesn’t seem to me that it’s the taxpayers’ job to
fund the losses that have been suffered by the people who have
invested in Southern Cross; that was their risk and it’s their
loss,” Dorrell told BBC News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 