-- 
Capital Flows to Emerging Markets Seen Surpassing $1 Trillion

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-01T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/capital-flows-to-emerging-markets-seen-surpassing-1-trillion.html
Net private capital inflows to
emerging market economies will keep growing this year and next
to reach $1.1 trillion in 2012, attracted by economic growth
above 6 percent in those countries, a banking industry group
said.  The Washington-based Institute of International Finance
today also raised its estimates for 2011 inflows by $81 billion
to $1 trillion to reflect higher forecasts for  Brazil  and China.
That more than offset lower flows to the  Middle East  and North
Africa as a result of political turmoil there.  “The strength of capital flows is still presenting policy
challenges in a number of emerging economies, especially those
already facing pressures from rising inflation, strong credit
and asset price growth and rising exchange rates,” the IIF
wrote in its research note. Monetary policy in these countries
is “generally too accommodative, in large part because policy
makers are so focused on limiting capital inflows.”  Countries from  Indonesia  to  South Africa  are striving to
manage inflows of overseas capital that put upward pressure on
their currencies, making exports less competitive, and threaten
to inflate asset-price bubbles. Nations including  China  and
 South Korea  have argued that U.S. monetary easing has added to
cross-border money flows in pursuit of higher returns.  The IIF said that countries are reacting differently to the
pressures of rising inflation, strong credit and asset price
growth and rising exchange rates. China and Turkey have relied
on reserve requirements rather than higher interest rates, as
opposed to  India , which mostly uses interest rates, the IIF
said. Brazil has been trying all of these measures, as well as
direct capital controls to limit currency appreciation, it said.  Country Guidelines  The  International Monetary Fund , in an effort to give staff
and member countries guidelines on how to cope with surges in
capital flows, in March endorsed the use of capital controls as
a last resort, though the proposal divided the board. Such
controls should only come after countries strengthen banking
systems and adopt economic measures such as building up
reserves, tightening fiscal policies and lowering central bank
 interest rates , the IMF said.  “This new stance risks encouraging greater use of capital
controls before there is an international framework in place to
regulate their use and ensure a level playing field across
countries,” said the IIF, an industry group that represents
some of the world’s largest commercial banks and financial
firms. “We think that emerging economies should be cautious
about going down this path.”  In comparison with emerging markets, the U.S. alone
received $1.24 trillion in capital in 2010, IIF said. That was a
fraction of global financial assets, which were estimated to
have been as much as $250 trillion last year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  