-- 
Chevy Offsets Corvette Carbon With Inflated Green Housing Claim

-- B y   B e n   E l g i n
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/chevy-offsets-corvette-carbon-with-inflated-green-housing-claim.html
Chevrolet  is offering an incentive
for the environmentally minded this year, promising to make up
for the  greenhouse gases  from the cars it sells in 2011 by
paying others to reduce carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.  “What if a car company said it would reduce the carbon
impact of the vehicles it will sell next year by up to 8 million
metric tons?” asked the narrator in an  ad  that ran in November,
as a guitar strummed and someone whistled a folksy tune in the
background. “Would you say that’s a really big deal?”  Based on the first transaction in Chevrolet’s $40 million
plan, the actual carbon reductions will be far less than
promised. The Detroit-based automaker says it will count toward
its goal the carbon reductions from a state program in  Maine  to
insulate 5,500 homes. Chevy is buying carbon credits from the
program for almost $750,000. That is enough to weatherize 170
houses, according to the Maine State Housing Authority.  “It is very fishy to claim credit for reductions from over
5,000 homes if 170 homes will be weatherized because of your
carbon payments,” says Anja Kollmuss, a Zurich-based scientist
associated with the  Stockholm Environment Institute  and one of
five co-authors of a handbook on carbon offset programs, trading
and standards.  Chevy says the carbon reduction project was recommended by
an environmental organization it hired for advice, and that all
the carbon offsets it buys will be certified by an independent
standard-setting group. In Maine, the funds from  General Motors
Co. (GM) ’s biggest brand will eliminate as much as 1,224 tons of
carbon by 2014, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. That
amounts to less than 3 percent of the 45,738 tons of reductions
the credits Chevrolet says it will claim over the same period.  Central Issue  The difference illustrates a central dispute in the
strategy of controlling greenhouse gases through the trading of
carbon credits. As hundreds of companies, governments and
charitable organizations have done by purchasing carbon offsets,
Chevrolet is essentially paying someone else to cut emissions.
At issue is whether this voluntary system really lowers
pollution as much as businesses say it does.  For years, companies have been claiming credit for
reductions from projects that  would have happened  anyway. In
addition, scores of large companies, including  Intel Corp .,
Johnson & Johnson and Dell Inc., have laid claim to reducing
 carbon emissions  by purchasing renewable energy credits, related
to electricity from water, wind and solar power. The price of
the credits is too small to spur investment in additional
production, according to more than 20 green-power developers.  New Yardstick  In the Maine program to insulate the homes of low-income
people, the state agency is using a $42 million grant from the
U.S. economic stimulus program as well as funds from other
federal programs. Until last year, carbon credits from the
project would have been ineligible for certification by most of
the unofficial groups writing standards for offsets because
taxpayers were funding the emission cuts.  In December, Verified Carbon Standard, a Washington
nonprofit that is part of the patchwork of these groups,
 approved  a new yardstick. It accepted the idea that regardless
of funding source, weatherized homes that save significantly
more energy than houses of similar size can be eligible for
carbon credits, according to David Antonioli, the group’s chief
executive officer.  No government authority reviews or approves such rules for
pollution accounting. The new Verified Carbon standard enabled
the Maine housing agency to sell certified credits for the
emission cuts to Chevrolet and to use the automaker’s money to
insulate more houses.  ‘Hot Air’  The only problem is that the bulk of the carbon savings are
being made without the GM division’s contributions, even though
Chevrolet can count all of them toward its clean-air goal, says
Michael Wara, an assistant professor at  Stanford Law School  near
 Palo Alto ,  California , who is a scholar of environmental law.
Carbon offsets are valuable only when they encourage emission
cuts that wouldn’t have happened otherwise, he says.  “The key is that decisions are actually altered by the
creation of this carbon credit,” Wara says. “If they’re not,
then we’re basically buying hot air.”  Chevrolet began considering ways to improve its
environmental image last year, in addition to promoting the
electric-powered Volt auto and the 42-miles-a-gallon Cruze Eco.
The company pledged Nov. 18 to do more by offsetting the
pollution from the 1.9 million autos it figured it would sell
between the date of the promise and the end of this year. That
includes the $110,300 Corvette ZR1, rated by the Environmental
Protection Agency at 14 miles a gallon in city driving.  ‘Very Pleased’  The GM brand hired the Bonneville Environmental Foundation,
a nonprofit based in  Portland ,  Oregon , to purchase carbon
credits on its behalf, according to a  statement . Bonneville
obtained the Maine State Housing Authority’s carbon credits
under a “Verified Emission Reductions Purchase Agreement”
dated March 2.  The contract specifies that the buyer gets credit for all
of the emission reductions from the insulation program,
according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg through a public-
records request. The price for the credits is blacked out.  Chevy spokeswoman Sharon Basel put the total at almost
$750,000. All of the reductions will count toward meeting the
carbon-cutting pledge, Basel says. Dale McCormick, director of
Maine Housing, says carbon credit revenue will be critical to
continuing the program as federal stimulus funds dry up.  “We’re very pleased with this project,” says Bill Devine,
cross brand marketing manager at Chevy and the leader of its
carbon reduction project. “We want to make sure that the
offsets are beyond reproach.”  Taxpayer Funding  In announcing its involvement, the GM division acknowledged
that U.S. funds from an economic stimulus grant and other
programs contribute to the home improvements. Chevrolet said its
purchase of “associated carbon savings” was “providing
additional money.”  Verified Carbon describes its mission as “quality
assurance for the world’s carbon market.” Verified Carbon was
founded in 2005 by the International Emissions Trading
Association and a pair of environmental business organizations.  The carbon market needed a simpler approach to attract more
participants, says Antonioli, the CEO. The new system means it’s
irrelevant that taxpayers funded almost all of the Maine housing
program and that most of the emission cuts probably would have
happened without Chevrolet’s money, he says.  ‘Deceptive Marketing’  “That misses the point,” Antonioli says. Projects that
save the most energy should be rewarded, providing an efficiency
incentive for housing developers and agencies, he says. “The
goal is to establish very clearly defined thresholds for
generating offsets, which will allow emissions to be reduced at
a greater scale.”  Wara, the Stanford professor, says he doesn’t buy it. The
U.S. allocated $5 billion of stimulus funds to weatherize homes
through 2012. If other housing agencies followed Maine and sold
carbon credits for the resulting emissions reductions, the
market would be flooded with meaningless offsets, he says.  “It looks like a deceptive marketing claim,” says Wara.
“If a project can’t show that it is changing behavior, it’s not
clear what you’re buying other than a piece of paper.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  