-- 
Christie’s Sets Hong Kong Auction Record of $470 Million

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-06-01T18:15:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/chinese-bidding-battles-push-christie-s-to-470-million-hong-kong-record.html
Christie’s International set a record
of HK$3.65 billion ($470 million) for a series of Hong Kong
auctions last night as Chinese bidders battled for items from
their heritage. The figure would have been higher had an 18th-
century Chinese vase valued at HK$200 million sold.  The six-day event was estimated to raise HK$2.4 billion
from the sale of fine wines, gems, watches, Chinese ceramics,
classical paintings and Asian contemporary art. The figure beat
the HK$3.49 billion at  Sotheby’s (BID)  in April -- where some lots
achieved prices there were multiples of estimates and others
failed to sell -- and Christie’s equivalent sale last year,
which made HK$2.29 billion.  “A lot of coal miners and listed company owners and
financiers have built wealth and are comfortable spending it on
art,” Qian Weipeng, a Shanghai-based dealer, said in an
interview at the sale.  Chinese bidding was more intense than ever, especially for
porcelain, said dealers. The Chinese antiques trade has an
annual value of more than $10 billion. The country overtook the
U.S. as the biggest auction market for fine art last year,
research company  Artprice  said.  More than 1 million millionaires live in  China , up from
190,000 six years earlier, their ranks swollen last year by
economic growth, savings and a strengthening currency, according
to a  Boston Consulting Group  survey. That puts China in third
place for millionaire households, behind the 5.22 million in the
U.S. and  Japan ’s 1.53 million.  Still, China’s wealth was not enough to push prices high
enough for the Qianlong vase, the most anticipated and expensive
lot of the entire sale.  Pierced Decoration  The 15 inch (38.1 cm) vase is lantern-shaped, with
scrolling hibiscus flowers on a yellow background. The inner
vase serves as the pivot around which the outside vase revolves,
allowing different interior scenes to be viewed through four
pierced circular panels.  It has the same pierced decoration as the 18th-century
Imperial vase that was bid to 51.6 million pounds ($83.2
million) -- the highest ever for a Chinese artwork -- at
 Bainbridges , west  London , last November.  Bainbridges said in February that it hadn’t received
payment. It has since refused to comment. Mindful of such
reports, Christie’s introduced for the first time the
requirement that bidders pay a deposit of HK$1 million on any
items valued at HK$8 million or more.  “It was a very pushy estimate,”  Richard Marchant , a
London-based dealer, said of the Christie’s vase. While he
didn’t bid on the vase, Marchant bought three other pieces.  Qianlong Bowl  Other multimillion dollar items sold well because their
estimates were less aggressive, said Marchant, including a
Qianlong-era bowl that fetched a hammer price of HK$60 million,
four times its high estimate.  The vase was fairly valued, said Pola Antebi, Christie’s
head of Chinese Ceramics and Works of Art.  “I didn’t think the price was overly aggressive, the
market is still strong,” she said on the sidelines of the
auction. “At the very top of the market there are relatively
few people collecting at HK$100 million and above.”  The sales began with an eight-hour marathon on May 27 in
which all 392 lots direct from  Chateau Latour  sold. Total wine
sales earned $7.76 million, with 95 percent of the lots
exceeding their high estimate.  The headliners at the May 28 Christie’s evening sale were
painted by 20th century artist  Zao Wou-ki . They were sold to
private Asian collectors for $5.27 million and $4.98 million
including buyer’s premiums -- more than twice estimates.  Zeng Self Portrait  Works by contemporary Chinese painter Zeng Fanzhi also
fetched high prices in the packed auction room, with three works
among the 10 most expensive, including a self portrait bought by
a European buyer for $4.83 million.  Chinese entrepreneur Zhao Zhijun paid HK$36 million, more
than four times the high estimate, for “The Leopard,” a new
work by Zeng donated by the artist so sales proceeds could go to
support the Nature Conservancy.  The auction of watches raised HK$164.7 million, the
highest-ever tally for an Asian sale, Christie’s said. Two Patek
Philippe wrist watches sold for more than $1 million.  The Southeast Asian contemporary sale raised HK$49.4
million in which 15 individual artist records were set,
including a work by the 20th-century Indonesian Affandi for
HK$3.6 million and “La Piedra IV” by his Filipino contemporary
 Fernando Zobel  which sold for HK$1.6 million, four times its
estimate.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 