-- 
China Manufacturing Grows at Slowest Pace in Nine Months on Cooling Effort

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-01T03:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/china-manufacturing-grows-at-slowest-pace-in-9-months-after-rate-increases.html
China’s manufacturing expanded at
the slowest pace in nine months in May as the government
extended a campaign to cool inflation and the  property market ,
a survey of companies indicated.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 52 from 52.9 in
April, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
in an e-mailed statement. The number was higher than the
median forecast of 51.6 in a Bloomberg News survey of 16
economists. The index has a seasonal pattern of falling in
May, economists said before the release.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has yet to tame prices in the
fastest-growing major economy as food and housing costs climb,
McDonald’s Corp. charges more for soft drinks, and a drought
in Yangtze River areas threatens grain production. Today’s
data suggested moderating economic growth may aid his
campaign, with input-price inflation easing as manufacturers’
orders and output grew at a slower pace.  “The data suggests continued moderation in industrial
activities,” said  Li Wei , a Shanghai-based economist at
Standard Chartered Bank. At the same time, the reading was
strong enough to alleviate “fears of a sharp slowdown, and
thus marginally increases the chance of a further rate hike
in the near term,” Li said.  The nation’s fifth interest-rate increase since mid-
October may come as early as this weekend, which is extended
by a holiday on Monday, the economist added.  More Evidence  A separate PMI released today indicated the weakest
manufacturing growth in 10 months. That index, released by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, is based on a survey
of more than 400 companies, while the data released jointly
by the logistics federation and the statistics bureau covers
more than 800.  The Shanghai Composite Index has fallen more than 10
percent from this year’s high in April, and analysts have
pared economic growth forecasts as monetary tightening starts
to bite. The benchmark slid another 0.5 percent as of 11:06
a.m. local time, while the yuan was little changed at about
6.48 per dollar.  Slower expansions in the Asia Pacific region may fuel
concern that growth will falter in a global economy already
hampered by  Japan ’s disaster and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  India ,  Australia   India’s expansion cooled in the first quarter even as
inflation pressures persisted, a government report showed
yesterday. Australia's economy shrank by the most in 20 years
because of natural disasters, a statistics bureau report
showed today.  Zhang Liqun , a senior researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center, said he saw an increased
possibility that China’s economic growth will moderate,
adding that destocking by companies may be a factor. In a
statement, the logistics federation said that inflation
pressures from commodity costs are easing.  China’s economy  expanded 9.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, while consumer prices exceeded
the government’s 4 percent target in each of the first four
months of this year. Nomura Holdings Inc. has trimmed its
2011 growth forecast to 9.4 percent from a previous estimate
of 9.8 percent, after cuts by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  ‘Excessive Downturn’  The nation risks an “excessive downturn” if tightening
measures last too long,  Ba Shusong , a researcher at the State
Council’s Development Research Center, said in a commentary
published May 24. Non-deliverable yuan forwards fell in May
by the most since November on speculation that a weaker
economic expansion will encourage officials to slow the pace
of the currency’s appreciation against the dollar.  Signs that the economy is cooling include weaker gains
in industrial production. Car sales slipped in April and
power shortages may also trim the nation’s expansion. The
government is raising electricity prices for businesses and
farmers in 15 provinces starting today, giving an incentive
for generating companies to bring more supply online.  Auto sales may fall 10 percent this year with the end
of government stimulus policies and restrictions on car
licenses, according to the  China  Automotive Technology &
Research Center. BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker backed by
 Warren Buffett , had an 11 percent drop in April sales, it
said last month.  ‘Seasonal Decline’  Capital Economics Ltd. analysts said before today’s
statement that the manufacturing index has a “strong
seasonal pattern” of declining in May each year.  “Given current growth concerns, there is a risk of
market overreaction to what may be a normal seasonal
decline,” London-based economist  Mark Williams  said in a
note yesterday. “Our view remains that the ongoing economic
slowdown is gentle and highly unlikely to lead to a hard
landing.”  Inflation was 5.3 percent in April, down from an almost
three-year high of 5.4 percent in March. Societe Generale SA
says the annual rate may peak this month at about 6.5 percent.  A slowing in food-price inflation “seems to have
reversed somewhat recently,” JPMorgan Chase & Co analysts
said in a May 30 note. The price of pork, a Chinese staple,
rose 35 percent in April from a year earlier and food costs
may be pushed higher if a drought in the Yangtze River area
persists, the note said.  Premier Wen said May 1 that the government is determined
to bring  home prices  to a “reasonable” level in cities
where gains have been excessive. Besides boosting key
 interest rates , officials have ratcheted up lenders’ reserve
requirements and imposed limits on home purchases.  --Zheng Lifei, with assistance from Huang Zhe and Sophie Leung.
Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Sunil Jagtiani.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  