-- 
Chinese Nationals Admit Trying to Smuggle Radiation-Hardended Microchips

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-01T17:31:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/chinese-nationals-plead-guilty-to-trying-to-smuggle-military-microchips.html
Two Chinese businessmen admitted to
conspiring to smuggle radiation-hardened microchips used in the
military and aerospace industries in violation of U.S. export
laws.  Hong Wei Xian, 32, president of Beijing Starcreates Space
Science & Technology Development Co., and Li Li, 33, the
company’s vice president, pleaded guilty in federal court in
Alexandria,  Virginia , today to attempted export of defense
items. Starcreates sells programmable read-only memory
microchips to government-controlled  China  Aerospace Science &
Technology Corp., according to their indictment.  The pleas are related to other prosecutions involving
attempts by China to obtain U.S. technology and information for
economic and military advantage, U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride
said on a conference call. The U.S. has had an embargo on the
export of “defense articles” to China since 1990, according to
Xian and Li’s indictment.  “Today’s convictions represent another example of the
threat posed by those who illegally seek to obtain advanced
American military technology for the benefit of PRC, both
economically and militarily,” MacBride said.  In April 2009, Xian, also known as Harry Zan, contacted a
Virginia company that manufactures programmable microchips used
in satellite systems and other space-based applications,
prosecutors charged in the indictment.  The company reported the contact to the government, which
set up a sting operation with an undercover agent.  Xian and Lin eventually worked out a deal through the agent
for the purchase of 40 microchips for $64,500. The two were
arrested in September in  Hungary , where they expected microchips
to be shipped. They were transferred to the custody of U.S.
marshals on April 1, according to prosecutors.  Prosecutors declined to identify the company.  Xian and Li pleaded to one count of conspiring to violate
the Arms Export Control Act. They face a maximum penalty of five
years in prison and a $250,000 fine when they are sentenced on
Aug. 26. The men must also forfeit almost $49,000 in alleged
proceeds, said  Peter Carr , a spokesman for MacBride.  The case is U.S. v. Xian, 10-cr-00207, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 