-- 
China’s Home Prices Rose in May for Ninth Month as Smaller Cities Climb

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-01T08:49:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/china-s-home-prices-rose-in-may-for-ninth-month-as-smaller-cities-climb.html
China’s  home prices  rose for the
ninth straight month in May as smaller cities withstood
government efforts to curb risks of asset bubbles, according to
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)   Home prices gained 0.5 percent in May from April, the
nation’s biggest real-estate website owner said in an e-mailed
statement today. Residential prices increased in 76 out of 100
cities tracked by SouFun, with average home values nationwide
climbing to 8,819 yuan ($1,361) a square meter (10.76 square
feet).  The government said last month it will maintain property
curbs after it raised the minimum down payment for second-home
purchases this year and introduced residential property taxes in
 Shanghai  and Chongqing. The central bank has raised  interest
rates  four times and increased banks’ reserve requirements eight
times since October.  “Home-price growth remained at a steady pace and was
higher than we expected,” said Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at CIMB-GK Securities Research Pte. “Hot money
went to the periphery of big cities, where policies are not so
strict. Prices there will hold up pretty well this year.”  Urumqi, capital of  China ’s far western Xinjiang province,
posted a 3 percent gain from April, the biggest advance, while
values in the mid-sized eastern city of Dezhou fell 1.6 percent,
the sharpest decline among the 100 cities surveyed, Soufun said.
Home prices in Shanghai rose 0.3 percent and gained 0.2 percent
in Beijing last month.  Curbs Working  A gauge tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite
Index gained 0.2 percent at the 3 p.m. close, rising for a
second day.  There are signs the government’s policies are taking
effect, according to Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. The percentage of
investors in primary sales is at an all-time low, while home
prices are advancing at a slower pace than income growth, the
Chicago-based property brokerage and consulting company said.  “Some aspects of the policies are working, at least from
the government’s perspective,” said  Michael Klibaner , Shanghai-
based head of China research at Jones Lang LaSalle. “But you
are still bottling up the pressures from the market, and prices
will go back again quickly if you remove the restrictions.”  A property tax may be expanded nationwide after the
government revises a trial program in Chongqing and Shanghai,
Xinhua News Agency reported on May 29, citing Chongqing Mayor
Huang Qifan.  ‘Very Serious’  The government is “very serious” about lowering home
prices this time, Richard Koo, chief economist at Nomura
Research Institute, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
May 26. “To that extent, we may see bankruptcies or collapses
of projects as a result,” he said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated May 1 that the nation is
“determined” to bring down housing prices in some cities to a
“reasonable” level.  Big developers may be able to withstand a decline in
volumes for some time because they can raise money through the
bond markets or borrow offshore, CIMB-GK’s Hu said.  April new home prices rose in all but three of 70 Chinese
cities monitored by the government. The government’s indexes of
new and existing homes for May are due on June 18.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  