-- 
China Lending-Binge Hangover Looms as Wen Spurs Construction

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-02T05:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/china-lending-binge-hangover-looms-in-2013-as-wen-spurs-low-income-housing.html
China ’s plan to rein in property
prices with a record homebuilding program may worsen local debt
risks even as it proves a boon to companies from domestic cement
makers to Chilean copper exporters.  Premier Wen Jiabao aims to build 36 million low-cost homes
by 2015, an initiative that will see 2 trillion yuan ($307
billion) added to local government borrowing by 2012, bringing
it to a total 12 trillion yuan, Standard Chartered Plc estimates.
The surge of loans to local authorities may spark a wave of bank
bailouts that hobble economic growth.  “We’re going to see more financial shenanigans, we’re
going to see more money pushed off balance sheets” as banks
seek to mask the extent of their lending to local governments,
said Singapore-based Fraser Howie, who co-wrote “Red
Capitalism: The Fragile Financial Foundation of China’s
Extraordinary Rise,” and has been an investment banker in Asia
for almost two decades.  “We’re going to see some major recapitalization coming at
some point” in the banking system, he predicted.  Local governments have created more than 8,000 investment
companies that allow them to get around regulations prohibiting
direct borrowing.  Fitch Ratings  cites lending to the vehicles
and to property developers in a worst-case scenario predicting
bad loans could reach 30 percent of the total at China’s banks.  Risks connected with the financing companies need
“attention,” the central bank said in a report yesterday.  Catastrophic or Harmful?  Moody’s Investors Service also built a 10 percent bad-loan
ratio into its stress tests on China’s banks, which the company
says probably will provide most of the social-housing funding.  “Already banks are dealing with two years worth of
questionable lending and now you are going to load this on
top?” asked Patrick Chovanec, an associate professor at
Tsinghua University’s School of Economics and Management. Bad
debt is “just inevitable. The question is the dimension. Is it
catastrophic or is it just harmful?”  The central government has offered no public sign it is
prepared to absorb a share of any non-performing loans made to
local authorities. Reuters reported this week that regulators
aim to shift as much as 3 trillion yuan of debt off of local
governments, citing people with knowledge of the plans.  One unidentified person said the program will be carried
out by the end of September, while another said it may take
longer.  Government Investigation  Xu Lin, head of the department of fiscal and financial
affairs at the National Development and Reform Commission, which
approves bond sales by the local financing vehicles, said he was
unaware of such a proposal.  News website Sina.com reported yesterday that China will
investigate local-government debt over the June-to-September
period, citing  Wu Xiaoling , vice chairman of the finance and
economy committee of the National People’s Congress. The
government can’t complete a massive restructuring program within
three months, said Wu, also a former deputy governor of the
central bank.  Bank stocks have yet to show evidence of investor revolt.
China’s CSI 300/Financials Index has fallen 5.6 percent over the
past three months, less than the 7.8 percent decline in the
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index. Shanghai’s benchmark slid 2
percent today as of 1:37 p.m. local time.  Stocks Outperforming  Equity analysts remain bullish: Among the 24 that have
rated  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ’s Hong Kong-listed shares
since April, not one recommends selling the stock, while 20 rank
it buy, long-term buy, outperform, accumulate or overweight,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. None of the 27 analysts
who have rated  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. since
April advise selling.  The optimism reflects the perception that bad debts in the
banking sector are unlikely to materialize for a few years,
according to Charlene Chu, senior director, financial
institutions at Fitch Ratings in Beijing.  “Investing for the long term in Chinese banks is risky,”
said Chu, whose company in March said its gauge of systemic risk
indicated a 60 percent chance of a banking crisis by mid-2013.
“A case can be made to invest in some banks over the short-term,
but investors should not blindly assume that this place has no
issues.”  Fitch’s Concerns  Fitch cited concerns about the investment vehicles, used to
fund stimulus spending from the 2008 global crunch, in lowering
the outlook on China’s AA- long-term local-currency debt rating
April 12.  Banks had a total of 50 trillion yuan of all loans
outstanding in April.  Standard & Poor’s  has said the bad-loan
ratio may climb next year to as high as 10 percent, from 1.1
percent now.  Social housing projects have “a pretty thin profit,” said
Zhang Yi, senior analyst at Moody’s in Beijing. “It’s not like
you are lending to highly profitable companies.”  Chris Ruffle , who helps manage $19 billion for Martin
Currie Inc. in  Shanghai , said, “it’s not a great situation and
I wouldn’t want to be an investor in banks” after the record
boom in lending.  The government hasn’t spelled out how construction of low-
income housing will be financed over the full five years or how
local governments will recoup their costs.  Special Case  The central and local governments combined will provide 500
billion yuan of a total of at least 1.3 trillion yuan to build
10 million homes this year, Vice Minister of Housing and Urban-
Rural Development Qi Ji said March 9, without saying how they
will come up with the money. The central government will provide
about 121 billion yuan.  While officials have pressed banks not to expand lending to
local government financing vehicles, China Banking Regulatory
Commission Chairman  Liu Mingkang  said that credit dedicated to
affordable-housing developments with “repayment capability”
was exempted from the push, the China Securities Journal
reported March 7.  By building cheaper homes, either for rent or sale below
market prices, Wen seeks to prevent social unrest caused by
record property prices. He’s also countering rising prices in
major cities with curbs on lending and mortgages, and a trial
property tax in some cities. The risk is a slowdown in land
sales that contribute about a third of local government revenue.  Wang’s New Home  For Wang Shanli and her husband the program means 660 yuan
($102) in monthly rent for a 60-square meter, two-room apartment
in a suburb of Chongqing. Growth in the central Chinese city has
lured companies from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  to BASF SE. The 25-
year-old housewife moved May 1 into a unit at Minxin Jiayuan, a
54-block development.  “The government’s policy is precisely to kill two birds
with one stone: satisfy demand for lower cost housing but also
to keep the economy buzzing,” said  Mark Mobius , the executive
chairman of Franklin Templeton Investment’s Emerging Markets
Group. “It’s the raw materials angle that I think would be most
interesting” for investment, he said, citing a likely boost in
demand for copper, aluminum, concrete and cement.  Chilean copper producer  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , platinum and
metals producer  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and Shanghai-based  Lonking
Holdings Ltd. (3339) , a maker of wheel loaders, may benefit from
China’s affordable housing plan, said Singapore-based Mobius,
who oversees more than $50 billion. Templeton holds shares in
the three companies.  ‘Strong Institutions’  The  World Bank  in April endorsed China’s social-housing
plans, while saying the financing would need to be managed to
prevent stretching local-government finances.  “Successful, sustainable social housing requires strong
institutions and clear rules, including on a sustainable
financing model and the funding of the subsidy element” for
low-income renters and buyers, the Washington-based lender said
in a quarterly report on China April 28.  The program is front-loaded, with 10 million units planned
for this year, a 170 percent surge from the 2010 total. Vice
Premier  Li Keqiang  said Feb. 24 that the 2011 target is
“mandatory” and local governments must increase funding for
the plan.  A “financing hole” of between 817 billion yuan and 1.4
trillion yuan this year alone means most of the construction
will probably be funded through bank loans, said Stephen Green,
head of China research at  Standard Chartered  in Shanghai. He
estimates that construction this year may cost as much as 1.9
trillion yuan.  Debt Financing  A plan to build 800,000 apartments over three years in
Chongqing will rely on debt to finance 70 percent of the 100
billion yuan cost while construction will be handled by state-
owned developers led by local government investment vehicle
Chongqing City Construction, according to data compiled by
Standard Chartered.  China’s last banking crisis was in the late 1990s, when
years of state-directed credit left lenders saddled with bad
loans. The government spent more than $650 billion over a decade
in bailouts.  The nation’s fiscal strength means the central government
could similarly absorb a bad-loan crisis while retaining a
relatively low public debt-to-gross domestic product ratio.
Fitch sees as much as 30 percent of GDP support needed to
address any future banking difficulties.  With China’s 2010 debt-to-GDP ratio about 19 percent,
according to the  International Monetary Fund , such an increase
would still leave it better off than the U.S., at 93 percent
last year; Japan, at 226 percent; or Spain at 64 percent.  At the same time, working out the debt crisis may damp the
nation’s economic growth, which could ease to between 5 and 7
percent annually over the coming decade, said  Michael Pettis , a
finance professor at Beijing’s Peking University.  “Five or six years ago people were saying that one of the
great glories of the U.S. real estate market is that now all of
these people who couldn’t afford to buy houses could buy
houses,” said Pettis. “That didn’t work out so well.”  --Kevin Hamlin. With assistance from Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei,
Penny Peng and Henry Sanderson in Beijing and Whitney Kisling
and Carol Massar in  New York . Editors: Chris Anstey, Anne Swardson  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  