-- 
Chinese May Prosper in Solar-Power Shakeout, Moody’s Says

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-06-01T15:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/china-manufacturers-to-prosper-in-solar-shakeout-moody-s-says.html
Solar-energy equipment makers are
being hurt by falling profit margins and excess factory capacity
that will “crowd out” marginal players in favor of large, low-
cost Chinese companies, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “Despite the sector’s favorable long-term outlook, the
pullback of government incentives in  Europe , by far the world’s
largest market, will cut demand and exacerbate global
overcapacity,” Chris Park, a Hong Kong-based analyst, said
today in a report. New factories, particularly in  China , are
bringing down product prices and margins, he said.  While Park didn’t name companies that may prosper more than
others, he listed Jiangsu, China-based Suntech Power Holdings
Co. as the world’s largest solar-panel producer and  GCL-Poly
Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  of  Hong Kong  was ranked No. 1 among solar-
wafer manufacturers.  The global production capacity of photovoltaic plants
jumped 139 percent to 18.2 gigawatts in 2010 as a projected
reduction of subsidies this year in  Germany ,  Italy , and the
 Czech Republic  contributed to last year’s rapid growth.
Subsidies enabled these three nations to account for 70 percent
of the world’s photovoltaic demand, Moody’s said.  “The continued growth of photovoltaic solar demand over
the medium term depends on government subsidies and incentives,
which have declined in Europe,” Park said. “A low cost base,
increasing scale, and vertical integration make Chinese
companies able to better withstand the shake-out and gain market
share.”  Even so, Chinese companies don’t rank among the best
performers this year.  Germany’s  Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  and  SunPower Corp. (SPWRA)  of  California ,
both targets of takeovers, have notched the highest gains since
Dec. 31 -- 84 percent and 64 percent, respectively. They’re
followed by  GT Solar International Inc. (SOLR)  of Merrimack,  New
Hampshire , and Solon SE, based in Germany.  The worst performer on the Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar
Index is Evergreen Solar Inc., having lost about 50 percent
since May 12, when the U.S. maker of thin polysilicon wafers
said it was unsure whether it will be able to remain in business
due to liquidity concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  