-- 
China’s Seizure of China Mobile Executive Leads to Wider Probe

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-01T05:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/china-s-seizure-of-china-mobile-executive-leads-to-wider-corruption-probe.html
China’s seizure of a  China Mobile Ltd. (941) 
executive on graft allegations in March led to a probe of more
than 60 people that may involve 350 million yuan ($54 million)
of “illegal money,” the official Xinhua News Agency said.  China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd., and China Telecom Corp., the
nation’s second- and third-largest carriers after China Mobile,
are included in the investigation, according to today’s Xinhua
report, which didn’t say what the alleged corruption entailed.  The three operators are adjusting their business-
cooperation policies “to reduce the corruption risk,” Xinhua
said. The allegations come amid Chinese media reports that the
government will overhaul leadership at the nation’s biggest
telecommunications carriers.  The corruption probe may be an attempt to clear up any
problems before new management takes over to allow them to start
with a clean slate, Jim Tang, an analyst at Shenyin Wanguo
Securities Co. in  Shanghai , said in a phone interview today. If
the investigation means China Mobile is addressing problems,
it’s a good thing in the long run, he said.  Tang rates China Mobile and China Telecom “neutral,” and
China Unicom “outperform.”  China Mobile gained 0.6 percent to HK$71.45 at 10:45 a.m.
in Hong Kong Stock Exchange trading. The shares have dropped 7.5
percent this year, compared with a 2.7 percent advance in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index . China Unicom fell 1.3 percent to
HK$17.04 while China Telecom was unchanged at HK$4.66.  Executive Reshuffle  Sophia Tso, a Unicom spokeswoman, and Jacky Yung, a
spokesman for China Telecom, yesterday denied reports about
planned management changes at their respective companies. Tso
and Yung didn’t immediately return calls today regarding the
Xinhua report on the corruption probe.  Rainie Lei, a spokeswoman at China Mobile, didn’t return
calls or e-mailed requests for comment on the reports about
management changes.  Caijing magazine reported yesterday that Xi Guohua, vice
minister at the Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology ,
will replace  Wang Jianzhou , 62, as chairman at China Mobile.
China Unicom Chairman Chang Xiaobing will have his post taken by
President Lu Yimin and become chairman of China Telecom Corp.,
while China Telecom Chairman Wang Xiaochu will become governor
of Yunnan province, according to the magazine.  Zhao Yi, a spokesman for China Mobile, said he couldn’t
immediately comment on today’s Xinhua report or provide contact
information for Ma Li, the data department deputy manager who
the official newswire reported was seized by anti-graft
officials.  China Mobile’s value-added data such as mobile music
services “were an essential driver of total revenue growth”
last year, accounting for 31 percent of operating revenue in
2010, Chairman Wang said in March.  China  Mobile said 549 million customers made use of value-
added services in the first quarter of this year, and 476
million used its wireless music service. The value-added
services were “the driving force” of sales growth in the first
quarter, the company said in April.  --Edmond Lococo. Editors: Dave McCombs, Terje Langeland  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7507 or
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  