-- 
Christie Criticized for Chopper Ride to Son’s Game

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-06-02T22:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/christie-slammed-for-chopper-ride-to-son-s-game.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s
trip on a state police helicopter to watch his son’s high school
baseball game drew criticism from Democratic lawmakers who
called for the first-term Republican to repay the cost.  Christie, who has asked workers to give up benefits as part
of “shared sacrifice” in cutting the cost of government, used
the chopper to travel from Trenton to Montvale yesterday to
watch his son play catcher for Delbarton School. The flight cost
taxpayers $2,500 for an hour of time logged, State Police
Sergeant Stephen Jones said in a telephone interview.  “It is a means of transportation that is occasionally used
as the schedule demands,”  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for
Christie, said in an e-mail yesterday. “This has historically
been the case in prior administrations as well, and we continue
to be judicious in limiting its use.”  State Democratic Party Chairman John Wisniewski called
Christie’s ride on the $12.5 million aircraft “hypocrisy”
after the governor criticized state spending and targeted public
officials who abuse government perks.  “It’s an outrage, quite frankly,” Wisniewski, an
assemblyman from Sayreville, said in a telephone interview
today. “This is a governor who made a career out of criticizing
other people for breaking the rules and here he is, breaking the
same rules in a cavalier fashion.”  Personal Trip  Assemblyman Paul Moriarty, a Democrat from Washington
Township in Gloucester County, criticized Christie’s decision to
fly after he cut property-tax rebates and funding for women’s
health care. He called on the governor to “immediately
reimburse the taxpayers for all costs associated with personal
and political trips.”  “Taxpayers cannot afford his helicopter joyrides,”
Moriarty said in a statement. Drewniak didn’t return phone calls
today.  Moriarty is sponsoring a bill that would prohibit any
member of the governor’s office or state employee from taxpayer-
funded travel or staying overnight unless the trip is deemed to
be essential.  Christie, 48, had no public events scheduled yesterday or
today. He had a meeting last night at Drumthwacket, the
governor’s mansion in Princeton, about 67 miles (108 kilometers)
by car from Saint Joseph High School in Montvale. Delbarton  won 
the 4 p.m. game, 7-2.  Iowa  Visit  The governor met with a group of donors and political
operatives from Iowa, said Rick Gorka, a spokesman for the  New
Jersey  Republican State Committee. The Hawkeye State delegation
“offered support” for the governor and was unable to lure him
into a presidential run in 2012, Gorka said. Christie plans to
go to Iowa in July to make a speech about education, he said.  “They like what he’s done here in New Jersey and they
asked him to run,” Gorka said. “He politely reiterated his
position. He has an obligation to voters here in New Jersey.”  Christie has been aboard state police helicopters 33 times
since taking office, said Jones of the State Police.  The executive protection unit “provides secure, protected
travel by vehicle in the overwhelming majority of the governor’s
business and personal travel, except in those rare instances
when the governor’s schedule warrants use of  air travel ,” State
Police Superintendent Rick Fuentes said in a statement.  There is no additional cost to taxpayers of having Christie
aboard state police helicopters because they fly daily for
homeland security missions or training, Fuentes said.  Vacation Home  Christie or a member of his staff used six state-owned
helicopters 21 times in 2010, according to records provided by
the state police in December.  On three dates -- July 6, Aug. 28 and Sept. 6 -- the
aircraft landed at Island Beach State Park, where governors have
the use of a state-owned vacation home. On June 6, a helicopter
flew from Trenton to Mahwah, picked up the governor from a
luncheon at the Sheraton hotel and landed at Jersey Shore
University Medical Center in Neptune, where State Trooper Marc
Castellano was being treated after he was struck by a car.
Castellano died later that day.  The choppers used for the trips, which totaled 62 hours
last year, included Sikorsky S-76Bs, a Bell 206-L4 and an Agusta
AW139, according to a U.S. Federal Aviation Administration
 database . The hourly operating cost is $2,298 for the Sikorskys
and $496 for the Bell, according to a state Department of Law
and Public Safety  report  prepared for the Legislature.  New Chopper  Paul Loriquet, a spokesman for Attorney General Paula Dow,
said the helicopter Christie used yesterday was a new Agusta
used for transporting emergency patients, law enforcement
officers and executives.  The state has so far bought two of a planned five of the
Agusta helicopters, which will replace the state’s aging fleet
of Sikorskys and Bells, according to budget documents.
Assemblywoman Joan Quigley, who sponsored  legislation 
authorizing the purchase of the helicopters, called Christie’s
use of the fleet “a serious abuse of taxpayer dollars.”  The helicopters should be used only when necessary to
“transport governors safely and swiftly to important state
business,” said Quigley, a Jersey City Democrat.  “I’m sure every resident of this state would love to have
access to these helicopters when they’re stuck in traffic on the
Turnpike or Parkway and missing an important appointment,” she
said in a statement. “Sadly, we don’t all have that luxury.”  Government Spending  The use of state helicopters by New Jersey governors has
been a political issue for years. In 1993, Republican Christine
Todd Whitman cited Democratic Governor Jim Florio’s use of the
aircraft as an example of government waste in her successful
campaign. In 2002, Democratic Governor James McGreevey
apologized and his party reimbursed the state $18,200 for 14
personal flights in state helicopters.  Christie’s travel spending during his term as a federal
prosecutor was criticized by the U.S. Justice Department’s
inspector general in a November report. Christie provided
“insufficient, inaccurate or no justification” for 14 of 23
trips that exceeded the government rate, the report said.  “U.S. Attorney C was the U.S. Attorney who most often
exceeded the government rate without adequate justification,”
the report said, using initials Christie’s office later said
referred to the governor. He exceeded the allowable rate by a
total of $2,176, according to the  report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Nj Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Nj Statehouse at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  