-- 
Cisco Says Tablets Will Help Internet Traffic Quadruple By 2015

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-06-01T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/cisco-says-tablets-will-help-internet-traffic-quadruple-by-2015.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest maker
of networking equipment, said  Internet traffic  will quadruple by
2015, driven by growth in smartphones, tablet computers and
appliances connected to the Web.  More than 40 percent of the global population will be
online by 2015, contributing to almost a zettabyte of Internet
traffic that year, the  San Jose , California-based company said
in its fifth annual  Visual Networking Index  report. A zettabyte
is equal to a trillion gigabytes.  More consumers are surfing the Web and watching videos from
Google Inc.’s YouTube and Netflix Inc. on their mobile devices,
straining service providers’ abilities to transmit data quickly.
The study aims to give Cisco customers, which include AT&T Inc.
and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , a view of consumer trends while
promoting the need for Cisco products, which handle the flow of
Internet traffic.  “Traffic growth will continue to challenge the Internet
and private networks to handle more devices and more bandwidth-
heavy applications like video than ever before,” Suraj Shetty,
Cisco’s vice president of global service provider marketing,
said in a statement. “Cisco is focused on helping address
this.”  Asia-Pacific will displace North America by 2015 as the
region generating the most Web traffic, Cisco said. The Middle
East and Africa are forecast to grow the fastest.  The study also highlighted the diminishing influence of the
personal computer, eroded by the rise of mobile devices. By
2015, PCs will generate 87 percent of consumer Internet traffic,
down from 97 percent last year, Cisco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  