-- 
Coca-Cola Is in Talks to List Shares on Shanghai Exchange

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-01T10:44:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/coca-cola-says-it-s-interested-in-considering-listing-on-shanghai-bourse.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, is in talks with China’s government to list
shares in Shanghai as the company accelerates expansion in the
world’s most populous nation.  “We are interested in exploring the opportunity of
listing our stock on the Shanghai Stock Exchange,” Geoff Walsh,
Coca-Cola’s Hong Kong-based public affairs and communications
director for Asia, said in an e-mailed reply to queries. “We
continue to have positive discussions with Chinese government
officials as we look at this opportunity.”  Coca-Cola, whose Sprite is China’s top-selling soft drink,
will probably raise spending in the country as it invests a
planned $2 billion faster than expected, Chief Executive
Officer  Muhtar Kent  said in November. China has the world’s
third-biggest stock market, and companies including  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are seeking permission to list on its bourses to
raise funds in the Chinese currency.  “This would be attractive for Chinese domestic investors
as it would give them more diversity in the type of companies
they can invest in,” said  Arjuna Mahendran , Singapore-based
head of investment strategy for Asia at  HSBC Private Bank ,
overseeing $460 billion globally. “It also makes a lot of
sense for Coca-Cola as it gives them access to international
activities to fund their Chinese expansion and allows them to
raise funds in yuan.”  Building Factories  About 14 percent of Coca-Cola’s $35 billion in sales last
year were made in the Pacific region, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The maker of Minute Maid juice is
building plants in  China  at a faster pace than it expected as
it jostles for market share with rivals including PepsiCo Inc.  “We’ve been ahead on that commitment” to invest $2
billion in China from 2009 to 2011, Walsh said in a phone
interview today. He declined to comment further on any plans to
sell shares in Shanghai.  While overseas companies can sell stock in  Hong Kong ,
they’re barred from doing so in mainland China. The government
may approve a board for overseas companies on the mainland by
the end of June and the first listing may occur as soon as
October, Caixin Century magazine reported May 30, citing an
unidentified investment banker.  Mainland China doesn’t include Hong Kong, Macau or Taiwan.  HSBC, LSE  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank by market value, aims to raise
a “significant amount” through a Shanghai listing,  Michael Geoghegan , chief executive officer at the time, said last year.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  wants to list in Shanghai
by the end of 2011, Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  said
last year.  “Most of the impact from a Coca-Cola listing will be in
terms of improving its brand in China,” Charles Yan, Hong
Kong-based greater China consumer analyst for Yuanta Securities
Co., said in a phone interview today. “In China, if you’re a
public firm, it helps your brand. It’s also much easier to get
a loan from local banks, and some local governments treat
listed companies better.”  China controls capital flows and only allows citizens to
buy overseas-listed shares through institutions under its
Qualified Domestic Institutional Investors program.  China’s yuan rose 0.02 percent to 6.4780 per dollar,
earlier touching a 17-year high of 6.4777. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards gained 0.05 percent to 6.3575, a 1.9
percent premium to the onshore spot rate.  China’s stock market had a combined market value of $3.7
trillion for the  Shanghai  and Shenzhen bourses as of yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. is the
largest with a market value of $16.6 trillion, while  Japan  is
ranked No. 2.  --Frank Longid and Allen Wan. With assistance from Fox Hu in
Hong Kong. Editors: Nicholas Wadhams, Mohammed Hadi  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Frank Longid in Hong Kong at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  