-- 
Construction Spending in U.S. Rose 0.4% in April on Home Improvement Gains

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-01T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-rose-0-4-in-april-on-home-improvement-gains.html
Construction spending in the U.S. rose
in April for a second straight month as home-improvement
expenditures increased along with construction of schools and
 power plants .  The 0.4 percent gain followed a revised 0.1 percent increase
in March that was smaller than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a 0.3
percent increase.  The prospect of more foreclosures pushing down housing
prices further and unemployment at 9 percent mean new housing
construction will remain depressed while homeowners upgrade their
current residences. With the economy slowing and state and local
governments seeking to reduce spending, a recovery in non-
residential construction may take time to develop.  “We’re looking for some recovery from the very weak numbers
at the start of the year,”  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF
Global Inc. in  New York , said before the report. “The trend in
construction is flat.”  Increase Forecast  Economists forecast construction would rise after a
previously estimated gain of 1.4 percent in March, according to
the median of 51 projections in a Bloomberg News survey.
Estimates ranged from an increase of 1 percent to a drop of 1.5
percent.  Construction spending decreased 9.3 percent in the 12 months
ended in April.  Private construction spending rose 1.7 percent in April from
the prior month. Homebuilding outlays increased 3.1 percent, led
by a 7.6 percent jump in home improvement, according to
calculations by Bloomberg. Construction of both single-family and
multifamily units fell.  “The housing market is still bouncing along the bottom,”
John Canally, an investment strategist at LPL Financial Corp. in
Boston, said before the report. “There’s still a big overhang of
inventory, and with that it’s hard to build new product.”  Private non-residential projects increased 0.5 percent, led
by a 3.2 percent increase in power plants and gains in education
and health-care facilities.  Some companies, including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest
maker of earthmoving equipment, are expanding capacity.
Caterpillar is seeking to meet rising demand from  China  and other
countries as well as in  North America , where mining activity is
ramping up.  Substantial Investment  “We are investing in capacity increases around the world to
be prepared for 2012 and beyond, including substantial investment
in the  United States ,” spokesman  Mike DeWalt  said on an April 29
conference call. “More than half of the $3 billion that we
expect to spend on  capital expenditures  in 2011 is being invested
in the United States.”  Builders are reluctant to add  office space  as prices fall.
U.S. commercial property prices fell to a post-recession low in
March as sales of financially distressed assets weighed on the
market, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index dropped 4.2
percent from February and is now 47 percent below the peak of
October 2007, Moody’s said in a statement May 23.  Work began on 523,000 houses in April at an annual pace,
down 11 percent from the prior month, as tornadoes and floods in
the South shut down construction sites, the Commerce Department
reported last month.  Builders project demand will remain subdued into next year,
 Jeffrey Mezger , CEO of Los Angeles-based  KB Home (KBH) , told a housing
conference in New York on May 11.  Any housing recovery will “be slower than in the past,”
Mezger said, adding that he expected sales to “bump along for
the next 18 months.”  Home Prices  Home prices in 20 U.S. cities dropped in March to the lowest
level since 2003, showing housing remains mired in a slump almost
two years into the economic recovery.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.6 percent from March 2010, the biggest year-over-year
decline since November 2009, the group said yesterday in New
York.  Spending on public construction fell 1.9 percent from the
prior month as state and local government projects declined.
Federal construction spending fell 2 percent.  “The housing sector remained distressed, with  house prices 
flat to down and a large overhang of vacant properties
restraining new construction,” Federal Reserve policy makers
said in minutes of their April policy meeting released May 18.
“Business outlays for nonresidential construction remained
extremely weak in February, restrained by high vacancy rates, low
prices for office and commercial properties, and tight credit
conditions for commercial real estate lending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  