-- 
Copper Falls on Slower Growth in Chinese, U.S. Manufacturing

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-06-01T13:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/copper-falls-on-slower-growth-in-chinese-u-s-manufacturing.html
Copper declined for a second day in
New York after reports showed a slowdown in the pace of
manufacturing growth in the U.S. and  China , the world’s two
biggest metals buyers.  U.S. manufacturing probably expanded in May at the slowest
pace in seven months and employers hired fewer workers in the
world’s largest economy last month, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before data this week. Manufacturing in
China grew at the slowest pace in nine months in May, as the
government extended a campaign to cool inflation and the
 property market , a survey of companies indicated.  “The market has been expecting a slowdown in China and
yes, it is slowing,” said Nic Brown, an analyst at Natixis
Commodity Markets Ltd. in London.  Copper for July delivery fell 5.1 cents, or 1.2 percent, to
$4.127 a pound by 9:01 a.m. on the Comex in  New York . The metal
for three month delivery on the London Metal Exchange fell 1.2
percent to $9,105 a metric ton.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index,
due today at 10 a.m. New York time, fell to 57.1 last month from
60.4 in April, according to the median estimate of 80 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Figures greater than 50 signal
expansion.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 52 from 52.9 in
April, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in
an e-mailed statement. The number was higher than the median
forecast of 51.6 in a Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists.
The index has a seasonal pattern of falling in May, economists
said before the release.  Copper  “Copper may have a hard time this week as our economists
look for decline in ISM and weak payrolls,” said Christin Tuxen, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. Employers
probably hired fewer workers in May, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey before Labor Department
figures June 3.  Copper climbed for the final two weeks of May on signs of
increased demand in China. “With a sharp rebound over the last
two or three weeks, it wouldn’t surprise me if copper took a bit
of a breather,” Brown said.  The dollar weakened to a three-week low versus the euro.
The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the greenback’s
strength, fell as much as 0.3 percent. A weaker dollar spurs
demand for commodities as alternative investments.  Lead, nickel, aluminum, zinc, and tin also fell in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  