-- 
Deere Says Falcone’s Service to Cause ‘Massive Interference’

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-06-01T22:12:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/deere-says-falcone-s-lightsquared-to-cause-massive-interference-.html
Philip Falcone ’s proposed
LightSquared wireless service would “create massive
interference” with precise agricultural gear guided by global
positioning systems,  Deere & Co. (DE)  told federal regulators.  Tests conducted in  New Mexico  show the performance of
Deere’s GPS receivers deteriorated within 22 miles of a
LightSquared base station, Deere said in a filing yesterday with
the Federal Communications Commission.  “There are major economic consequences,” said Deere, the
world’s largest maker of  farm equipment . “Deere customers in
agriculture, construction, and other applications will lose high
accuracy navigation in and near areas served by LightSquared.”  The FCC is to review concerns that LightSquared, which is
backed by Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund, may
interfere with GPS service. LightSquared proposes serving 260
million mobile devices over a network of 40,000 terrestrial
towers, using airwaves once reserved primarily for satellite
signals.  Makers and users of global-positioning devices, which
depend on low-powered transmissions from satellites, say the
LightSquared service may overwhelm GPS signals used by mobile
phones, aircraft, tractors and military gear. A federal advisory
committee has concluded the service may snarl aviation
navigation unless it is modified to avoid interference.  The FCC awaits a June 15 report from a working group
studying interference issues before deciding whether to let
LightSquared move ahead. The group includes GPS users,
LightSquared executives and federal officials.  ‘Severe Interference’  Deere told the FCC that its tests, conducted separately
from the working group, demonstrated “severe interference to
Deere’s high-precision” GPS receivers.  “There is currently no practicable technical solution” to
“avoid or substantially mitigate interference” to existing
precision GPS systems, Deere said in its filing. It said it may
be possible to mitigate interference in future receivers.  Jeff Carlisle, executive vice president of regulatory
affairs for Reston, Virginia-based LightSquared, declined to
comment on Deere’s assertions.  LightSquared is “open to the full range of possible
solutions,” Carlisle said during a conference call today. “Our
network and GPS can co-exist. And that’s exactly what we want.”  “A robust GPS system is a vital national resource that
LightSquared is not going to jeopardize,” Carlisle said.  ‘Way to Mitigation’  GPS receivers capture frequencies that LightSquared uses,
Carlisle said.  “How is the interference arising, and does it point the
way to mitigation, and that’s the conversation that we’ve got to
have over coming weeks,” Carlisle said.  LightSquared Chief Executive Officer Sanjiv Ahuja
separately wrote today that the GPS industry made receivers that
capture his service’s signals and is conducting “a campaign to
block further development of this new network.”  “Unless a cooperative path on development can be
maintained with the government playing the role of neutral
arbiter we risk losing out on this vital technological
advancement,” Ahuja wrote  in a blog  on the website of The Hill,
a Washington-based newspaper that concentrates on congressional
coverage. “We simply cannot afford to stifle innovation in the
name of protecting the status quo.”  LightSquared will bring “much-needed” high-speed wireless
Internet service to consumers, businesses, health-care
facilities and tribal communities, Ahuja said.  100 Million People  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.  Ken Golden , a spokesman for Moline, Illinois-based Deere,
said in an e-mail the FCC filing speaks for itself.  The LightSquared network is to be ready for commercial
service by early 2012, and is to cover 100 million people by the
end of next year, Carlisle said.  “I don’t think there’s any plan to change the launch as a
result of these test results,” Carlisle said.  LightSquared is considering a deal with  AT&T Inc. (T)  to buy
network capacity from the carrier, two people with knowledge of
the talks said.  In a May 19 letter to the FCC, 33 U.S. senators asked the
agency to rescind the partial approval it granted in January and
require LightSquared to demonstrate that its service won’t
interfere with GPS.  In an April 27 letter, Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican, said the FCC had approved LightSquared’s application
after news emerged that the Securities and Exchange Commission
was investigating a $113 million loan from Harbinger Capital to
its founder Falcone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  