-- 
Democrats Foresee Revival in Stumbles of Republican Governors

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-06-01T16:52:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/democrats-foresee-revival-in-stumbles-of-republican-governors.html
Fast becoming one of the least
popular U.S. governors, Florida’s  Rick Scott  swung through a
Jacksonville Tea Party rally on an April Friday to urge voters
to elect a Republican mayor.  Voters instead made Alvin Brown the first Democrat chosen
since 1991 to run the state’s largest city.  Democrats are seeing signs that voters are souring on the
new class of Republican governors seeking to scale back
government, a development they hope could bolster support in
next year’s presidential and Congressional races.  “All you have to do is look at the downward trajectory in
public opinion polls of overreaching GOP governors to see what a
drag these chief executives stand to be on GOP hopes in 2012,”
said Brad Woodhouse, a spokesman for the  Democratic National
Committee  in  Washington . “After attacking workers and slashing
critical services and operating in office as right-wing
ideologues, the political fortunes of a whole host of GOP
governors has fallen off the cliff.”  Seven months after winning a majority of governorships in
an election seen as a referendum on President  Barack Obama ,
opinion polls show Republican governors are increasingly
unpopular in presidential battlegrounds in the Midwest and
Florida.  Scott took office in January and by  April  his disapproval
among voters doubled after he called for cutting spending for
schools and health care to close a $3.8 billion deficit. In May,
his popularity was at the lowest of his five months in office.  Lightning Rod  David Beattie, president of the  Hamilton Campaigns 
consulting firm in Fernandina Beach,  Florida , and a pollster for
Brown, said Scott’s standing helped make his candidate mayor of
Jacksonville.  “It had an impact,” he said. “Rick Scott’s image in the
state makes him a foil in a lot of ways for problems that they
see.”  In  Wisconsin , the partisan backlash against Governor  Scott Walker ’s effort to curb the bargaining power of public-sector
unions is threatening to undermine his agenda. The state is
headed toward recall elections for nine senators in July -- six
of whom are Republicans -- that could deprive his party of
control of the Senate.  Bounce Back  Vin Weber, a former Republican congressman from Minnesota
advising  Tim Pawlenty  on his presidential bid, said the
governors have plenty of time to repair their images once the
impact of their policies sets in.  Indiana  Governor Mitch Daniels, a Republican whose approval
rating dropped to 45 percent as he challenged unions and moved
to cut the budget during his first year in office in 2005,
coasted to re-election in 2008 even as Obama carried his state.
He was courted as a 2012 presidential candidate, until he
decided against running.  “When you’re going broke, you’ve got to stop spending, and
the people that sort of put the brakes on the spending machine
are in the short run going to be unpopular,” Weber said.  In Florida, Scott’s approval rating was 29 percent,
according to a poll released May 25 by  Quinnipiac University ,
and 54 percent said the $69.7 billion budget passed under Scott
was unfair to people like them. His approval was the lowest of
the six new governors tracked by the university, two of whom are
Democrats. In February, Scott’s supporters outnumbered his
opponents in the poll 35-22 percent.  Do-Over  Republican  Ohio  Governor  John Kasich ’s detractors outnumber
supporters 56-33 percent, according to a  survey released last
week  by Public Policy Polling, which works on behalf of
Democrats. That’s two points worse than the previous month.
Fifty-nine percent said they would vote for his opponent if the
election were held again.  Sixty percent of Michigan residents polled May 9-11 gave
fair or poor performance ratings to Governor Rick Snyder,
according to a  poll by EPIC-MRA , a Lansing-based opinion
research firm.  With officials across the country forced to close state
deficits of as much as $112 billion for the coming fiscal year,
Democrats aren’t immune from opprobrium. Dan Malloy of
 Connecticut  and Illinois Governor Pat Quinn both raised taxes to
help shore up their budgets and suffered with voters as a
result. In  California ,  an April poll  found  Jerry Brown  with
approval from fewer than half of likely voters.  Voters ‘Unreasonable’  The erosion of support for Republicans marks a turnabout
for a party that in November heralded its statehouse victories
as a step toward winning the White House in 2012.  “Voters will say in a vacuum that they want politicians
who are willing to make the tough decisions, and that sort of
rhetoric can be very appealing in a campaign,” said Tom Jensen,
director of Public Policy Polling, which is in Raleigh,  North
Carolina .  “Almost all of these new Republican governors have become
really unpopular because the reality is voters don’t want cuts
to education, they don’t want cuts to health care, they really
don’t want cuts to anything,” he said. “Frankly, voters are
just very unreasonable.”  Kasich is a case in point. Elected last year vowing to
“fix Ohio,” he backed a move to curtail collective bargaining
by public employee unions, created a private entity to oversee
economic development, proposed a budget that cut spending for
school districts and other local agencies by about $1.4 billion,
and is seeking to sell or lease prisons and the state turnpike.  That Man’s Scope  “He promised the voters he was going to make some big
changes in the government but with the ultimate goal of making
the economy grow,” said  John Green , director of the Ray C.
Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron
in Ohio. “It’s easy to see why his numbers declined, given the
scope of change that he was proposing.”  Such strategies can pay off, as they did for Indiana’s
Daniels. A Quinnipiac poll released today shows that New York
Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, enjoys an approval rating of
61 percent after he cut the budget and supported a cap on
property taxes, policies typically embraced by Republicans.  There are early signs of improving economic conditions for
states, which, if sustained, may forestall the need for
unpopular spending cuts next year. During the first quarter,
state tax revenue rose 9.1 percent from a year earlier, the
fifth-straight gain and the biggest jump since 2006, according
to the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government.  “These folks have all made difficult decisions and
implemented them, and in the short run, pain is not popular,”
said Weber, the former  Minnesota  congressman. “But they’ve all
laid the groundwork for a rebound in their own popularity and
the economic circumstances of their states.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  