-- 
Democratic Campaign Chief Sees ‘Razor-Close’ Bid to Retake House

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-01T15:37:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/democratic-campaign-chief-sees-razor-close-bid-to-retake-house.html
Representative Steve  Israel , chairman
of the Democrats’ House campaigns, said his party has a chance
to reclaim the chamber in 2012 by playing on voters’ “buyer’s
remorse” about majority Republicans and their plan to privatize
Medicare.  Israel, head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee, said the party’s recent upset victory in an upstate
New York district long held by Republicans -- coupled with
recent success raising money and recruiting candidates -- has
created an opening for Democrats to score a 24-seat net gain
needed to regain control next year.  “I can safely say that the House is in play,” Israel, 53,
told reporters at a breakfast in Washington hosted by the
Christian Science Monitor. “We’re not going to be cocky. We’re
not overconfident. We still have a long way to go, and it is
still uphill.”  Still, he said there is a clear mathematical formula for
Democrats to claw their way back to power. He projected his
party would win at least eight of the 14 seats now held by
Republicans in districts that voted for Democratic presidential
candidates in 2008 and 2004, and at least 18 of the 47 districts
that backed President  Barack Obama  four years ago after
supporting Republican  George W. Bush  in 2004. That could give
Democrats their needed margin of victory -- if they are able to
protect virtually all of their incumbents.  “It’s going to be razor-close,” he said.  Hochul Swearing-In  Israel spoke hours before Democrat Kathy Hochul was to be
sworn in at the U.S. Capitol to represent a Western New York
district she won after spotlighting her opposition to the
Republican budget blueprint that would transform the Medicare
government health insurance program for the elderly into a
voucher system subsidizing private medical coverage.  “It is clear that there is a sense of buyer’s remorse
setting in,” Israel said. Independent voters who have backed
Democrats in the past are rallying behind them again, he added,
after “the Republicans rented them for one night in November of
2010.”  Republicans, who swept into power by scoring a net gain of
63 seats and tapping into Tea Party enthusiasm for spending
cuts, announced a targeted effort today to defend 10 of their
most vulnerable incumbents -- mostly freshmen, and all of them
in districts that supported Obama in 2008.  ‘Patriot Program’  Paul Lindsay, communications director for the Republicans’
House campaign committee, said the initial wave of the so-called
“Patriot Program” would defend first-term Representatives
Allen West of  Florida , Sean Duffy of  Wisconsin , Pat Meehan and
Lou Barletta of  Pennsylvania , Frank Guinta of  New Hampshire ,
Quico Canseco of  Texas  and Joe Heck of  Nevada , as well as two
lawmakers elected in 2010 after losing their seats in previous
years: Representatives Charlie Bass of New Hampshire and Mike Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania.  The group includes one veteran lawmaker, nine-term
Representative Tom Latham of Iowa, a confidant of House Speaker
 John Boehner  of  Ohio  who has opted to challenge Democratic
Representative Leonard Boswell after the state enacted a
redistricting plan that merged his district with that of
Republican Representative Steve King.  “The program is a rigorous, goal-oriented initiative that
enables members to stay on offense as they build winning re-
election campaigns,” Lindsay said in a statement.  He described the effort as Republicans’ attempt to control
their destiny in “a challenging election” that will be shaped
by factors over which they have no influence, including
redistricting plans and the presidential contest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  