-- 
Dollar General Drops as Profit Trails Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-06-01T20:22:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/dollar-general-drops-as-profit-trails-analysts-estimates-2-.html
Dollar General Corp. (DG)  fell the most
since it first sold shares to the public in 2009 after posting
first-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates, hurt by
rising gasoline prices and clearance sales.  Net income in the period ended April 29 rose to $157
million, or 45 cents a share, the Goodlettsville, Tennessee-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts had projected
50 cents, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Dollar General, led by Chief Executive Officer Rick Dreiling, said higher transportation costs, as well as price
cuts on winter home goods and apparel, squeezed profit. Retail
gasoline prices have climbed 23 percent this year, prompting
some customers to pare budgets.  “Gross margins were the source of the miss,”  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New
York, wrote today in a note to clients. McGranahan, who has an
“outperform” rating on the shares, said the company is
managing expenses well.  Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after the cost
of goods sold, shrank by 63 basis points to 31.5 percent in the
quarter, according to the statement. McGranahan had projected
the margin to expand by 5 points. A basis point is the
equivalent of 0.01 percentage point.  Dollar General projected no expansion in gross margin in
the fiscal year through January 2012, Dreiling said on a
conference call today, after the company had predicted an
improvement in March.  Raising Prices  In the quarter, the retailer refrained from increasing
prices on some products including coffee even as costs rose,
hurting margins, Dreiling said on the call. Raising prices to
cover all cost increases would have hurt sales among consumers
pinched by unemployment and gas prices, he said.  “A dollar item going to $1.15 is a major change for our
customer,” he said. They will “tell you that you moved the
price of olives by 5 cents. They are very price sensitive.”  Dollar General declined $3.26, or 9.3 percent, to $31.81 at
4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
drop since Nov. 13, 2009. The shares have gained 3.7 percent
this year.  The company also reiterated its full-year earnings forecast
for as much as $2.30 a share.  Dollar General said it plans to open 625 new stores and to
remodel or relocate 550 locations this year, at a cost of up to
$600 million.  Sales at stores open at least 13 months increased by 5.4
percent. That’s down from a gain of 6.7 percent in the same
period a year ago. Total revenue advanced 11 percent to $3.45
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello in New York at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 