-- 
Dollar Drops to Lowest for Three Weeks Versus Euro on U.S. Growth Concern

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-06-01T07:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/dollar-declines-to-three-week-low-on-u-s-growth-concern-aussie-advances.html
The dollar fell to a three-week low
against the euro before reports likely to show U.S. companies
hired fewer workers and manufacturing cooled.  The U.S. currency declined against 13 of its 16 most-traded
peers before the private ADP Employers Services report is
released today, followed by Labor Department figures on June 3.
 Australia ’s dollar strengthened against all its major
counterparts after a government report showed the economy shrank
last quarter by less than some analysts forecast. The euro
erased its advance against the dollar, before rebounding, after
German newspaper  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  said the
 International Monetary Fund  may not pay out its fifth tranche of
aid to Greece in June.  “A weak employment report on the payrolls front will
escalate concerns about the U.S. economic outlook and could
cause the  U.S. dollar  to remain under pressure,” said Besa Deda, chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “The
payrolls numbers on Friday will be quite crucial and today’s ADP
report will give us a clue to that.”  The dollar weakened 0.2 percent to $1.4425 per euro as of
8:02 a.m. in  London  from $1.4396 in New York yesterday and
earlier touched $1.4444, the weakest since May 9. It declined
0.1 percent to 81.43 yen. The euro was little changed at 117.43
yen after yesterday reaching 117.80, the highest since May 5.  U.S. Unemployment  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
measures the greenback against the currencies of six trading
partners, fell 0.2 percent to 74.49 after declining to as low as
74.402, the least since May 11.  Companies in the U.S. added 175,000 workers in May compared
with 179,000 the prior month, economists in a Bloomberg News
survey forecast before the ADP report. The Labor Department data
on June 3 will show a 180,000 gain in payrolls compared with
April’s 244,000 increase, according to the median forecast in a
separate survey.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index, due
today in the U.S., probably fell to 57.1 last month, the lowest
since October, according to the survey median. Readings above 50
signal expansion.  The IMF may not pay the Greek aid after officials assess
the country’s progress in cutting its  budget deficit , FAZ said,
citing no one. The IMF can only pay out funds when a country’s
funding over the next 12 months is secure, the newspaper said.
IMF, European Union and European Central Bank officials are
apparently coming to the conclusion that this is not the case,
the newspaper said.  Aussie Rises  Australia’s dollar rose after the statistics bureau said
the nation’s gross domestic product contracted 1.2 percent in
the first quarter from the previous three months. That compared
with the median of estimates in a Bloomberg News survey for a
1.1 percent decline.  “The GDP number wasn’t as bad as some in the market were
expecting,” said Derek Mumford, a Sydney-based director at
Rochford Capital, a foreign exchange and interest-rate risk
management firm. “We’re certainly seeing a bit of a rally in
the Aussie dollar.”  The Aussie climbed 0.6 percent to $1.0739 and gained 0.5
percent to 87.44 yen.  The euro reached the highest level in more than a week
against the British pound as concern eased that Greece will
default on its debt and on speculation that the  European Central
Bank  will raise interest rates to curb inflation.  Greece ‘Worries’  Greece is close to an agreement with the European
Commission, ECB and the International Monetary Fund on a  fiscal
plan  and privatization program, Kathimerini newspaper reported,
citing people close to Prime Minister George Papandreou. Details
are expected to be settled by tonight or tomorrow morning, the
newspaper said.  “Worries over Greece’s funding needs seem to be easing a
bit,” said Morio Okayasu, chief analyst in  Tokyo  at FOREX.com
 Japan  Co., a unit of the online currency trading firm Gain
Capital Holdings Inc. based in Bedminster,  New Jersey . “This
may cause some buying of the euro in the near term.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said May 30
that the euro region’s leaders will decide on a new aid package
by the end of June and have ruled out a “total restructuring”
of  Greece ’s debt.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  is scheduled to speak in
 Germany  today after a report showed yesterday that the cost of
living in the 17-nation euro region increased 2.7 percent in
May. Trichet said on May 26 that the ECB is “carefully
monitoring” inflation risks and stands “ready to do whatever
is necessary” to fulfill its mandate.  China  Concern  Swaps traders are betting the ECB will raise its target
rate by 72 basis points over the next 12 months, up from bets on
67 basis-points of increases on May 27, a Credit Suisse Group AG
index shows.  The euro traded at 87.669 pence after climbing to 87.699
pence, the highest since May 20.  The yen appreciated against 12 of its 16 major counterparts
on concern China will tighten monetary policy, slowing the
growth of the world’s second-biggest economy.  China may increase the yuan’s trading band,  interest rates 
and banks’ reserve requirement ratio in June to curb inflation,
the Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing unidentified
market participants. The China Securities Journal also said
separately the central bank may raise interest rates this month.  “Concern about China’s tightening leads to buying of the
yen for  risk aversion ,” said Masato Mori, a manager of the
foreign-exchange division support center in Tokyo at NTT
SmartTrade Inc., a unit of Japan’s biggest phone operator.
“There’s also a rebound from yesterday’s drop.”  The Shanghai Composite Index of Chinese shares fell as much
as 0.6 percent today. The yen dropped 1.5 percent against the
euro yesterday, the most since April 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 