-- 
S&P 500 Falls Most Since August as Treasuries Gain on Economy

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-01T20:17:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/dollar-falls-on-u-s-growth-concerns-metals-decline-on-weak-china-output.html
Stocks sank, dragging the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to its worst loss since August, and Treasuries
rallied as slower growth in jobs and manufacturing fueled
concern the economy is faltering. The Dollar Index erased
losses, and commodities fell.  The  S&P 500  plunged 2.3 percent, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
slid 1 percent and  Brazil ’s Bovespa retreated 1.9 percent as of
4:15 p.m. in New York. Ten-year Treasury note yields dropped
below 3 percent for the first time since December and the Dollar
Index rose 0.3 percent after sinking 0.4 percent earlier. The
Swiss franc snapped a two-day drop against the euro. The S&P
GSCI Index of commodities tumbled 1.5 percent.  U.S. equities halted their longest streak of gains in a
month after companies added 38,000 workers to payrolls in May,
according to figures from ADP Employer Services, less than one-
quarter of the median growth forecast by economists. Stocks
extended losses after the Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index showed U.S. manufacturing expanded at the slowest
pace since September 2009.  “It’s going to be pretty rocky,” said Burt White, who
helps oversee $284 billion as chief investment officer at LPL
Financial Corp. in  Boston . “The  bond market  is in full-on
pessimistic mode. We still think that this ultimately will be
only a soft spot. The question is how long? It will be risk-off
until this soft spot is confirmed.”  Broad Retreat  Financial firms, industrial companies and raw-material
producers fell at least 3 percent to lead declines in all 10
industry groups in the S&P 500.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  fell 4.3 percent or more for the biggest
losses in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . The Russell 2000
Index of small U.S. companies slumped 3.2 percent, the most
since August, while the Dow Jones Transportation Average
retreated 3.4 percent.  The ISM’s factory index fell to 53.5 in May from 60.4 the
prior month. Economists projected the gauge would drop to 57.1,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Estimates of the 83 economists polled ranged from 53 to 60.  The S&P 500 has fallen 3.6 percent from an almost three-
year high at the end of April, and Treasuries have rallied, as
economic data trailed economists’ estimates and investors
prepared for the  Federal Reserve  to complete its $600 billion
bond-purchase program by the end of this month. Citigroup Inc.’s
U.S. Economic Surprise Index, which tracks the rate at which
data is beating or missing estimates, turned negative in May and
has since fallen to the lowest level since January 2009.  Labor Department data on June 3 will probably show a
projected 180,000 gain in payrolls following a 244,000 April
increase, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Quantitative Easing  The recent lower-than-forecast economic data has caused
some investors to speculate that the Fed will plan a third round
of so-called quantitative easing after its latest program of
bond purchases, known on  Wall Street  as “QE2,” is completed
this month.  “We do not want to see QE3,”  Brian Belski , Oppenheimer &
Co.’s New York-based chief investment strategist, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “QE3 is a short-term event, which will cause the market to
go higher because investors over the last 10 years have become
so reliant on cheap money and low  interest rates . We think that
only prolongs the inevitable when the Fed has to eventually sell
these securities that they have been buying.”  Dollar Does Best  The dollar beat stocks, bonds and commodities for the best
performance in May. The Dollar Index climbed 2.3 percent in the
month, while the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities fell
2.5 percent, the S&P GSCI Index of commodities sank almost 7
percent in the month and bonds of all types returned 1.1 percent
on average.  Crude oil slid 2.4 percent, the most in three weeks, to
$100.29 a barrel in  New York . All but four of the 24 commodities
tracked by the S&P GSCI Index retreated. Silver, coffee, sugar
and wheat lost at least 2.9 percent for the biggest declines.  The Stoxx 600 retreated for the second day this week. Banca
Monte dei Paschi SpA sank 7.6 percent, as the Italian lender’s
controlling shareholder sold 450 million shares on behalf of
Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di Siena, a term sheet for the deal
showed.  The difference in yield between Greek 10-year bonds and
benchmark German bunds increased 15 basis points to 13.17
percent.  Greece ’s next aid package may include incentives for
bondholders to keep lending without triggering a downgrade that
would roil  Europe ’s banking system, two people with knowledge of
the talks said. So-called negative incentives are also under
consideration, such as cutting off old Greek bonds from
eligibility for use as collateral with the  European Central
Bank , the people said.  Franc Strengthens  The franc strengthened against all 16 of its major
counterparts, gaining 1.7 percent versus the euro, after retail
sales rose in April at the fastest rate for two years, boosting
speculation the  Swiss National Bank  will increase borrowing
costs. Britain’s pound weakened against 10 of its 16 major peers
after a manufacturing index fell to a 20-month low and U.K.
mortgage approvals dropped to the least in four months.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.3 percent, breaking
a four-day winning streak. Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 0.6
percent. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index rose 0.6
percent after Morgan Stanley predicted it will rebound 19
percent this year.  Thailand ’s SET Index slid 0.8 percent before
the central bank raised its benchmark one-day bond repurchase
rate for the fourth time this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   Nbaker7@bloomberg.net  