-- 
ECB Said to Favor Greek Bond Rollover

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-01T16:18:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/ecb-said-to-favor-greek-bond-rollover-plan-as-eu-fights-financial-crisis.html
The  European Central Bank  may back a
plan encouraging investors to buy new Greek bonds to replace
maturing securities, said two officials familiar with the
situation, softening the ECB’s opposition to any restructuring
to fix the country’s debt crisis.  The ECB is examining that step because it could ease
 Greece ’s funding squeeze without technically constituting a
default, the officials said on condition of anonymity. The
Frankfurt-based Executive Board is still opposed to any
extension of maturities, said one of the officials.  ECB policy makers have opposed any agreement that could be
classified as a default because they fear it could spark a new
round of turmoil in Europe’s banking system. European Union
Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said yesterday that
the rollover plan was being examined, as it “would not create a
 credit event ” and ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark told
Il Sole 24 Ore newspaper in an interview published today that
such an arrangement would not constitute a default.  EU officials may try to persuade investors to roll over
maturing debt by offering them preferred status, higher coupon
payments or collateral as inducements to buy bonds replacing
Greek debt maturing between 2012 and 2014, said two separate
people today. They declined to be identified because the talks
are in progress.  IMF Loans  European leaders are trying to prevent the euro area’s
first sovereign default. Last year’s 110 billion-euro ($159
billion) rescue failed to prevent an investor exodus from
Greece, which has been saddled with  Europe ’s highest debt load
amid a three-year economic slump.  The EU’s employment commissioner Laszlo Andor said in a
telephone interview today that Europe needs to do more to help
Greece, rather than demand tougher budget cuts.  “Confidence doesn’t just return by financial markets or
anybody being impressed with austerity measures,” he said.  Europe’s financial leaders need to hammer out a revised
Greek package by the end of June, in time to persuade the
 International Monetary Fund  to pay out its share of the next
tranche of loans. The Washington-based lender provided 30
billion euros of Greece’s original funds, along with a third of
the loans since granted to Ireland and  Portugal  as the spreading
crisis threatened to undermine the euro region.  ‘Horror Story’  Greece has given up plans to go back to bond markets for
funding in 2012, offering deeper deficit cuts and the sale of
state assets in exchange for follow-up loans to prevent a
default. Any additional needs may be released tonight or
tomorrow, as European and IMF officials complete work on an
assessment of Greece’s public accounts.                 ECB officials from the euro region’s two largest economies
have repeatedly voiced their opposition to restructuring
Greece’s debt, with  France ’s Christian Noyer calling such a
scenario “a horror story.” Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
threatened that the ECB may stop accepting Greek debt as
collateral if any plan to extend the maturities of  government
bonds  went ahead.  At the same time, the Frankfurt-based ECB’s own rules are
less clear, and only say that such a step “may be warranted”
if officials deem it necessary.  Hinting at a possible compromise solution, ECB Executive
Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said on May 26 that a
so-called Vienna Initiative-style program could be “positive”
for Greece. Austrian central bank governor Ewald Nowotny called
the idea “interesting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  