-- 
Egypt to Impose 10% Capital Gain Tax on Investments, Dividend, Radwan Says

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-06-01T16:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/egypt-to-impose-10-capital-gains-tax-finance-minister-says-1-.html
Egypt  will impose a capital gains tax
of 10 percent beginning next fiscal year as part of its attempt
to rein in the country’s growing budget deficit following a
popular uprising, Finance Minister Samir Radwan said.  Profits from capital investments, dividend payments,
mergers and acquisitions, and asset revaluations will be taxed,
Radwan told reporters in Cairo. Egypt will also tax annual
income of individuals and companies earning 10 million Egyptian
pounds ($1.7 million) or more at a rate of 25 percent, he said.
That’s 5 percentage points higher than the current  tax rate .  “It’s negative for the market but positive for the budget
deficit,” Mona Mansour, co-head of research at CI Capital, a
Cairo-based investment bank, said in a telephone interview.
“This will help reduce the deficit because it will bring in
more revenue for the government.”  Egypt’s  budget deficit  may reach 11 percent of gross
domestic product in the fiscal year that ends in June 2012,
compared with an expected 8.6 percent in the current one, after
the revolt that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  in February hurt
revenue from tourism and industrial output, Radwan said. The
economy is expected to grow 2.6 percent this fiscal year,
accelerating to 3.2 percent the following year, he said.  Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond due in April 2020 rose,
forcing the yield down 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point,
to 5.83 percent at 4:45 p.m. in Cairo, the biggest drop since
May 19.  Credit Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Egyptian government debt against
default for five years fell 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage
point, to 304 at 6 p.m. in Cairo, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. That’s the lowest
level since Jan. 14, according to Bloomberg data.  The willingness of stock investors to absorb losses from
the tax and stay in the Egyptian market will depend on “how far
the government is willing to go” in pursuing political and
economic reforms, Mansour said.  Egypt’s benchmark EGX 30 stock index has dropped 23 percent
this year, even after a 10 percent gain in May that made it the
world’s third-best performer that month.  “If your return will be reduced slightly by taxes then it
may be more attractive to put the money somewhere else,” said
Sven Richter, managing director and head of frontier markets,
who helps oversee more than $2 billion at Renaissance Asset
Managers in  London . “It all depends on the underlying valuation
of the investment that you are making.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net  