-- 
Egyptian Stocks Tumble Most Since April on Capital Gains Tax; CIB Declines

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-02T13:52:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/egypt-tax-levies-may-trigger-stock-drop-after-10-rally-efg-hermes-says.html
Egyptian stocks fell the most in
almost seven weeks after the government unveiled a capital gains
tax on dividends and higher corporate tax bracket to rein in the
budget deficit. The country’s 2020 dollar bond surged.  Egypt ’s benchmark EGX 30 stock index, the world’s third-
best performer in May, lost 2.7 percent to 5,361.88 at the 2:30
p.m. close in Cairo. That marked the steepest drop since April
18.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , Egypt’s biggest
publicly traded lender, fell the most since April 20. EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE tumbled 5.9 percent.  “The market is reacting negatively, which is normal,”
said Walaa Hazem, who helps oversee about $1 billion in Egyptian
assets at Cairo-based HC Securities & Investment. “The tax hike
on companies will cause a decline in profitability, so it is
causing local and institutional investors to re-evaluate their
investments.”  The North African country will levy a 10 percent capital
gains tax starting next fiscal year on dividend payments,
mergers and acquisitions and asset revaluations, Minister of
Finance Samir Radwan said yesterday. The government also plans
to raise taxes for companies with profit of 10 million Egyptian
pounds ($1.7 million) or more a year to 25 percent from 20
percent.  The plan to levy a capital gains tax only applies to
dividend distributions and not to profit from trading in stocks,
the Egyptian Exchange said today. The bourse is studying the
plan and will discuss it with the business community and the
market’s regulator before giving its opinion to the government.  Budget Deficit  The most populous Arab country is trying to finance a
budget deficit projected to widen to 11 percent of gross
domestic product in the year ending June 2012 from an estimated
8.6 percent for the year ending this month, according to a
cabinet statement yesterday.  Egypt plans to increase subsidy spending and salaries of
state employees to meet demand for improving  living standards 
after a popular revolt ended 30 years of rule by former
President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.  The EGX 30 is down 25 percent this year, the worst
performer among 91 indexes tracked by Bloomberg, even after
climbing 10 percent in May.  Default Swaps  The government’s 5.75 dollar bond due in April 2020 jumped
after the tax announcement eased concern over the budget
deficit. The yield on the security fell 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 5.66 percent, at 3:13 p.m. in Cairo, the
lowest level since Jan. 14. The cost of insuring Egyptian
government debt against default for five years fell 5 basis
points to 299, the lowest level since Jan. 14, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The tax hikes may be “negative for the market but positive
for the budget deficit,” Mona Mansour, the co-head of research
at CI Capital, a Cairo-based investment bank, said yesterday.
“This will help reduce the deficit because it will bring in
more revenue for the government.”  Commercial International Bank retreated 3.7 percent to
29.98 pounds. EFG-Hermes, the country’s biggest publicly traded
investment bank, slumped to 21.13 pounds. Credit Suisse Group AG
cut its recommendation on the shares to “neutral” from
“outperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  