-- 
Lehman Pitches Plan for Derivatives Claims of Goldman, Banks

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-01T19:58:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/lehman-pitches-plan-for-derivatives-claims-of-banks-including-goldman.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  is
proposing a framework to settle claims against the failed
investment bank from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and other banks related to derivatives transactions.  Lehman hopes to use the proposal to avoid court fights with
13 banks that are its largest derivatives counterparties and
help resolve its bankruptcy case so it can pay creditors, it
said in a summary of the plan made  public  yesterday.  “This is a major step forward in resolving this important
group of derivatives claims,” Daniel Ehrmann, Lehman’s head of
international operations and co-head of derivatives, said in an
e-mailed statement. “We are hopeful that counterparties who
have provided input to the framework will settle and look
forward to announcing such progress soon.”  About 30 financial institutions filed about $22 billion of
derivatives claims, which Lehman estimated would be reduced to
about $11 billion, it said yesterday. With the new settlement
framework, Lehman expects the aggregate amount of allowed claims
of the 30 institutions will be about $10 billion.  The derivatives proposal applies to 13 banks and will be
used to determine the amounts of their claims, according to the
proposal. It only becomes effective if at least 10 of them
accept the plan and settlement agreements are reached by June
30, Lehman said.  ‘Vigorously Contest’  The dollar amount of the derivatives claims of the 13 banks
under the settlement framework hasn’t been made public, Kimberly Macleod, a Lehman spokeswoman, said.  Lehman will “vigorously contest” the claims of the banks
and seek to reduce the claims to amounts lower than those
proposed under the settlement plan if it’s not accepted, Lehman
said.  Besides Goldman and JPMorgan, the other banks affected by
the proposal include  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BNP
Paribas (BNP) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, and  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
according to the plan. Spokespeople for the banks either
declined comment or couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  