-- 
Lehman Asks Judge to Order Goldman to Speed Turn-Over of E-Mails in Probe

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-06-01T04:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/lehman-asks-judge-to-speed-goldman-sachs-s-e-mail-production.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  accused
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  of deliberately trying to delay a
bankruptcy investigation by moving at a “glacial pace” in
turning over documents related to the probe.  Lehman claimed Goldman Sachs is deliberately moving slowly
to run out a deadline for providing information for Lehman’s
probe into whether rumors about its condition damaged its
business during the 2008 financial crisis, according to a filing
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. Attorneys for
Lehman said the documents are needed to determine whether to
make claims against Goldman Sachs, according to the filing.  “Goldman Sachs is deliberately moving at a glacial pace in
an effort to run out the statute of limitations without
producing the requested documents,” Lehman said in the filing.  Employees of Goldman Sachs “may have been involved in
originating or spreading rumors about Lehman,” according to
yesterday’s filing.  In March, Lehman sought e-mails and instant messages from
Goldman Sachs custodians in  New York  who were involved in
marketing prime brokerage services to hedge funds and
proprietary trading of Lehman securities in  London , according to
the filing. After a series of negotiations, Goldman Sachs said
it had begun searching for documents from 11 of 37 custodians
and was unable say when that search would be completed,
according to yesterday’s filing.  Lehman is asking U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck to order
Goldman Sachs to provide the documents within two weeks of his
decision.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment yesterday.  Lehman filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history on
Sept. 15, 2008.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  