-- 
EMC CEO Says He Wouldn’t ‘Willingly’ Part With VMware Stake

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-06-01T22:32:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/emc-s-tucci-says-he-wouldn-t-willingly-part-with-vmware-stake.html
EMC Corp. Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman Joe Tucci said he wouldn’t “willingly” part with the
company’s majority stake in software maker  VMware Inc. (VMW) , even if
a buyer offered a 50 percent premium.  Tucci, who made the remarks at an investment conference in
 New York , also said he will step down as CEO after 2012,
reiterating a plan announced in 2009. He is grooming internal
candidates to become CEO as he shifts to a chairman-only role.  Tucci aims to hold onto to VMware because it has a chance
to take on a leadership role in the technology industry,
capitalizing on a shift to cloud computing, he said. VMware is
the biggest maker of programs that let computers run multiple
operating systems. That software can replace many functions of
the operating system itself, he said.  Asked if EMC would be a takeover target, Tucci said,
“That’s up to the shareholders.” A buyout is possible if the
investors want it, but few companies are big enough to buy the
Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based company, he said.  EMC, the biggest maker of storage computers, will look to
make its own investments and acquisitions in existing areas of
the company’s business, rather than expanding into new markets,
he said. Tucci said he doesn’t like big takeovers and is looking
for purchases that can “tuck in” to current businesses, such
as data analytics and products for storing massive amounts of
data.  Depth Not Breadth  “We’re in really good areas,” he said. “I’d rather get
more depth now than get more breadth.”  The company is interested in deals that could build on
VMware or RSA Security, an Internet security business it
acquired in 2006. Tucci expects those areas to grow faster than
the broader technology market.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  are EMC’s main rivals, though Microsoft doesn’t
compete against EMC’s storage hardware business, he said.  Tucci also discussed a cyber attack against  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ’s computer networks, which occurred on May 21. Neither EMC
nor Lockheed “have enough data” to say whether the attack was
caused by a network breach at RSA in March. Lockheed uses a
mobile security system produced by RSA.  When Tucci steps down as CEO, he may become an executive
chairman for two years, possibly followed by a stint as
nonexecutive chairman, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  