-- 
Lenovo Offers to Acquire Medion in Biggest Purchase Since IBM

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-06-01T12:36:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/lenovo-offers-to-buy-germany-s-medion.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , China’s biggest
maker of personal computers, offered to buy control of Germany’s
 Medion AG (MDN)  for 466 million euros ($671 million) in its biggest
acquisition since the purchase of  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s PC business more than six years ago.  The Chinese company will acquire a 37 percent stake from
Medion Chairman Gerd Brachmann for 13 euros a share via cash and
stock, and will extend the cash offer to remaining shareholders,
Lenovo said today. Brachmann will keep an 18 percent holding.
Medion jumped as much as 20 percent in Frankfurt trading.  The deal will help the maker of Thinkpad laptops surpass
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in PC sales in western Europe, as Lenovo steps up
expansion outside China to win market share from  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Acer Inc. (2353)  Lenovo may acquire more companies
after the Medion transaction, which follows plans this year to
form a venture with Japan’s  NEC Corp. (6701) , Chief Executive Officer
 Yang Yuanqing  said.  “The acquisition is a longer-term, strategic move,” said
Dennis Lam, who rates Lenovo shares “hold” at DBS Vickers Ltd.
in  Hong Kong . The deal will strengthen the consumer operations
of Lenovo, whose business is now more focused on sales to
corporate customers, Lam said.  Medion AG rose as much as 2.25 euros to 13.30 euros and
traded at 13 euros as of 2:27 p.m. in Frankfurt. The increase
narrowed the stock’s losses this year to 3.8 percent. The shares
are still 80 percent off their peak in September 2000.  Higher Offer?  Lenovo, which makes about half its sales from  China , fell
3.3 percent to HK$4.43 at the close of trading in Hong Kong.  “I don’t see the possibility that Lenovo would raise the
offer,” Medion Chief Financial Officer Christian Eigen said in
a telephone interview. “There just wasn’t more to get out of
them.” He said he will sell his 75,000 shares to Lenovo.  Eigen said Medion had been in talks with Lenovo for
“several weeks” and that the company had been on the lookout
for cooperation partners since the third quarter last year.  The offer is 22 times Medion’s projected earnings per
share, based on the average analyst estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. Lenovo trades at about 16 times estimated earnings.  “Acquisitions are a good tool for us, not only to grow,
but to build foundations,” Yang said in a phone interview
today. Lenovo will “absolutely” consider making more
purchases, he said.  Market Share  Hewlett-Packard accounted for 17.6 percent of the global PC
market last quarter, declining from 18 percent a year earlier,
according to researcher Gartner Inc. Lenovo, the fourth biggest,
increased its share to 9.7 percent from 8.2 percent, while
Taipei-based Acer dropped to 12.9 percent from 14.6 percent.  The purchase will help Lenovo boost its market share in
 Germany  to 14 percent, Milko Van Duijl, senior vice-president at
Lenovo’s mature markets division, said in a phone interview.
After the acquisition, Lenovo will become the fifth-biggest PC
vendor in western Europe, displacing Apple, he said.  Lenovo last week reported fourth-quarter profit that
tripled, beating estimates, after increasing sales to businesses
in the U.S. and Europe. Stronger orders for office computers
have helped Lenovo and Dell post better-than-expected earnings
as slowing demand from consumers weakened sales at HP and Acer.
The Chinese company is stepping up a challenge to Apple by
offering smartphones and tablet devices, and plans to enter the
game-console market in the second half.  J Sainsbury, Aldi  Medion, based in Essen, Germany, supplies home-
entertainment equipment and PCs to retailers including Aldi,
 Europe ’s biggest discount retailer, and J Sainsbury Plc in the
U.K. Its profit last year increased by 33 percent to 18.9
million euros as sales climbed 16 percent. Three-quarters of its
revenue came from Germany.  Brachmann, a TV engineer, ranked 40th on the Forbes list of
the richest Germans in 2004 with an estimated fortune of $1.4
billion. He hasn’t appeared on the list since.  Brachmann and Lenovo have agreed on a long-term call and
put option for the remaining shares, Medion’s Eigen said.
Details of that agreement will be made available in the official
offer document, he said. Van Duijl said he expects the deal to
close in early September.  Barclays Plc advised Lenovo on the acquisition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt  at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  