-- 
Herbert Smith Hires Goodwin’s Wombolt as U.S. Increases Asia Graft Probes

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-06-01T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/herbert-smith-hires-goodwin-s-wombolt-as-u-s-increases-asia-graft-probes.html
Herbert Smith  LLP, a London-based law
firm with 75 lawyers working in  Asia  on disputes, hired Kyle
Wombolt as its first U.S.-qualified investigations partner as
U.S. regulators increase their probes into graft in the region.  Wombolt joined from Boston-based Goodwin Procter LLP and
will manage Asian-based investigations for clients as well as
advising on U.S. law, according to Mark Johnson, head of Herbert
Smith’s Asia disputes team. Wombolt, 42, is based in  Hong Kong .  The U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and
Exchange Commission doubled their  enforcement actions  against
foreign corrupt practices to a record 86 in 2010 and won $1.8
billion in settlements, according to Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, a
New York-based  law firm . The SEC this year has started probes
into financial institutions’ dealings with sovereign wealth
funds.  “There has been significant growth in investigations work
for financial institutions and multinational corporates
throughout Asia,” Johnson said.  Herbert Smith will continue to work with U.S. law firms on
probes into possible Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations in
Asia and elsewhere, he said.  Avon Products Inc., the world’s largest door-to-door
cosmetics merchant, fired four executives over bribes to
officials in  China  and is probing possible corruption in other
countries, the New York-based company said in a May 3 regulatory
filing.  In March, International Business Machines Corp., the
world’s largest computer-services provider, agreed to pay $10
million to settle U.S. regulators’ accusations that it gave cash
and gifts to Chinese and South Korean officials in connection
with about $54 million in government contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  