-- 
Eskom Gets $365 Million African Development Bank Plants Loan

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-01T09:52:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/eskom-gets-365-million-african-development-bank-loan-for-renewable-plans.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd.,  South Africa ’s
state power utility, received a $365 million loan from the
 African Development Bank  to help fund wind and solar plants,
Public Enterprises Minister Malusi Gigaba said.  The plants will each produce 100 megawatts of power and
help South Africa meet its commitment to providing more clean
energy, he told lawmakers in  Cape Town  today.  Eskom currently has 40,000 megawatts of capacity, more than
80 percent of which comes from coal-fired plants. The utility,
which supplies about 95 percent of South Africa’s electricity,
was given a $3.75 billion World Bank loan in April last year to
fund expansion on condition it introduces renewable energy
projects.  “Eskom has incorporated renewable energy projects into its
build program,” for which is seeking to tap additional sources
of funding, Gigaba said. “Eskom has submitted a $250 million
loan application to the  World Bank  for funding from the Clean
Technology Fund, the final outcome of which is expected later
this year.”  Johannesburg-based Eskom supplies power to Xstrata Plc’s
ferrochrome furnaces, AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.’s gold mines and
BHP Billiton Ltd.’s aluminum smelters in South Africa. The
utility, one of the 10 largest in the world by capacity, will
spend about 76 billion rand ($11.2 billion) in the year through
March 2012 on an expansion plan aimed at preventing a repetition
of power blackouts that hit mines, factories and cities in 2008.  Eskom won’t be able to guarantee security of supply until
its new Medupi plant begins producing power in late 2012, and
will have to rely on private companies to meet any shortfall,
according to Gigaba.  Since April last year, Eskom has signed contracts with five
independent power producers to supply it with about 373
megawatts of power, and it has also agreed to buy  200 megawatts
of electricity from municipalities for this winter, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  