-- 
MetLife Seeks Deals in Latin America as ING Considers Sale

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-06-01T19:26:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/metlife-s-henrikson-seeks-deals-in-latin-america-as-ing-weighs-unit-sale.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, said it’s weighing acquisitions in  Latin America  as  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  considers selling its business in the region.  “We’ve been looking at possibilities in Latin America for
some time,” MetLife Chairman Robert Henrikson said today at a
conference in  New York , where the company is based. “Our Latin
American businesses, we have a really strong track record there,
really strong management teams, and so, why not?”  Henrikson, 64, boosted MetLife’s business outside the U.S.
through acquisitions before stepping down as chief executive
officer last month. He bought a life insurer for more than $16
billion in November from bailed-out American International Group
Inc., adding clients in  Japan , Poland and Chile. Amsterdam-based
ING is reviewing options for its insurance assets in Latin
America as the company recovers from losses and a bailout.  “We do see opportunities that would be considered either
tuck-ins or bolt-ons because of our international size and
scope,” Henrikson said at a conference organized by Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. Henrikson didn’t comment on ING.  ING received a bid for Latin American insurance assets from
a group that includes Chile’s Luksic family and Mexico’s Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB, a person with direct knowledge of the
situation said last month.  “We’re still evaluating options for our Latin American
insurance business,” said Raymond Vermeulen, a spokesman for
ING. He declined to give details.  Prudential’s Strangfeld  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-biggest U.S. life
insurer, is considering further acquisitions after completing a
$4.8 billion deal this year to acquire two Japan businesses from
AIG. Prudential CEO John Strangfeld, 57, said in a separate
presentation today that his Newark, New Jersey-based company has
funds to invest.  Prudential has “the capital available for the right
opportunities to expand geographically through acquisition,”
Strangfeld said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  