-- 
EU Nuclear Stress Tests Create Confusion, French Regulator Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-01T14:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/eu-nuclear-stress-tests-create-confusion-french-regulator-says.html
The European Commission has “sowed
confusion” over what will be included in safety checks of
nuclear installations by including the risks of airplane crashes
and explosions, according to  France ’s atomic watchdog.  France, which has more nuclear reactors than any other
European country, will push ahead with so-called stress tests
that exclude those risks while evaluating dangers from
earthquakes and flooding, Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of the
Autorite de Surete Nucleaire, said in an interview yesterday.  “What we asked of French operators will at the same time
serve as an application of European stress tests,” he said
following a parliamentary hearing in Paris. “The commissioner
has sowed confusion. Planes aren’t included in the stress
tests.”  The parameters for safety checks of Europe’s 143 atomic
plants were a source of friction between member countries and
regulators after governments called for the tests following a
disaster at  Japan ’s Fukushima plant triggered by an earthquake
and tsunami. European Union Energy Commissioner Guenther
Oettinger announced May 25 that the tests will include crashes
and explosions.  Any differences are down to “minor details,” Lacoste
said, adding that the French stress tests will be based on what
was agreed by the European Commission and European Nuclear
Safety Regulators Group on May 13.  Terrorist Threats  “Loss of power and cooling could be the consequences of
terrorist acts indirectly but clearly aircraft crashes should
come under security threats and these will be dealt with
separately,” he said.  The European Commission, in a statement May 25, said the
tests will evaluate whether reactors can withstand natural
disasters as well as plane crashes, explosions and “comparable
damaging effects from terrorist attacks.” Preventive measures
against terrorism will be dealt with separately with the
assistance from national security officials, according to the EU
regulatory arm.  “Commissioner Oettinger communicated alone on this and
created confusion,” Lacoste said. “There was agreement to a
text and that is what counts. He took this and added personal
comments.”  The French approach is broader than  Europe ’s because it
includes reactors along with associated sites, including waste
storage and treatment centers operated by Areva SA, notably at
La Hague, Lacoste said. The ASN will also examine sub-
contracting within the industry.  “We have a huge amount of work to do in a short time,” he
said. “We are asking new questions. Fukushima was a shock.
We’ll play the game as honestly as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 Tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 