-- 
Former Countrywide Chief Angelo Mozilo Asks Judge to Dismiss Allstate Suit

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-06-01T16:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/ex-countrywide-chief-mozilo-asks-judge-to-dismiss-allstate-suit.html
Former Countrywide Financial Corp.
Chief Executive Officer Angelo Mozilo asked a federal judge to
dismiss a lawsuit filed against the  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  unit
by  Allstate Corp. (ALL)   Ronald P. Fischetti, a New York attorney representing
Mozilo, urged U.S. District Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein in
 Manhattan  to throw out the insurer’s claims that Mozilo was the
“architect” of a scheme to abandon underwriting at
Countrywide, according to a court document filed today.  Allstate, based in Northbrook,  Illinois , claimed in the
Dec. 27 lawsuit that Countrywide misrepresented $700 million in
residential mortgage-backed securities the insurer purchased.
Mozilo held no position at Countrywide subsidiaries that sold
mortgage-backed securities, said nothing about the securities
and didn’t read the documents that offered them, Fischetti said.  “These conceded facts control the outcome as to Mr.
Mozilo,” Fischetti said. “Nothing in aiding and abetting or
control person law permits a plaintiff to sue a defendant over
sales” of mortgage-backed securities “when he had nothing to
do with them.”  Allstate said in the complaint that the securities,
purchased from March 2005 to June 2007, suffered “drastic and
rapid loss in value” when large numbers of homeowners began to
default on their mortgages. Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , acquired Countrywide for $4.2 billion in July
2008.  Underwriting Standards  In its complaint, Allstate claimed that Countrywide began
ignoring its own underwriting standards in 2003 in an effort to
increase its share of the home mortgage market. The company
adopted an internal strategy to match any mortgage product
feature offered by a competitor, Allstate said.  Mozilo, 72, agreed last year to pay $67.5 million to settle
a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit accusing him
of misleading investors. The U.S.  Justice Department  ended a
criminal probe of Mozilo that started in 2008 and won’t bring
charges, a person familiar with the investigation said in
February.  Mozilo was the most prominent executive targeted by U.S.
regulators examining the subprime mortgage crisis. He co-founded
Countrywide in 1969 and built it into the nation’s biggest
mortgage lender. Mounting loan defaults made it impossible for
the lender to raise funds to issue new mortgages, prompting its
sale to Bank of America.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Countrywide Financial
Corp., 10-cv-9591, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 