-- 
Mexichem CEO Davalos Sees Company Beating Earnings Goal as Asia Sales Gain

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-06-01T19:44:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/mexichem-ceo-davalos-sees-company-beating-earnings-goal-as-asia-sales-gain.html
Mexichem SAB, the largest maker of
plastic pipes in  Latin America , expects to beat its forecast for
earnings this year amid growing demand for fluoride and expanded
operations in Asia, the chief executive officer said.  “We’re going to get over $800” million in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, known as Ebitda,
Rafael Davalos said today in an interview. The company had
estimated earnings on that basis of $780 million this year.  “We have the certainty that we’ll top that estimate,” he
said today from company headquarters in Tlalnepantla, Mexico.  Mexichem is expanding operations in  Japan  and South Korea
as it sees growing demand for chemicals used in refrigerants,
lubricants and propellants. The Mexican chemical company became
the world’s largest producer of calcium fluoride, a refrigerant
component, after the $350 million acquisition of producer Ineos
Fluor from Ineos Group Holdings in March.  At the time of the acquisition, Ineos Fluor employed 350
workers in operations in  Europe , the U.S., Japan and  China . It
supplies chemicals and fluorinated feedstock for refrigerants,
medical inhalants and coatings for cookware and aerospace.  The Mexican company has acquired a dozen companies in the
past three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexichem said May 9 that it will invest more than $150
million in Japan and South Korea to reduce “dependence” on
Chinese supplies over the next year.  The shares climbed 0.5 percent to 42.4 pesos in Mexico City
trading at 3:24 p.m. New York time. Mexichem is the sixth best
performer in the 37-member Mexican Bolsa benchmark index, which
has dropped 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in  Mexico  City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 