-- 
Equities to Lag Behind Emerging Market Stocks, Morgan Stanley Analyst Says

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 
2011-06-02T12:21:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/expensive-indian-stocks-to-lag-behind-emerging-market-peers-morgan-says.html
Indian stocks will continue to lag
behind emerging-market equities as rising borrowing costs and
inflation squeeze profits, Morgan Stanley said.  Overseas investors may continue to remain net sellers of
Indian equities this year,  Jonathan Garner , the investment
bank’s chief Asian and emerging-market equity strategist, told
reporters in Mumbai yesterday. The strategist reduced his
recommendation on Indian equities to “underweight” from
“equal weight” in March.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index has fallen 9.8
percent this year as the Reserve Bank of  India  boosted interest
rates to curb price increases. Stocks in the index trade at an
average 14.9 times estimated profit. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index, which has risen 0.3 percent this year, trades at 10.9
times earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The valuation relative is at a 35 percent premium to the
rest of emerging markets,” Garner said. Valuations “have not
moved lower in line with the deterioration in profitability.”  Rising consumer prices and a 37 percent gain in oil in the
past year have forced the  Reserve Bank  of India to raise
interest rates nine times in 15 months. About 33 percent of the
companies in the Sensex reported profits that missed analysts’
forecasts in the three months ended in March, compared with less
than a quarter that did so a year earlier. India relies on
imports to meet three-quarters of its annual energy needs.  “Compared with  China , India has got more than twice the
negative sensitivity to higher  oil prices ,” Garner said. “At
the same time as it gets affected adversely by oil prices, India
has one of the biggest deficits on its trade account.”  ‘More Skeptical’  Garner’s comments came a day after Morgan Stanley’s India
analysts led by Ridham Desai forecast the Sensex to increase to
22,100 this year. Profit growth is “nearing a trough” and
 interest rates  are “closer to the peak than before,” the
analysts wrote in a report. The gauge dropped 0.6 percent to
18,494.18 at the 3:30 p.m. close today.  “We need to see this improvement in profitability which
Ridham is expecting to start to improve,” Garner said. “I am a
bit more skeptical than that.”  Citigroup Inc. analysts led by Aditya Narain trimmed their
year-end Sensex forecast to 21,500 from an earlier prediction of
22,000, according to a report dated yesterday. Still, low
economic growth expectations, high risk perceptions and a
resulting moderation in valuations are “reasons to buy,” the
report said.  Overseas Funds  Foreigners pulled 66.14 billion rupees ($1.5 billion) last
month, the most in a year, according to data from the market
regulator. They invested a net 72.1 billion rupees in April and
69 billion rupees in March.  Inflows from abroad reached a record $29.4 billion in 2010,
making the Sensex the best performer among the world’s 10
biggest markets last year. The largest-ever outflow in 2008 led
to the biggest annual slump of 52 percent.  “The only investor class that is selling shares is foreign
institutional investors,” the analysts led by Morgan Stanley’s
Desai wrote in their report two days ago. Share buybacks by
companies are at an “all-time high” and local institutional
and individual investors have been net buyers for four months,
the note said.  “We remain buyers of Indian equities with a 12- to 18-
month view,” the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  