-- 
Fannie Mae’s Johnson Was ‘Pied Piper,’ Drove U.S. Off Housing Cliff: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-06-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/fannie-mae-s-johnson-was-pied-piper-drove-u-s-off-housing-cliff-books.html
James A. Johnson cuts a powerful
figure as he makes his way around Wall Street and Washington in
horn-rimmed glasses.  He’s a man of prestige: vice chairman of private-equity
firm Perseus LLC; head of the compensation committee at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ; former adviser to Democratic presidential
aspirants including, briefly,  Barack Obama .  He’s also a “ Pied Piper ” who led the U.S. down the path
to housing hysteria, to hear Gretchen Morgenson and  Joshua Rosner  tell it in “Reckless Endangerment,” a late though
welcome book on a debacle that ejected millions of Americans
from their homes and jobs.  You might be asking, “James A. Who?” Unlike  Richard S. Fuld Jr ., Johnson has hardly become a common synonym for excess
and greed. Yet from 1991 through 1998, Johnson served as chief
executive officer of Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored
enterprise that some critics call “ground zero” in the
subprime-mortgage explosion.  Morgenson, a New York Times columnist with a reputation for
outing scoundrels, and Rosner, a housing analyst who called the
bubble early, seek to connect the dots between Johnson’s tenure
and the $2 trillion meltdown that followed. Though many
observers have asserted that  Fannie Mae  and government meddling
caused the disaster, this fast-paced, original narrative comes
closest to making the case.  Wealth Machine  Drawing on more than a decade of reporting, Morgenson and
Rosner argue that Johnson laid out a blueprint for other
institutions, from mortgage lender Countrywide Financial Corp.
to Goldman Sachs. In his lobbying to preserve Fannie Mae’s
government ties, Johnson showed bankers “how to control their
controllers and produce the outcome they desired: lax regulation
and freedom from any restraints that might hamper their risk
taking and curb their personal wealth creation.”  The contention remains sensitive. Source after source in
this book speaks only on condition of anonymity. Johnson himself
didn’t respond to interview requests made over five months, the
authors say.  In response to my own request seeking comment three days
ago, Johnson’s assistant at Perseus, Tandis Demopoulos, said the
executive was “traveling overseas with limited phone access”
and offered to get back to me “should he wish to comment.”  A Minnesota boy made good, Johnson is usually remembered as
a Beltway power broker. He was chairman of Walter Mondale’s
campaign against Republican President  Ronald Reagan  in 1984 and
served as a senior adviser to  John Kerry ’s run for the White
House two decades later. In these pages, though, he comes across
as a man who used his political prowess to secure personal
riches.  Privileged Position  When Johnson became CEO, Fannie Mae was fending off
suggestions that it should become fully private. Fannie had much
to lose. Though publicly traded, the company enjoyed government-
bestowed advantages over private rivals. It paid lower taxes,
could borrow at cheaper rates, was required to hold less capital
and enjoyed a $2.25 billion line of credit at the  U.S. Treasury .  Johnson was determined to protect those benefits, which
would allow him to make the company bigger, more profitable and
more lucrative for himself, the authors say. So he wrapped
Fannie Mae in an altruistic-sounding drive to increase the
number of Americans who own homes. He was “the original, if
anonymous, architect” of President  Bill Clinton ’s strategy to
boost the homeownership rate to almost 70 percent.  Positioning Fannie Mae as a do-gooder helped inoculate the
company from critics who feared it would one day need a taxpayer
bailout, the authors say. It also provided political cover for
expanding the company’s loan volumes and loosening its lending
standards. When you commit yourself to spending $1 trillion on
affordable housing, as Johnson did, something’s got to give.  Lowering Standards  Ensconced in its colonial-style headquarters in  Washington 
D.C., Fannie Mae automated its lending process, eliminating
traditional due diligence, the authors say. It lowered
standards, both on down payments and acceptable ratios between a
borrower’s monthly mortgage payment and his or her income, they
write.  So as the loans on its books swelled, they were growing
riskier. In 1992, only 6 percent of the loans Fannie purchased
represented more than 90 percent of a home’s value, the authors
say; three years later, the portion stood at 19 percent.  All of this translated into soaring earnings for
shareholders and rising pay for Johnson. In 1998, his total
compensation reached almost $21 million, according to a
 regulatory report  on improper accounting at Fannie.  Written in a smooth blend of hard reporting and lucid
analysis, “Reckless Endangerment” crackles with indignation
and telling anecdotes, some familiar, some less so.  ‘Symbiotic Relationship’  We’re reminded, for example, of the “deeply symbiotic
relationship” between Johnson and  Angelo Mozilo , the tanned and
French-cuffed CEO of Countrywide, which became Fannie Mae’s
largest loan provider.  The authors also recall a gutsy Congressional Budget Office
analyst, Marvin Phaup, who concluded that Fannie Mae and her
little brother,  Freddie Mac , received benefits from their
government ties that totaled $6.5 billion in 1995.  The size of the subsidy, though a bombshell itself, was
overshadowed by Phaup’s stated discovery that the companies
retained $2.1 billion of those benefits for themselves and their
shareholders. No wonder Johnson’s pay packet was so fat.  Was the entire subprime debacle the fault of Johnson,
Fannie Mae or, more broadly, the Clinton administration? Of
course not. The worst excesses were committed by  Wall Street 
much later in the game, as this book makes clear.  Still, Johnson once asserted that Fannie Mae would never
cost taxpayers a dime, the authors say. To date, Fannie and
Freddie have cost Americans more than $160 billion.  “Reckless Endangerment: How Outsized Ambition, Greed and
Corruption Led to Economic Armageddon” is published by  Times
Books  (331 pages, $30). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 