-- 
Fed’s Pianalto Says U.S. Economy Likely to Grow at 3 Percent Annual Pace

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-01T17:59:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/fed-s-pianalto-says-gradual-economic-recovery-to-continue.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said she expects the U.S. economic
expansion to advance further and that the central bank’s current
monetary stimulus is appropriate.  “I expect the economy to continue on a gradual recovery
pace over the next few years, with annual growth just above 3
percent a year,” Pianalto said today in a speech in Columbus,
Ohio. “I believe inflation will be temporarily elevated this
year due to developments in oil and food prices, but I expect
inflation to fall back below 2 percent in the next couple of
years.”  “Given this outlook, I think that the current
accommodative stance of monetary policy, with short-term
 interest rates  close to zero, is appropriate and supports the
FOMC’s dual mandate of stable prices and maximum employment,”
Pianalto said at the Columbus Metropolitan Club.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  plan this month to complete a $600 billion bond
purchase program. At their last meeting in April they said
they’ll hold interest rates “exceptionally low” for an
“extended period.” They’re considering a policy plan that
would follow the end of record monetary stimulus.  Pianalto said in response to audience questions that she
doesn’t anticipate that the economy will fall into
“stagflation,” with simultaneous high unemployment and high
inflation because “there has not been a growth in the  money
supply .”  Kept Reserves  The Fed has funded its asset purchases by creating bank
reserves, and “banks have kept those reserves. They have not
put them back into the economy,” she said.  The softness in recent economic data is different from the
slowdown last year, when  Europe ’s fiscal crisis damaged business
confidence in the U.S., Pianalto said.  “This time around even though we are again seeing some
softness, we’re not seeing the same reaction on the part of
businesses,” she said. Businesses are hiring and “not pulling
back,” indicating the “economy is on firmer footing.”  The Labor Department will report on June 3 that the economy
added 175,000 jobs in May, according to the median of a
Bloomberg Survey. The unemployment rate will fall to 8.9 percent
from 9 percent in April, according to the survey.  More Churning  Pianalto cited research from the Cleveland Fed showing that
“research reveals that historically, the more dynamism or churn
in the job market, the faster the  unemployment rate  returns to
its “trend” rate or “natural” rate, which we believe is
between 5.5 and 6 percent.” She said it could take about five
years for unemployment to return to that level.  “Unfortunately, the rate of churn is not returning as
quickly as it has after previous recessions,” she said.  Low wage growth was likely to restrain inflation in coming
years, Pianalto said.  “After a recession, wage increases typically remain low
for quite some time,” she said. “This should keep the
inflation rate lower because lower wage growth directly implies
little rise in the cost of producing goods and providing
services.”  Regular gasoline at the pump fell 0.5 cent yesterday to
$3.775 a gallon, the lowest price since April 10, AAA said on
its website. The Fed has said pressures from high commodity
prices will have only a “transitory” effect on overall
inflation.  The Labor Department said overall prices rose 3.2 percent
in April from a year earlier and prices excluding food and fuel
rose 1.3 percent. The Fed aims for inflation of 2 percent or a
bit below. Pianalto said in a March speech that she supports an
explicit inflation target of 2 percent.  Pianalto, 56, became president of the Cleveland Fed in 2003.
She is not a voting member of the FOMC this year and has never
dissented from a FOMC decision. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy, with Pianalto voting every other year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Columbus,  Ohio  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  