-- 
Fidelity’s Danoff Bets on Facebook, Zynga

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-01T19:28:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/fidelity-s-danoff-bets-on-facebook-zynga.html
William Danoff, the manager of
Fidelity Investment’s largest stock fund, established a toehold
in the social-networking industry during the first quarter by
acquiring shares of  Facebook  Inc. and Zynga Inc.  Danoff’s Fidelity Contrafund invested $74 million in
Facebook Class B common shares and $82 million in Zynga
convertible preferred stock, according to a quarterly report the
fund filed yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Danoff, 50, has managed the $80 billion Fidelity
Contrafund since September 1990.  Fidelity and rivals T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and Capital
Group Cos. are snapping up stakes in social-networking companies
before they go public, after the mutual-fund industry avoided
privately traded stocks for years. Boston-based Fidelity and
Baltimore’s T. Rowe Price may recognize an opportunity as a
growing percentage of clients access their fund holdings through
Facebook, said  Geoff Bobroff , a fund consultant in  East
Greenwich ,  Rhode Island .  “We are seeing more of these fund companies embrace and
adopt social media as something they are providing to their
shareholders,” Bobroff said today in an interview. “It’s
somewhat logical they would think there is value.”  Vincent Loporchio , a spokesman for Fidelity, said more than
30 of its funds held Facebook shares as of April 30. No fund had
more than 0.15 percent of its assets invested in Facebook,
according to Loporchio, who declined to comment further.  T. Rowe, American  T. Rowe Price reported in April that 19 of its mutual funds
invested at least $191 million during the first quarter in
Facebook, the  Palo Alto , California-based owner of the world’s
most popular social-networking website. American Funds Growth
Fund of America, a $168 billion stock fund overseen by Los
Angeles-based Capital Group, invested $66.5 million on Feb. 18
in Zynga, the largest maker of games on Facebook, according to
an April 29 filing.  Fidelity Contrafund (FCNTX)  averaged annual gains of 7 percent over
the past 10 years to beat 99 percent of its large-capitalization
growth stock peers, according to Chicago-based research firm
Morningstar Inc.  Danoff’s fund aims to invest in stocks whose value hasn’t
been fully recognized by the public. At the end of last year, it
had about 33 percent of net assets in information technology
shares, including a $5.3 billion stake in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and $3.8
billion in Google Inc.  The fund acquired 2.97 million Facebook shares during the
first quarter for about $25 each, the same price T. Rowe Price
reported paying, according to yesterday’s filing. Facebook in
January said it had raised $1.5 billion from investors led by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , placing a $50 billion valuation on the
closely held business at the time.  Convertible Preferred Shares  Fidelity Contrafund also bought its Zynga convertible
preferred stock on Feb. 18, according to yesterday’s filing.
Zynga held talks in February with T. Rowe Price and Fidelity
about selling shares at a price that implied the company’s
market value was close to $10 billion, two people familiar with
the situation said at the time.  Facebook and Zynga last year laid the groundwork for
initial public offerings by imposing fees on employees who sell
their shares. Zynga may file for an IPO by the end of June, a
person familiar with the plans said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  