-- 
FirstRand of South Africa Plans $300 Million Sale of Bonds, Banker Says

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-01T12:43:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/firstrand-is-planning-a-sale-of-bonds-denominated-in-dollars-banker-says.html
FirstRand Bank Ltd., a unit of  South
Africa ’s second-biggest financial services company, is planning
to sell $300 million of bonds, a banker with knowledge of the
deal said.  The bond should be priced tomorrow, said the banker, who
did not want to be named.  “We are busy with the book-building and we will issue in
the next two days,” Andries du Toit, the Johannesburg-based
lender’s head of capital management, said by phone, without
confirming the size or giving price guidance for the issue.
“The money will be used for general funding purposes.”  The sale will be managed by JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities, Standard Chartered Plc and UBS AG and
the bond may be rated A2, the fifth-lowest investment grade, by
Moody’s Investors Service, a banker with knowledge of the deal
said.  FirstRand on April 21 last year delayed plans to sell at
least 500 million euros ($720 million) of five-year bonds in
euro, pounds, rand or yen after probes into Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. made market pricing volatile. It said at the time it wanted
to raise money to expand its operations in  Africa .  FirstRand planned to meet bond investors starting May 9 in
London, Zurich and Geneva, Du Toit said on May 4. The size and
currency of the issue will depend on investor demand, he said.  The bank leads bond sales by lenders in South Africa this
year, raising the equivalent of $633.7 million in 10 issues,
compared with $619.4 million by second-placed Absa Group Ltd., a
unit of Barclays Plc, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  