-- 
Former Chicago Mayor Richard Daley Joins Law Firm Katten Muchin Rosenman

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-01T16:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/former-chicago-mayor-richard-daley-joins-law-firm-katten-muchin-rosenman.html
Former six-term  Chicago  Mayor  Richard M. Daley  joined Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP, the law firm that
helped negotiate a deal to lease the city’s parking meters.  Daley, 69, will serve as counsel at Katten and won’t
participate in any work involving the city or any of its
affiliated agencies, the firm said today in a statement.  “I chose Katten for a number of reasons,” Daley said in
the statement. “They have an innovative yet practical approach
to helping clients accomplish their goals, and they are
expanding globally.”  Daley was mayor of the third-largest U.S. city for 22 years
beginning in 1989, following in the footsteps of his father
 Richard J. Daley , who was mayor from 1955 to 1976. Under the
younger Daley’s leadership, Chicago lured Boeing Corp. and
United Continental Holdings Inc. corporate headquarters to the
city and built Millennium Park.  “His advice and counsel will be invaluable,” Vincent Sergi, Katten’s national managing partner, said in today’s
statement.  In December 2008, Katten Muchin advised Chicago on leasing
its 36,000 parking meters to a Morgan Stanley-led partnership
for $1.15 billion to balance its budget. The city’s Office of
the Inspector General questioned the deal in 2009, citing a
failure to calculate how much the system would be worth over 75
years.  $11.6 Billion  The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  partnership, which includes the Abu
Dhabi Investment Authority, may reap at least $11.6 billion from
Chicago drivers during the life of the contract, according to
documents released in August for a $500 million private note
sale by the group’s Chicago Parking Meters LLC venture.  In addition to his work at Katten, Daley will organize
lectures for the  University of Chicago . The school said May 24
that Daley would join as a senior fellow for five years
beginning July 1 and will coordinate a series of lectures at the
Harris School of Public Policy Studies.  Founded in 1974, Katten ranked 63rd on the trade magazine
American Lawyer’s 2011 list of large U.S. firms, with $443
million in gross revenue in 2010. The firm has more than 600
lawyers, with offices in Chicago,  New York ,  Los Angeles ,
Washington and Charlotte, North Carolina, as well as  London . It
plans to open a site in Shanghai this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  