-- 
Forrest to Take Over as Fortescue Chairman, Relinquish CEO Role to Power

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-06-01T06:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/fortescue-metals-says-andrew-forrest-to-retire-as-chief-executive-in-july.html
Andrew Forrest, the billionaire
founder of  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , will retire as chief
executive officer of Australia’s third-largest iron ore exporter
to take over as chairman.  Chief Operating Officer Nev Power, who joined the company
this year, will replace Forrest, 49, on July 18, with Forrest
becoming chairman at the board meeting on Aug. 18, Perth-based
Fortescue said today in a statement.  Forrest, Australia’s third-richest person, said he will
concentrate on philanthropy after retiring as CEO of the company
he founded in 2003. Power, who takes charge of the company’s
$8.4 billion planned expansion to almost triple output, said
today said it will achieve this target a year ahead of schedule.  “Moves have been afoot to bolster the senior management on
the board of Fortescue over the past 18 months,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital
Ltd. “This is just probably the completion of that move in
terms of making the company more autonomous and reduce Andrew
Forrest’s day-to-day activities.”  Fortescue shares gained 2.6 percent to A$6.69 at the 4:10
p.m. close of trading in Sydney, taking gains for the past year
to 66 percent as iron ore prices climbed. The benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index, down 0.2 percent today, has risen 6.7 percent in the
past year.  Forrest, known as “Twiggy”, owns 31 percent of the
company that’s now worth more than A$20 billion ($22 billion).
He was third on  BRW magazine ’s annual list of  Australia ’s 200
wealthiest people, released May 25, with his fortune valued at
A$6.8 billion, a 46 percent increase from last year.  Court Appeal  Fortescue and Forrest are appealing a court decision in
February that found they had misled investors over accords with
 China  for the development of the company’s initial iron ore
project. Both denied the allegations brought by the nation’s
corporate regulator. Forrest faces possible penalties, including
being barred as a director and paying a fine.  The case had no bearing on his retirement and he was
confident the company will win the appeal, Forrest said today at
a press conference. He said he may dilute his shareholding to
fund his philanthropic efforts, which will concentrate on
improving employment for Australia’s indigenous population.  Today’s leadership change “positions the company a lot
better, irrespective of the outcome of legal issues surrounding
 Andrew Forrest , which is prudent from a shareholder’s
perspective,” Schroeders said by telephone from  Melbourne .  Expansion Plans  Fortescue last year outlined plans to expand production to
155 million metric tons of annual output by fiscal 2014 from 40
million tons through development of Solomon and the Western Hubs
in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. The company will now
reach the 155 million ton total in 2013, Power said.  The company began looking for a replacement CEO almost
three years ago on Forrest’s advice, the company said. Power,
the former chief executive officer of mining and building
contractor Thiess Pty, was appointed in January, the company
said. A formal global search was conducted over the past year,
it said.  In March, Power told reporters in Perth he had been hired
to strengthen management, not to ultimately replace Forrest, and
he saw no change in Forrest’s role.  “Fortescue is now recognized for its ability to deliver on
its targets and, with Nev’s extensive experience and knowledge
available to lead the company, this is a perfect time for me to
move away from my day-to-day, hands-on role,” Forrest said in
the statement.  The great nephew of Baron John Forrest, the first premier
of  Western Australia  state, Forrest grew up on a remote cattle
ranch where he did his early schooling via short-wave radio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  