-- 
French Minister Says ‘Scientific’ Fracking Needs Strict Control

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-01T16:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/french-minister-says-scientific-fracking-needs-strict-control.html
France  should allow state-controlled
research into hydraulic fracturing, a technique used to extract
oil and natural gas from shale rock, French Industry Minister
Eric Besson said today.  “I would like us to be able to carry out experiments under
strict government control and in total transparency,” Besson
told lawmakers at a National Assembly commission today as the
Senate began debate on a possible ban.  The ban would forbid the technique, known as fracking,
except for “scientific projects.” The bill is different from
one passed May 11 at the National Assembly under which explorers
using fracking would face fines, jail and the cancellation of
their exploration permits. That bill would also have allowed
some research.  A committee of lawmakers, government representatives, non-
governmental organizations and local citizens would oversee
research, Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet said.
“Any scientific experimentation needs extremely strict
oversight.”  Fracking, widely used in  North America , uses a mixture of
water, sand and chemicals injected under high pressure to break
dense rock to release oil and gas trapped within. Green groups
and politicians led protests across France, saying the method
could cause environmental damage. Kosciusko-Morizet has said she
backs the ban.  If the Senate passes a bill that’s different from the
National Assembly’s, a parliamentary commission will have to
agree on common language before it becomes law.  Both proposals allow for the canceling of permits already
granted to companies including  Total SA (FP) , Vermilion Energy Inc.
and  Toreador Resources Corp. (TRGL)  if they plan to use hydraulic
fracturing. Explorers applying the method would face a 75,000-
euro ($108,000) fine and a year in prison.  The French oil companies’ association Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres has said it supports pilot projects to
evaluate the technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  