-- 
LG’s Patent Claim Against Sony Faces Review by U.S. Trade Agency

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-06-01T16:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/lg-s-patent-claim-against-sony-faces-review-by-u-s-trade-agency.html
A U.S. trade agency will review
patent-infringement claims that  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ’s Zenith
unit made against  Sony Corp. (6758)  as part of a dispute over expired
licensing of digital television technology.  Zenith claims Sony televisions that meet an industry
standard for signal processing are using technology it invented.
The U.S. International Trade Commission  opened  an investigation
today into the complaint and, if a violation is found, the
agency has the power to block imports of the Sony TVs, including
Bravia high-definition models.  In the complaint, Zenith said it contacted Sony “and
attempted to negotiate terms of a license.” According to a
civil suit that Lincolnshire, Illinois-based Zenith filed
against Sony in October, Sony had been licensed to use the
patented technology. That license expired and Sony, based in
 Tokyo , has been unwilling to renew it, according the civil suit.  Sony is Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics
and the world’s third-largest TV maker. LG, based in Seoul, is
the world’s second-biggest, behind Samsung Electronics Co.  The ITC in Washington is an independent agency that
investigates unfair trade practices, including allegations of
patent infringement. It typically completes investigations in 15
to 18 months.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices
Having a Digital Television Receiver, 337-774, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington). The civil suit is
Zenith Electronics LLC v  Sony Corp. (SNE) , 11cv2439, U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of California (San Francisco)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  