-- 
BofA, Galleon, Deutsche Telekom, British American, Massey in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-01T12:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/galleon-deutsche-telekom-british-american-tobacco-massey-in-court-news.html
New York’s highest court was asked by
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and other institutions to
reinstate their lawsuit claiming that bond insurer MBIA Inc.’s
2009 restructuring was intended to defraud policyholders.  A lower-court decision throwing out the lawsuit improperly
blocked claims the banks could bring as creditors, their lawyer
told the New York State Court of Appeals at oral arguments
yesterday in Albany.  Eric Dinallo, the state’s former insurance superintendent,
approved the split in 2009, allowing Armonk, New York-based MBIA
to move its guarantees on state and municipal bonds out of the
unit that insured some of Wall Street’s riskiest mortgage debt.
Robert Giuffra Jr., lead counsel for the banks, called the
action unprecedented.  “They did one of the biggest transactions in history in
secret,” Giuffra, a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, said.
“There was no notice, no opportunity to be heard.”  Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman asked why the banks, which are
MBIA policyholders, shouldn’t be allowed to pursue their claims
under debtor-creditor law and whether it was fair that they
weren’t given notice of the approval of the restructuring by the
superintendent.  Judge Robert S. Smith also questioned the lack of notice to
policyholders.  “Here we have people who never got to talk to the
agency,” he said. “They learned about this the same day
everybody else did, when the superintendent issued his
approval.”  MBIA argued that the only recourse the banks have is under
New York’s Article 78 statute, which allows court review of
state administrative decisions. A separate lawsuit under that
provision is pending.  “There are no money damages until there are no payments on
claims,”  Marc Kasowitz , a lawyer for MBIA said yesterday. “For
the past two years, this insurer has paid all claims as they’ve
come due.”  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v.  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , 601475-2009, New
York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  Trials/Appeals  Goffer Prosecutors, Defense Team Rest as Case Nears Closing  Prosecutors rested their insider-trading case against ex-
Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi Goffer , who offered no evidence on
his own behalf, while a lawyer for one of Goffer’s accused
accomplices, Michael Kimelman, tried to show his client didn’t
trade on illegal tips.  Less than two weeks after opening its case against Goffer,
his brother Emanuel and Kimelman, federal prosecutors yesterday
told the judge and jury in Manhattan federal court that they had
no other evidence to present. A lawyer for Zvi Goffer then
rested his case without presenting evidence, while Kimelman’s
lawyer,  Michael Sommer , recalled a government witness for
further testimony.  The witness, Federal Bureau of Investigation agent Jan
Trigg, testified under questioning from Sommer that Kimelman
didn’t use a prepaid cell phone, as others in the scheme had
done, and that Kimelman worked at a different firm than Zvi
Goffer in 2007. She testified that the FBI never recorded the
two sharing illegal information and that Zvi Goffer didn’t
telephone Kimelman after he got a tip from another trader.  “Did he ever call Mr. Kimelman at all for the balance of
that day?” Sommer asked, referring to Zvi Goffer.  “He does not appear to call him,” Trigg testified as she
reviewed records.  The three men are accused of trading on illegal tips that
came from attorneys then working at the Ropes & Gray LLP law
firm. The tips were about transactions involving 3Com Corp. and
other stocks, according to prosecutors.  Goffer’s ex-boss, Raj Rajaratnam, was found guilty May 11
of insider trading. He faces as long as 19 1/2 years in prison
when he’s sentenced on July 29. Prosecutors previously said that
Goffer passed inside information to another Galleon trader to
impress the hedge fund’s managers.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Deutsche Telekom Wins Retrial of $162 Million Suit  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  won a top court ruling in a 112
million-euro ($162 million) lawsuit against a shareholder and
the German government over claims stemming from a U.S. class-
action case.  The Federal Court of Justice in Karlsruhe ruled yesterday
that KfW Group, the shareholder, must indemnify Deutsche Telekom
for the amount paid to U.S. shareholders to settle the suit. The
top judges remanded the case to a lower court, which must now
determine the amount owed and rule on whether Germany is also
liable.  The case centers on Deutsche Telekom’s sale of 200 million
shares in 2000. U.S. buyers later filed a class-action lawsuit
claiming the sales prospectus was flawed. Germany’s biggest
phone company settled for $120 million and now seeks to get the
money and legal fees back from KfW and Germany.  “The public offer in the U.S. entailed that Deutsche
Telekom assumed the responsibility from KfW for the
prospectus,” the court said. That step was like “a repaying of
the capital to its shareholder KfW because it wasn’t linked to a
full compensation.”  A lower court had rejected Deutsche Telekom’s suit in 2009.  Yesterday’s case is BGH, II ZR 141/09.  BAT Wins Australia Court Hearing on Plain Cigarette Packaging  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ’s Australian unit won an
appeals court hearing in a bid to force the government to turn
over documents relating to a plan to restrict cigarette sales to
plain packages.  The Full Federal Court of Australia agreed to hear the
request, according to a letter from Judge Shane Marshall,
provided by British American Tobacco. No date has been set for
the hearing, the company said.  Parliament is set to vote on the law in the Australian
winter to limit cigarette packaging to plain dark-olive coloring
with pictorial health warnings instead of company logos, Health
Minister Nicola Roxon said last month. British American Tobacco
has sought the legal advice the government received on the plan
under Australia’s Freedom of Information Act and has been
denied, the company said.  British American Tobacco “suspects that Minister Roxon
hasn’t released the legal advice because it’s likely to
demonstrate her plain packaging laws are flawed,” the company
said in yesterday’s statement.  Health Ministry officials didn’t respond to telephone and
e-mail requests for comment.  The Australian proposal is the first in the world aimed at
banning logos and color variations on cigarette packages. New
Zealand, Canada and the U.K. had considered the move but dropped
it out of concern it would be illegal, British American Tobacco
 said . The Australian proposal may infringe international
trademark and intellectual property laws, the tobacco company
said.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v.
Secretary, Department of Health and Aging. VID314/2011. Federal
Court of Australia (Melbourne).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Trustee’s Suit Against UniCredit to Be Reviewed  A federal district judge in New York said he will review
part of a $58.8 billion lawsuit brought against  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
and other defendants by the bankruptcy trustee liquidating
Bernard L. Madoff’s firm.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said yesterday in Manhattan
that he will explain in a June 3 order what issues he will
consider. UniCredit, based in Milan, asked the judge on May 10
to decide whether the racketeering law invoked by trustee Irving
Picard applies outside the U.S.  Picard’s fees are an issue in the UniCredit case, said
Rakoff, who yesterday asked the trustee’s lawyers why four of
them were in court. Picard personally has been paid $3.6 million
in fees since Madoff’s 2008 arrest, while his law firm, Baker &
Hostetler LLP, has collected $145.6 million, plus $3.4 million
in expenses, according to a May 16 bankruptcy court filing.  Picard named UniCredit in a December bankruptcy-court suit
against Bank Medici AG, its founder, Sonja Kohn, and dozens of
other parties in Austria and Italy. He sought $19.6 billion for
the conman’s investors, invoking the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act to triple the amount. The claim is the
largest of more than 1,000 filed by Picard.  A recent Supreme Court ruling “upended” historical tests
for applying U.S. law in other countries, the Italian bank said.
That casts doubt on whether Picard can use RICO to reach “an
alleged enterprise existing almost wholly outside of the United
States and expressly directing its alleged conduct to persons
living abroad,” UniCredit said in its court filing.  According to Picard’s suit, Kohn ran a scheme centered on
Bank Medici, parts of which overlapped with Madoff’s own
fraudulent enterprise, delivering $9.1 billion into the Ponzi
scheme. The participants funneled $4 billion of the total
through feeder funds, he said.  Kohn and UniCredit are fighting the suit.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 10-5411, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lehman Accuses Goldman of Trying to Delay Bankruptcy Probe  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  accused  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  of deliberately trying to delay a bankruptcy investigation
by moving at a “glacial pace” in turning over documents
related to the probe.  Lehman claimed Goldman Sachs is deliberately moving slowly
to run out a deadline for providing information for Lehman’s
probe into whether rumors about its condition damaged its
business during the 2008 financial crisis, according to a filing
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. Attorneys for
Lehman said the documents are needed to determine whether to
make claims against Goldman Sachs.  “Goldman Sachs is deliberately moving at a glacial pace in
an effort to run out the statute of limitations without
producing the requested documents,” Lehman said in the filing.  Employees of Goldman Sachs “may have been involved in
originating or spreading rumors about Lehman,” according to
yesterday’s filing.  In March, Lehman sought e-mails and instant messages from
Goldman Sachs custodians in New York who were involved in
marketing prime brokerage services to hedge funds and
proprietary trading of Lehman securities in London, according to
the filing. After a series of negotiations, Goldman Sachs said
it had begun searching for documents from 11 of 37 custodians
and was unable say when that search would be completed,
according to yesterday’s filing.  Lehman is asking U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck to order
Goldman Sachs to provide the documents within two weeks of his
decision.  Michael DuVally, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment yesterday.  Lehman filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history on
Sept. 15, 2008.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Harbinger Says Northern Rock Shares Worth $530 Million  Harbinger Capital Partners, the hedge fund run by
billionaire Philip Falcone, said holders of Northern Rock Asset
Management Plc’s preferred shares should be paid 322.5 million
pounds ($530 million).  The fund owns a “substantial” amount of the shares and
asked a London court yesterday to reject the determination from
a valuation expert appointed by the British government, which
now owns the bank, that the shares are worthless.  Mark Phillips, a lawyer for the New York-based fund, said a
“fire sale” of the bank’s assets after the U.K. nationalized
the lender depleted its value by 4 billion pounds.  “That destroyed the value that had already been there,”
Phillips said. Northern Rock was “asset-rich, but cash-poor.”  Northern Rock shares peaked at 1,251 pence in early 2007,
before falling to 90 pence on Feb. 15, 2008, when they were
suspended. The bank, based in Newcastle, England, was then
nationalized, becoming the first U.K. casualty of the credit
crunch. Northern Rock nearly collapsed in 2007 after seeking
emergency funding from the Bank of England and suffering a run
on its deposits.  Andrew Caldwell of BDO International was appointed in
September 2008 to value Northern Rock and determine how much
shareholders should get back. He said in court filings posted on
his  website  that he determined the amount payable “is nil.”  Harbinger said in court papers the preferred shares were
once worth 400 million pounds and, based on expert reports, a
reasonable amount of compensation is 322.5 million pounds.  “Nil is utterly unreasonable,” Phillips said.  Laura Clare, a spokeswoman for BDO, declined to immediately
comment. The hearing is scheduled to last five days.  The case is Harbinger Capital and Northern Rock Applicants
v. Andrew Caldwell and Her Majesty’s Treasury, 10/01, In the
Upper Tribunal (Tax and Chancery Chamber) Financial Services
(London).  Massey Investors Can’t Block Alpha Vote, Delaware Judge Rules  Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  investors lost two court challenges to
 Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) ’s buyout of the coal producer for
more than $7 billion, clearing the way for today’s shareholder
vote on the acquisition.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine yesterday rejected
a request by some Massey shareholders to put off an approval
vote on the deal for 15 days so investors can more thoroughly
study Alpha’s cash-and-stock offer. The West Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals rejected a similar request.  “In my judgment, issuance of an injunction threatens more
harm to Massey stockholders than its potential benefits to
them,” Strine said in a 79-page ruling.  Massey, the largest coal producer in central Appalachia,
was sued by investors in West Virginia and Delaware over claims
the company’s directors failed to push managers to improve
safety conditions after 29 workers died in an April 2010
explosion at the Upper Big Branch mine in West Virginia.  The shareholders seek to hold Massey’s board liable for
more than $25 million in sanctions related to the blast that
were assessed on the Richmond, Virginia-based company by the
U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration.  Stuart Grant , a lawyer for the  New Jersey  pension fund that
sued in Delaware, said he was disappointed with Strine’s ruling.  “The message sent is that if you violate the law as a
director, the simple way out is to sell the company,” Grant
said in an e-mailed statement.  Micah Ragland, a Massey spokesman, and Rick Nida, an Alpha
spokesman, didn’t respond to phone calls seeking comment.  The consolidated case is In Re Massey Energy Co. Derivative
and Class Action Litigation, CA5430, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington)  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  New York Sues U.S. Over Delaware River Basin Gas Drilling  The federal government hasn’t adequately studied how
natural gas drilling in the Delaware River Basin would affect 9
million water drinkers in New York, the state said in a lawsuit
against the U.S.  A commission that oversees the river basin has proposed
regulations that will allow a drilling procedure known as
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, at 15,000 to 18,000 gas wells
without a full environmental review, New York Attorney General
 Eric Schneiderman  said in an e-mailed statement. The attorney
general filed a complaint yesterday in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York, seeking to halt the regulations until the
commission complies with the National Environmental Policy Act’s
requirement for a full review of all health and safety risks.  “The welfare of those living near the Delaware River
Basin, as well as the millions of New Yorkers who rely on its
pure drinking water each day, will not be ignored,”
Schneiderman said. The U.S. should consider not authorizing
development in the part of the river basin that includes New
York City’s watershed, he said.  The Delaware River Basin Commission, an authority which
oversees activities in the gas-rich area known as the Marcellus
Shale, has a pending application from XTO Energy Inc., a unit of
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , to explore in the area, and has refused to
produce a full environmental impact assessment, according to
Schneiderman’s complaint.  The Delaware River Basin covers 58 percent of the land area
of New York City’s watershed west of the Hudson River, according
to Schneiderman’s statement. The region targeted for exploration
lie within the geographic formation known as the Marcellus
Shale, and is protected by a 50-year-old agreement among the
federal government and the states of New York, New Jersey and
Delaware, according to the complaint.  The lawsuit names as defendants Lisa P. Jackson,
administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and
Kenneth Salazar, secretary of the Interior Department. Other
involved federal agencies include the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, the National Park Service, the U.S. Fish & Wildlife
Service and the Environmental Protection Agency.  Kate Kelly, an Interior Department spokeswoman, said the
agency had no immediate comment.  Betsaida Alcantara, an EPA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment  A coalition that includes  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,
Chesapeake Energy Corp. and XTO Energy that supports drilling in
the Marcellus Shale said in a statement that the lawsuit isn’t
necessary, and will bring no environmental benefit.  Alan Jeffers, an Exxon spokesman, and Thomas Covington, a
spokesman for XTO Energy, didn’t immediately return calls for
comment.  The case is New York v. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 11-
cv-2599, U.S District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Wells Fargo to Pay $16 Million to End Disabilities Claims  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, agreed to
pay as much as $16 million to resolve claims that the bank
wouldn’t do business with deaf and hearing-impaired people using
a telecommunications relay service, the Justice Department said
yesterday.  Hearing and speech impaired individuals were referred to a
phone line for the deaf that asked them to leave a message that
went unanswered, the agency said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The banking company will pay up to $16 million to
people for violations of the American with Disabilities Act, a
$55,000 civil penalty and a $1 million charity donation,
according to the statement.  The company will accept relay calls and take other steps to
assist disabled consumers wishing to do business by phone, by
computer, at branches and at automatic teller machines under the
settlement. Mary Eshet, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message after regular business
hours.  Some of Wells Fargo’s call centers stopped accepting calls
made through relay services because of fraud concerns and
referred the calls to a dedicated line for the deaf, the bank
said in the agreement. The bank denied violations of the
disabilities act.  Wells Fargo worked on a settlement once the department
opened an investigation, the agency said. Other major financial
institutions are refusing to communicate with disabled people
who use relay services to communicate by telephone, which is
discrimination, the agency said. The banks should accept relay
calls immediately, it said.  Conrad Black Rejected by Supreme Court on Fraud Conviction  Conrad Black lost a bid for a second U.S. Supreme Court
hearing on his corporate fraud conviction as the justices left
intact a ruling that may send the former Hollinger International
Inc. chairman back to prison.  A year after ruling for Black on one issue in his case, the
high court yesterday turned away his follow-up appeal, which
sought to overturn the remaining two counts of his conviction
for fraud and obstruction of justice.  The rebuff leaves Black facing the prospect that he will
receive little if any benefit from last year’s ruling. He is
scheduled to be resentenced June 24 in Chicago, and federal
prosecutors are asking U.S. District Judge Amy J. St. Eve to re-
impose the 6 1/2-year sentence he received after his 2007
conviction.  Black, 66, and three other former Hollinger executives were
found guilty of illegally taking $6.1 million from the Chicago-
based newspaper company as they engineered the sale of its
assets.  “A decision by the Supreme Court not to review a case is
not a ruling on the merits, and it does not remotely suggest
that the decision below was correct,” Miguel Estrada, Black’s
attorney, said in an e-mail. A lower court ruling that upheld
part of Black’s conviction “was not merely erroneous,” Estrada
said. “It was a complete travesty.”  The Supreme Court last year used Black’s case, along with
that of former Enron Corp. Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey
Skilling, to narrow the scope of a federal law that criminalizes
so-called honest-services fraud.  The Supreme Court case is Black v. U.S., 10-1038, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Sanjay Kumar  Rejected by U.S. High Court on 12-Year Sentence  The U.S. Supreme Court refused to second-guess the 12-year
prison sentence imposed on former  CA Inc. (CA)  Chief Executive
Officer Sanjay Kumar for leading a $2.2 billion fraud at the
software company.  The justices yesterday turned away an appeal by Kumar, 49,
who pleaded guilty in 2006 to charges of conspiracy, fraud and
obstruction of justice. He is serving his sentence at a  federal
prison  in New Jersey.  Kumar argued unsuccessfully that the trial judge used the
wrong version of the federal sentencing guidelines in imposing
the prison term.  He pleaded guilty in 2006 to inflating revenue by
backdating sales contracts. CA, based in Islandia, New York, was
known as Computer Associates International Inc. when Kumar ran
the company.  Prosecutors said Kumar erased his computer hard drive after
being told to preserve evidence for a federal investigation.
Kumar also allegedly authorized the payment of $3.7 million to
silence a potential witness.  The case is Kumar v. U.S., 10-961, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  