-- 
Defense Chief Gates to Showcase U.S. Military Staying Power on Asia Trip

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-01T05:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/gates-to-showcase-u-s-military-staying-power-on-last-asia-trip.html
Defense Secretary Robert Gates today
headed for his last official trip to  Asia , where he’ll aim to
underscore the region’s prominent place on the U.S. agenda and
urge  China  to strengthen ties regardless of disagreements.  Gates, who retires from office this month, will attend an
Asia security forum in Singapore and also hold talks with his
counterparts from Japan, China and  Australia .  “Even as we look at potential budget reductions, there is
no slackening of the U.S. commitment to our presence in Asia,”
Gates told reporters yesterday in Honolulu after a tour of the
USS Missouri, which was decommissioned in 1992. The battleship,
now a memorial and historic site, hosted the Japanese surrender
in Tokyo Bay that ended World War II in July 1945.  The defense secretary will detail measures by the  Pentagon 
to reinforce American staying power in the region, U.S. defense
officials said, briefing reporters on condition of anonymity.
Gates will try to show that crises in the  Middle East  and North
Africa aren’t distracting the Obama administration from Asia,
the officials said.  Gates has “been pretty resolute in the way that he has
reiterated that the United States is an inherent Asia-Pacific
power,” said Tim Huxley, director for defense and military
analysis at the  International Institute for Strategic Studies ,
which is hosting the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore later this
week. Huxley credits Gates with saying “things that have been
important for the U.S. to say, at a time when the regional
distribution of power is clearly in a state of flux.”  China Military Relations  China is sending to the forum its highest-level
representative ever, Defense Minister Liang Guanglie. That gives
Gates another opening, since the two met in January in Beijing,
to reinforce the need for reliable and continuous military
relations between the two countries, the U.S. defense officials
said.  Gates is the latest of a stream of U.S. officials visiting
Asia as the Obama administration comes to grips with China’s
rise. The Chinese military’s modernization, which the U.S. sees
as a potential threat, and territorial disputes between China
and its neighbors have raised tensions.  Vietnam  and the  Philippines  are pushing forward oil and gas
exploration projects in areas of the  South China Sea  claimed by
China, risking clashes in one of the world’s busiest shipping
corridors.  China leaders, who say the U.S. must acknowledge their
“core interests” in Asia, often suspend ties over disagreements
such as U.S. arms sales to  Taiwan  or overtures to the exiled
Tibetan leader the Dalai Lama.  Taiwan Arms  Members of Congress are advocating more weapons for Taiwan,
especially long-requested F-16 C/D fighter jets, as China
strengthens its forces across the Taiwan Strait.  U.S. Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, and 45
other members from both parties wrote Obama on May 26 urging him
to expedite the sale of 66 of the aircraft made by  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  of Bethesda,  Maryland .  While Chinese officials agreed in  Washington  earlier this
month to conduct joint disaster relief and counter-piracy
exercises, they also reiterated what they consider irritants,
including U.S. weapons sales to Taiwan, which China considers a
renegade province.  “The Chinese are being very forward-leaning now in a
couple of areas and very tough in a couple of others,” said
Bonnie Glaser, a China specialist at the  Center for Strategic
and International Studies  in Washington.  U.S.-China Talks  Gates plans to follow up on his request to Chinese
President Hu Jintao in January to begin formal talks that bring
civilian and military officials on both sides together to
discuss nuclear power, space, cyberspace and missile defense,
the defense officials said.  U.S. officials have raised questions about whether civilian
Chinese leaders were either aware or had endorsed antagonistic
moves, such as a test flight during Gates’ Beijing visit in
January of a new fighter jet that may have stealth capabilities.  Throughout the region, U.S. allies and security partners
have been looking for signs of its commitment, Huxley said. That
includes force levels, exercises, naval visits and in some cases
military assistance, arms sales and technology transfer.  Gates will also meet with Japanese Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa in  Singapore  and discuss joint efforts in coping with
Japan’s earthquake, tsunami and resulting nuclear crisis, a U.S.
official said. They will also discuss plans to move some U.S.
Marines on Okinawa, partly to a less-populous location on the
island and others to  Guam .  Japan Bases  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin, a
Michigan Democrat, joined Senators John McCain of  Arizona , the
panel’s senior Republican, and  Jim Webb , a Virginia Democrat and
the chairman of the personnel subcommittee, in urging changes to
the military base agreement with Japan, signed in 2006.  The agreements involved were carefully crafted over years,
one of the U.S. defense officials said. The U.S. has balked at
 Japan ’s own requests for changes in recent years. The Senators’
letter doesn’t change the administration’s approach.  After Singapore, Gates will attend a North Atlantic Treaty
Organization defense ministers meeting in Brussels next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  