-- 
German Atomic Halts, Drought Pressure French Supply, Besson Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-01T12:41:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/german-atomic-halts-drought-pressure-french-supply-besson-says.html
French Industry Minister Eric Besson
said the shutdown of seven German nuclear reactors could put
pressure on power supply in  France  as the worst drought in half
a century has cut domestic hydroelectric production.  “I’m not being alarmist but we need to be vigilant,”
Besson said on France Info radio today. “In the short term the
immediate halt of seven reactors will remove about 10 percent of
Germany’s power generation. This means Germany will be able to
export a lot less.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government this week
decided to shut by 2022 all 17 atomic reactors that help power
Europe’s biggest economy. Seven were already idled following
 Japan ’s Fukushima disaster and these won’t be started up again.
Germany was last year a net exporter of power to France, where
state-controlled utility Electricite de France SA operates the
country’s 58 atomic reactors.  French power exports to Germany have already increased by
50 percent over the past weeks due to the halt of the German
reactors, Besson said today.  In April, France was a net exporter of power to Germany for
the first month since August, according to power trading data
published by grid operator Reseau de Transport d’Electricite.  “In the summer we sometimes import power from Germany and
this could have been the case this year due to the drought,”
Besson said, adding that representatives of French power
producers and the country’s grid operator will meet June 9 to
discuss the consequences of the drought and the German decision.  ‘Blow to  Europe ’  “The unilateral German decision is a big blow to Europe,”
Christian Bataille, French Socialist lawmaker, told a
parliamentary hearing yesterday. “It’s a decision that affects
Germany’s neighbors and is not credible because Germany will
start coal and gas plants and buy more French nuclear power.
This will weigh on the French market.”  EDF reported May 12 a drop in hydroelectric output due to
dry weather conditions and said planned maintenance at seaside
nuclear reactors would be limited during the coming months.  Most EDF reactors are cooled by river waters and output at
these plants could be reduced or halted if river temperatures
become too high or flow drops too much, French Environment
Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet has said.  In contrast to  Germany , the French government has
reiterated support for atomic energy, which supplies more than
three quarters of the country’s power needs. EDF is developing a
new atomic plant at Flamanville in Normandy and has plans for
another in northern France at Penly.  Public hearings into the Penly project will begin in
September, three months later than planned, Besson said today.  “There is no particular significance to the decision for a
delay,” he said. “It’s linked to delays in preparing documents
between EDF and the safety authority. There is no halt to the
inquiry into Penly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  