-- 
Germany Has ‘Clear Expectation’ of Investor Help for Greece

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-06-01T11:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/germany-has-clear-expectation-of-investor-help-for-greece-1-.html
Germany  has the “clear expectation”
that private creditors will join in any further financial
support granted to  Greece , Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble’s
chief spokesman said.  Euro-area governments will discuss a report on Greece’s
progress in adhering to the terms of its international bailout
at a meeting in Vienna today, said ministry spokesman, Martin Kotthaus. They may also talk about creditor involvement in
Greece in the event that any additional help is needed, he said.  “If the public sector, including taxpayers, were to agree
to give the Greeks more breathing room, then I think it’s
obvious to have private creditors join such a project,”
Kotthaus said. “I can’t tell you how that looks in detail
because we’re waiting for the questions and answers” from the
Greece inspectors’ report.  The so-called troika of the European Union, the  European
Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  is preparing to
report on Greece’s progress, a precondition for EU leaders to
decide what further steps if any to take to help Greece.  Kotthaus, asked about a report in today’s  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung  that the IMF may not pay out its fifth
tranche of aid to Greece, said the international rescue is a “a
common program.”  “I expect that this can only move forward jointly as
regards the disbursement of further tranches,” he said.
“That’s the plan.”  ‘Principles of Fairness’  Whatever the outcome of the assessment, “it’s self-
evident” that governments can’t be on the hook while private
investors reap the benefit, since involving private investors
adheres “to the basic principles of fairness and justice,”
Kotthaus said.  “It’s important that the private sector doesn’t abandon
its responsibility if the public sector gives more time” for
Greece’s rescue, he said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel , speaking in  Singapore  today, said
that no decisions on the way forward for Greece and the euro
will be taken before the troika reports.  “For Germany, the stability of the euro as a whole, the
monetary system of the euro, is of extraordinary importance,”
she told reporters. “But what and if something needs to be
done, we will only be able to tell once we have the report.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  