-- 
Glencore Barred From EIB Loans on Governance Concern, Zambia Tax

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-06-01T11:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/glencore-barred-from-eib-loans-on-governance-concern-zambia-tax.html
Glencore International Plc, the
world’s largest listed commodity trader, has been barred from
receiving future loans from the  European Investment Bank  because
of corporate governance concerns and a tax dispute in Zambia.  The EIB loaned $50 million to Mopani Copper Mines Plc, a
unit of Barr, Switzerland-based Glencore, in 2005 to help fund
“renovation and modernization” of the Mopani copper smelter in
Zambia, the bank said in a  statement  on its website yesterday.  “However, due to serious concerns about Glencore’s
governance which have been brought to light recently and which
go far beyond the Mopani investment, the President of the EIB
has instructed the services to decline any further financing
request from this company or one of its subsidiaries,” it said.  Glencore is being investigated for possible irregularities
in tax submissions for the 2008 fiscal year, the Zambia Revenue
Authority says. The southern African nation, the largest copper
producer on the continent, hired Grant Thornton Zambia and Econ
Poyry, a Norwegian consulting and engineering company, in
February 2009 to audit mine operators in the country.  “We welcome the EIB taking a close look at Mopani since we
are confident that we will be completely exonerated,”  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Glencore, said in an e-mailed statement.
The company is seeking clarification on the EIB’s comments on
governance concerns going beyond Mopani, he said.  Servicing of the loan for the site has been “excellent”
and the debt is expected to be repaid by 2016, the EIB said,
without elaborating on the concerns other than Mopani.  World’s Biggest  Glencore, which raised $10 billion in London and  Hong Kong 
last month in the world’s biggest initial public offering of
2011, plans to spend about $512 million of the funds to expand
Mopani, the May 4 IPO prospectus says. The Swiss company, which
changed its name from Marc Rich & Co. after management bought
out former fugitive U.S. financier Marc Rich in 1994, ended more
than three decades of operating as a closely held partnership.  Glencore first acquired a stake in Mopani in 2000 and holds
73.1 percent of the producer, while First Quantum Minerals Ltd.
has 16.9 percent. The operation’s annual production capacity is
300,000 metric tons of copper and 2,800 tons of cobalt.  “Mopani is confident that the amount of tax that it has
paid has been correctly calculated and discussions continue with
the Zambian Revenue Authority and all other interested parties
to clarify and resolve these matters whether or not any
assessments are issued,” Glencore said in its prospectus.  “Even if these matters are not resolved satisfactorily as
Mopani expects, the Directors believe this would not have a
material adverse impact on the Glencore group,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 