-- 
Goffer Evidence Is ‘Overwhelming,’ Prosecutor Tells Jurors at End of Trial

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-06-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/goffer-evidence-is-overwhelming-u-s-prosecutor-tells-jurors-in-closing.html
“Devastating” wiretapped telephone
calls in which ex-Galleon Group LLC trader Zvi Goffer is heard
sharing illegal tips make for “overwhelming” evidence against
him, a prosecutor said at the close of the insider-trading case.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe yesterday urged
jurors in  Manhattan  federal court to convict Goffer, his brother
Emanuel and accused accomplice Michael Kimelman. Deliberations
may begin today after the conclusion of closing arguments by
defense attorneys and a prosecutor’s rebuttal.  “You heard the defendant’s own voice,” Tarlowe said,
citing captured calls at the heart of the government’s case.
There are “plenty of devastating calls,” he said.  The three defendants, who co-founded Incremental Capital
LLC after Zvi Goffer was fired from Galleon, are accused of
trading on illegal tips that came from attorneys then working at
the law firm Ropes & Gray LLP. The tips were about transactions
involving 3Com Corp. and other stocks, according to prosecutors.  A defense lawyer for  Zvi Goffer , William Barzee, told the
jury in his closing that the government twisted “innocent
facts” to support its case.  Goffer’s ex-boss,  Raj Rajaratnam , was found guilty May 11
of insider trading. He faces as long as 19 1/2 years in prison
when he’s sentenced on July 29.  Wiretap Evidence  Tarlowe told jurors that Goffer passed inside information
to another Galleon trader, Craig Drimal, to impress Rajaratnam
and win a job at Galleon.  The prosecutor took jurors through wiretaps that he said
provided overwhelming evidence of guilt. In one from Jan. 2,
2008, Zvi Goffer is heard calling himself “responsible for a
honeymoon and a kitchen” in a conversation with Jason Goldfarb,
a  Brooklyn , New York, lawyer who passed tips from two Ropes &
Gray attorneys.  Goffer was referring to $25,000 that he paid in bribes to
the two Ropes and Gray lawyers, which they used to pay for a
honeymoon and renovated kitchen, Tarlowe said, citing testimony
from one of the attorneys, Brien Santarlas.  Goldfarb, Drimal and Santarlas pleaded guilty in the case,
as did the other Ropes & Gray lawyer, Arthur Cutillo.  Prosecutors lack intercepted conversations of Emanuel
Goffer and Kimelman openly discussing inside tips.  Guilty Knowledge  They introduced recordings of Zvi Goffer referring in their
presence to secret sources of leaks and to phony research that
might be used to fool regulators about why trades were made,
Tarlowe said. That showed that Emanuel Goffer and Kimelman knew
their trades were illegal, the prosecutor said.  “Why do you conceal what you’re doing?” Tarlowe asked.
“Because you know what you’re doing is wrong.”  Tarlowe urged the jury to consider why the three men used
prepaid phones that they subsequently destroyed, why Zvi Goffer
spoke on recordings about creating what he called a
“divergence” that would conceal the reason for trades, why Zvi
Goffer referred on recordings to “our guy,” and why he and
Kimelman spoke often about the legal documents that prosecutors
say were used in deals that Ropes & Gray worked on.  “Think about why they were doing things like that,” he
said.  Twisting Words  Barzee, Zvi Goffer’s lawyer, accused the government of
twisting comments his client made on a few of the thousands of
recordings, texts and e-mails that prosecutors reviewed, and
then coming up with a “tortured” explanation of how they prove
Zvi Goffer’s guilt.  In one conversation, prosecutors claim that a comment Zvi
Goffer makes about whether news is “public” is proof that he
was looking for inside information, Barzee said.  “They take absolutely innocent facts,” Barzee said. “And
they twist it to fit their story.”  Another attorney for Zvi Goffer, David Pettus, said his
client was bluffing when he claimed to have inside tips.  “He wanted David Slaine’s money,” Pettus said. Slaine, a
successful trader, taped conversations with Zvi Goffer after
agreeing to plead guilty and cooperate with prosecutors probing
 insider trading . “He said some really stupid things.”  Michael Ross, the lawyer for Emanuel Goffer, told jurors
that his client used disposable phones so his trading strategies
wouldn’t be stolen by others on  Wall Street , an argument that
Tarlowe earlier said was “absurd.”  Aided Prosecutors  Ross also reminded jurors that trader Franz Tudor worked
with Emanuel Goffer for a year while secretly aiding prosecutors
and didn’t turn up evidence that incriminated him.  The Goffer and Rajaratnam cases are part of a U.S.
crackdown on insider trading. In the same courthouse, Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with so-called expert networking firm
Primary Global Research LLC, went on trial yesterday for helping
company employees leak stock tips to hedge funds.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 