-- 
Goldman ‘Too Big’ to Face Prosecution Over Mortgage Securities, Hintz Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-01T14:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/goldman-too-big-to-face-prosecution-over-mortgage-securities-hintz-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won’t face
criminal prosecution related to sales of mortgage-linked
securities because such a move could threaten the U.S. financial
system, according to Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co.  The  U.S. Department of Justice , which is reviewing a Senate
subcommittee report that alleged Goldman Sachs misled clients
before the financial crisis, will avoid jeopardizing the fifth-
largest  U.S. bank  by assets because it’s viewed as “too big to
fail,” Hintz wrote in note to clients today.  “If an alleged violation is identified during a Goldman
investigation, we expect a reasoned response from the  Justice
Department ,” Hintz wrote. “In a worst case environment, we
would expect a ‘too big to fail’ bank such as Goldman to be
offered a deferred-prosecution agreement, pay a significant fine
and submit to a federal monitor in lieu of a criminal charge.”  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on Hintz’s note.  Laura Sweeney , a
spokeswoman for the Justice Department in  Washington , didn’t
immediately reply to requests for comment.  Under a deferred-prosecution agreement, the U.S. files
charges against a company and agrees to dismiss them after a
certain period, typically if the company pays a fine or penalty
and improves its governance or other practices. In October, the
Justice Department dismissed a conspiracy case against  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank, after the expiration of an 18-month
deferred prosecution agreement with the Zurich-based bank.  Litigation Risk ‘Manageable’  Hintz, ranked the No. 1 analyst covering brokerage firms in
a survey by Institutional Investor last year, said that the
Justice Department’s approach to criminal charges against
companies has changed since accounting firm Arthur Andersen
LLP’s business collapsed following a felony charge.  A 2003 Justice Department policy  document  “stated that
prosecutors can reward cooperation by offering a negotiated
settlement to a targeted company that can range from immunity
from criminal indictment to a deferred prosecution agreement,”
Hintz wrote. “Ultimately, the targeted company is treated not
as a hardened criminal but as the equivalent of a juvenile
offender that can be reformed.”  Goldman Sachs’s potential civil litigation risk related to
sales of mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt
obligations “is manageable,” Hintz wrote, because the statute
of limitations for many of the claims has already passed.  Franchise Will ‘Suffer’  Goldman Sachs’s most senior employees, known as partners,
have every incentive to put the firm’s legal and political
problems behind them, Hintz said.  He kept his “outperform” rating on Goldman Sachs. The
stock fell $2.32, or 1.6 percent, to $138.41 at 9:55 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Goldman Sachs has
declined 16 percent this year through yesterday.  “As politicians continue to criticize the firm and the
public scrutiny persists, we believe that Goldman’s clients will
begin to rethink their relationship with the firm and the
franchise will ultimately suffer,” he wrote. “With
approximately 17 percent of the ownership in the hands of
current and former partners, this control group has ample
motivation to make amends with politicians and the public in
order to reduce the threat to its franchise.”  In July, Goldman Sachs agreed to pay $550 million to settle
a civil fraud suit by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission that alleged the firm misled clients about a
mortgage-linked investment. The settlement, in which the company
also admitted to making a “mistake,” was agreed to three
months after the firm’s statement that the allegations “are
completely unfounded in law and fact and we will vigorously
contest them and defend the firm and its reputation.”  Fabrice P. Tourre, the only Goldman Sachs employee who was
also sued by the SEC in that case, hasn’t settled that suit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 