-- 
Want Creative Workers? Loosen the Reins, Boss: Daniel Goleman

-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l e m a n
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/goleman-want-creative-workers-loosen-the-reins-boss.html
Philip Glass, the contemporary
composer, works on his new compositions only between 11 a.m. and
3 p.m. That’s the time, he says, when his creative ideas come to
him. When filmmaker  George Lucas  needs to write or edit a
script, he sequesters himself in a small cottage behind his
house where he gets no calls or visitors.  A lesson in managing creativity can be found in the work
discipline of such inventive geniuses: A protected bubble in
time and space fosters the imaginative spirit.  That notion challenges some prevailing wisdom --
particularly the assumption that upping the pressure on workers
will squeeze more innovative thinking out of them. Many managers
assume that just calling people into a high-demand brainstorming
session will get everyone’s best ideas out on the table.  That is dead wrong, according to new research on the
creative process. In a  knowledge economy , where competitive
advantage comes from leveraging the most innovative ideas and
executing them well, leaders at every level would do well to
reflect on these findings.  In a study led by  Teresa Amabile , a director of research at
the  Harvard Business School , researchers asked more than 1,000
knowledge workers -- members of research-and-development,
marketing and information-technology teams -- to keep daily
diaries. This data trove revealed a disconnect between how
managers think they can best support creative efforts, and how
those who are actually making the efforts assess what helps them
most.  Small Wins Count  When the researchers asked managers to name the most
effective ways they could encourage creativity, the most
frequent response was praising people for good work. When they
asked the workers themselves, the No. 1 carrot turned out to be
providing ongoing managerial support of their daily progress.
Only 5 percent of managers got this right. Daily progress toward
a large goal, even small wins, primes positive moods and
catalyzes creativity, the Harvard study found.  Members of creative project teams also described the most
common ways managers unwittingly undermine creative work. These
ranged from dismissing an idea out of hand to ignoring
suggestions to torpedoing an employee’s creative project, for
instance through an abrupt reassignment or a cavalier change of
mind. The researchers advised managers to set clear goals and
then let people accomplish them in their own ways.  Aha Moment   The Harvard researchers also recommended that supervisors
protect workers’ time and resources so they can have periods of
sustained focus on their projects. This advice -- to manage
staff time well -- is supported by new brain research that
reveals what happens at the moment of Aha! Joy Bhattacharya at
the University of London has found that in the moments just
before a creative insight, the mind is typically relaxed and
open to new ideas, as indicated by an alpha brain wave.  As the Aha! approaches, there’s an abrupt shift marked by
high gamma-wave activity. This indicates that far-flung neural
circuits are connecting in a new network. A third of a second
after the peak of this activity, a novel idea floats into the
mind.  This finding indicates that creative insights can’t be
concocted on demand; they need to ripen. The first step in the
creative process typically involves immersion in the problem and
current thinking, and then gathering any information that might
be relevant. But in the next stage, intense effort should give
way to letting what is known as the "cognitive unconscious" work
on the problem by making novel connections.  Constant distractions interrupt the mental space where
creative insights simmer. That’s why so many Aha! moments come
in the relaxed space of downtime -- when we’re doing something
other than tensing to be creative.  Lessons From Google  Anyone whose work involves strategic thinking can learn
something from the findings. The usual method for devising a
competitive strategy is to come up with an idea and then analyze
its value. The trouble is, no one tells you how to come up with
that idea in the first place.  Sergey Brin  and  Larry Page , who created the innovative
search formula that became the basis of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , know
something about that process. They have instituted Google’s
famous once-a-week day for employees to work exclusively on
their pet creative projects. Long before Google existed, 3M set
aside 15 percent of employee time for the same thing.  Another trendsetter was Xerox PARC, the legendary Silicon
Valley research center known for insulating its creative staff
from competitive pressures and giving them time to reflect,
explore and collaborate. Xerox PARC is the birthplace of a
plethora of computer-age basics including laser printing and the
graphical user interface that gave us windows and icons.  In a day when the use of innovative ideas provides a
competitive edge, it’s good to understand how squeezing time and
people can unwittingly squelch creativity, hurting an
organization’s future. The best advice for someone who manages
innovative thinkers is to nurture the conditions where creative
ideas can flow most freely.  (Daniel Goleman is an author, most recently, of " The Brain
and Emotional Intelligence: New Insights ." The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Daniel Goleman at  contact@danielgoleman.info   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Beyer at 
 lbeyer3@bloomberg.net  