-- 
Google, Publishers Seek More Time to Reach Book-Scan Accord

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-06-02T00:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/google-publishers-discussing-options-for-book-scan-accord-lawyer-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and a group of publishers
and authors told a federal judge they are discussing options
toward a possible settlement of a book-scanning lawsuit against
Google and asked for 60 days to continue talks.  In March, U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin in  New York 
rejected a proposed $125 million settlement over the largest
Web-search provider’s plan to create the world’s biggest digital
library, saying the deal would be unfair to authors.  “Since Judge Chin’s rejection of the negotiated settlement
agreement on March 22, the parties have held conversations to
determine if a revised agreement is possible that would meet the
court’s objections,” Tom Allen, the Association of American
Publishers Inc.’s president, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “Those conversations are ongoing and if not successful,
the litigation will resume in order to protect the intellectual
property rights of authors and publishers.”  In court today, Chin set a hearing for July 19.  “We have been working closely with the authors and
publishers to explore a number of options in response to the
court’s decision,” Megan Lamb, a Google spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed statement. “Regardless of the outcome, we’ll continue
to make the world’s books discoverable online through  Google
Books  and Google eBooks.”  In rejecting the original settlement, Chin said it “would
grant Google significant rights to exploit entire books, without
permission of copyright owners.”  The proposed accord “would give Google a significant
advantage over competitors, rewarding it for engaging in
wholesale copying of copyrighted works without permission, while
releasing claims well beyond those presented in the case,” he
said.  ‘Go Too Far’  The judge also said in March that the expansive nature of
the original settlement, which called for copyright owners to
opt out or be automatically included, “would simply go too
far.” He suggested the settlement would have a better chance at
approval were it revised to cover only those who opt into the
agreement.  Chin, who now sits on the U.S. Court of Appeals, was a
district-court judge when the case first came before him.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and the nations
of Germany and  France  were among objectors who said the
agreement would give Google unfair control over digitized works,
while some author groups said they would lose control of their
copyrights.  Google was sued in 2005 by authors and publishers who said
the company was infringing their copyrights on a massive scale
by digitizing books and allowing “snippets” of them to be seen
online.  Out-of-Print  The rejected agreement focused on out-of-print books still
protected by U.S. copyright law. Google struck agreements with
publishers to allow limited access to books that are still
commercially available, and the site has links to let consumers
buy the books from various sources, including Amazon.com and
Barnes & Noble.  The settlement would have given Google immunity from
copyright laws, allowing the company to distribute millions of
books on the Internet in exchange for sharing revenue it
generates.  The U.S.  Justice Department  also objected to the earlier
accord, saying the agreement might have given  Mountain View ,
California-based Google an anticompetitive advantage.  The earlier settlement was reached with the  Authors Guild ,
 Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin and Education units, McGraw-Hill Cos.,
 John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A)  and  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster
subsidiary.  The case is Authors Guild v. Google Inc., 05-CV-8136, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
4876 or  djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  