-- 
Google Says It Uncovered Attempt to Steal Users’ Gmail Account Passwords

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-06-02T13:52:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/google-says-it-uncovered-attempt-to-steal-users-gmail-account-passwords.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, said hackers tried to steal
passwords from hundreds of Gmail users, targeting the accounts
of government officials in the U.S. and  Asia .  The campaign, which appears to have originated in Jinan,
China, probably used a so-called phishing scam to collect
passwords with the goal of monitoring e-mail content, Eric
Grosse, engineering director on the Google Security Team, said
in a blog post. The company said it detected and disrupted the
campaign, secured users’ accounts and notified authorities.  “We believe that being open about these security issues
helps users better protect their information online,” Grosse
said on the  blog .  The campaign against Gmail users comes amid growing
concern about network security, prompted by recent cyber attacks
against Sony Corp. and Lockheed Martin Corp. Google said last
year it was the victim of attacks against its systems that
originated in  China  and focused on human-rights activists’
accounts. Google said it was no longer willing to censor search
results in China, and then started redirecting users there to
its Hong Kong service.  “A lot of this goes on internationally,” said Christopher McNally, a fellow and political economist at the East-West
Center in Honolulu. “In most situations, it’s certain rogue
organizations or even individuals that are doing it for
profit.”  Tricking Users  In the recent case, Google’s internal systems weren’t
affected, and the attempts didn’t involve a security problem
with Gmail, Grosse said.  Phishing scams typically involve tricking users into
sharing passwords that can then be used to obtain information.
While most of these kinds of attacks aren’t very targeted, these
“hijackings” went after senior U.S. government officials,
Chinese political activists, officials in several Asian
countries, military personnel and journalists.  Users should protect themselves by adopting such safeguards
as multistep verifications for their accounts, strong passwords
and checking for suspicious forwarding addresses, Grosse said.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , rose 59 cents
to $526.19 at 9:51 a.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The shares declined 12 percent this year before today.  In January 2010, Google said it was targeted by “highly
sophisticated” attacks from inside China aimed at obtaining
proprietary information, as well as personal data belonging to
human-rights activists who use the Gmail service. In March this
year, the U.S. company accused the Chinese government of
blocking Gmail.  Google didn’t say who was responsible for the latest cyber
attacks.  Blaming China for the hacking of Google’s customer accounts
is “unacceptable,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said.
The government “disapproves” of hacking activities, and
punishes them, he said.  Any suggestions that the Chinese government is behind the
hackings at Google are “a fabrication” and have “an ulterior
motive,” Hong said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  