-- 
Ramsay’s Revenue Declines as Diners Stay Away From Claridge’s

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-06-01T11:58:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/gordon-ramsay-s-annual-revenue-declines-diners-stay-away-from-claridge-s.html
Gordon Ramsay  Holdings Ltd., the
company that operates the chef’s restaurants and bars, said
profit jumped by 182 percent last year after it cut costs.  Net income in the period ended Aug. 31 rose to 1.46 million
pounds ($2.4 million) from 515,373 a year earlier. Revenue at
continuing operations slumped 19 percent as diners shunned
Gordon Ramsay at Claridge’s and spent less at Maze. Total sales
fell 13 percent to 27 million pounds as Boxwood Cafe closed.  Ramsay’s accounts, published by  Companies House  today, are
for the last full year under Chris Hutcheson, the chef’s father-
in-law, who was dismissed on Oct. 16. Other senior managers
followed him out the door. Gordon Ramsay Holdings has since
acquired Petrus restaurant from Hutcheson.  “Significant legal and professional costs have been and
are likely to be incurred in the coming year to resolve the many
issues that have subsequently arisen,” the company said. “The
group is expected to produce a robust trading performance in the
coming year that will be aided by the acquisition of Petrus.”  Restaurant Gordon Ramsay, the flagship in Chelsea, saw an
increase in average spending by customers during the year and
achieved budgeted profit margins, the company said.  The number of diners at Gordon Ramsay at Claridge’s, which
lost its Michelin star in January 2010, dropped 6.3 percent.
Maze and Maze Grill attracted 5 percent more diners but they
spent less, resulting in a drop in revenue. Sales also declined
at the Narrow, where cost-cutting led to an increase in profit.  Interest-Free Loans  “Gordon Ramsay continues to actively support the
development of the company and its subsidiaries and has provided
unsecured interest-free loans to the company of some 7.4 million
pounds as of Aug. 31, 2010,” the statement said.  Separate accounts are scheduled to be published later today
for Gordon Ramsay Holdings International, the company that
groups newer businesses. GRH and GRHI were consolidated in
September 2010 and the group said if the accounts for the year
that ended Aug. 31 were consolidated, they would show pretax
profit on ordinary activities of 200,000 pounds, compared with a
loss of 7.7 million pounds for the same period in 2009.  “Despite the continued challenging conditions for the
hospitality industry, the group has reported a substantial
turnaround for consolidated profits before tax,” a spokeswoman
said in an e-mailed release. “The economic climate remains
uncertain but the group’s performance for the coming year is
robust and meeting expectations.”  All limited companies in  England ,  Wales ,  Northern Ireland 
and  Scotland  are registered at  Companies House , an executive
agency of the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 