-- 
Gores Group Is Said to Seek at Least Half of Bankrupt Borders Group Stores

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-06-02T16:17:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/gores-group-said-to-make-bid-for-at-least-half-of-bankrupt-borders-stores.html
Gores Group LLC, the Los Angeles-
based private-equity firm, is bidding for at least half of
bankrupt  Borders Group Inc. (BGP) ’s stores, a person familiar with the
matter said. The bookstore chain has multiple parties interested
in buying all or some of the company, a lawyer said.  “The sale process has become significantly more robust,”
said Andrew K. Glenn, a lawyer for Borders, in  Manhattan  court
today. He said he couldn’t discuss details of the offers. The
company hopes to complete a sale in two to four weeks, he said.  The person who said Gores Group is bidding didn’t want to
be identified because the talks aren’t public. Frank Stefanik, a
spokesman for Gores Group, declined to comment.  “Gores is a deep value buyer even for a distressed fund;
given the increasing risk of potential liquidation, they
probably see an opportunity to buy a core of relatively
profitable stores cheap enough to take a flyer on Borders,”
said Mohsin Meghji, founder and managing director of Loughlin
Meghji + Co., a management consulting firm based in  New York .  Borders, based in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , was founded 40 years
ago as a single used bookstore. The company, the second-largest
book chain after  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , had 642 stores in February
when it filed for court protection and, after closing 237 of
them, has 405 still operating.  Period of Control  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in Manhattan granted
Borders’s request to extend its period of control over its
reorganization by four months, giving it until Oct. 14 to file a
Chapter 11 plan. Borders has asked to be given until Dec. 13 to
win creditor support for that plan. A committee of creditors had
asked the judge to end the bankrupt bookstore’s control.  Bruce Buechler, a lawyer for a committee of creditors, said
in court today that creditors would like to see a sale, but
haven’t been able to get enough information about how Borders
intends to exit Chapter 11.  “I don’t even know if there is a plan of reorganization,
or a plan of liquidation that would be filed after a sale,” he
said.  Starbucks Agreement  Separately, Judge Glenn said he will approve Borders’
request to end a licensing agreement with  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  unit
 Seattle ’s Best Coffee LLC. Borders’ motion to reject the
agreement will be changed to deal with some of Seattle’s Best’s
objections. Seattle’s Best had cafes in 225 of Borders’ stores
that have closed in bankruptcy, according to a regulatory filing
from Starbucks for its quarter ended April 3.  Borders posted an operating loss of $24.3 million in March,
according to court papers. Before seeking protection, Borders
had posted sales declines for five straight years, from a peak
of more than $4 billion in 2006.  The retailer is funding operations while in Chapter 11 with
a $505 million debtor-in-possession loan, and has yet to file an
outline of how it intends to reorganize. Annual sales may drop
to $1.5 billion, less than half what the chain generated two
years ago, according to court papers.  The book chain, which once operated more than 1,000 stores,
lost business as customers switched to e-readers such as
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle, introduced in 2007. Barnes & Noble
invested in its own Nook device to attract customers.  Assets and Liabilities  Borders listed assets of $1.275 billion and liabilities
totaling $1.293 billion. Borders is 31 percent owned by Pershing
Square Capital Management LP and 15.4 percent by LeBow Gamma LP.  Mary Davis , a spokeswoman for Borders, didn’t immediately
return calls to her office and cell phone yesterday seeking
comment on the bid by Gores.  Alec Gores, who founded the private-equity firm in 1987,
last year bought Alliance Entertainment with Platinum Equity
LLC, the company founded by his brother, Tom. The Gores Group
buys controlling interests in businesses, primarily in
telecommunications and technology, according to its Web site.  The bid by Gores Group for Borders was reported earlier
yesterday by the Wall Street Journal.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  