-- 
Greece Needs Brady Bond-Style Aid, Merkel Adviser Bofinger Says

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-06-01T09:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/greece-needs-brady-bond-style-aid-merkel-adviser-bofinger-says.html
Greece ’s debt problems can be solved
by a Brady bond-style rescue operation in which Greek  government
bonds  are swapped against debt issued jointly by euro-region
members, said German government adviser Peter Bofinger.  Joint euro-region bonds would be helpful for Greece because
they would carry a very low interest rate and they would be good
for banks because lenders would receive AAA-rated bonds in
exchange for lower-rated paper, he said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Munich today.  “Sooner or later we have to come to the euro bonds,”
Bofinger said. “There is definitely no alternative to the
instrument and it would really improve the situation
considerably.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who chairs
meetings of euro-region finance ministers, said on May 12 that
joint euro-area bond issuance is a “reasonable” proposition
whose time will come. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
rejected the idea as recently as May 18.  Brady bonds, named after then U.S. Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady, enabled 17 countries in  Latin America ,  Africa ,
 Asia  and Eastern Europe to swap bad loans for new debt starting
in 1989, some of which was backed by zero-coupon U.S.
Treasuries.  While debt restructuring is “off the table” because of
the domino effect on European markets, alternatives such as a
Vienna Initiative program, which arrested contagion in Eastern
Europe, are being considered, European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York .  The Vienna-style plan would aim to persuade creditors to
buy new bonds from the Greek government when existing ones
mature.  ‘Political Will’  “My approach would be more a kind of a Brady-bond approach
that one offers an exchange of Greek bonds against EU bonds,”
said Bofinger. Still,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and other EU
politicians “lack the political will for a really bold solution
that is required,” he said.  Saddled with  Europe ’s heaviest debt load, Greece is seeking
additional loans after last year’s 110 billion-euro ($158
billion) European-led package was insufficient to plug its
fiscal hole.  European Central Bank officials have said the
“reprofiling” of Greek debt that’s also being considered by
Rehn is tantamount to default and would prompt the Frankfurt-
based central bank to refuse to accept Greek bonds as collateral
in their emergency funding operations, wiping out the capital of
the Greek banking system.  “I think the ECB might have to reconsider its position
because if we just do nothing, if we just let the debt pile up,
the risk could be that more and more debt is piling up in the
ECB’s balance sheet because, more or less, the ECB is the lender
of last resort,” said Bofinger.  The EU needs to find “comprehensive approaches” to deal
with the crisis, Bofinger said. The current wait-and-see
approach in a bid to buy time “will not succeed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  