-- 
Greek Opposition Agrees Need to Cut Deficits, Mitarachi Says

-- B y   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-01T10:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/greek-opposition-agrees-need-to-cut-deficits-mitarachi-says-1-.html
  New Democracy , the biggest Greek
opposition party, agrees on the need to cut deficits and on the
broad aims of  Greece ’s European Union-led bailout, according to
Notis Mitarachi, the party’s alternate head of economic policy.  “There is in no way a desire to obstruct implementation of
the program,” Mitarachi said in an interview on Bloomberg TV’s
The Pulse today. “We clearly agree with the need to reduce the
 budget deficit . But we argue that the current policy mix is not
capable of achieving this objective and the efficiency of the
program is low.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  plans to press ahead
with new austerity measures after failing to win the backing of
the main opposition parties last week. EU officials have called
for consensus on a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package of
additional budget measures, as well as stepped-up asset sales
and real-estate development.  Mitarachi said lower taxes, structural changes, enhancing
liquidity and tax amnesty are key elements of  New Democracy ’s
plan to “restart” the economy.  In a speech to New Democracy legislators on May 30, Antonis Samaras, the party’s leader, urged renegotiation of the terms
agreed a year ago with the EU and the  International Monetary
Fund  for a 110 billion-euro bailout.  “To be fair, it is the role of governments to govern and
of the opposition to offer constructive criticism,” Mitarakis
said. “We have disagreed and still disagree with a lot of the
elements of the program but in no way have we obstructed its
implementation and we don’t plan to do so.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  