-- 
Greece Default Risk Raised to 50% at Moody’s as EU Readies Second Bailout

-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 
2011-06-02T10:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/greece-s-second-rescue-is-readied-by-eu-urging-investors-to-buy-more-debt.html
Greece ’s risk of default was raised
to 50 percent by Moody’s Investors Service as European officials
rushed to put together the second bailout plan in two years to
stave off renewed financial turmoil in the region.  Moody’s downgraded Greece to Caa1 from B1, putting it on a
par with Cuba, according to a report published late yesterday.
The move came after policy makers considered asking investors to
reinvest in new Greek debt when existing bonds mature.  Twelve years after the currency was started, European
leaders are trying to prevent the euro area’s first sovereign
default. A 110 billion-euro ($158 billion) rescue in 2010 failed
to prevent an investor exodus from Greece, and the country now
faces a funding gap of 30 billion euros of bonds next year with
its 10-year borrowing cost above 16 percent.  “Taken together, these risks imply at least an even chance
of default over the rating horizon,” Moody’s said in a
statement. “Over five-year investment horizons, around 50
percent of Caa1-rated sovereigns, non-financial corporate and
financial institutions have consistently met their debt-service
requirements. Around 50 percent have defaulted.”  Vincent Truglia, managing director of global economic
research for Granite Springs Asset Management LLC in  New York ,
says the Caa1 rating “causes problems for certain investors”
that are not allowed to hold such low-rated debt. Truglia, a
former head of Moody’s sovereign risk unit, said the ratings
move could affect the way investors view large European banks
that hold Greek debt.  Bonds Decline  “We’re talking about an extraordinarily low rating,” he
said in a telephone interview.  Greek 10-year government bonds fell, pushing the yield up
12 basis points to 16.27 percent. Irish and Spanish bonds also
declined. The Greek five-year swaps imply a 72 percent
probability it will default within that time, according to a
standard pricing model used by traders. The calculation assumes
investors would recover 40 percent on the underlying bonds if
there were a default.  European stocks fell, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
slipping 0.7 percent to 276.48 as of 11:01 a.m. in  London .  The Moody’s announcement comes as policy makers try to
hammer out a solution for Greece’s woes before a summit of
European Union leaders on June 23-24. The country’s additional
needs may be known as early as today, as European and
International Monetary Fund officials complete work on an
assessment of its public accounts. Euro-region finance ministers
may meet as early as next week.  Greek Reaction  Greece said the Moody’s downgrade “overlooks” its
commitment to meeting its 2011 fiscal target as well as an
“accelerated” state asset-sales program. Greece has already
achieved “significant fiscal targets” and will submit to
parliament its mid-term fiscal plan in the next few days, the
government said in an e-mailed statement.  Win Thin, global head of emerging markets currency strategy
for Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, played down the
impact of Moody’s ratings change. “I don’t think people really
care about the rating that much now,” he said. “I don’t want
to make too much out of it.”  ‘Down the Road’  Thin said the EU and IMF would “do everything they can to
keep Greece from doing one of two things: default or leave the
 euro zone .” He said he expects an eventual restructuring of
Greek debt, but only “down the road” when the European banks
are better able to withstand any losses.  European policy makers have in recent days narrowed in on
bond rollovers as a pillar of any new aid package. The step
would be favored by the  European Central Bank , according to two
officials familiar with the situation, because it would skirt
the risk of any agreement being classified as a default.
Investors may be given preferred status, higher coupon payments
or collateral, said two other EU officials familiar with the
situation.  “The ECB is saying that they would eventually favor a
Greek rollover plan, which by that they mean that they will ask
banks to keep the exposure to the country’s banks constant,”
said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London. “It would give some breathing space.”  For months, a maturity extension was taboo, as Europe
counted on a mix of budget cuts and official loans to put the
country’s finances on track and stop the debt crisis at its
source.  Greece has since given up plans to go back to bond markets,
offering deeper deficit cuts and the sale of state assets in
exchange for follow-up loans to prevent a default.  Merkel Stance  Greece’s fate hinges on the stance taken by  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  of  Germany , the country that designed the euro in
its image. As  Europe ’s largest economy, Germany is the biggest
underwriter of bailouts.  “Moody’s does not believe that a restructuring of Greece’s
debt is inevitable,” the company said. A default “would very
likely be highly destabilizing. These factors represent an
incentive for Greece’s supporters to continue to support the
country, at least for a few more years.”  Moody’s said that Greece may nevertheless find it difficult
to impose further austerity measures upon voters. European calls
for cuts have sparked political warfare, with opposition parties
rejecting Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s proposals on May
27. The biggest opposition party,  New Democracy , objects to the
“policy mix” and not to the principle of saving money, said
Notis Mitarachi, the party’s alternate head of economic policy.  Policy Risk  “Greece is running out of options,” Moody’s said, and
“heightened implementation risk inherent in any new program
also increases the probability of a default event.” Further
cuts are also likely to hurt growth, it said.  Greece’s debt is likely to mushroom to 157.7 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011, the highest in euro history, the
European Commission said May 13. It predicted a 3.5 percent
economic contraction, shedding doubts on whether Greece will
generate the  tax revenue  to pay off its debts.  Europe’s financial leaders need to hammer out a revised
Greek package by the end of June, in time to persuade the IMF to
pay out its share of the next tranche of loans.  The Washington-based lender provided 30 billion euros of
Greece’s original loans, along with a third of the loans since
granted to Ireland and  Portugal  as the spreading crisis
threatened the integrity of the euro.  European financial officials are also considering so-called
negative incentives such as cutting off old Greek bonds from
eligibility for use as collateral with the ECB while granting
that privilege to new bonds, the people familiar with the
situation said.  Policy makers’ efforts echo 2009’s so-called Vienna
Initiative that encourage western European banks to continue
funding their units in eastern Europe, the people said.  Greek sovereign debt has been the world’s most expensive to
insure since April, when it surpassed  Venezuela . Credit-default
swaps on Greece now cost 1,471 basis points, exceeding
Venezuela’s by about 300 basis points and leading  Pakistan , the
next most expensive, by almost 600.  Credit swaps on Portugal and Ireland, which rose to records
today, now round out the five most expensive sovereigns after
overtaking  Argentina  in April. A basis point on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to $1,000 a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  