-- 
Greek Aid Package Said to Include Incentives Without Triggering Downgrade

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-06-01T12:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/greek-aid-package-said-to-include-incentives-without-triggering-downgrade.html
European officials preparing  Greece ’s
second bailout in two years may offer bondholders incentives to
roll over maturing debt without triggering a credit-rating
downgrade that would roil Europe’s banking system, two people
with knowledge of the talks said.  Investors may be given preferred status, higher coupon
payments or collateral as inducements to buy bonds replacing
Greek debt maturing between 2012 and 2014, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are in progress.  European leaders are trying to prevent the euro area’s
first sovereign default. Last year’s 110 billion-euro ($159
billion) rescue failed to prevent an investor exodus from
Greece, saddled with Europe’s highest debt load amid a three-
year economic slump. The upgraded package would share costs with
investors while skirting a technical default, the people said.  “We are also examining the feasibility of voluntarily
rescheduling, which would not create a  credit event ,” European
Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said in an
interview yesterday in  New York . “Debt restructuring is not on
the table, it’s not in the cards, it will not be part of our
agenda.”  For months, a maturity extension was taboo, as Europe
counted on a mix of budget cuts and official loans to put the
country’s finances on track and stop the debt crisis at its
source.  Greek Offer  Greece has since given up plans to go back to bond markets
for funding in 2012, offering deeper deficit cuts and the sale
of state assets in exchange for follow-up loans to prevent a
default.  The country’s additional needs may be known tonight or
tomorrow, as European and International Monetary Fund officials
complete work on an assessment of Greece’s public accounts.  Greece’s fate hinges on the stance taken by  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  of  Germany , the country that designed the euro in
its image and as Europe’s largest economy is the biggest
underwriter of bailouts.  Germany has a “clear expectation” that private creditors
will bear some costs of Greece’s follow-up package, Finance
Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said in Berlin today.  Greece’s debt is likely to mushroom to 157.7 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011, the highest in euro history, the
European Commission said May 13. It predicted a 3.5 percent
economic contraction, shedding doubts whether Greece will
generate the  tax revenue  to pay off its debts.  Papandreou Opposition  European calls for austerity have sparked political warfare
in Greece, with opposition parties rejecting Prime Minister
 George Papandreou ’s proposals on May 27. The biggest opposition
party,  New Democracy , objects to the “policy mix” and not to
the principle of saving money, said Notis Mitarachi, the party’s
alternate head of economic policy.  “There is in no way a desire to obstruct implementation of
the program,” Mitarachi told Bloomberg Television today. “We
clearly agree with the need to reduce the  budget deficit .”  Greek 10-year bonds trade at less than 55 cents on the
euro, a sign of investors’ diminishing expectations of being
repaid. Ten-year Greek bonds fell today, pushing the yield up 16
basis points to 16.2 percent at 122:10 p.m. in  London .  Europe’s central bankers are caught in the middle of the
debate. They have warned that any form of debt restructuring
would shatter the Greek banking system, though they are unable
on their own to dictate how the euro region’s 17 governments get
out of the crisis.  ECB Position  The  European Central Bank  “might have to reconsider” its
opposition to restructuring, Peter Bofinger, a member of
Merkel’s council of economic advisers, told Bloomberg Television
from Munich today. A restructuring of Greek debt carries risks
“but is worth it,” he said.  Europe ’s financial leaders need to hammer out a revised
Greek package by the end of June, in time to persuade the IMF to
pay out its share of the next tranche of loans.  The Washington-based lender provided 30 billion euros of
Greece’s original loans, along with a third of the loans since
granted to Ireland and  Portugal  as the spreading crisis
threatened the integrity of the euro.  Senior aides to European finance ministers are discussing
elements of the package in Vienna today. The ministers
themselves may meet as early as next week, with final decisions
due at a summit of government leaders on June 23-24.  So-called negative incentives are also under consideration,
such as cutting off old Greek bonds from eligibility for use as
collateral with the ECB while granting that privilege to new
bonds, the people said.  Policy makers’ efforts echo 2009’s so-called Vienna
Initiative that leaned on creditors in eastern Europe to roll
over expiring bonds, the people said.  European politicians have given sometimes conflicting
definitions of options such as “restructuring,”
“reprofiling,” “soft restructuring” and “default.” French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said May 27 that if “restructuring”
means a failure to pay off debt, “then this word won’t be part
of the French vocabulary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  