-- 
Gross Says Treasury Investors Face Similar Fate as Boiling Frog

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-06-01T14:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/gross-says-treasury-yields-fail-to-compensate-investors-for-inflation-risk.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said investors in U.S. Treasuries are being lulled
into a false sense of security by positive returns this year
because yields aren’t high enough relative to inflation.  Gross, who oversees the world’s biggest bond fund, said
bond investors face a similar fate as a frog that remains in a
pot of water while the temperature is gradually increased until
the amphibian is cooked. Inflation erodes the value of the fixed
payments of bonds over time.  “Much of the Treasury yield curve now rests in negative
territory when compared with expected future inflation, and that
should send our bond investors into a hopping funk,” Gross
wrote in his monthly investment commentary today on  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco’s website. “Prices are already
nearing the boiling point.”  Treasuries have returned 2.6 percent this year as Gross
reduced government and related debt in his $243 billion Total
Return Fund to minus 4 percent of assets as of April 30. Gross
said governments such as the U.S. are intentionally keeping
 interest rates  lower than they should be to help reduce record
debt levels. The fund has returned 0.56 percent in the past
month, lagging behind the performance of 77 percent of its
competitors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Bond yields at least have a mathematical zero bound below
which they cannot journey for more than a few nanoseconds,”
Gross wrote. “ Monetary policy  in developed countries has been
lowering the temperature and absolute level of yields for the
past 2 1/2 years post  Lehman Brothers .”  Real Yield  The  Federal Reserve  has kept its target rate at a record
low range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to help
stimulate growth after the worst recession since the Great
Depression.  Yields on 10-year notes fell below 3 percent today for the
first time since December after ADP Employer Services reported
that U.S. companies added fewer jobs in May than economists
forecast. With the  consumer price index  rising 3.2 percent on an
annual basis in April, the benchmark note offers investors a so-
called real yield of negative 0.20 percentage point.  Gross recommends that investors buy “cheap bonds” and focus
on “safe spread,” or buying more floating and fewer fixed-rate
notes. Investors should also add credit components that may
include investment grade, high yield, non-agency mortgage, or
emerging market related sectors, and increase the non-dollar
emerging market currencies portion of their portfolios, he
wrote.  Total Return Fund  The Total Return Fund has returned 8.13 percent in the past
year, beating 78 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Gross, the founder and co-chief
investment officer at Pimco, has averaged returns of 8.93
percent on average over the past five years, topping 98 percent
of his competition.  The fund can have a negative position by using derivatives
or futures or by shorting. Shorting is borrowing and selling an
asset in anticipation of making a profit by buying it back after
its price has fallen.  The firm’s U.S. government-related debt category can
include conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency
debt, interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options
and bank debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
according to the company’s website. Pimco, a unit of the Munich-
based insurer  Allianz SE , managed $1.28 trillion of assets as of
March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  