-- 
IAEA Says Japan's Nuclear Regulators Need More Oversight After Fukushima

-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-06-01T09:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/iaea-says-japan-underestimated-risk-to-nuclear-plants-from-tsunami-quakes.html
Japan ’s nuclear regulators need more
powers to prevent a repeat of the Fukushima disaster, which was
triggered by insufficient defenses against the March earthquake
and tsunami, the  International Atomic Energy Agency  said.  “Nuclear regulatory systems should address extreme
external events adequately, including their periodic review, and
should ensure that regulatory independence and clarity of roles
are preserved in all circumstances in line with  IAEA safety
standards ,” the UN agency said today in a report on the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant disaster.  The government-run Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency has
been criticized for not ensuring  Tokyo Electric  Power Co., the
plant’s operator, heeded warnings that a tsunami could overwhelm
its defenses. A reorganization of Japan’s atomic regulators is
“unavoidable,” Goshi Hosono, a special adviser to Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan , said after the IAEA released its report.  “There’s concern that things have become a little bit cozy
and complacent,” Stephen Lincoln, a professor at the University
of Adelaide and a specialist in nuclear power, said by telephone
today. “It seems in Japan they relied very much on commercial
operators to oversee the safety aspects, and if you are running
a commercial operation you’ve got to make a profit.”  Tokyo Electric’s plant north of the Japanese capital has
been spewing radiation since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
knocked out power and backup generators, crippling cooling
systems that led to three of six reactors melting down.  Events Foretold  Failure of cooling systems for reactors and water pools
storing spent fuel rods led to explosions and fires at the
Fukushima plant, causing radiation leaks that forced the
evacuation of more than 50,000 households and contaminated
drinking water and food. Japan’s government in April raised the
severity rating of the Fukushima crisis to 7, the highest on an
international scale and the same as the Chernobyl disaster.  The events at Fukushima had been foretold in an
investigation published in the U.S. two decades ago. The 1990
report by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, an independent
agency responsible for safety at the country’s power plants,
identified earthquake-induced diesel generator failure and power
outage leading to failure of cooling systems as one of the
“most likely causes” of nuclear accidents from an external
event.  Evidence Dismissed  Japan’s Trade Ministry, which oversees the nuclear power
industry, dismissed evidence two years ago from geologists that
the power station’s stretch of coast was overdue for a giant
wave, minutes from a government committee show, Bloomberg News
reported March 28.  Tokyo  Electric engineers also didn’t heed
lessons from the 2004 tsunami off  Indonesia  that swamped a
reactor 2,000 kilometers (1,200 miles) away in  India , even as
they advised the nuclear industry on coping with the dangers.  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant was “only designed to
withstand tsunami of waves of a maximum of 5.7 meters,” the
IAEA report said. “The larger waves that impacted the facility
that day were estimated to be larger than 14 meters.”  The utility known as Tepco said April 10 that the March 11
earthquake generated a tsunami as high as 15 meters (49 feet).
The base of the station is about 10 meters above  sea level .  “The operators were faced with a catastrophic,
unprecedented emergency scenario with no power, reactor control
or instrumentation, and in addition to this, severely affected
communication systems both within and external to the site,”
the IAEA said. The report called on nuclear plant operators
worldwide to learn from the Fukushima crisis and improve safety.  ‘Exceptional Circumstances’  “Japan’s response to the nuclear accident has been  exemplary, particularly illustrated by the dedicated,
determined and expert staff working under exceptional
circumstances,” the report said.  Nuclear power can exist even amid natural disasters as long
as the safety of reactors is secured, Mike Weightman, the leader
of the IAEA fact-finding team in Japan, said at a news
conference.  “We cannot predict natural disaster precisely, but you can
try to predict the consequence of it,” Weightman said at a news
conference in Tokyo today. “That’s the lesson taken way to the
world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
小笹俊一 in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  