-- 
Microsoft’s Sinofsky Previews Windows Version for Tablets

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e ,   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-06-02T20:06:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/microsoft-s-sinofsky-previews-version-of-windows-for-tablets.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Windows President
Steven Sinofsky previewed a touch-screen version of the
operating system that can work on tablets, offering a glimpse of
his company’s response to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  Windows 8 resembles Microsoft’s software for mobile phones
and uses “tiles,” rather than icons, to help users navigate
between applications, Sinofsky said at AllThingsD’s D9
Conference in  Rancho Palos Verdes ,  California . Microsoft
demonstrated Windows 8 on a 10.6-inch touch-screen tablet and
said the operating system can also work on desktop computers.  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, is rushing
to adapt Windows so it can run on devices that compete with the
iPad, which dominates the tablet market. The new operating
system won’t be out until next year, people familiar with the
plans said in March. Still, the company is eager to show it’s
making progress in developing software that can be used by
computer makers and chip suppliers.  “What we set out to do with Windows 8 was really try to
reimagine what we could do with a PC,” Sinofsky said. “You
could sort of say we colored outside the lines.”  He declined to say when the software would be available,
except to note it “won’t be this fall.” Sinofsky said the
company would provide additional information on the product at a
developer conference later this year.  Computex Demonstration  Microsoft also previewed Windows 8 to customers, partners
and media at the Computex show in Taipei today. Vice President
Mike Angiulo ran the system on tablets, notebooks and desktop
systems made by Dell Inc, Asustek Computer Inc, and Quanta
Computer Inc. using chips and technology from  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) ,
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , Texas Instruments Inc. and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)   The design of the software is similar to the tile interface
on Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 mobile-handset software. Like
that program, Windows 8’s tiles can be automatically updated to
display information from apps on the computer’s start screen, so
a weather app can tell the user that it’s forecast to be sunny
without requiring them to open the application.  The software also will run on desktop and laptop computers
via a touch screen, mouse or keyboard. And it will run existing
Windows applications, the company said.  Windows 8 is the biggest operating system change the
company has made since Windows 95, said Julie Larson-Green, a
 Microsoft vice president  who demonstrated the software during
Sinofsky’s speech.  Intel, ARM  Larson-Green showed the software running on an  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
chip. The operating system also will be the first full version
of Windows capable of operating on chips made with technology
from  ARM Holdings .  Microsoft lags behind Apple in tablets despite promoting
earlier versions of the format for at least a decade. None of
those tablets ever took off with consumers. Apple, which
develops the hardware and software that runs the iPad,
introduced its device in 2010.  The global tablet market will almost quadruple this year to
70 million units from 18 million in 2010, according to Jefferies
Group Inc. Apple will control about 64 percent of the 2011
tablet market, dropping to 41 percent in 2012, when 158 million
units will probably be sold, Jefferies estimates.  Microsoft fell 21 cents to $24.22 at 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares fell 12 percent this year
before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  