-- 
Microsoft Said to Limit Device Makers’ Chip-Partner Choices

-- B y   I a n   K i n g ,   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-06-01T06:59:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/microsoft-is-said-to-limit-computer-manufacturers-in-chip-partner-choices.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  has asked chipmakers
that want to use the next version of Windows for tablets to work
with no more than one computer manufacturer, three people with
knowledge of the plan said.  Chipmakers and computer makers that agree to the terms will
get incentives from Microsoft in exchange for accepting the
restrictions, which tie a single chipmaker to one tablet design,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the new
program hasn’t been made public.  Seeking to limit variations may help Microsoft speed the
delivery of new Windows tablets by keeping tighter control over
partners and accelerating development and testing. Though the
program isn’t mandatory, the restrictions may impede chip- and
computer makers from building a variety of Windows-based models
to vie with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, the people said. In past versions
of Windows software, chipmakers could work with multiple
computer manufacturers.  “Microsoft is still in the development process on the next
version of Windows, continuing the engineering work with our
silicon partners as part of the technology preview we talked
about in January,” Microsoft said in an e-mailed statement.
“We continue to talk regularly with hardware partners around
the world as part of our development process.”  Sole Alliances  Under the plan being proposed by Microsoft, a given
chipmaker would have to ally itself with a single PC
manufacturer in order to qualify for certain incentives. Those
may include features that ensure the device runs better or lower
prices for the software, one of the people said.  Acer Inc. (2353)  Chief Executive Officer and Chairman J.T. Wang,
in an interview yesterday at the  Computex  trade show in Taipei,
said Microsoft was trying to set limits on other companies. He
didn’t specify the restrictions.  “They’re really controlling the whole thing, the whole
process,” Wang said of Microsoft. “They try to set the game
rules,” he said, and chip suppliers and PC makers “all feel
it’s very troublesome,” he said.  This is the first time Microsoft has produced a  Windows
operating system  that works with  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) ’s technology,
increasing the number of potential chip suppliers. The program
seeking to pair one chipmaker with one computer maker might
increase the chances of initial success by enabling the company
to focus efforts on a smaller number of designs.  Design Limits  Still, the rules may constrain chipmakers’ ability to have
their products featured in a range of devices. Computer makers
whose designs aren’t chosen may be left out, one of the people
said.  Under Microsoft’s program, chip suppliers will also be able
to select a second computer maker for clamshell-style  notebook
computers  that use the new operating system, one of the people
said. Chipmakers for the new version of Windows, including  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ,  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) 
and  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , can also decline to be part of the
program and work with whichever computer makers they want.  The program only applies to the version of Windows that’s
being tailored for mobile computers, the person said. The
regular version of Windows for desktop PCs will have no such
limits, as with past versions of Windows.  Preview Tomorrow  Microsoft Corp. will preview the next generation of the
company’s Windows operating system to clients and media tomorrow
in Taipei, Steven Guggenheimer, a corporate vice president at
Microsoft, said at the Computex trade show today.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, has failed
to gain traction in the market for tablets dominated by Apple,
which develops the hardware and software that runs the iPad,
introduced in 2010.  Acer was the No. 3 maker of PCs in 2010, according to
researcher IDC. The company is among those hoping to boost sales
by selling tablet devices, a faster-growing slice of the
computer market.  The global tablet market will almost quadruple this year to
70 million units from 18 million in 2010, according to estimates
in a May 17 report by Jefferies Group Inc. Apple will control
about 64 percent of the 2011 tablet market, dropping to 41
percent in 2012, when 158 million units will probably be sold,
according to the report.  Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said last
week that machines with the new operating system, which he
referred to as Windows 8, would be released in 2012.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft later retracted the
comments, claiming they were a misstatement. The company is
eager to expand Windows to computing devices such as phones and
tablets, Ballmer said in a speech in  New Delhi  last week.  “We are in a race,” he said. “We are not doing that
badly, frankly. We are doing pretty well in that race. But the
race is on to continue to push Windows to a variety of new form
factors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  