-- 
Lifetime-Income Promise Fuels Surge in Variable Annuity Sales

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-06-01T14:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/lifetime-income-promise-fuels-surge-in-variable-annuity-sales.html
U.S. insurers’ sales of variable
annuities jumped 24 percent in the first quarter, led by
policies that promise lifetime income and protect against market
declines, at a time when investors are still wary of stocks.  The retirement products’ growth is driven in part by
concerns that another stock market drop like the one in 2008
could wipe out savings, said Moshe Milevsky, finance professor
at the Schulich School of Business at  York University  in
Toronto. Consumers “fear that the S&P at 1,300 is a mirage and
it’s going to go back to 700 for the rest of our lives,” he
said.  Annuities are insurance contracts that offer a steady
stream of income. With variable annuities, customers can choose
their investments such as stock and bond funds and the account
value will fluctuate with the market. For  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the top two U.S. life insurers, the
hottest product this year also offers a guarantee of income for
life, even if a customer’s account balance falls because of
market declines. There’s an annual fee for the rider, which
averages about 1.03 percent, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , on
top of the regular annuity fees, which average about 2.51
percent.  The high fees mean that “the upside potential” in these
contracts is “fairly limited,” said Kenneth Masters, director
of life insurance design and development for  Pinnacle Financial
Group  in Southborough,  Massachusetts . “Would I have been better
off saving 370 basis points and being fully in the stock
market?”  Difficult to Understand  About 96 percent of Prudential’s record $6.8 billion in
sales of variable annuities in the first quarter were policies
that included a lifetime income guarantee. At MetLife, 80
percent of their $5.7 billion of products sold in the quarter
carried a guaranteed benefit.  It’s difficult for consumers to understand the conditions
and limitations that come with the benefits of these guarantees,
such as when an insurer can increase fees or restrict
investments, said Milevsky.  Insurers may offer a rate of return such as 5 percent or 6
percent a year with these riders, which customers also may
misunderstand, said Timothy Pfeifer, a consulting actuary and
president of  Pfeifer Advisory LLC  in Libertyville,  Illinois .
“Customers might be told that their policy will provide a 6
percent annual guarantee and think that sounds great. That is
not a lump sum you can take out.” The income promised for life
can deplete if owners take out too much money or too fast, said
Pfeifer.  Terms Vary  Sales of variable annuities in the U.S. climbed to $39.8
billion in the first quarter, from $32.2 billion a year earlier,
according to trade group Limra. Investors have withdrawn $50
billion from U.S. stock mutual funds in the 12 months through
April, according to Chicago-based Morningstar, a research firm.  Terms of the riders attached to variable annuity contracts
vary by insurer. Here’s how one from  Prudential , the top seller
of variable annuities, works: A customer puts $100,000 into a
variable annuity and picks investments such as stock and bond
funds offered in the contract. The  Newark , New Jersey-based
insurer promises that it will record the highest daily value the
account ever reaches and that amount will increase at 5 percent
annual compounded growth, until an owner starts taking out
money.  “That number, to be very clear, is not available to cash
in,” said Jac Herschler, head of business strategy for
Prudential’s annuity division. “It’s only the basis for
determining what they can withdraw from their account every year
for life.”  Equity Limit  Prudential customers agree to let the company move their
assets into a bond fund if the investments they selected don’t
perform well. The transfers are based on a mathematical formula
in the prospectus.  Other insurers limit the amount customers may invest in
equities if they opt for a rider or restrict the choice of
funds, said Tom Idzorek, global chief investment officer for
Morningstar Investment Management, a Morningstar unit. Limits on
investments help reduce the costs for insurers of hedging
against the risk that customers’ accounts will run out of money
and the insurance company will have to use its funds to continue
the payouts, he said.  MetLife’s Benefit  MetLife last month started offering a “ guaranteed minimum
income benefit ” that limits buyers to five funds: four have a
mix of investments and one is invested primarily in bonds. The
portfolio’s design means MetLife can promise 6 percent
compounded growth annually regardless of the market’s
performance, said Robert E. Sollmann, head of retirement
products for the New York-based company. MetLife has a separate
rider that restricts customers to a maximum of 70 percent in
equities and a lower compounding rate of 5 percent, Sollmann
said.  Individuals have a “tall task” when trying to identify
the differences among riders from various insurers, said
Idzorek. “Say you wanted to compare five products side by side,
good luck.”  With the rider, customers can invest in equities and
“sleep at night,” said Greg Cicotte, president of the sales
and marketing unit of Jackson National Life Insurance Co. About
82 percent of contracts sold last year by Jackson National,
based in Lansing,  Michigan , had a guarantee of lifetime income,
Cicotte said. “If the market does go down you know that the
income you planned on for retirement is protected.”  ‘Unforeseen Expenses’  Individuals shouldn’t put all of their assets in one of
these products because “there are always unforeseen expenses,”
said Masters of Pinnacle Financial Group. “Usually they do
carry some severe penalties if you exceed your guarantee in
terms of taking money out.”  Penalties may include surrender charges as high as 9
percent of the account balance for cashing out, according to
Morningstar. And taking out more money than is allowed in the
terms of the rider may reduce the future guaranteed income, said
Pfeifer, the actuary.  The usual withdrawal rate on contracts with a rider is 4
percent or 5 percent a year at age 65, according to Ernst &
Young. That percentage generally increases if customers wait to
start taking out money. Some contracts allow withdrawals of 7
percent at age 85, data from the New York-based firm shows.  Excess Withdrawals  The  New York  State Insurance Department said in February it
will require insurers to disclose how withdrawals in excess of
those set percentages affect future payments.  “Many insurers were providing a general disclosure about
excess withdrawals,” said James J. Wrynn, New York Insurance
Superintendent. “That doesn’t really have the same kind of
impact as saying that your $100 monthly payment for life will be
reduced to $50 per month for life if you take this excess
withdrawal.”  The riders may be worth it for the risk-averse investor who
understands how the fees may affect their returns and as a
partial allocation for an individual close to retirement without
a long time for fluctuations in the market, said Masters of
Pinnacle Financial Group.  Affording Retirement  More than a quarter of U.S. workers said they’re “not at
all confident” about their ability to afford a comfortable
retirement, the highest percentage in two decades, according to
a March report by the Washington-based Employee Benefit Research
Institute. Men have a life expectancy of 17 years at age 65,
based on government tables from the National Center for Health
Statistics. For women it’s 20 years.  Elinor and Robert Louis of  California  have about $1
million, or half their retirement savings, in variable annuities
with a guarantee. “Without it, it’s like Russian roulette,”
said Robert Louis, 62. “You don’t know what’s going to
happen.”  The extra fees for the rider are worth it because the
product provides the potential for growth, downside protection
and the ability to pass money to their heirs, said Elinor Louis,
62.  Annual charges for the riders that provide withdrawals for
life range from 0.3 percent to 1.7 percent, Morningstar data
show. The average “all-in” cost of a variable annuity with
such a guarantee is 3.54 percent, according to Morningstar.  Insurers also may raise fees when they increase the benefit
base amount used to calculate the annual withdrawal or income,
said Glenn Daily, a fee-only insurance consultant in New York in
an e-mail. It may be impossible for individuals to determine if
they should accept a “step-up” that adds costs “without
hiring a quant to figure it out,” Daily said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 