-- 
Tiger Asia Asks H.K. Court to Dismiss Suit

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-06-01T07:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/tiger-asia-asks-h-k-court-to-dismiss-suit.html
Tiger  Asia  Management LLC, the hedge-
fund firm led by Bill Hwang, asked a  Hong Kong  judge to dismiss
a regulator’s suit to ban it from trading in the city and to
restore alleged  insider trading  profits to investors.  “It is not appropriate for a civil court to determine what
is essentially a criminal offense,” said Charles Sussex, a
lawyer for the New York-based hedge fund manager, in Hong Kong’s
Court of First Instance today.  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission alleged Tiger
Asia engaged in insider trading, and is seeking a court order to
freeze assets valued at HK$38.5 million ($4.9 million) held by
Tiger Asia, Hwang and officers Raymond Park and William Tomita.
The regulator has asked for an order to ban the fund from
trading in Hong Kong securities.  “This is a blatant case of insider dealing that happened
on more than one occasion by the same outfit,” said Simon
Westbrook, a lawyer for the regulator, known as the SFC.
“Unfortunately all of the defendants are based in  New York .
None of them are within the jurisdiction.”  Hedge funds  have come under the scrutiny of regulators
worldwide following the collapse in 2008 of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. New York-based Galleon Group co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam was convicted May 11 in the U.S. in the biggest
insider-trading prosecution in a generation.  Short Sales  Tiger Asia and the three officers sold short 93 million
shares  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , after having been
approached to take part in the placement of the bank’s shares in
January 2009, SFC said.  Shorting involves selling borrowed shares in a company with
the expectation of buying them back at a lower price later.  In one instance, Tiger Asia closed the short positions by
buying the placement shares on Jan. 7, 2009, at a price cheaper
than the prevailing market price, reaping a HK$29.9 million
profit, according to the SFC.  The regulator applied for a High Court injunction to freeze
the assets, amounting to the gains the company and the officers
allegedly made from dealing on inside information.  In denying wrongdoing in an October letter to clients,
Tiger Asia disclosed receiving a subpoena from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission for trading records and other
documents, and said it was cooperating with the U.S. regulator.  Fund Losses  Tiger Asia’s fund lost 16 percent this year through May 15,
hurt by bets against Chinese stocks, a person with knowledge of
the matter told Bloomberg last month.  Its assets declined to $1.3 billion in April from $3
billion at the end of September, the person said.  Hwang founded Tiger Asia in 2001. The New York-based
company is one of the so-called Tiger Cubs, a group of hedge-
fund managers either backed by  Julian Robertson  or worked at his
Tiger Management LLC, which he founded in 1980 and built into
one of the world’s largest hedge fund managers before returning
clients’ money in 2000.  The SFC alleged Hwang made the trading decisions in both
cases. Park is Tiger Asia’s head of trading, and Tomita supports
trading activities, the SFC said.  All of Tiger Asia’s employees are based in New York,
according to the SFC. The hedge fund manager, which has
specialized in trading equities in  China ,  Japan  and  South Korea 
since its inception in 2001, doesn’t have an office in Hong
Kong, the regulator said.  The men could face criminal prosecution if they came to
Hong Kong, Westbrook said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  