-- 
Ignored by Business, Data Manager Prometheus Goes Back to School

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-06-01T19:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/ignored-by-business-data-manager-prometheus-goes-back-to-school.html
In 2009, Leon Rozenblit was ready to
expand  Prometheus Research  from building databases for
biomedical research departments at such universities as Harvard
and Yale to energy and financial service businesses. Within a
year and a half, he had burned through $1.5 million and laid off
the five employees he had hired for the expansion, unable to
penetrate Corporate America’s bureaucracies. “It was an
expensive education,” he says.  Now he’s taking his 40-employee New Haven company back to its
roots in the ivy towers of academia, selling software for
scientists to use to organize and share data gathered in
research projects. While unable to invest as much as
multinationals, universities and foundations that fund academic
research are increasing their use of technology that enables
collaboration over the Internet. It’s one sign of a cultural
shift within institutions known more for competing than sharing.
“This is an entirely new way of thinking,” says Stephen Johnson,
a professor of biomedical informatics at  Columbia University .
“People are now thinking about science as a collective
enterprise, rather than a single scientist doing a single
experiment.”  Rozenblit is confident Prometheus can win business with
technology that’s flexible enough to adapt to the unique types
of data gathered by biomedical researchers, such as genetic
information drawn from blood samples. “Our bread and butter is
supporting these very complex -- and I don’t want to sound
derogatory -- messy academic projects,” he says. Still
recovering from its unsuccessful foray outside academia,
Rozenblit says Prometheus had $3.6 million in revenue in 2010
and expects $3.8 million this year. Starting in 2013, he’s
betting the shift in university and foundation computer spending
will drive annual growth of 30 percent to 50 percent over the
subsequent few years.  Of course, the earliest stages of biomedical research -- the
type supported by Prometheus -- gets the least amount of
financial backing because it often advances the knowledge of a
disease without producing a marketable treatment, says Alan S.
Louie, analyst at market researcher IDC Health Insights in
Framingham, Mass. While the technology market for academic
research is small -- most likely in the tens of millions of
dollars today -- Louie believes it will grow significantly over
the next five years.  COLLABORATIVE PROJECTS  The Simons Foundation in  New York  is adamant about the benefits
of having researchers across disciplines work together. Over the
past five years, the nonprofit has spent $12 million on software
and computers for an autism research project that involves 13
universities gathering and sharing genetic information from
3,000 families. The purpose is eventually to identify all the
variants within genes that can be linked to the disease,
explains Gerald Fischbach, the initiative’s scientific director.  The foundation hired Prometheus in 2006 to build the central
database for the project after its founder Jim Simons (also the
founder of hedge fund Renaissance Technologies) attended a
company presentation at Yale. “We felt Prometheus had a good
understanding of how scientists think and work,” says Johnson,
who besides teaching at Columbia was hired by the foundation to
manage the building of the computer system.  Prometheus’ proprietary software, called HTSQL, made it possible
for Simons’ researchers to search and retrieve complex sets of
data over the Internet using only a Web browser around the time
the idea of cloud computing was becoming widespread. “There are
things somewhat like it, but at the time for this space in which
we were working -- scientific data management -- it was unique,”
Johnson says.  Rozenblit founded Prometheus in 2000 while working on a
doctorate in psychology at  Yale University . “I was the nerdy
grad student that everybody else asked to help with their data
problems,” he says. Rather than work for free, Rozenbilt started
charging the university for helping researchers configure their
databases to match the specifics of their projects. When he
earned his PhD in 2003, he set to work turning Prometheus into a
full-time business, targeting other universities.  While Prometheus failed in the corporate market two years ago,
Rozenblit believes HTSQL still has a chance of becoming a
“transformational” technology for businesses. This time, instead
of hiring a team to bang on doors, he’s partnering with other
tech companies in data management. In early May, Prometheus
announced it would work with nine-person database application
developer Cirrus Technologies in Brick, N.J., combining the
companies’ software to make so-called business intelligence
applications for analyzing data. “If the technology gets
accepted in the market on a large scale, it’ll happen over the
next five years,” Rozenblit says. “If not, it will become a
niche technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antonegonsalves@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  