-- 
Manufacturing Expands at Slowest Pace in Four Months After Rate Increases

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-06-01T06:56:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/india-s-manufacturing-expands-at-slowest-pace-in-four-months-1-.html
India ’s manufacturing grew at the
slowest pace in four months as inflation above 8 percent and
nine interest-rate increases since mid-March 2010 crimped output.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 57.5 in May from 58
in April, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an e-
mail statement today. A number above 50 indicates expansion.  Rising borrowing costs may have begun to hurt demand,
reflected in slowing sales at  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker, and Ashok Leyland Ltd. The $1.4
trillion economy grew 7.8 percent in the three months through
March, the slowest pace in five quarters, a government report
showed yesterday.  “Even though the economy is showing signs of moderation,
inflation running above 8 percent is a key problem that won’t
allow the  Reserve Bank of India  to let its guard down,” said
Sonal Varma, a Mumbai-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  She expects the central bank to raise  interest rates  by
half a percentage point by the end of December. Reserve Bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao increased the repurchase rate by half
a percentage point to 7.25 percent on May 3, the biggest move
since July 2008, and indicated he is ready to step up the battle
against inflation even at the risk of sacrificing growth.  While inflation slowed to 8.66 percent in April from 9.02
percent in March, the central bank said the rate probably won’t
decline much further until September.  Orders Ease  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due April 2021 fell four
basis points to 8.37 percent as of 10:56 a.m. The Bombay Stock
Exchange’s Sensitive Index rose 0.3 percent while the rupee
strengthened 0.3 percent to 44.93 per dollar.  Factory output eased in May due to slower expansion in
domestic and overseas orders, Leif Eskesen, Singapore-based
chief economist at HSBC, said in today’s statement.  “While the momentum slowed a bit and is set to ease going
ahead, growth will be strong enough keep inflation pressures
simmering and the  Reserve Bank  of India in tightening mode,”
Eskesen said.  Overseas sales from India rose 34.4 percent in April from a
year earlier to $23.8 billion, the commerce ministry said today.
Imports rose 14.1 percent to $32.8 billion. The trade deficit
was $8.99 billion.  Growth in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy slowed last quarter
as manufacturing grew 5.5 percent in the three months through
March from a year earlier, the slowest pace in at least seven
quarters, and investment growth eased to a 1 1/2-year low,
according to a statistics office report yesterday.  Consumer demand is starting to wane due to higher interest
rates. Sales at Maruti Suzuki rose 1.9 percent in May, the least
in 29 months, the company said today. Ashok Leyland, India’s
second-biggest commercial vehicle maker, said last month sales
dropped 15 percent in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  