-- 
New Antitrust Rules May Subject Deals in India to Seven-Month Review

-- B y   K i a n   G a n z   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-06-01T04:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/india-s-new-antitrust-rules-subject-deals-to-as-much-as-seven-month-review.html
India , where mergers and acquisitions
rose 35 percent to $17.3 billion of deals so far this year, may
see a slowdown in transactions after introducing new rules to
regulate monopolies.  The Competition Commission of India has new jurisdiction,
starting today, to take as long as seven months to review deals
if more than 15 percent of a rival is bought and combined
revenue of the firms is more than 45 billion rupees ($1 billion)
or if combined assets are at least 15 billion rupees.  The new  regulations  enact a regime first endorsed by
lawmakers in 2002 and add India to the U.S., European Union and
 China  as a potential deal-blocking center. While Commission
Chairman Dhanendra Kumar has pledged that about 95 percent of
deals can be reviewed in 30 days, lawyers including Naval Chopra
fear that wide discretion for the regulator may result in some
acquisitions failing.  “It could delay things so much that a transaction becomes
unviable,” said Chopra, a New Delhi-based lawyer at Amarchand &
Mangaldas & Suresh A. Shroff & Co., which has advised on $1.46
billion worth of mergers in India this year. After 210 days, or
seven months, a merger is considered approved if the regulator
doesn’t respond to companies which have submitted their deals.  Banks will also have to analyze transactions to see if they
have an adverse effect on competition in India, said Sourav Mallik, head of mergers and acquisitions at Mumbai-based
investment bank Kotak Mahindra Capital Co.  ‘Quite Ambitious’  “Buyers and sellers will want to think of contingencies
related to their deals differently,” Mallik said. Companies
will have to include clauses in their contracts that previously
were only used in cross-border deals like an option to abort if
approvals aren’t obtained by a certain date, he said.  The regulator’s target of approving most deals within 30
days “may be quite ambitious,” said  Roland Wiring , a Hamburg-
based antitrust lawyer who spent two months this year assigned
to the New Delhi and Mumbai offices of Indian law firm Khaitan &
Co. Analysis becomes complicated when market definitions are
complex or even missing, he said.  The  Competition Commission , established just two years ago
with seven staff, now has 100 employees, more than half of whom
are professionals including lawyers, economists and financial
analysts trained in competition law, according to Kumar.  The regulator’s formation was delayed by a lawsuit from
lawyer Brahm Dutt in 2005 who argued that it sidestepped the
power of the judiciary. Since then the commission’s
constitutionality has also been challenged in lawsuits brought
by companies including  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  and  Steel
Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL)   Judicial Process  “You cannot rule out something like this happening
again,” said Bharat Vasani, general counsel of the  Tata Group ,
with companies in sectors ranging from technology to
automobiles.  “This is a country of public interest litigation - anyone
can initiate the judicial process,” he said.  The antitrust rules now in force are a revision of draft
rules released in March that provide more clarity about the
types of transactions that have to be reported to India’s
regulator, according to Susan Jones, a lawyer working for Basel,
Switzerland-based  Novartis AG. (NOVN)   “We would also welcome any further initiatives for clarity
and simplification of the procedures,” she said. It’s difficult
to know how the new regime will work until companies have
actually notified the regulator of deals, she said.  Cartel-Busting Powers  The March draft could have covered the acquisition of an
interest in a target with no turnover, assets or presence in
India whatsoever, according to a briefing that London-based law
firm Clifford Chance LLP sent to its clients.  The revised regulations avert “the sizeable business
disruption that would have been wrought,” the firm said.  The regulator’s cartel-busting powers that have been in
effect since 2009 haven’t yet been enforced in any large cases.
The commission last month ruled that 27 film producers in
Bollywood should pay a fine of 100,000 rupees each for having
run a cartel to pressure Indian multiplex owners into favorable
commercial terms.  Its 10 million rupee fine of India’s second-largest listed
airline Kingfisher for not cooperating with an investigation
into the carrier’s 2010 alliance with  Jet Airways India Ltd. (JETIN)  was
overturned in December by the regulators’ appeals tribunal.  The commission also last month ruled that the National
Stock Exchange abused its dominant position in currency
derivative trading by handing out trading software for free.  The exchange on May 30 sued to get details of the decision,
a result of a case brought against the stock exchange by rival
Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. in November 2009.  The commission will have an immediate effect on mergers
from today and companies are hoping it will act pragmatically,
Chopra of Amarchand said.  “I think the first month or two will really be the litmus
test: If transactions which do not cause concern are cleared
relatively quickly, then industry can sleep easy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kian Ganz in Mumbai at 
 kganz1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  