-- 
Indonesia’s Inflation Slows, Easing Pressure to Raise Policy Interest Rate

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-06-01T07:24:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/indonesia-s-inflation-slows-easing-pressure-to-raise-policy-interest-rate.html
Indonesia’s inflation slowed for a
fourth straight month as a strengthening currency capped import
costs, easing pressure on policy makers to raise  interest rates .  Consumer prices in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy rose
5.98 percent last month from a year earlier, the  Central Bureau
of Statistics  said in Jakarta today. That compares with the 6.16
percent gain reported earlier for April, and the 5.94 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists.  Bank Indonesia , which will release its next monetary policy
statement on June 9, kept its benchmark rate at 6.75 percent for
a third straight month in May to bolster slowing economic growth.
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s policy makers have extended
fuel subsidies and let the rupiah climb more than 5 percent this
year to contain inflation amid rising food and oil costs.  “Inflation in May was influenced core inflation rather
than volatile foods, Djamal, deputy chairman of the statistics
office, said at the inflation announcement. “However, rice
prices tend to rise in late May, and the government needs to be
aware of the possibility of inflation in the months ahead
because the harvest is over.”  Indonesia ’s rupiah rose 0.1 percent to 8,538 per dollar as
at 2:18 pm in Jakarta, according to Bloomberg data. The currency
has gained 5.2 percent this year  Holding Interest Rates  The central bank has refrained from boosting borrowing
costs since its first rate increase in more than two years in
February, in contrast with neighbors from  Malaysia  to  India 
where officials have accelerated monetary tightening. While the
country’s policy measures have helped ease inflation,
authorities “can’t be complacent,” Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said in May.  Inflationary pressure will be higher in June, July and
August due to seasonal factors, Andry Asmoro, an economist at PT
Bank CIMB Niaga in Jakarta, said after the announcement.  “We expect BI would raise their benchmark rate next
month,” Asmoro said.  Indonesia’s inflation this year may be below 5.5 percent if
the government delays scrapping fuel subsidies, Sarwono said
last week. Consumer prices may rise as much as 6.5 percent
should the government decide to raise fuel prices, he said.  Consumer prices climbed 0.12 percent in May from the
previous month.  Core inflation  accelerated to 4.64 percent from
the 4.62 percent pace reported earlier for April.  Indonesia’s exports rose 37.3 percent in April from a year
earlier, the statistics department said. That compares with the
27.5 percent pace reported earlier for March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  