-- 
Intel Accused of Infringing Patents for Powering Computer Chips

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-06-01T19:24:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/intel-accused-of-infringing-patents-for-powering-computer-chips.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, was accused of infringing patents owned by a
Pennsylvania company over ways to improve how power is delivered
to an electronic circuit.  X2Y Attenuators LLC , based in Erie, Pennsylvania, filed a
 complaint  yesterday with the U.S. International Trade Commission
in Washington, and a civil suit in its hometown. The ITC
complaint seeks to block imports of Intel’s microprocessors,
including its high-end desktop Core i7 chip, as well as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  computers that run on the
processor.  “Apple and HP incorporate Intel’s infringing
microprocessors into their computers,” X2Y said in the ITC
complaint. “These microprocessors perform the core
functionality of Apple and HP’s accused products.”  The inventions covered by the patents, five in all, are
designed to overcome electromagnetic interference, which can
damage electronics, according to the ITC complaint. X2Y said it
has licensed its inventions for inclusion in satellite radios,
military aircraft and noise-canceling headphones.  X2Y said it “has attempted to persuade  Santa Clara ,
California-based Intel to license X2Y’s technology for use in
Intel’s microprocessors.”  The microprocessors are made in Costa Rica, Malaysia, the
Philippines, and  China , according to the complaint.  “We’re evaluating the case,” said  Chuck Mulloy , an Intel
spokesman. “We would expect that we’ll be conducting a vigorous
defense.”  Cash Compensation  The civil suit, filed in federal court in Erie, seeks
unspecified cash compensation for the unauthorized use of X2Y
patents. The case is likely to be put on hold until the ITC
review is completed.  The ITC is an independent agency that investigates unfair
trade practices, including patent infringement, and has the
power to block the import of products found to violate U.S.
patent rights. If it agrees to investigate X2Y’s complaint, it
will complete the process in about 15 to 18 months.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Microprocessors,
Components Thereof and Products Containing Same, complaint No.
2810, U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ). The
civil case is X2Y Attenuators LLC v. Intel Corp., 11cv117, U.S.
District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania (Erie).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  