-- 
Iraq Says Signed Contract With Kogas to Develop Akkas Field

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-01T13:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/iraq-says-signed-contract-with-kogas-to-develop-akkas-field-1-.html
Iraq  signed an agreement with  Korea
Gas Corp. (036460)  to begin developing the Akkas natural-gas field, an
Oil Ministry official said, ending seven months of delays in
progress at one of the country’s biggest deposits of the fuel.  Representatives of Korea Gas and Iraq signed the contract
today in a ceremony closed to the media, Sabah Abdel Kadhim, the
deputy head of the Oil Ministry’s licensing department, said in
a telephone interview from  Baghdad .  Korea Gas, known as Kogas, said in a regulatory filing on
May 26 that it would acquire 100 percent of the rights to Akkas,
up from a planned 50 percent stake, after its original partner,
 KazMunaiGas Exploration Production (RDGZ)  of  Kazakhstan , unexpectedly
withdrew from the project.  The government expects to sign agreements for two other gas
fields at Mansouriya and Siba on June 5, Abdul-Mahdi al-Ameedi,
the head of the ministry’s licensing department, said in a
separate phone interview.  Iraq has the fifth-biggest gas reserves in the  Middle East 
and the world’s fifth-largest crude oil reserves, according to
data from BP Plc. While the government relies on sales of crude
for most of its revenue, it wants to produce gas to fuel the
nation’s power plants, which have been unable for several years
to meet demand. Production of electricity and gas, like oil,
suffered from decades of war and sanctions, and Iraq is seeking
foreign investment and expertise to boost output.  Kuwaiti, Turkish Investors  Kuwait Energy Co., Turkiye Petrolleri AO and Kogas secured
the rights to develop gas at Mansouriya. Kuwait Energy and
Turkiye Petrolleri won the bidding for Siba. Iraq awarded
licenses for all three gas fields in October.  Mansouriya, Siba and Akkas together hold 11 trillion cubic
feet of gas, Hussain al-Shahristani, the deputy prime minister
for energy affairs and Iraq’s former oil minister, said in
October during the auction of licenses for the three fields.
Akkas, in western Anbar province, contains 5.6 trillion cubic
feet of gas, al-Shahristani said in May.  The government is also negotiating an agreement with  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  on a $12 billion plan to
develop and capture gas that is being flared off and wasted in
southern Iraq.  “I am optimistic that we will reach a final agreement next
week,” Deputy Oil Minister Ahmed al-Shamma said today by phone
from Baghdad.  The signing for this gas-capture project has been delayed
since last June, when the government approved the creation of a
venture to be called Basra Gas Co. State-owned South Gas Co.
would have a 51 percent stake in the venture, with Shell holding
44 percent and Mitsubishi the remainder.  Iraq has signed 15 gas and oil licenses since the U.S.-led
invasion overthrew former President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003.
The government has asked companies to begin this month
submitting bids for a new, fourth round of exploration rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  