-- 
Taxpayer-ID Theft Climbs Despite IRS Crackdown

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-06-01T20:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/irs-polices-identity-thieves-ripping-off-taxpayer-information.html
Taxpayer identity theft is growing
even as the  Internal Revenue Service  has taken a series of steps
to prevent it, according to a Government Accountability Office
report.  The IRS identified 248,357 instances of such theft in 2010,
compared with 169,087 in 2009 and 51,702 in 2008, according to
the GAO.  Identity thieves cash in on stolen names and Social
Security numbers by filing fraudulent tax returns or by using
such data to obtain a job.  The GAO report didn’t estimate how much money was stolen
through these methods. Fraud using a tax return typically occurs
when a thief obtains a taxpayer’s name and Social Security
number and files a return claiming a refund early in the tax
season, before a legitimate filer has a chance to send in a
return.  Employment fraud, in particular, can be tough to spot
because of the long period between the theft and the processing
of an illegitimate tax return.  “By the time both the victim and the IRS determine that an
identity theft incident occurred, well over a year may have
passed since the employment fraud,” the report said.  Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat, said at a hearing
on May 25 that taxpayers whose information has been stolen enter
“an extended nightmare” as they work with government agencies
to solve the thefts and settle issues with banks and other
bureaucracies.  The GAO said the IRS has improved screening of returns and
is trying a new way of weeding out the use of stolen Social
Security numbers of deceased taxpayers.  The IRS also is experimenting with giving victims of tax
fraud personal identification numbers to thwart repeat cases in
years after the initial theft.  Privacy laws and taxpayer demand for prompt refunds limit
what the IRS can do to combat such fraud, officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  