-- 
Is Palin’s Rolling Thunder a Passing Storm?: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/is-palin-s-rolling-thunder-a-passing-storm-margaret-carlson.html
Most of us don’t begin the summer by
crashing the annual Memorial Day weekend gathering of bikers at
 Rolling Thunder , a Washington event to honor veterans. But most
of us are not Sarah Palin. While Republican presidential
contenders  Mitt Romney ,  Jon Huntsman  and  Tim Pawlenty  are
holding traditional coffee klatches in Iowa and New Hampshire,
Palin is on the road.  More important, she is on our television screens. Amid
250,000 drinking and tattooed bikers wearing leather vests,
packs of smokes rolled up in their T-shirt sleeves, Palin kicked
off her East Coast bus tour by riding from the Pentagon to the
 Vietnam Veterans Memorial  on the back of a hog. Try ignoring
that on a slow news day.  Palin alone knows whether her motorcycle ride was the first
leg of a presidential run or the start of an unusual family
vacation. Actually, even she may not know. What she does know is
that she needs to freshen her populist brand every so often with
a sprinkling of presidential dust. In recent weeks, she added a
couple of political operatives to the skeletal staff overseen by
her husband, Todd. For more convenient access to the lower 48,
she bought a house in a fashionable suburb of Phoenix. A full-
length film featuring her political rise debuts this summer --
in  Iowa .  Sinking Sales  Brand Palin needs some refurbishing. "America by Heart,"
her second book, sold 70 percent fewer copies than her first
effort, "Going Rogue," according to  Publishers Weekly . After a
boffo start, ratings for her television show, "Sarah Palin’s
 Alaska ," plummeted. The last time she commandeered the media
spotlight, she made a  video  accusing her critics of a “blood
libel” for having linked her semi-automatic rhetoric with the
Tucson shooting of Representative Gabrielle Giffords. She looked
petty in the midst of a national tragedy.  In addition, there’s now a tell-all book by a former Palin
aide that makes Richard Nixon look like Rebecca of Sunnybrook
Farm compared with Palin and her Alaskan posse. Only 44 percent
of Republicans view Palin favorably, according to an October CBS
News poll.  Until she took to the road over Memorial Day, Palin had
been uncharacteristically quiet lately, taking a back seat to
other candidates, including a few who are candidates no more:
Fox News host  Mike Huckabee , "Celebrity Apprentice" boss  Donald Trump  and Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels.  But Palin kick-started her Harley just in time to muffle
Representative  Michele Bachmann ’s expected announcement of her
candidacy later this week. Bachmann said she doesn’t consider
Palin "a competitor." Palin may feel otherwise. While Bachmann
is striving for attention, Palin will be generating buzz by
inviting another presidential candidate onto her bus -- Herman Cain, an African-American pizza magnate who presents no threat
to her.  Helping Romney  Unlike Bachmann, Mitt Romney, the unloved front-runner,
could actually be helped by Palin. He doesn’t mind the media
chasing after a shinier object while he continues his quest to
get right with the Republican base on health care. (Last week,
he offered his best formulation to date, telling the Boston
Globe that “the health of the people of  Massachusetts  is more
important to me than the health of my political prospects.”) If
Palin enters the fray, the Republican establishment will turn
its lonely eyes to Romney to stop her.  Even if she only flirts with a run, Palin can still be
toxic to the hopes of others. Conservatives in Iowa are just
beginning to warm to Tim Pawlenty, who has been morphing from a
mild-mannered former governor of bluish  Minnesota  to Dirty
Harry. He has abandoned his support for cap-and-trade
legislation and, unlike the more cautious Romney, has embraced
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s controversial plan to transform
Medicare into a private insurance system. The Iowa straw poll
scheduled for August 13 is widely considered a must-win for
Pawlenty. If Palin, who is much-loved by Iowa conservatives, is
anywhere near Ames that day, Pawlenty is in trouble.  New Hampshire  Next?  Palin’s impact on other bedrock conservative candidates
would be more pronounced if they weren’t so busy hurting
themselves. Former Senator Rick Santorum just sealed his fate as
least likely to succeed by accusing Senator  John McCain , who
cannot raise his arms due to torture he suffered as a prisoner
of war in North Vietnam, of not understanding torture.  Newt Gingrich  reduced his modest chances of success before his
candidacy was a week old with his colorful denunciation of
Ryan’s plan.  Palin may be planning to crash another event this week,
pulling into New Hampshire, the political lodestar of the East,
just in time to step on Romney’s expected announcement of his
candidacy there. Romney has been doggedly working for more than
a year. But it took only a hint that Palin was back in the fray
for her to draw almost even with him in a May 26 Gallup poll.  Restoring Her Celebrity  Whether she is aiming for “the fundamental restoration of
America” (no small ambition for a road trip up I-95), the
restoration of her celebrity or even a genuine run for
president, Palin’s proving she’s still a player. Reporters
fanned out from  Fort McHenry  in Baltimore to
 Gettysburg ,  Pennsylvania , trying to keep up with her bus, which
is painted with “We the People,” a map of the U.S. and the
Liberty Bell. Her impact is immediate, her timing shrewd. The
best moment to shake up the field of 2012 candidates is before
it’s settled.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  