-- 
U.S. Economy: Factories, Employers Pull Back as Costs Climb

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-01T20:30:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/ism-u-s-manufacturing-index-decreased-to-53-5-in-may-from-60-4.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. grew at the
slowest pace in a more than a year and employers added fewer
jobs than forecast, sending share prices lower on concern a
slowdown in the world’s largest economy will extend into the
second quarter.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell
more than projected to 53.5 last month, the lowest level since
September 2009, from 60.4 in April, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said today. Companies added 38,000 workers to payrolls,
the fewest since September, according to ADP Employer Services.  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasuries fell below 3 percent
for the first time this year as the reports, combined with
recent data showing weakness in consumer and business spending,
indicated the economy is struggling. Today’s data support
Federal Reserve policy makers who’ve argued that the economy
remains too fragile to withdraw stimulus.  “It’s a confluence of headwinds hitting the economy,”
said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in New York, citing a jump in gasoline prices
and risks posed by the European debt crisis. “In this recovery,
the pace of economic activity is slower, and that makes the
economy more vulnerable to these types of headwinds.”  Oil near $100 a barrel and disruptions to parts supplies
caused by the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  are weighing on
the expansion globally, other reports today indicated. A
purchasing managers’ index for China showed the slowest pace of
expansion in nine months, while the equivalent measure for the
euro area fell to a seven-month low.  Shares Drop  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 2.3 percent to
1,314.55 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. Benchmark 10-year note
yields dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to
2.95 percent, the lowest since Dec. 7.  The reports prompted some economists to cut their forecasts
for payrolls to be reported in two days by the Labor Department.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reduced its estimate to a gain of
100,000 from 150,000; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. to 160,000
from 225,000; and Bank of America Merrill Lynch to 125,000 from
165,000.  Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York  also cut
second-quarter growth forecasts for the second time in as many
weeks. The world’s largest economy will expand at a 2 percent
annual rate from April through June, down from a prior estimate
of 2.5 percent, according to an e-mailed statement from  Michael Feroli , the bank’s chief U.S. economist.  Auto Sales  One reason for the reduction was a slump in auto sales last
month that in part reflected decreased inventories following the
March 11 earthquake in Japan. Cars and light trucks sold at an
11.8 million annual rate last month, down 11 percent from April
and the fewest since September, industry data today showed.  Economists projected the ISM gauge would drop to 57.1,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Estimates of the 83 economists ranged from 53 to 60. The
measure’s 6.9-point drop was the biggest one-month decline since
January 1984.  The group’s production, orders, backlogs and inventory
indexes all fell.  Manufacturing, which has been benefiting from a pickup in
exports to countries like  China  and  Brazil , began to cool in the
aftermath of Japan’s earthquake in March. Industrial production
stalled in April as disruptions related to Japan’s crisis led to
a plunge in U.S. auto output, a Federal Reserve report showed
May 17.  August Rebound  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, said its
North America and China vehicle production will return to normal
in August as parts suppliers recover from Japan’s record
earthquake.  In the U.S., production of Honda’s Civic small cars will
continue to be slowed by limited supplies of some parts, the
Tokyo-based company said in a statement May 26. Production of
the 2012 Civic, which went on sale in April, will be at about 50
percent, it said.  “The light at the end of the tunnel is glowing brighter
for us, represented by this significant improvement in our
production situation,” John Mendel, executive vice president of
U.S. sales, said in the statement.  Global Demand  Moline, Illinois-based  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest
maker of  farm equipment , said on May 18 that earnings will be
$2.65 billion in the fiscal year through October, more than the
$2.5 billion forecast in February.  The manufacturer’s forecast includes a negative impact of
about $300 million in sales and $70 million in operating profit
because of disruptions from Japan. Global demand for agriculture
and construction equipment will drive profits, the company said.  The  U.S. economy  began 2011 on a weaker note, growing at a
1.8 percent annual rate in the first three months of this year
after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace in the fourth quarter,
according to Commerce Department figures.  The slowdown will “probably prove temporary,” with
manufacturing data and financial markets improving,  Federal
Reserve  Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said during
a May 6 press conference.  Dudley said he expects the impact of rising commodity
prices on inflation to be “transitory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  