-- 
Israel Corporate Outflows Soar on Greek Debt Concern

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-06-01T15:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/israel-corporate-outflows-soar-on-greek-debt-concern-correct-.html
(Corrects bond yield in seventh paragraph.)  Outflows from Israeli corporate bond
and mixed-securities funds in May were the highest in almost
three years as stock declines and  Europe ’s debt crisis spurred
demand for safer assets, Meitav Investment House Ltd. said.  About 3.5 billion shekels ($1.02 billion) were redeemed
from traditional mutual funds, including 2.6 billion shekels
from corporate-bond and mixed stock and bond funds, the biggest
redemption since November 2008, Tel Aviv-based Meitav said in a
report to clients today. Money-market funds raised 2.5 billion
shekels, the most since May 2010, while short-term  government
bonds  drew 600 million shekels, the most since January,
according to the report.  “Investors have been reducing their risk exposure,” Rony
After, mutual funds analyst at Meitav, wrote in the report.
“Negative news and data on the debt crisis in Europe, the
geopolitical situation and negative sentiment in stock markets
led to the panic.”  The German Bundesbank said May 20 Europe’s largest economy
will probably lose some growth momentum over the coming months
after an “explosive” start to the year. The same day,  Fitch
Ratings  cut  Greece ’s credit rating to B+, four levels below
investment grade, saying even a voluntary extension of bond
maturities being studied by European Union policy makers would
be considered a default.  ‘Flight to Safety’  The yield on the government’s benchmark 5 percent Mimshal
Shiklit bond, due January 2020, slumped 22 basis points, to 5.09
percent in May, the largest monthly drop since August.  “There is no doubt that May was the month of government
bonds, which benefited from the flight to safety environment,”
After wrote.  Elbit Imaging Ltd. (EMIT) ’s 5 percent bond maturing in April 2020,
tumbled in May, pushing the yield up 6.9 percentage points, the
most since October 2008.  The company’s ratings were placed on Credit Watch at
Standard and Poor’s and on Watchlist at Moody’s Midroog last
week amid speculation the controlling shareholder of the
investor in real estate and medical companies was having trouble
repaying debt. Elbit on May 24 said the “alleged disagreement”
between Bank Hapoalim Ltd. and Europe-Israel Ltd. and Mordechay
Zisser, “has no connection with the long-term loan agreement
between Elbit and Bank Hapoalim, under which Elbit is in full
satisfaction of its payment obligations.”  Elbit yesterday said its first-quarter loss narrowed to
63.3 million shekels from 135.6 million shekels, a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  