-- 
Lithuania Gets Atomic Plant Bids From Westinghouse, Hitachi

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-06-01T13:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/hitachi-ge-westinghouse-bid-to-build-lithuania-s-nuclear-plant.html
Lithuania received bids from
Westinghouse Electric Corp. and  Japan ’s Hitachi-GE Nuclear
Energy Ltd. to build a nuclear power plant after shutting the
Soviet-era Ignalina facility at the end of 2009.  The government will select the winning bidder this summer
as it seeks to replace Ignalina, which the European Union
ordered to be closed because of its similar design to the
Chernobyl reactor that exploded in 1986, the Vilnius-based
Energy Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  The Baltic nation plans to open a new plant in Visaginas in
2020 as Germany aims to close its units there. Lithuanian
support for nuclear energy has remained high after the Ignalina
closure pushed up energy costs and increased dependence on
Russian energy.  Lithuania  imports almost 50 percent of its
power. Russian gas monopoly OAO Gazprom supplies all of its gas.  “This project has a strategic significance across the
whole Baltic Region,” Westinghouse, the U.S.-based nuclear
reactor builder owned by Toshiba Corp., said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Westinghouse offered AP1000 reactor technology with a
proposed capacity of 1,154 megawatts in output along with “a
strong commercial proposal,” it said without elaborating.  German Chancellor Angel Merkel called on May 30 for the
closure of 17 nuclear reactors by 2022 in light of the partial
meltdown of Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
in Japan.  “For Lithuania and the whole region it is important to have
independent capacity to generate electricity,” Prime Minister
Andrius Kubilius told a news conference today. “Different
countries have different solutions to these issues.”  While  Germany  decided to close its plants, Sweden and
 Finland  are continuing to develop their nuclear power projects,
he said, adding that “we are choosing a path that we believe is
the best for Lithuania and for the whole region.”  Lithuania has said in the past that the strategic investor
could be offered as much as 51 percent stake in the new plant
and the agreement would require parliament’s approval.  The tender for a strategic investor to build a nuclear
plant failed last year after  Korea Electric Power Corp (KEP)  withdrew
its bid. Lithuania continued to look for an investor through
direct negotiations.  Kubilius said after the failed tender that Russian
officials sought to persuade European companies not to invest in
the project. Lithuania, which is building the plant along with
neighbors Latvia, Estonia and  Poland , expects construction to
begin in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 