-- 
Itzhak Perlman Says Tinkering With Avery Fisher’s Acoustics May Be Risky

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-06-01T21:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/itzhak-perlman-says-tinkering-with-avery-fisher-s-acoustics-may-be-risky.html
Itzhak Perlman said he enjoys
performing at  New York ’s  Avery Fisher Hall , and it might not be
a good idea to tweak the acoustics of the home of the  New York
Philharmonic .  “Personally, I like performing there,” the virtuoso
violinist and New York Philharmonic board member said in a phone
interview today about the venue located at Lincoln Center for
the Performing Arts. With other concert halls, “in several
instances, acoustics were changed and the sound didn’t end up
better. Sometimes it ends up better. Whenever I hear people
wanting to change the acoustics, I wish them good luck.”  Perlman’s comments came after a report in the Wall Street
Journal today that the 169-year-old orchestra is “exploring the
temporary occupancy” of the  David H. Koch Theater  if Avery
Fisher is renovated. The financially troubled New York City
Opera said last month it will leave the Koch Theater for a less
costly home.  The cost of renovating the concert hall is “expected to
top” $400 million, with the orchestra raising 40 percent of the
cost and  Lincoln Center  covering the remaining 60 percent, the
Journal reported, citing unnamed sources.  New York Philharmonic spokesman Eric Latzky said it is
“premature” to comment about where the orchestra would
relocate if Avery Fisher is renovated.  An “ad hoc group of trustees” from Lincoln Center and the
Philharmonic are discussing the future of the auditorium at
Avery Fisher Hall, said Betsy Vorce, a Lincoln Center spokesman.
Neither Vorce nor Latzky would disclose the names of the
committee’s members.  Acoustics Critics  Since Avery Fisher’s opening in 1962, patrons and concert
goers have criticized the concert hall’s acoustics for hampering
the orchestra’s sound. In 2003, the New York Philharmonic made
an agreement to relocate to  Carnegie Hall , but the deal fell
through.  “I wouldn’t say it’s a loud hall,” Perlman said of Avery
Fisher. “I don’t listen to myself in the hall, but as a
performer, I enjoy it.”  Perlman said the issue of relocating the orchestra hadn’t
been discussed at recent board meetings.  “I don’t see anything wrong with thinking about a move,”
Perlman said. “It’s not as though we’ve decided to move to a
particular location. Exploring is exploring. Nothing is set in
stone.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 