-- 
Ivory Coast’s Eurobonds Rise on Speculation Interest Payments May be Made

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-01T12:06:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/ivory-coast-eurobonds-rise-on-speculation-government-will-pay.html
Ivory Coast ’s defaulted Eurobonds
gained, rising from their lowest level since April, on
speculation the government may make an payment as soon as
December after saying it would miss a June 30 interest
installment yesterday.  Creditors will probably “remain lenient with the Ivorians
given the crisis and the reputational consequences of pushing
for a tough restructuring,” David Petitcolin, an emerging-
markets analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London,
said in an e-mailed reply to questions today. “We currently
expect the bond to continue trading and would expect payments to
resume at the next coupon date in December.”  The $2.3 billion of dollar-denominated bonds due 2032 of
the world’s biggest cocoa producer gained 2 percent to 54.125
cents on the dollar as of 12:14 p.m. in  London , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The debt fell 6.2 percent
yesterday to 53.068 cents on the dollar, the lowest price since
April 11. The bonds have rallied 55 percent since their record
low on March 16.  The West African nation will not make a $28.6 million
interest payment due by June 30 and will ask creditors to
“renegotiate,” Finance Minister Charles Koffi Diby told
reporters yesterday in the commercial capital, Abidjan.  The government hasn’t contacted the London Club of
creditors about interest payments on the bonds, Thierry Desjardins, chairman of the London Club, said by telephone
today.  No Contact  “We have not heard at all from the minister, neither
officially or conversationally,” said Desjardins, who is also
Paris-based vice president of sovereign debt restructuring at
BNP Paribas SA.  Ivory Coast  failed to make a $29 million interest payment
due at the end of January as  Alassane Ouattara , internationally
recognized as victor of November elections, was locked in a
five-month political standoff with  Laurent Gbagbo , whose refusal
to step down triggered a civil war.  The “base case is a regularization of arrears at a later
stage this year without a restructuring,” Michel Aubenas, an
emerging-market debt portfolio manager at Fischer Francis Trees
& Watts, a subsidiary of BNP Paribas SA, in London, said by e-
mail today. “The coupon payments are not large so the incentive
to restructure is not there.”  Emergency Funding  The government is seeking emergency funds from the
 International Monetary Fund , the  World Bank  and the  African
Development Bank  in a bid to stabilize the economy after the
four-month political crisis that following a disputed November
presidential vote. More than 2,000 people may have died in post-
election violence, according to the  United Nations .  The African Development Bank will give 77 billion  CFA
francs  ($168 million) in budget-support funding to Ivory Coast,
Richard Dofonssou, the Tunis-based lender’s representative in
the country, said yesterday.  The Washington-based IMF’s board will decide on whether to
approve a $130 million loan in July, Doris Ross, head of the
delegation of international lenders visiting the nation, told
reporters in Abidjan yesterday.  Ivory Coast’s economy may contract 7.5 percent this year,
from growth of 2.6 percent in 2010, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  