-- 
Ivory Coast Wants Bond-Pay Schedule Revision, Minister Says

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-01T23:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/ivory-coast-wants-to-revise-bond-payment-schedule-finance-minister-says.html
Ivory Coast is “looking to revise”
the schedule of payments it needs to make on its defaulted
Eurobonds, and not the terms of the debt itself, said Finance
Minister Charles Koffi Diby.  An Ivorian team will hold talks with the Paris and  London 
clubs of creditors next week “to see what we can do and find an
agreement that satisfies the market, the creditors, and Ivory
Coast,” Diby said in a phone interview today. “We are
committed to respecting our creditors.”  The $2.3 billion of dollar-denominated bonds due 2032 of
the world’s biggest cocoa producer gained 4.2 percent to 55.286
cents on the dollar as of 4:01 p.m. in London, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The debt fell 6.2 percent
yesterday to 53.068 cents on the dollar, the lowest price since
April 11. The bonds have rallied 58 percent since their record
low on March 16.  The West African nation will not make a $28.6 million
interest payment due by June 30, Diby told reporters yesterday.
 Ivory Coast  failed to make a $29 million interest payment due at
the end of January as  Alassane Ouattara , internationally
recognized as victor of Nov. 28 elections, was locked in a five-
month political standoff with  Laurent Gbagbo , whose refusal to
step down triggered a civil war.  IMF, ADB Support  The government hasn’t contacted the London Club of
creditors about interest payments on the bonds, Thierry Desjardins, chairman of the London Club, said by telephone
earlier today. Ivory Coast is looking to present a proposal to
bondholders by July, Diby said in a statement posted today on
the Emerging Markets Traders Association website.  The government is seeking emergency funds from the
 International Monetary Fund , the  World Bank  and the  African
Development Bank  in a bid to stabilize the economy after the
four-month political crisis that following a disputed November
presidential vote. More than 2,000 people may have died in post-
election violence, according to the  United Nations .  The African Development Bank will give 77 billion  CFA
francs  ($168 million) in budget-support funding to Ivory Coast,
Richard Dofonssou, the Tunis-based lender’s representative in
the country, said yesterday.  The Washington-based IMF’s board will decide on whether to
approve a $130 million loan in July, Doris Ross, head of the
delegation of international lenders visiting the nation, told
reporters in Abidjan yesterday.  Ivory Coast’s economy may contract 7.5 percent this year,
from growth of 2.6 percent in 2010, according to the IMF.  “Clearly, trade and export activities have only started to
resume after the post-election crisis and many businesses
affected by the violence and looting are in need of financial
support,” Barclays Capital strategists, including London-based
Andreas Kolbe, wrote in a research note today. “Against this
background, the payment of the bond coupon does not seem of
utmost priority at this stage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  