-- 
Jacobsen of Norway Starts Building 100-Megawatt Power Plant in Tanzania

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-06-01T10:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/jacobsen-of-norway-starts-building-100-megawatt-power-plant-in-tanzania.html
Jacobsen Elektro AS, a Norwegian
power-plant builder, started constructing a 100-megawatt gas-
fired facility in  Tanzania ’s commercial capital,  Dar es Salaam ,
according to the East African nation’s power utility.  The plant is part of government’s measures to increase
electricity generation by at least 650 megawatts in the next two
to three years,  Tanzania Electric Supply Co.  Communications
Manager Badra Masoud said by phone from the city today.  “Construction of a 60-megawatt plant that will use heavy
fuel oil to generate electricity in Mwanza has also started,”
Masoud said, without naming the company building that plant. The
two projects are funded by Tanzania and  Norway  through a loan,
she said.  Economic growth in Tanzania, East Africa’s second-biggest
economy, will probably slow to 6 percent this year from 7
percent in 2010 due to power shortages, the  International
Monetary Fund  said on March 18. A prolonged drought has cut
electricity from hydropower plants resulting in a deficit of 264
megawatts, Energy and Minerals Minister William Ngeleja said on
Feb. 16.  A Chinese company has been selected to construct a 300-
megawatt power plant at Mtwara, Masoud said, declining to name
the company. Tanesco, as the utility is known, is in the tender
process for the construction of a 150-megawatt facility in Dar
es Salaam, she said. Both plants will be gas-fired.  In January 2007, Paris-based  Etablissements Maurel et Prom (MAU) 
SA found a flow of 19.2 million cubic feet per day of natural
gas in Mkuranga, according to information on its website.  Government will also rent heavy  fuel oil  generators with
installed electricity production capacity of 70 megawatts in
Tanga, Masoud said. “Government has identified someone willing
to sell the electricity to us in Tanga,” she said without
naming the owner of the generators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Johannesburg at
   asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net 
undefinedundefined 