-- 
Japanese Stocks Rise for a Second Day; Nuclear Power Companies Decline

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-06-01T07:43:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/japanese-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-kansai-electric-declines.html
Japanese stocks added to yesterday’s
advance, the biggest in two months, even as nuclear power
producers tumbled after Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut their
ratings in the wake of the Fukushima accident.  Idemitsu Kosan Co.,  Japan ’s third-biggest refiner by
capacity, jumped 2.8 percent after crude prices advanced amid
signs  Europe ’s debt crisis may ease, stoking speculation fuel
demand will increase.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., owner of the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, sank 5.7 percent after
Merrill Lynch said the utility’s future as a listed company is
uncertain. Chubu Electric Power Co. lost 2.2 percent after the
brokerage cut its rating on the utility.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 0.3 percent to 9,719.61
at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo after dropping as much as 0.4
percent. The gauge added 2 percent yesterday, the most since
March 30, amid optimism the European Union will approve more aid
for  Greece , without forcing a debt default.  “Investors are less concerned about Europe’s finances and
are returning to risk assets, which is positive for the
market,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager in Tokyo at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  The broader Topix rose 0.1 percent to 839.41. The index has
tumbled 9.8 percent since a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami
devastated Japan’s northeast coast on March 11, disabling  Tokyo
Electric ’s plant and disrupting supply chains at manufacturers.  U.S. Home Prices  Investors shrugged off a report showing U.S. home prices
fell. Shares also gained even as mounting discord over Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s handling of the earthquake disaster
emboldened opposition lawmakers to force a no-confidence vote,
which could come as early as tomorrow.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped in March to the
lowest level since 2003, suggesting that the industry which
triggered the recession has yet to recover. A separate report
showed confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly declined in
May to a six-month low.  At least fifty-three members of Kan’s own  Democratic Party
of Japan  will support a no-confidence motion, according to an
Asahi newspaper poll today. While that leaves the main
opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  at least 32 votes short of
passage, the paper said it had contacted less than 60 percent of
the DPJ’s legislators.  Crude Rises  Idemitsu gained 2.8 percent to 9,240 yen after oil gained
and Citigroup Inc. boosted the company’s rating to “buy” from
“hold.”  Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. (1662) , the nation’s second-
largest oil explorer, advanced 1.4 percent to 3,935 yen.  AOC
Holdings Inc. (5017) , a driller whose target stock price was raised to
680 yen from 660 yen by Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co., climbed 3.1 percent to 505 yen.  Crude for July delivery rose as much as 52 cents to $103.22
a barrel in electronic trading today in  New York . The fuel
gained 2.1 percent to settle at $102.70 a barrel yesterday.  Tokyo Electric sank 5.7 percent to 299 yen after Merrill
Lynch said the future of the utility’s listing hinges on
politics. Shares of the company, which posted the biggest loss
on record for a non-financial Japanese company, have fallen more
than 85 percent since March’s disaster.  “For now, the company and the government plan to maintain
the utility’s listing,” Merrill Lynch said in a Japanese-
language report dated yesterday. “Depending on the future
direction of politics, that may change.”  Chubu Electric, which last month halted one its reactors,
lost 2.2 percent to 1,254 yen. Merrill Lynch cut its rating on
the stock to “neutral” from “buy,” citing the cancellation
of plans to buy back shares.  Hokuriku Electric Power Co. (9505)  and Hokkaido Electric Power Co.
also fell after the brokerage downgraded them to “underperform”
from “neutral.”  “There’s no prospect that the radiation problem will be
solved anytime soon,” said Hisakazu Amano, who helps oversee
about $29 billion at Tokyo-based T&D Asset Management Co.
“Other utilities are inevitably going to have to share the
costs of the cleanup.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 Skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 