-- 
Johnson & Johnson Hid Antibiotic Levaquin Risk, Lawyer Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 
2011-06-01T18:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/johnson-johnson-hid-risks-of-antibiotic-levaquin-lawyer-says-at-trial.html
A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit knew its
antibiotic Levaquin increased the risk of tendon damage in the
elderly and failed to properly warn patients or doctors, a
lawyer said today at the start of a trial in Minnesota.  Calvin Christensen, 84, who said he ruptured the Achilles
tendon in his right foot after taking the drug while
hospitalized with pneumonia, sued the company and its Ortho-
McNeil Pharmaceutical unit in 2007. The companies downplayed the
risks of Levaquin to boost the drug’s sales, Christensen’s
lawyer, Saul Lewis, said in his opening statement.  “Johnson & Johnson hid the risk from doctors and the
public,” Saul told the Minneapolis jury today. “They sold $15
billion worth of Levaquin in the U.S.”  Christensen’s case is the second of more than 2,500 pending
claims in U.S. courts to go to trial over allegations that
Levaquin caused tendon damage in patients and that the company
failed to adequately disclose the risk. J&J and Ortho-McNeil
lost the first trial when a separate Minneapolis jury awarded
$1.8 million to an 84-year-old man who ruptured both Achilles
tendons.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in 2008 required an
upgraded warning on tendon damage posed by Levaquin and similar
drugs. Christensen claims the warning should have been enhanced
earlier and that Johnson & Johnson and Ortho-McNeil, now Ortho-
McNeil-Janssen, targeted the elderly for drug sales.  ‘Tendon Ruptures’  The companies deny any failure to warn. The Levaquin label
“has included warnings about tendonitis and tendon ruptures,”
since it was first approved by the FDA in 1996, Bill Foster, a
J&J spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “Additionally, the evidence will show that the plaintiff’s
prescribing physician was aware of the risks of Levaquin,
including the risk of tendon rupture in elderly patients,” he
said.  Levaquin had U.S. sales of $1.3 billion in 2010 and $422
million in the first quarter of 2011. Levaquin, a member of a
class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, was developed to
treat serious and life-threatening infections, Foster said.  The drug has been prescribed more than 430 million times
worldwide, company lawyers said in court papers last year.  “It’s a blockbuster because it does just what our credo
says,” James Irwin, a J&J lawyer, said today in his opening
statement. “Our credo says we put patients and doctors first.”  J&J studied Levaquin’s side effects and properly informed
the FDA and the public, Irwin told the jury.  “It was suggested we were trying to hide the ball,” he
said. “We were ahead of everyone else.”  Black-Box Warning  The FDA in 2008 required Johnson & Johnson and makers of
other drugs in the class to include a so-called black box or
enhanced warning on the risk of tendon ruptures. The risk was
higher in patients older than 60, those taking steroids, or who
have had kidney, heart or lung transplants, the FDA said.  J&J was aware of the increased risk before adding the black
box warning, Christensen said in his complaint.  Regulatory officials in France, Italy and  Belgium  sent out
so-called Dear Doctor letters of the risk of tendon injury among
the elderly in 2002, Christensen said.  Ortho-McNeil upgraded its warning in the U.S. in 2002,
adding the increased risk to patients taking steroids,
particularly elderly patients, Christensen said. This wasn’t
enough, because Ortho-McNeil didn’t send out Dear Doctor letters
in the U.S. about the change and “muted” the additional
warning, he said in court papers.  ‘Diffused Effect’  “Rather than warn that the risk of tendon injury was
increased (tripled) in the elderly, the warning stated that the
risk was possibly increased in those using corticosteroids,” he
said in his amended complaint in June 2008. This implied that an
elderly patient who wasn’t on steroids had no additional risk of
tendon injury, Christensen said. This “diffused any possible
effect of warning physicians of the effect of age,” he said.  Christensen, who took the drug in May 2006, required
surgery after rupturing his right Achilles tendon and was left
with “permanent instability and loss of balance,” according to
his complaint. “Even with immobilization for long periods of
time and physical therapy, the Achilles tendons in the elderly
rarely fully recover,” he said in court papers.  “If Johnson & Johnson had properly warned his doctor, the
injury would not have occurred,” Ronald Goldser, one of his
attorneys, said in court today. “His doctor would have
prescribed a different drug.”  ‘One in 8,000’  “No one was worried about a one in 8,000 chance of
Achilles rupture,” Irwin, the J&J lawyer, said today.
“Everyone was worried about getting Calvin Christensen home to
his wife.”  Almost 1,000 claims over Levaquin side effects are combined
as a multidistrict litigation, or MDL, in federal court in
 Minneapolis  before U.S. District Judge John R. Tunheim. Another
1,512 cases are pending in  New Jersey , with the rest in other
states, according to court filings.  In the first trial on Levaquin claims in the MDL, a
Minneapolis jury in December awarded plaintiff John Schedin
$700,000 in actual damages and $1.1 million in punitive damages.
The jury found Schedin 10 percent liable for the injury. Ortho-
McNeil filed for a new trial in April.  The lawsuit is Christensen v. Johnson & Johnson, 07-03960,
combined for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability
Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis,  Minnesota , at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 