-- 
JPMorgan, Credit Suisse Lead Treasury Mortgage-Bond Buyers

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-06-01T16:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/jpmorgan-credit-suisse-lead-treasury-sales-of-mortgage-bonds.html
     June 1 (Bloomberg) --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  lead dealers purchasing mortgage bonds sold by
the U.S. Treasury since the department began disposing of its
holdings in March.  Sales totaled $10 billion in May, bringing the amount off-
loaded to $23.7 billion, the department said today in an e-
mailed statement from Washington. The Treasury has said it plans
to sell as much as $10 billion a month.  Today is the first time the Treasury disclosed buyers of
the securities, which are guaranteed by government-supported
mortgage-finance companies Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac . New York-
based JPMorgan bought 17.8 percent of the securities sold since
March, while Zurich-based Credit Suisse bought 11.8 percent,
according to the department’s rankings.  “We believe that the publication of this scorecard will
help both maximize taxpayer returns and provide additional
transparency,”  Mary Miller , the Treasury’s assistant secretary
for financial markets, said in a May 2 statement.  The  department  began buying  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
mortgage securities after seizing the companies in September
2008 as then-Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  sought to
stabilize markets and reduce the cost of mortgages amid the
worst global financial crisis and U.S. housing slump since the
Great Depression.  Fed Program  The Federal Reserve the next year started its own program
to purchase $1.25 trillion of agency mortgage securities.
Acquisitions in the $5.4 trillion market ended in March 2010.  The Treasury’s holdings of mortgage bonds fell to $106
billion at the end of May, down 45 percent from a peak of $192
billion in December 2009, according to the department’s data.
Refinancing and home sales tied to loans underlying the bonds
have also shrunk the portfolio.  Barclays Capital and Royal Bank of Canada ranked as the
third- and fourth-largest purchasers from the Treasury since its
sales began, according to the data. Each bought 10 percent, the
data showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  