-- 
Juniper Falls After CEO Says Economy Is Affecting Performance

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-06-01T20:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/juniper-networks-declines-after-ceo-says-economy-affecting-its-performance.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  dropped the
most in more than two years after it said weakness in the
overall economy is affecting performance and that most sales for
the quarter will come toward the end of the period.  Sales so far in the three months ending June 30 indicate a
“back-end loaded quarter,” said Kevin Johnson, chief executive
officer of the second-largest maker of computer networking
equipment, who spoke at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Technology Conference in  New York .  “There is reason to be somewhat cautious, but yet maintain
optimism about the long-term growth models that we’ve outlined
and the demand for networking long-term,” he said.  Investors reacted to the comments because they could imply
the company, which typically gets about half its sales in the
last month of the quarter, may be lagging behind its financial
targets, Michael Genovese, an analyst at MKM Partners LP in
Greenwich, Connecticut said. Juniper, which competes with larger
rival  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , may need a better June that normal,
Genovese said.  “If they don’t have a good June, they are going to miss,”
said Genovese, who recommends buying the shares.  Juniper, based in Sunnyvale,  California , tumbled $3.64, or
10 percent, to $32.97 at 4:15 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. It was the company’s steepest fall since January
30, 2009, according to Bloomberg data. The shares have fallen 11
percent this year.  Juniper’s decline also contributed to a drop for  Ciena
Corp. (CIEN) , a Linthicum, Maryland-based maker of network gear for
U.S. phone companies, Genovese said. Ciena fell $1.27, or 4.8
percent, to $25.48 in Nasdaq trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  