-- 
Kan Signals He’ll Step Down After Post-Quake Japan Crisis

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-06-02T05:21:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/kan-ouster-risk-rises-as-no-confidence-vote-may-see-ruling-party-divided.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
signaled he’ll resign once a solution to the nation’s post-
earthquake crisis is in sight, in an appeal to ruling party
lawmakers to reject a no-confidence vote today.  Today’s motion could attract enough support within his
 Democratic Party of Japan  to pass, requiring Kan either to call
new elections or resign within ten days. Rising discontent over
his handling of the March earthquake that precipitated the worst
nuclear disaster in 25 years has emboldened opposition lawmakers
to force the vote.  “I’d like to pass on my responsibility to a younger
generation once we reach a certain stage in tackling the
disaster and I’ve fulfilled my role,” Kan said in a nationally
televised meeting of DPJ lawmakers ahead of today’s vote. “Until
then I want to fulfill my responsibility with you. I ask you to
unite and reject the motion.”  The possibility of yet another change in government has
rattled markets, adding to concerns over the nation’s debt
burden and sending bond yields up. Even if Kan survives the vote,
the lack of ruling party unity may leave his government
paralyzed amid the country’s biggest crisis since World War II.  Japanese government bond futures rose after Kan’s statement.
with ten-year yields dropping the most in about four weeks,
falling five basis points to 1.13 percent. The yen was little
changed at 81.01 per dollar at 2:15 p.m. in Tokyo, while the
benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.6 percent.  Hatoyama Urges Unity  Former Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama  urged party unity in
defeating the measure, telling lawmakers at the same meeting
that he would like Kan to step down once a second post-quake
reconstruction bill is drafted.  “Regardless of the outcome, the process will further
divide the DPJ, further weaken Kan and make it all the more
difficult to deal with this crisis,” said  Gerald Curtis , a
Japanese politics professor at  Columbia University  in  New York .
Politicians “are so focused on their petty power struggles that
the national interest has clearly taken a back seat.”  The main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , the New
Komeito party and the Sunrise Party of  Japan  yesterday evening
submitted the motion to the Diet’s lower house. The chamber
began debate around 1:30 p.m. The vote will take place around 3
p.m., NHK Television said.  LDP leader Sadakazu Tanigaki yesterday repeated his call
for Kan to step down in a parliamentary debate, saying the prime
minister’s resignation “would pave the way for cross-party
unity.” Kan, 64, reiterated his intention to remain in office.  Vote Support  Sixty-two ruling party legislators expressed their
intention to support the measure, the Asahi newspaper reported
today. The DPJ and its allies  hold  309 of the seats in the 480-
member House of Representatives. The motion needs 240 votes to
pass as the parliamentary speaker doesn’t vote, though the
threshold may drop if some lawmakers abstain.  The Asahi reported that many of the DPJ members who said
they would support the motion are part of a group headed by
indicted former party chief  Ichiro Ozawa , who in an interview
last week with the Wall Street Journal said Kan should quit as
soon as possible. Ozawa will vote in favor and may form a new
party if he is expelled from the DPJ,  Kyodo News  reported,
citing an unidentified person close to him.  “At this moment, I think passage of the no-confidence
motion will be difficult,” Tokyo-based independent political
analyst Hirotada Asakawa said in a phone interview. “But the
DPJ will essentially be split and Kan will have to step down as
early as this month.”  Kan Successor  Possible successors to Kan include Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano, former foreign minister  Seiji Maehara  and DPJ
Secretary-General Katsuya Okada. All were among a group voters
cited as preferable candidates in a Nikkei newspaper survey
published May 30.  Kan’s approval rating was 26 percent in an Asahi poll
published May 16, up five percentage points from a month ago,
while his unfavorable rating was 51 percent. Almost two-thirds
of those asked disapproved of his response to the crisis at
 Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic power plant,
where reactor meltdowns sent radiation into the air and sea and
prompted the evacuation of 50,000 households.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  yesterday said Japan
underestimated the tsunami hazard at several nuclear  power
plants  and called for greater independence for its regulators.  Rise to Power  Several opposition groups coalesced to form the DPJ in 1998
and the party came to power in 2009, ending the monopoly of the
LDP, which had ruled for all but 10 months since 1955. Kan took
office after Hatoyama resigned in June last year when he reneged
on an election pledge to move a U.S. military base from the
island of Okinawa, angering local residents and prompting a
coalition partner to bolt the government.  Kan has been unable to reach common ground with the LDP
over efforts to rebuild in the wake of the disaster, which left
almost 24,000 people dead or missing. He has also failed to win
opposition support for legislation authorizing 44.3 trillion yen
($545 billion) in government bond sales to finance Japan’s debt.  Moody’s Investors Service on May 31 put the country’s debt
rating on review for a downgrade, citing concerns over the
government’s ability to fashion and “achieve a credible deficit
reduction target” and the “intensifying level of political
challenges” for Kan.  Japan’s bonds yesterday fell for a second day, pushing 10-
year yields near a two-week high, on political concerns.  ‘Political Vacuum’  “International markets are taking notice of this political
vacuum called the Diet,” said political analyst  Jeff Kingston ,
head of the Asian Studies program at  Temple University ’s Tokyo
campus.  Kingston said he doubted the no-confidence measure would
pass, adding that “when it comes to pulling the trigger,” some
of those who say they will back it will change their minds. He
cited Edano and Okada as possible successors to Kan.  Parliament last month approved an initial 4 trillion yen
reconstruction package and Kan yesterday said the next stimulus,
which needs opposition support, will be on a “big scale.” Kan
said he may extend the current parliament session, scheduled to
end June 22, to consider drafting the plan.  Vote Punishment  Government officials have said the no-confidence motion
will fail and signaled that DPJ lawmakers who support it will be
punished.  “Voting for the no-confidence measure would not be the
action of a ruling party member,” Edano told reporters
yesterday in Tokyo. Okada  Ozawa, who has been suspended from the party for the
duration of his trial on charges of violating campaign financing
laws, engineered the DPJ’s 2009 landslide lower-house victory.
Kan defeated Ozawa in a party leadership election in September
and has marginalized him since, provoking a backlash from Ozawa
supporters.  “I want Mr. Kan to make a bold decision and step down,”
DPJ lawmaker and Ozawa ally Kenko Matsuki said May 31 in an
interview, adding that he will support the no-confidence vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  