-- 
KBC Slumps Most in Four Months on Report of Possible Share Sale

-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-06-01T17:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/kbc-examining-changes-to-belgian-bank-s-strategic-plan-1-.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) , the recipient of 7
billion euros ($10.1 billion) in Belgian government rescue
funds, fell the most in four months in Brussels following a
report that the bank considers a share sale early next year.  KBC fell 6.2 percent to 27.56 euros on Euronext Brussels
today, the biggest decline since Jan. 10. In response to a
report in  De Tijd  newspaper that the bank considers raising
about 2 billion euros in a share sale next year, KBC said there
has been no change to the strategic plan announced in November
2009, which it continues to execute.  “However, KBC, like many of its peers, continuously
receives offers, suggestions, proposals and also looks at
alternatives,” the Brussels-based bank and insurer said in an
e-mailed statement today. The company “is currently pro-
actively examining what the added value of certain changes to
its strategic plan could be, while ensuring the commitment made
to the European Commission.”  A share sale would be a U-turn from KBC’s original plan to
repay the state aid from retained earnings, proceeds from
disposals and surplus capital accumulated from a reduction of
risk-weighted assets. KBC agreed to dispose of units including
its private bank and sell a minority stake in the Czech banking
unit in a public offering to gain European Union approval for
the bailout, seeking to avoid dilution for its controlling
shareholders, who own a combined 54.3 percent.  KBC is working on the share sale, which may take place in
the first half of 2012, De Tijd reported, without saying where
it got the information. KBC is also considering repaying 3.5
billion euros of Belgian state aid at the end of the year,
according to the newspaper.  ‘Being Diluted’  “The European Commission will need to ultimately approve
any changes to the original plan,” Benoit Petrarque, an analyst
at Kepler Capital Markets in Amsterdam who has a “buy”
recommendation on KBC, wrote in a note to investors today. “The
plan will also need to be discussed with CERA and Ancora and we
don’t think they like the idea of being diluted.”  KBC Ancora (KBCA)  CVA, the biggest shareholder with a 23 percent
stake, lost 5.7 percent to 12.96 euros on Euronext Brussels, the
lowest close in almost five weeks. KBC Ancora had net debt of
about 651 million euros at the end of March and dividends from
KBC are its only source of revenue. CERA CVBA, one of the three
companies that joined to form KBC in the 1998, still has a 7.3%
shareholding.  KBC had 4.8 billion euros in surplus capital at the end of
March and will meet the global rules on capital and liquidity
endorsed by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , known as
Basel III, Viviane Huybrecht, a spokeswoman for KBC, said by
telephone today.  The three-point plan of divestments, reduction of risk-
weighted assets and profit generation agreed with the European
Commission will enable the repayment of the “bulk” of capital
received in government aid by the end of 2013, she said.  Retail Banking  KBC agreed in March to sell its Centea retail-banking unit
in  Belgium  to a unit of Credit Agricole SA, and has put its
private bank up for sale again after an agreement to sell it to
Hinduja Group was blocked by the Luxembourg regulator. The bank
also has other units scheduled for divestment, including its
insurance broker Fidea NV, a German lending unit and Antwerp
Diamond Bank.  Its planned public offering of a minority stake in its
Czech banking unit remains on hold pending “optimal
conditions,” Huybrecht reiterated today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net . 