-- 
Rafael Nadal, Andy Murray, Li Na, Sharapova Reach French Open Semifinals

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-06-01T18:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/nadal-sharapova-advance-to-semifinals-of-french-open-tournament-in-paris.html
Rafael Nadal  moved within two wins of
his record-tying sixth French Open championship with a straight-
set quarterfinal victory over  Robin Soderling , the only player
to beat him in Paris.  Nadal of Spain beat Soderling, the fifth seed from Sweden,
6-4, 6-1, 7-6 (7-3) in a rematch of last year’s final. The win
means Nadal has a chance to retain the No. 1 spot in the ATP
World Tour rankings.  “I am very happy to make the semifinals once again,”
Nadal said in a courtside interview. “Today was a very
important victory for me. I had a very good level, and Robin had
a few more mistakes than usual.”  Nadal is now 43-1 at the  French Open , his lone loss coming
against Soderling in the fourth round two years ago. He next
plays No. 4  Andy Murray  of Britain, who beat Argentina’s Juan Ignacio Chela 7-6 (7-2), 7-5, 6-2, in the semifinals in two
days.  Li Na and  Maria Sharapova  also won in straight sets to set
up a women’s semifinal meeting.  The sixth-seeded Li defeated fourth-seeded  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus 7-5, 6-2 to become the first Chinese player
in the semifinals at Roland Garros. Sharapova, the seventh seed
from  Russia , beat No. 15  Andrea Petkovic  of Germany 6-0, 6-3.  “I never think I could play semis in Roland Garros,” Li,
whose previous best finish in Paris was the fourth round two
years ago, said in a news conference. “I think I can play in
the other three, but never think about  Roland Garros .”  13 Errors  Nadal made just 13 unforced errors today, 28 fewer than
Soderling. He took the first set when the Swede dumped a
backhand into the net, then made just two errors in winning the
second.  Nadal took a 2-1 lead in the third-set tiebreaker, wining
both points off Soderling’s serve. The tiebreak then stayed on
serve until Soderling put a forehand into the net to give Nadal
the victory.  Murray advanced to his first French Open semifinal after
making 44 unforced errors to Chela’s 35. Murray had 59 winners
and broke Chela’s serve eight times, including the first and
final games of the last set.  Nadal has won 10 of 14 matches against Murray, including
all three on clay. The Spaniard has won three of their five
meetings at Grand Slams, most recently in last year’s Wimbledon
semifinals.  “Playing against Andy is always a big challenge,” Nadal
told reporters. “He has all the shots. He can defend very well,
he can attack very well, he runs fantastic. The only thing that
you can beat him is playing at a very, very high level.”  Top Four  No. 2 Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  meets Roger Federer, the 16-
time Grand Slam champion and No. 3 seed, in the other semifinal.
It’s the first time the four top seeds have reached a Grand Slam
semifinal since Roland Garros in 2006.  Li had 21 winners and five service breaks in beating
Azarenka, the highest-seeded woman left in the field. It’s her
second consecutive Grand Slam semifinal after losing to Kim Clijsters in the Australian Open final in January  Sharapova needed just 32 minutes to win the first set at
love. After five service breaks gave Sharapova a 4-3 lead in the
second, she held and then wrapped up the victory with a break as
Petkovic put a forehand into the net.  “I’m in the semifinal stage of this tournament and my goal
is just to take it a step further right now,” Sharapova, who
would complete the career Grand slam with a title in Paris, said
in a news conference.  Defending champion Francesca Schiavone of  Italy , the No. 5
seed, meets No. 11 Marion Bartoli of France in tomorrow’s other
women’s semifinal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 