-- 
NATO Extends Libya Mission After Vowing to Intensify Attacks

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-06-01T19:41:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/nato-extends-libya-mission-after-vowing-to-intensify-attacks-1-.html
The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and its military partners extended their mission in
 Libya  by 90 days as the coalition intensifies attacks on forces
loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi .  “This decision sends a clear message to the Qaddafi
regime: We are determined to continue our operation to protect
the people of Libya,” NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said in a  statement  released today. “We will sustain
our efforts to fulfill the United Nations mandate. We will keep
up the pressure to see it through.”  The conflict between Qaddafi’s troops and rebels trying to
end his four-decade rule has left most of the east in opposition
hands and curbed oil exports. NATO said May 20 its increased air
campaign has “effectively” pushed Qaddafi into hiding.  Air forces from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
fired on a vehicle storage facility in Tripoli, the capital,
yesterday and destroyed three surface-to-air missile launchers,
the alliance said in a separate statement today. They also
struck logistical targets in the cities of Misrata, Zawiyah and
Brega, NATO said.  The campaign has “largely paralyzed” the regime’s
command-and-control structure, spokeswoman Oana Lungescu told
reporters at NATO headquarters in Brussels yesterday.  The mission was authorized by a UN mandate to impose an
arms embargo and no-fly zone, and protect civilians from attack.  Benghazi Bomb  A car bomb exploded today near a hotel in the rebel’s de
facto capital, Benghazi. The blast occurred near the Tibesti
Hotel, used by visiting foreign officials and journalists. There
were no immediate reports of fatalities. Police fired into the
air to disperse a crowd that had gathered after the explosion.  In  Rome , former Libyan oil minister  Shokri Ghanem  confirmed
to the Italian news agency ANSA that he had abandoned the
Qaddafi regime last month and will join the opposition, after
trying unsuccessfully to change the regime from within. There is
“a lot of pressure both internal and external” on the regime,
he said.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will attend a June
9 meeting of the 22-nation contact group on Libya taking place
in the  United Arab Emirates , State Department spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday.  An international fund has been established to provide
humanitarian aid and other assistance to the rebel forces
fighting Qaddafi’s regime, with Qatar contributing $400 million
to $500 million and  Kuwait  $180 million, Qatari Prime Minister
Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabor al-Thani said May 5.  Financial Pressure  The contact group pledged last month to step up pressure on
Qaddafi to leave power and called for financial assets linked to
the regime that have been frozen by international sanctions to
be turned over to the fund.  Jordan will fly 100 Libyans wounded in the uprising to the
country’s capital, Amman, for hospital treatment next week, the
head of Jordan’s Private Hospitals Association said yesterday.
The action is sponsored by the group, with the treatment of each
patient costing an average of 12,000 dinars ($16,900), he said.  The unrest in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, caused supplies from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries to decline in April, the  International
Energy Agency  said May 12. Supplies from the North African
nation “will remain absent from the market for the rest of
2011,” the agency said.  Crude for July delivery settled at $100.29 a barrel, down
$2.41, on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , after jobs and
manufacturing data pointed to a slowing economy. Prices climbed
$2.11 to $102.70 yesterday, the highest since May 10. Oil
slipped 9.9 percent in May, the first decline in nine months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Dubai at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  