-- 
Netflix’s Hastings May Pay $300 Million for Starz Rights

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-06-01T20:19:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/netflix-s-hastings-may-pay-300-million-for-starz-rights-1-.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive Officer
Reed Hastings said it “wouldn’t be shocking” to pay as much as
$300 million a year to renew a licensing agreement for movies
and TV shows with Liberty Media Corp.’s Starz unit.  “We haven’t done a deal yet, so it’s hard to know,”
Hastings said today at the All Things D Conference in Rancho
Palos Verdes,  California , in response to suggestions Netflix may
pay $200 million to $300 million to renew the accord. Netflix
pays more every time it renews an agreement, he said.  Netflix, the film streaming and DVD rental service based in
Los Gatos, California, signed a three-year deal with Starz in
2008 for original programs and movies from  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  Rich Greenfield, an analyst with BTIG LLC in  New
York , estimated in August 2010 that Netflix was paying $30
million under that agreement.  The deal, which expires in the first quarter of 2012,
boosted subscriber growth and helped accelerate the company’s
transition from a DVD-by-mail company to an online provider of
movies and television shows. The service is available in the
U.S. and  Canada .  Netflix fell $3.54 to $267.26 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have risen 52 percent
this year.  Netflix has been moving to expand its $7.99 monthly “Watch
Instantly” online offering as competitors such as Hulu LLC and
Amazon.com Inc. entered the market for subscription-based
unlimited streaming.  ‘House of Cards’  Hastings said Netflix plans to announce its expansion into
a third country in the second half. The company will maintain an
aggressive worldwide rollout as it secures streaming rights
country by country, he said, adding such growth could hurt
profits. The company plans to remain independent, he said.  The company would rather obtain all the rights to previous
seasons of existing television shows than purchase more risky
original content that subscribers may not like, Hastings said.  “Our preference would be to spend the money on HBO or
Showtime but the check’s not big enough yet,” he said.  Until then, the company is “very flexible in terms of
what content we license,” including original TV show and movies
and reviving canceled television shows that appeal to
subscribers, Hastings said.  Netflix in March acquired the rights for “House of
Cards,” an hour-long political drama featuring  Kevin Spacey .
Media Rights Capital owns the series and retains domestic
syndication, foreign distribution, worldwide physical media and
other ancillary rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  