-- 
New York Sells $510 Million Water Bonds as Returns Outperform: Muni Credit

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/new-york-sells-510-million-water-bonds-as-returns-outperform-muni-credit.html
New York state plans to sell $510
million of revenue-backed debt today to help finance water
projects in New York City, as water and sewer bonds generate
better returns for investors than typical municipal bonds.  State and local water and sewer bonds have returned 4.59
percent this year, 0.36 percentage point better than a broad
gauge of municipal debt, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. Many institutional investors, including
 AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , have increased their allocations
to so-called essential service bonds, municipal debt issued for
projects such as sewers and electric  power plants .  “People tend to pay their water bills even when the
economy is bad,” said Michael Brooks, a senior portfolio
manager at AllianceBernstein who oversees $30 billion of
municipal bonds, in a telephone interview. Essential service
bonds now make up about 31 percent of the firm’s portfolios
compared with 19 percent in 2008, Brooks said.  The debt issued by the state’s Environmental Facilities
Corp. will be payable from revenue generated from nine million
water and sewer customers in New York City and its northern
suburbs. The sale comes two weeks after the city raised water
and sewer rates by 7.5 percent. Since 2006, combined rates have
increased by more than 90 percent, according to the city’s
Department of Environmental Protection.  Headline Risk  “There’s a lot less headline risk when you’re dealing with
a thing like  New York City  water,” said Brooks. “You don’t
have to listen to talk about financing budget gaps and fiscal
difficulties. To raise rates, they raise the rates.”  New York is issuing debt as interest rates on top-ranked
state and local government general-obligation bonds maturing in
10 years have declined to 2.63 percent, levels last seen in
November. Yields, which move opposite to price, fell as fears of
widespread default have subsided and issuance has trickled to 42
percent below average for the last eight years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The securities carry Aa1 from Moody’s Investors Service,
its second-highest investment-grade rating.  Standard & Poor’s 
assigns a comparable AA+ rating to the debt. The proceeds will
be used to finance water and sewer projects and refund
previously issued, higher-cost debt.  Generic utility bonds ranked AA that mature in 10 years
yield 3.18 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Previous Sale  When New York state last issued bonds on behalf of New York
City’s water and sewer program in February 2010, debt maturing
in 10 years was priced to yield 3.3 percent, or 0.21 percentage
point, lower than similarly rated utility bonds, according to
Bloomberg data. On May 17, the bonds traded at 0.19 percentage
point less.  The city committed $20.8 billion to its water and sewer
 capital program  from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2010 and plans to
spend $2.4 billion in the current year.  Some institutional investors believe the decline in
 interest rates  may spur more state and local government
borrowing.  “There are still people out there who need capital,” said
Joseph Deane, a portfolio manager for  Pasadena , California-based
Western Asset Management in a podcast interview on Bloomberg On
the Economy. “It’s just a much more attractive market for them
to access right now.”  The additional supply may be met by buyers who receive cash
from bonds that mature in June, July and August, which are three
of the biggest months for redemptions, Deane said. “You’ll see
a balance here for a while,” he said.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  MASSACHUSETTS PORT AUTHORITY, which manages  Boston ’s Logan
International Airport, plans to sell $153 million in taxable
debt and $58.5 million in tax-exempts as soon as this week to
finance a new car-rental facility at Logan. The revenue-backed
bonds are rated A- by  Fitch Ratings  and A3 by Moody’s, both
fourth-lowest of 10 investment grades, and A by Standard &
Poor’s, one level higher. Banks led by Citigroup Inc. will
market the securities. (Updated May 31)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  