-- 
New Hampshire House Votes to Quit Northeast U.S. Carbon Market

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-06-01T22:55:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/new-hampshire-house-votes-to-quit-carbon-market-1-.html
The Republican-led  New Hampshire 
House of Representatives voted for a second time to withdraw the
state from the U.S. Northeast’s cap-and-trade program for  power
plants .  The House passed by voice vote today a shoreland protection
bill with an amendment pulling New Hampshire out of the 10-state
 Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative , Speaker  William O’Brien , a
Republican, said in an e-mail.  The amendment mirrors legislation already passed by the
House on March 30 to end New Hampshire’s participation in the
regional cap-and-trade program, which forces power plants to buy
pollution allowances for the carbon dioxide released from their
smokestacks. Today’s vote follows New Jersey Republican Governor
 Chris Christie ’s May 26 announcement that his state will exit
the program by the end of this year.  “At a time when we must become more competitive both
nationally and globally, keeping cap-and-trade in place and
adding additional energy costs to our employers and citizens
makes no sense,” O’Brien said. The New Hampshire Senate voted
24-0 today for a rival plan that would dump the carbon trading
program only if other states exit.  The program members are the six New England states, New
Jersey,  New York ,  Delaware  and  Maryland . Since 2008, they have
raised more than $860 million by auctioning pollution rights, or
allowances. Some states, including New Hampshire, have used part
of the proceeds to plug budget holes.  Carbon Allowances  Almost two-thirds of the money states have raised selling
carbon-dioxide allowances is set aside for energy-efficiency and
renewable-energy projects, according to a Feb. 28 report from
the cap-and-trade program.  New Hampshire Governor  John Lynch , a Democrat, opposes the
cap-and-trade repeal effort. Lynch has said exiting the regional
carbon market would deprive the state of $12 million a year in
carbon-allowance sales.  The funds help households and businesses pay for energy-
saving projects that reduce their electricity use and lower
their utility bills, according to Lynch. Colin Manning, Lynch’s
spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and phone
message seeking comment on today’s votes.  In the bill passed today by the Republican-led Senate, New
Hampshire would leave the carbon market if a New England state
responsible for more than 10 percent of the region’s power
demand dropped out of the carbon market. New Hampshire could
also exit the program if two smaller New England states backed
out, Majority Leader Jeb Bradley said on the Senate floor.  Different Power Grids  “If two other states leave, or if 10 percent of the load
from New England leaves, this program is all but over,” Bradley
said.  The loss of  New Jersey  from the market won’t trigger New
Hampshire’s departure under the Senate bill because the two
states get their electricity from different power grids, Carole
Alfano, a spokeswoman for Bradley, said in an e-mail. Bradley
had said before today’s debate his legislation would allow New
Hampshire to leave the regional carbon market if New Jersey
pulls out.  The passage of the House and Senate cap-and-trade bills
sets up a negotiation between the two chambers over the shape of
a final bill, Alfano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  