-- 
Nigerian Rescued Banks Fall for 2nd Day on Recapitalization

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-06-01T14:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/nigerian-rescued-banks-fall-for-2nd-day-on-recapitalization.html
Nigeria ’s banks bailed out two years
ago fell for a second day after the central bank gave them a
deadline to conclude recapitalization or merger talks.  Afribank Plc lost 8 kobo, or the 5 percent maximum daily
limit to 1.52 naira by the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos, the weakest
since Oct. 15.  Bank PHB Plc (PLATINUM)  fell for a seventh day, losing 4.3
percent to 1.11 naira, while  Finbank Plc (FIRSTINL)  retreated 4.6 percent
to 62 kobo.  Oceanic Bank International Plc (OCEANIC)  decreased 4.6 percent
to 1.68 naira, the weakest level since April 29.  The rescued lenders have until Sept. 30 to finalize
recapitalization or merger plans, Kingsley Moghalu, Deputy
Governor of the  Central Bank of Nigeria , said yesterday. Missing
the deadline would leave the bank free to exercise the option of
liquidation, Moghalu said.  “This is the only way to prevent a systemic collapse,”
 Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer of Lagos-based
Financial Derivatives Co., a brokerage, a said by phone from
Lagos today. “Panic dumping” of shares by investors “is a
reflection of the reality.”  Finbank has signed an agreement for a merger with  First
City Monument Bank Plc (FCMB) , FCMB said on May 5.  Oceanic Bank has yet to sign an accord with a potential
investor after talks with First Bank of Nigeria Plc, the
country’s third-biggest lender, collapsed. Union Bank said on
March 23 it signed an agreement with African Capital Alliance
under which the group will invest $750 million into the bank.  Access Bank Plc will merge with Intercontinental Bank Plc,
one of the bailed-out lenders, Access said on March 27.  The central bank fired the chief executive officers of
eight of Nigeria’s 24 lenders in 2009 after a debt crisis
threatened the industry with a collapse, and bailed it out with
620 billion naira ($4 billion).  The  central bank  also set up Asset Management Corp. of
Nigeria, or Amcon, to buy bad debts from the nation’s lenders
and recapitalize the rescued banks to zero from negative equity,
before matching them with potential buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  