-- 
Novartis Eyes Consumer, Veterinary Purchases Up to $3 Billion

-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-06-01T15:42:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/novartis-eyes-consumer-veterinary-purchases-up-to-3-billion-chief-says.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  is willing to spend up to
$3 billion on acquisitions of consumer-health or veterinary
assets to bolster the drugmaker’s undersized businesses in those
areas, Chief Executive Officer Joe Jimenez said.  Novartis also would consider generic-drug, biotechnology or
diagnostics purchases, Jimenez said in an interview yesterday at
the company’s Basel, Switzerland, headquarters. There’s a dearth
of available assets, he said.  “We do expect to make bolt-on acquisitions to these five
platforms, and we could do that today,” Jimenez, 51, said.
“And when I say bolt-on, I mean anything from $1 billion to $3
billion.” He declined to comment on possible targets or the
timing of potential purchases.  Jimenez aims to bolster Novartis’s sales as the company,
 Europe ’s second-largest drugmaker by revenue, prepares to face
generic competition to its best-selling prescription medicines,
Diovan for hypertension and the cancer drug Gleevec. Other
companies also are on the hunt. Announced takeovers in the  drug
industry  have totaled $35.5 billion this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, up 28 percent from a year earlier.  Novartis fell 95 centimes, or 1.7 percent, to 54.05 Swiss
francs in Zurich trading. The stock has returned 7.7 percent in
the past year including reinvested dividends, compared with a 20
percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Novartis is still integrating its last big acquisition. The
company bought a majority stake in eye-care company Alcon Inc.
in August for $28.3 billion, and in April paid $12.9 billion for
the remaining publicly traded stock, completing a transaction
started by Jimenez’s predecessor, Daniel Vasella.  Gen-Probe Speculation  Acquisitions aren’t essential because the company’s
businesses are among the fastest-growing in the industry,
Jimenez said yesterday. He declined to comment on speculation by
analysts that the company may bid for  Gen-Probe Inc. (GPRO) , a maker of
tests for AIDS and the West Nile virus.  With an estimated $3 billion in sales of non-prescription
health products last year, Novartis is seventh-largest in a
field led by Johnson & Johnson with $14.6 billion of revenue,
according to analysts at Morningstar Inc. Novartis in February
hired Naomi Kelman, a manager with J&J, to strengthen the over-
the-counter medicines business, Jimenez said.  The company would “would take a very hard look” at any
consumer brands to come on the market, Jimenez said. In April,
GlaxoSmithKline Plc said its Alli diet pill and Lactacyd soap
are among 19 consumer health-care products the U.K. drugmaker
plans to sell this year to focus on “priority brands.”  Sanofi-Merck Deal  Novartis reported $6.2 billion of sales last year for its
consumer unit, which includes over-the-counter, animal health
and the Ciba Vision eye-care operation. The company doesn’t
break out sales for the three businesses.  An opportunity last year to buy animal-health businesses
fell through. Novartis and Bayer AG were among potential bidders
for assets that Sanofi and Merck & Co. planned to sell to
satisfy antitrust requirements for a veterinary joint venture,
two people with knowledge of the matter said in October. Sanofi
and Merck scrapped the venture in March because of antitrust
obstacles.  Pfizer Inc. is weighing whether to divest businesses
including animal health and over-the-counter medicines. Pfizer
had $3.58 billion of veterinary sales last year.  Novartis’s Sandoz unit, which makes generic drugs, may
benefit from additional acquisitions in the “sweet spot” of
so-called differentiated generics, which are difficult-to-
manufacture treatments such as injectable cancer drugs or
inhalable respiratory products, Jimenez said.  Biotechnology  The Swiss drugmaker, which is Europe’s second-largest after
 Roche Holding AG , also would be interested in biotechnology
companies with some products in development, Jimenez said.  Novartis would like to expand its diagnostics business,
which can produce tests that are given to prospective patients
to determine whether a medicine will be effective before the
drug is prescribed, Jimenez said. Other areas of diagnostics,
including testing for infectious diseases, also are attractive,
he said.  For the past 13 years, Novartis and Gen-Probe have jointly
developed and sold tests and machinery to screen blood for
infections. Gen-Probe hired Morgan Stanley to seek a buyer for
the company, according to three people with knowledge of the
sale. Gen-Probe has declined to comment.  “The diagnostics space is a very interesting space for
Novartis and for many companies,” Jimenez said. He declined to
comment on Gen-Probe, which has a market value of $3.9 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  