-- 
Novo Will Boost China Investments to Fend Off Sanofi, COO Says

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-06-01T12:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/novo-will-boost-china-investments-to-fend-off-sanofi-coo-says.html
Novo Nordisk A/S will boost
investments in China to preserve its dominance in the world’s
largest market after rival Sanofi made a new foray amid an
effort by the government to improve  health services .  “We don’t fear any competition,” said Kaare Schultz,
chief operating officer for Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo, the
world’s biggest maker of insulin.  Novo produces two-thirds of the insulin used in China,
where the latest study shows one in 10 people have diabetes.
Sanofi said last month it will train 10,500 doctors and experts
in diabetes care as part of a Ministry of Health-led program to
curtail the disease’s spread.  Novo will respond by boosting its presence as needed across
all aspects of the market, from sales people to production to
patient care, Schultz said yesterday in a phone interview. It
won’t make acquisitions, he said.  “You will see more manufacturing. You will see more
education,” he said. “You will see more training of patients.
You will see more research locally.”  The Chinese market is growing in importance for drugmakers
as its economic growth supports greater investments in health
care while U.S. and European providers look to cut costs. Last
month, Novo said it probably won’t be able to raise prices in
the U.S. as much as in previous years as health-care providers
demand greater rebates from drugmakers.  Chinese sales grew at a faster rate in the first quarter
than any other region, Novo reported April 28. Revenue  rose  34
percent to 1.38 billion kroner ($267 million) compared with
overall sales growth of 15 percent.  Amputations  The Chinese diabetes drug market will climb fourfold by
2015 to more than $2.8 billion from $642 million in 2009, the
International Market Analysis Research and Consulting Group said
in a  September report . More people are moving from rural areas
to cities, changing their lifestyles and eating habits and
triggering a rise in obesity rates, IMARC said.  Being overweight or obese significantly increases the risk
of contracting diabetes, a condition marked by rising levels of
sugar in the blood. When untreated it may result in heart and
kidney problems and blindness and may require amputations.  Novo’s share of the Chinese market, by value, fell after
Paris-based Sanofi introduced its 24-hour insulin Lantus in
2004, according to IMS Health Inc. figures which Novo provided
at its capital markets day last month. Novo’s share of synthetic
insulin dropped from about 70 percent in 2006 to 53 percent five
years later, the figures show.  Market Share  “That is due to the fact that Lantus has been launched at
a very high price point,” Schultz said. Looking at the volume
of insulin sold, “we have not lost market share, and we are
still at a very, very high level.”  A 2009 report by the  International Diabetes Federation 
estimated that 4.2 percent of  China ’s mainland population had
diabetes. Researchers reporting in the  New England Journal of
Medicine  last year pegged the figure at 9.7 percent, and called
for additional measures to prevent and treat the disease.  About  8.3 percent  of the  U.S. population  and 6.6 percent of
the global population has diabetes, according to estimates by
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and the IDF.  Novo started operating in China about 15 years ago when
Novozymes A/S, the listed enzyme maker that then was part of the
Novo group, entered the market. In 2002, Novo created a diabetes
research center, in 2007 it established a foundation with the
Chinese Academy of Sciences, and this year it’s expanding its
insulin packaging plant there to become the world’s largest.  Sanofi  created  a research clinic in 2005 which it expanded
three years later, set up a trial-development center and signed
a partnership with the Shanghai Institutes for Biological
Sciences to develop medicines for diabetes, cancer and
neurological diseases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  