-- 
NYC Budget Overstates Need for Cutting Teachers, Monitor Says

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-06-01T17:37:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/nyc-budget-overstates-need-for-cutting-teachers-monitor-says.html
New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s $65.7 billion budget overstates by more than 1,600
the number of teaching positions that need to be cut, a city
budget monitor said.  Bloomberg’s plan for the fiscal year beginning July 1
contained no new taxes and would eliminate more than 6,000
teaching jobs. Savings from teachers who retire or resign could
be almost $104 million more than the budget assumes, the
Independent Budget Office  said . City estimates don’t reflect the
fact that salaries of teachers who leave voluntarily are likely
to be higher than those who are fired, the IBO said.  “Savings cited by the mayor and the schools chancellor
from these reductions significantly overstate the number of
layoffs needed to meet the budget target,” the IBO said on its
blog.  The IBO’s finding may strengthen the City Council’s hand in
negotiations with the mayor over the budget, which must be
approved by the council. City lawmakers have pledged to restore
some of the proposed teacher and social-service cuts in the
budget.  Marc LaVorgna , a spokesman for Bloomberg, said the IBO’s
calculations were wrong because savings from attrition come from
not hiring a new teacher at a lower salary to replace a retiring
teacher.  “We’re removing the expense of the replacements,” said
LaVorgna. “At no point in time in the budget do we have an
expense for all these people who are retiring.”  Closing Deficit  Bloomberg’s budget proposes bridging a $4.6 billion deficit
by using $3 billion in surplus, cutting teachers and reducing
social services. The cutbacks became necessary because of a $1
billion drop in federal aid and reductions by New York state,
which had to close its own $10 billion deficit.  Bloomberg’s budget assumes that at least 2,000 teachers
will leave voluntarily and 4,166 will be cut. The IBO estimated
that the average salary of a teacher who leaves voluntarily is
$64,731. The city calculated the savings from attrition by
assuming the average salary of a replacement teacher is $54,000.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  