-- 
NYSE Euronext Has Bid for LCH.Clearnet With Markit, CEO Says

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-06-01T20:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/nyse-euronext-has-bid-for-lch-clearnet-with-markit-ceo-says-2-.html
NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer
 Duncan Niederauer  said he’s working with Markit Group Ltd. on a
bid for LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., owner of the world’s largest
swaps clearinghouse.  “To sit here and deny interest would be ridiculous,”
Niederauer said at a meeting today in Eschborn,  Germany , with
shareholders of  Deutsche Boerse  AG, which has agreed to purchase
NYSE Euronext. “It’s a Markit proposal, and we are one of the
parties.”  LCH.Clearnet said May 28 it has been approached about
“some form of possible business combination.” It has also held
talks with  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc (LSE) , said three people familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified because the discussions are private. No decisions
have been made, they said. LSE has said it’s not holding talks
with LCH.Clearnet on a deal.  The banks that created over-the-counter derivatives in the
1980s are seeking control over how the $601 trillion market
transforms under new regulations in the U.S. and  Europe . The
Dodd-Frank Act mandates that most swaps be processed by
clearinghouses and that all trades are reported to data
repositories. The European Union last month moved closer to
adopting a clearing mandate for most interest-rate, credit-
default and other swaps.  NYSE, CME  The  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  involvement with Markit, which provides
data on swap prices, is part of a reciprocal deal with the banks
that own Markit to drive business to  New York  Portfolio
Clearing, a U.S. venture by NYSE Euronext and the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp., according to two people familiar with
the strategy. New York Portfolio Clearing is competing with CME
Group Inc. for interest-rate futures trading and is expected to
expand into swaps clearing in coming years, said the people, who
asked not to be named.  Teresa Chick, a Markit spokeswoman, and  Richard Adamonis  of
NYSE Euronext declined to comment.  Many of the same banks that own Markit have stakes in
LCH.Clearnet, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , according to filings
at U.K. Companies House and LCH.Clearnet’s board of directors.  NYSE Euronext’s NYSE Liffe U.S., the exchange partner with
DTCC in the New York Portfolio Clearing venture, is partly owned
by Goldman Sachs,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , UBS AG, Citadel LLC, Getco LLC
and DRW Ventures LLC.  Limiting Risk  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet and Deutsche Boerse’s
 Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for every buy
and sell order executed by their members, who post collateral,
reducing the harm from a trader’s default. The business is
becoming more valuable amid firmer regulation of derivatives
trading and a merger wave that has seen more than $20 billion of
exchange takeovers announced in the last seven months.  LCH.Clearnet’s  SwapClear  began clearing interest-rate swaps
traded between banks in 1999. As of March it had cleared more
than $266 trillion in notional amounts of rate swaps, the
company said at the time.  “Any exchange that hopes to be successful in the OTC arena
will have to be flexible on governance and ownership,”
Niederauer said today, sitting at the same table as Andreas Preuss, CEO of Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex, Europe’s largest
derivatives exchange. “That’s a prerequisite for success in the
OTC arena.” Eurex and NYSE Euronext have both failed to make
headway in guaranteeing credit-default swaps.  Clearing Itself  NYSE Euronext, which agreed in February to combine with
Deutsche Bourse to create the world’s largest exchange company,
has said it will start clearing all its own trades in Europe,
terminating its contract with LCH.Clearnet and joining Deutsche
Boerse and  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which operate their own trade and
post-trade services. The London Metal Exchange said yesterday it
may start its own clearinghouse, severing its arrangement with
LCH.Clearnet.  The agreement with Markit will have “no impact” on NYSE
Euronext’s plans to self-clear some trades, Niederauer said
today. The move for LCH.Clearnet is a strategy to enter swaps
clearing and doesn’t change the company’s existing futures
businesses, according to the people familiar with NYSE
Euronext’s plans.  Bloomberg LP, the owner of Bloomberg News, competes with
Markit in selling information to the financial-services
industry. Markit is among the contributors of data that appears
on the Bloomberg terminal. Bloomberg also runs Tradebook, a
trading venue that competes with NYSE Euronext.  Markit owns pricing services and the most actively traded
credit-swap indexes such as the Markit CDX North American
Investment-Grade Index and the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index.
Markit’s indexes account for more than one-third of all credit-
default swaps traded. Credit-default swaps represent $28
trillion in notional value, according to the New York-based
DTCC, which operates a trade information warehouse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 