-- 
NYSE Chief Calls Merger Feedback From European Regulators ‘Constructive’

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-06-01T01:32:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/nyse-chief-calls-merger-feedback-from-european-regulators-constructive-.html
NYSE Euronext has received “very
constructive” feedback from European regulators on its
agreement to merge with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , according to  Duncan Niederauer , the chief executive officer.  “The tone’s been very, very constructive, and we’re on
track for decisions in 2011 for sure,” Niederauer said
yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York .
The owner of the New York Stock Exchange and NYSE Liffe
derivatives market agreed in February to the $9.53 billion deal
and won a victory last month when an unsolicited offer from
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  was
blocked by U.S. authorities.  More than $20 billion of stock-market mergers have been
announced in the last seven months as exchange operators seek to
expand revenue sources after profits fell in equity trading.
Niederauer, whose deal with Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse
would create the world’s biggest exchange company, said it’s too
early to pursue major acquisitions in  Asia .  “One of my takeaways from Asia is they want to be part of
it, they just need time,” said Niederauer, who was in the
region last month. “It’s going to be a while. I think it’s five
to 10 years out. Most Asian exchanges have not demutualized yet
and do not have a public currency.”  Among the eight largest publicly traded exchanges worldwide
by market value, three are in Asia-Pacific countries: Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  and
 Australia ’s  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  Venues elsewhere in the region are either
government-owned or have yet to demutualize, or shift from
member to shareholder ownership.  Japan,  China   While equities listed in Japan and China have the second-
and third-highest market value worldwide, the owners of their
primary exchanges have yet to sell shares through an initial
public offering. Tokyo Stock Exchange Inc. said March 10 that it
will begin procedures for a public share sale. The two biggest
exchanges in China are the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock
exchanges. Both are overseen by the China Securities Regulatory
Commission, which is a government agency.  Hong Kong Exchanges is the world’s largest listed exchange
operator by market value at about $24 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company posted its first annual
profit gain in three years in March, as initial public offerings
reached a record.  Failed Bid  A deal that would have united the exchanges in Singapore
and Australia failed. While  Singapore Exchange ’s A$8.3 billion
($8.9 billion) bid for Sydney-based ASX in October marked the
first agreement in a wave of exchange consolidation, the deal
was blocked by Australian regulators in April. In rejecting the
deal, Australian Acting Prime Minster  Wayne Swan  said it was a
“no brainer” that the deal wasn’t in the country’s “national
interest.”  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , based in New York, and Deutsche Boerse
agreed in February to merge. Even with the Nasdaq OMX-ICE joint
bid withdrawn, NYSE Euronext’s deal faces a review from European
regulators, who may take issue with joining the biggest
derivatives businesses in the region.  In addition to combining the Eurex and Liffe markets within
one company, the deal between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse
would bring about 30 percent of European  stock trading  under
common ownership, based on data compiled by Bats Global Markets.
In the U.S. the company would own three equity options
exchanges, giving it 42 percent of the volume, based on April’s
figures compiled by Chicago-based OCC, which clears equity
derivatives transactions.  Bid Withdrawn  Nasdaq OMX and ICE withdrew their joint $11.3 billion bid
for NYSE Euronext on May 16 after the U.S. Justice Department
threatened a lawsuit. An acquisition “would have substantially
eliminated competition for corporate stock-listing services,
opening and closing stock auction services, off-exchange stock
trade reporting services and real-time proprietary equity data
products,” the department said.  The combined NYSE Euronext- Deutsche Boerse  entity will
become the largest exchange company worldwide, trading or
clearing 4.8 billion futures and options contracts last year,
compared with CME Group Inc.’s 3.1 billion contracts, according
to data from the Washington-based Futures Industry Association.
The data include equity options in addition to futures
contracts.  NYSE Euronext owners will meet July 7 about the deal, which
requires 50 percent of their votes. Deutsche Boerse needs 75
percent of shareholders to approve it by July 13, according to a
May 4 regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 