-- 
O’Hare May Get Slot Machines as Illinois Lawmakers Allows Chicago Gambling

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/o-hare-may-get-slot-machines-as-illinois-lawmakers-allows-chicago-gambling.html
Travelers at  Chicago ’s O’Hare and
Midway airports would be able to play the slots during layovers
under a bill the Illinois Senate sent to Governor Pat Quinn that
also would allow a casino in the city.  The measure won final approval yesterday 30 to 27. Quinn, a
Democrat and critic of gambling’s spread, has stopped short of
threatening a veto of the bill, which supporters say would
generate $1.5 billion in licensing fees for the state.  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , a Democrat, lobbied for the
measure creating the city’s first casino and authorizing similar
gambling houses in Rockford, Danville and in two Chicago
suburbs. Slot machines would also be allowed at horse tracks and
at the  Illinois  State Fairgrounds in Springfield.  “It’s going to be an economic boon for the state of
Illinois,” said Democratic Senator Terry Link, the bill’s chief
sponsor. “We need it.”  Emanuel said the vote brought Chicago “one step closer to
a significant victory for job creation and economic growth.”
Emanuel, in a statement released from his office, said the
casino will create 7,000 to 10,000 jobs in the city.  At least a dozen states, including Texas, Massachusetts and
Minnesota, are considering proposals to expand casinos,
lotteries and other forms of gambling, said Sujit CanagaRetna, a
senior fiscal analyst for the Council of State Governments.  Hunting Money  “The overall trend is one of expansion in gambling,”
CanagaRetna said in a telephone interview. “This is perceived
as a fairly effective way to generate this additional revenue.”  During the 2011 and 2012 fiscal year, 23 states have
enacted or considered proposals to expand gambling, according to
the National Council of State Legislatures.  Some opponents of the Illinois bill said the state does not
need more gambling.  “We are basically shaking down the citizens for every
nickel they’ve got, providing them the false hope to go out and
win the big bucks,” said Senator Tim Bivins, a Republican from
Dixon.  Illinois has nine casinos, operated by  Ameristar Casinos
Inc. (ASCA) ,  Bally Technologies Inc. (BYI) ,  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD) , Caesars
Entertainment Corp.,  International Game Technology (IGT) , Penn
National Gaming,  Shuffle Master Inc. (SHFL)  and  WMS Industries Inc. (WMS)   Gambling equipment manufacturers stand to benefit from the
bill, Joseph Greff, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in
a research note today, while Penn National would be harmed. The
company gets about 12 percent of its pretax earnings in
Illinois, he said.  “Illinois is always the state that can do the most
amazingly crazy things in a blink of an eye,” William J. Clifford, Penn National’s chief financial officer, told
investors in a webcast conference last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  