-- 
Obama Health-Care Law Goes Before Second of at Least Three Appeals Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-02T01:32:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/obama-health-care-law-goes-before-appeals-court-in-cincinnati.html
The second of at least three appeals
courts that will consider whether Congress can compel Americans
to buy insurance listened to the Obama administration’s top
litigator spar with an attorney for a faith-based legal advocacy
group opposed to the health-care reform law.  The three-judge panel in Cincinnati’s federal courthouse
listened to and questioned acting U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal and Robert Muise, a lawyer for the Thomas More Law
Center, about the limits of congressional power.  “This is the outer reaches of Congress’s authority to
regulate under the commerce clause,” Muise told the court today
as he argued for reversal of last year’s lower-court ruling
throwing out his group’s challenge to the  Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act .  The legislation, signed into law by President  Barack Obama ,
a Democrat, in March 2010, is intended to create the first near-
universal U.S. health-care coverage program by barring insurers
from rejecting those who are already sick and from imposing
life-time limits on costs.  It also requires almost every American resident to have
health insurance starting in 2014 or pay a tax penalty, a
mandate that opponents of the act including Muise have argued
exceeds the regulatory power allotted to Congress under the
Constitution.  ‘Power Grab’  The Cincinnati panel is the second of three U.S. appellate
courts that will consider the merits of the dispute over a five-
week span. A U.S. appeals court in Richmond on May 10 heard
argument on appeals of two conflicting rulings. Another panel in
Atlanta is set to hear the government’s appeal of a federal
judge’s Jan. 31 decision to find the entire act invalid.  Muise called the legislative action a “power grab”
without precedent adding, “This court should not create it.”  “Congress is regulating the insurance market, something
everyone thinks is constitutional,” Katyal countered.  Without the requirement that individuals obtain insurance
coverage before they need it, the government can’t require
carriers to insure anyone regardless of their state of health,
the government’s lawyer said.  U.S. Circuit Judge Jeffrey S. Sutton questioned Muise’s
distinction between Congress’s ability to regulate economic
activity and whether it can regulate what Muise said was the
“inactivity” of those who don’t buy insurance.  “It’s really hard to think of risk as inaction,” Sutton
said.  Eating Broccoli  If the congressional mandate is constitutional, Muise
replied, “there’s virtually, then, no limit to Congress’s
power” to regulate anything from health care to eating
broccoli.  Katyal disagreed, telling the court, “I can’t show up at
the broccoli store without money and buy broccoli.” In the
health care market, people can get those services absent the
ability to pay, he said.  “In dealing with the commerce clause,” Katyal said, “the
ultimate test is ‘is this affecting commerce?’”  The panel concluded the hearing after listening to the
lawyers for 1 1/2 hours and will issue an opinion at a later
date.  Three lower-court judges have upheld the legislation, Two
have declared it all or partly invalid. Decisions by appeals
courts, including the three-judge panel in Cincinnati, may set
the stage for review by the U.S. Supreme Court.  Can’t ‘Sit There’  “A ruling that a major act is unconstitutional cannot just
sit there,” Harvard Law School Professor Charles Fried said
yesterday in a phone interview. “If one court says it’s
unconstitutional, it’ll go up.”  The case before the Cincinnati court was filed in 2010 by
the Thomas More Law Center, based in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . The
center says on its  website  that it advocates Christian values.  U.S. District Judge George Caram Steeh in  Detroit  last year
rejected the group’s arguments that compulsory medical coverage
amounts to an unlawful tax.  “Decisions to forgo insurance coverage in preference to
attempting to pay for health care out of pocket drive up the
costs of insurance,” Steeh said in his Oct. 7 ruling. “The
costs of caring for the uninsured who prove unable to pay are
shifted to health care providers, to the insured population in
the form of higher premiums, to governments and to taxpayers.”  Bachmann, Paul  The Thomas More Law Center’s supporters in the appeals case
include the Cato Institute, the  Washington  Legal Foundation, and
Republican U.S. representatives  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota 
and Ron Paul of  Texas .  The Cato Institute  backs  individual liberty and free
markets, according to its website. The Washington Legal
Foundation, according to its website,  supports  free enterprise,
limited government, individual rights and business civil
liberties.  Those backing the Obama administration include Governor
Christine Gregoire of Washington, U.S. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of
 Nevada , all Democrats.  The other two appeals court judges hearing the case were
Boyce F. Martin Jr., nominated to the federal bench in 1979 by
President Jimmy Carter, a Democrat, and U.S. District Judge
James Graham, a former chief judge for the Southern District of
 Ohio . Graham was named to that court by President  Ronald Reagan ,
a Republican, in 1986. Sutton was appointed by Republican
President  George W. Bush  in 2003.  Split Rulings  Besides Steeh, federal judges in Lynchburg,  Virginia , and
Washington also upheld the act as constitutional. Steeh was
nominated to the bench in 1997 by  Bill Clinton , a Democrat.
Judge Norman Moon in Lynchburg and Judge Gladys Kessler in
Washington were also nominated by Clinton.  Judge Henry E. Hudson in Richmond, Virginia, said the act
was partly unlawful because of the mandatory insurance
requirement. U.S. District Judge C. Roger Vinson in  Pensacola ,
 Florida , ruled the entire law invalid because it couldn’t
operate without the insurance mandate. Hudson was appointed by
Bush while Vinson was selected by Reagan.  The five cases are now working their way through appeals
courts.  An appeals court in Atlanta will hear arguments June 8 on
Vinson’s decision throwing out the entire act. That case was
filed by Bill McCollum, a Republican, when he was Florida’s
attorney general. Twenty-five other states joined the suit.  Constitutional Question  “The opponents of the mandate made too much of the fact
that they got a couple of the courts to say it was
unconstitutional,” said Fried, a former solicitor general, the
top U.S. government litigator, under Reagan.  “There were more decisions that went the other way,” he
said.  Fried said the law passes constitutional muster and that if
all the appeals courts agree, the  Supreme Court  isn’t required
to hear the case. He isn’t involved in any of the lawsuits.  Melvyn Durchslag , a professor of constitutional law at  Case
Western Reserve University  in  Cleveland , said the high court
will recognize a need for a final resolution of whether the law
is constitutional.  “There would be a lot of pressure for the Supreme Court to
take this case, simply to move the issue of health care 100
percent out of the legal realm and into the political realm and
let the political forces fight it out,” said Durchslag.  The Cincinnati case is Thomas More Law Center v. Obama, 10-
2388,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  