-- 
Obama Haggles With House Republicans Holding to Demands for Spending Cuts

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-02T00:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/obama-and-house-republicans-haggle-on-debt-deficit-cuts.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  said
“it’s time” he and President  Barack Obama  get personally
involved in efforts to cut a debt reduction deal, voicing
concern that bipartisan talks led by Vice President  Joe Biden 
are proceeding too slowly.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said he’s worried the Biden-
led discussions will go down to the wire, putting Congress up
against an Aug. 2 deadline the Treasury Department has given for
raising the legal debt limit to stave off an unprecedented
government default.  Those talks “are making some marginal progress, but at the
rate that that’s gone, we’ll be right up against the wall,”
Boehner told reporters today at the Capitol.  Asked what more could be done to prod a compromise, Boehner
said: “The president could engage himself. I’m willing. I’m
ready. It’s time to have the conversation. It’s time to play
large ball, not small ball.”  A White House spokeswoman, Amy Brundage, said Obama had
directed Biden “to lead these bipartisan, bicameral talks to
find areas common ground on a framework for deficit reduction.
Both parties acknowledge that the group is making progress and
talks are productive.” The president is getting regular
briefings on the negotiations from Biden and members of the
White House staff, she said.  Private Meeting  Boehner spoke a few hours after Obama hosted a private
meeting at the White House with Republican House members to
discuss the disputes between the two parties over the
government’s finances. Republicans said they aired criticisms of
what they consider his inaccurate description of their Medicare
privatization plan and pressed him to offer his own proposal for
tackling the debt.  Boehner, in his comments at the Capitol, described the
session as “a very good meeting. It was frank, to-the-point, it
was polite.”  Still, the Republicans indicated that they had broken no
new ground in talks to raise the nation’s debt ceiling
in exchange for reductions in  government spending .  Boehner and other Republican leaders said the gathering in
the East Room focused on the impact of the government’s debt on
the economy and jobs.  “If we’re going to get serious about creating jobs in
America we’ve got to reduce some of the uncertainty” within the
business community, Boehner said outside the White House shortly
after the meeting ended. “Some of that uncertainty is caused by
the giant debt that is facing our country.”  Republican Position  Republicans are holding to their demand that spending cuts
exceed the increase in the government’s legal debt limit, he
said. The meeting followed the House’s 318-97 vote yesterday
defeating a measure that would have raised the $14.3 trillion
debt limit by $2.4 trillion without spending reductions.  Republicans scheduled the vote to drive home their position
that a debt-limit increase without what Boehner called “major
spending cuts” is unacceptable. Democrats derided the vote as
political theater.  Biden’s negotiations over increasing the debt ceiling as
part of a package of spending cuts began May 5. There have been
four meetings between the vice president and six congressional
leaders, with the next one set for June 9. Biden has said that
progress is being made, and that negotiators are trying to find
savings of $1 trillion over 10 years.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said after the White House meeting that as debt-limit
negotiations continue, it’s “very, very important for us to
look at growth as part of the fix.”  ‘ Tax Reform ’  Cantor said he asked Obama to work with Republicans on a
“tax reform plan” that is being put together by Ways and Means
Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican.  He also asked Obama to steer clear of “any notion that
we’re going to increase taxes” as part of any agreement on
raising the debt limit  “It’s counterintuitive to believe that you increase taxes
on those individuals and entities that you are expecting to
create jobs,” Cantor said.  Before the White House meeting, Boehner released a
statement signed by more than 150 economists supporting the link
between spending cuts and the debt limit.  “An increase in the national debt limit that is not
accompanied by significant spending cuts and budget reforms to
address our government’s spending addiction will harm private-
sector job creation in America,” the statement said.  Ryan’s Concerns  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said that at
today’s meeting he expressed concerns to Obama about how the
president was characterizing the plan Ryan wrote to privatize
Medicare by giving people subsidies to buy health insurance.  “We’ve got to get our debt under control, and if we try to
demagogue each other’s attempts to do that, then we’re not
applying the kind of political leadership we need to get this
economy growing,” Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, told reporters.  Boehner said he stressed to Obama that now “is the
moment” to deal with the deficit issues facing the government.
“We can work together and solve this problem,” he said.
“Let’s not kick the can down the road one more time.”  Obama is to meet with the House Democratic caucus at the
White House tomorrow.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 2.3 percent in  New
York  today and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank almost 1 percent
as data on jobs and manufacturing fueled concern that economic
growth is slowing.  Credit Default Swaps  The cost of insuring  U.S. government debt  against losses
for one year with credit default swaps is rising while the price
of protection over longer periods has fallen, as investors bet
the standoff over raising the debt ceiling may drag into August.  Credit default swaps that expire in one year rose to 47.425
basis points as of yesterday from 23.74 basis points on May 16,
when the U.S. reached its borrowing limit. A 33 percent jump on
May 20 was the biggest one-day percentage increase since July
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Reflecting long-term investor confidence in  U.S. debt ,
swaps protecting against default for 10 years has fallen to
55.48 basis points from 61.17 basis points over the same period,
according to CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. Rising prices indicate declining investor confidence in a
borrower’s creditworthiness.  Amid  Washington ’s debate about the debt, bond market yields
in the U.S. are lower now than when the government was running a
 budget surplus  a decade ago. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note today fell below 3 percent for the first time in
2011, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  