-- 
Oil Drops a Second Day as Global Manufacturing Slows; U.S. Supplies Rise

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-02T07:12:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/oil-declines-for-a-second-day-after-reports-show-u-s-economy-is-slowing.html
Oil declined for a second day in  New
York  after reports showed U.S. crude supplies rose, companies
added fewer jobs than forecast and global manufacturing slowed,
stoking speculation fuel demand may falter.  Futures fell as much as 1 percent after the biggest drop in
three weeks yesterday. Crude stockpiles climbed the most in more
than a month, according to the  American Petroleum Institute .
Employment rose by 38,000 in May, the smallest gain since
September, ADP Employer Services said. A 175,000 increase was
forecast, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Manufacturing in
China,  Europe  and the U.S. slowed in May.  “The API data was pretty bearish on the crude and gasoline
side,” said Serene Lim, a commodity strategist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “The weak U.S.
economic data had a bigger impact since it pushed bond yields
higher and the dollar was stronger and that pushed oil lower.”  Crude for July delivery lost as much as $1.04 to $99.25 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $99.86 at 3:09 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday declined $2.41, or 2.4 percent, to $100.29,
the biggest single-session drop since May 11. Prices are up 37
percent the past year.  Brent crude oil for July delivery was at $114.27 a barrel,
down 23 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The contract yesterday fell $2.20, or 1.9 percent, to $114.53,
the lowest settlement since May 24.  Crude Inventories  The European benchmark contract traded at a premium of
$14.36 a barrel to U.S. futures. The difference between front-
month contracts in  London  and New York reached a record $19.54
on Feb. 21. It averaged 76 cents last year.  The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute said U.S.
crude supplies rose 3.5 million barrels last week to 371.6
million. An Energy Department report today is forecast to show
stockpiles declined 1.6 million barrels, according to the median
of 13 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline inventories climbed 1.5 million barrels to 212.7
million, the API said. The Energy Department report may show a
900,000 barrel increase for the fuel, the survey shows.  “The American Petroleum Institute crude inventory data
looked negative, with a surprising rise in crude and gasoline
stockpiles,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Melbourne , said in
a note today. If Energy Department data “confirms today’s
bearish numbers, prices could remain under pressure.”  Oil Imports  Oil-supply totals from the API and the Energy Department
have moved in the same direction 72 percent of the time over the
past year. API collects stockpile information on a voluntary
basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Crude imports climbed 29 percent last week to 9.9 million
barrels a day, the API report showed. Imports of oil products
rose 13 percent to 2.5 million barrels.  “We have been harping for weeks about the seasonally low
level of imports and a return to seasonal norms in the Gulf
could overshadow the Keystone pipeline’s recent outages,”
 Stephen Schork , an analyst at Villanova, Pennsylvania-based The
Schork Group Inc. said in a report today.  TransCanada Corp. expects to start the 591,000 barrel-a-day
Keystone Pipeline in a few days, a company spokesman said
yesterday by e-mail. The system was shut on May 29 after a leak
at a pump station.  Manufacturing Falls  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
fell more than projected to 53.5 last month, the lowest level
since September 2009, from 60.4 in April, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said yesterday. Economists forecast the gauge would
drop to 57.1, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
measures the greenback against the currencies of six trading
partners, rose as much as 0.4 percent to 74.89 following the
economic reports, after earlier falling as low as 74.7. A
stronger dollar typically makes commodities less attractive to
investors.  The dollar later weakened against the euro after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said the European Union remains
committed to its shared currency and the outlook for German
growth is “very positive.”  OPEC Output  Separately, a purchasing managers’ index for  China 
yesterday showed the slowest expansionary pace in nine months,
while the equivalent measure for the euro area fell to a seven-
month low. Russia’s index signaled “near stagnation,” and
reports from  Poland  to  Hungary  also showed a loss of
manufacturing momentum.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ crude
production increased for a second straight month in May, led by
gains from  Saudi Arabia  and  Nigeria , according to a Bloomberg
News survey.  Output rose 165,000 barrels, or 0.6 percent, to average
28.895 million barrels a day, according to the survey of  oil
companies , producers and analysts. Saudi Arabia bolstered output
by 75,000 barrels, or 0.8 percent, to 8.925 million barrels a
day, the highest level since October 2008. Nigerian production
rose 75,000 barrels a day to 2.06 million last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Christian Schmollinger in Singapor at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  