-- 
OPEC to Resist Calls to Aid Recovery With More Oil

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-06-01T23:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/opec-to-resist-calls-to-aid-recovery-with-more-oil.html
OPEC will probably maintain
production levels when it meets in Vienna next week, resisting
calls to ease the pressure of $100-a-barrel oil on the global
economy, according to a survey of analysts by Bloomberg News.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries won’t
announce any supply increase and will keep its formal quota
unchanged for an eighth consecutive meeting at the June 8
gathering, 27 of 30 analysts said.  Brent crude  rallied 22
percent this year as conflict halted Libyan exports. The
 International Energy Agency , an adviser to importing nations,
said on May 19 that there is “an urgent need” for more oil.  “This will be one of the most important OPEC meetings of
the past decade,” said  Johannes Benigni , managing director of
Vienna-based consultant  JBC Energy GmbH , who says OPEC probably
won’t make the 2 million barrel increase in quotas he thinks is
necessary. “The easier choice would be to calm the market with
a statement that a hike is not necessary. However, this is a
risky strategy, and could drive prices to $150.”  Economic growth is stalling in the U.S., the world’s
largest crude user, where consumers face the highest fuel prices
in three years and unemployment remains at 9 percent. Central
bankers in  Europe ,  China  and  India  are tightening monetary
policy as energy costs stoke inflation.  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley predict the rally
in crude prices has further to go.  Oversupplied  The global “market is oversupplied,” Saudi Arabian Oil
Minister Ali Al-Naimi, representing OPEC’s biggest member, said
on April 17. OPEC’s  Vienna-based secretariat  said in its monthly
report on May 11 that “uncertainties” about growth in
developed economies undermine the need for additional supplies.
Prices are now “more in line” with market conditions after a
retreat in May, and this year’s rally was driven by speculators
and unfounded fears of disruption in Middle Eastern supply
disruptions, the OPEC report said.  Qatar  sees no urgency for OPEC to raise output quotas at
the June 8 conference, the country’s Oil Minister Mohammed Saleh al Sada said on May 31. Global oil markets are in a “healthy
situation,” he said.  Oil stockpiles held by companies in Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development nations stood at 58.8 days
worth of consumption in March, or 2.7 days higher than their
five-year average, the IEA said in a report on May 12. In the
U.S., crude inventories rose to a two-year high of 370.93
million barrels in the week to May 20, according to Energy
Department data.  Stable Quota  The 11 OPEC members bound by quotas are producing about 1
million barrels a day more than their collective target of
24.845 million a day. The group hasn’t altered its target since
December 2008, making this the longest-lasting quota since 1996.  A 9 percent drop in Brent futures from a 2 1/2-year high of
$127.02 reached on April 11 may have eased the burden on the
organization to change policy, said Jacob Correll, a commodity
analyst at Summit Energy Inc. in Louisville,  Kentucky .  OPEC’s “rhetoric that the market is well-supplied can now
plausibly be backed up by the recent pullback in prices,”
Correll said.  Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Hussain al-Shahristani said in
a television interview with Bloomberg News on May 25 he expects
a rollover of quotas.  “I don’t see any shortage on the world market,” he said.
Other OPEC ministers have yet to express a view on the meeting.  Qaddafi or Rebels  The group has declined to comment on whether Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  or the rebels opposing him will send
representatives. The country’s top oil official,  Shokri Ghanem ,
has defected to the rebels, Al Arabiya television and Italian
news agency Ansa reported yesterday.  It also isn’t clear who will represent  Iran , OPEC’s second-
biggest producer, after President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad sacked the
country’s oil minister in a May 14 reshuffle and appointed
himself as the ministry’s caretaker. Economy and Finance
Minister Shamseddin Hosseini will most likely represent Iran in
Vienna, an Oil Ministry official said yesterday.  The suspension of shipments from  Libya  since February has
been the biggest supply disruption since the 2003  Iraq  war,
removing about 1.6 million barrels of daily output. Still, Saudi
Arabia is easing back on the additional shipments it provided in
February to make up for lost Libyan oil, saying that consumers
do not want extra cargoes.  Three of the 30 analysts surveyed predicted outcomes other
than maintaining the existing quota. JPMorgan Chase & Co., said
“political pressures” may prompt the group to boost its output
ceiling to either 27 million or 27.5 million barrels a day, from
the current 24.845 million. Norwegian bank DnB NOR also expects
the quota to rise to 27 million, analysts led by Torbjoern Kjus
in Oslo wrote in a May 31 report.  ‘Prepare for the Unexpected’  “It pays to be prepared for the unexpected at OPEC
meetings,” JPMorgan’s New York-based head of commodities
research  Lawrence Eagles  said in a May 26 report. “Targets
could be creatively adjusted” to address the calls for action
without substantially increasing supply, he said.  One respondent to the Bloomberg survey, conducted May 24-
31, predicted a quota reduction.  The 11 nations with production quotas pumped 26.15 million
barrels a day last month, according to the IEA. That leaves the
group with about 4.1 million barrels a day of spare capacity,
most of it in  Saudi Arabia , to be tapped in an emergency.  OPEC’s 12 members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya,  Nigeria , Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is outside the quota system.  Brent futures will average $110 a barrel in the third
quarter, according to analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.
JPMorgan predicts Brent will climb to $130 in the quarter, while
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley expect prices will increase
toward this level in the coming year.  “The risk of them doing nothing is that the market is
denied oil it needs,” said Leo Drollas, chief economist at the
Centre for Global Energy Studies in  London . “Oil could be up in
the $120s by the end of the summer. That is damaging. Slowly
growth rates will falter, and eventually demand for oil will
start suffering.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  