-- 
Morgan Stanley Sees U.K. Home Prices Extending Drop in 2012

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-01T12:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/morgan-stanley-sees-u-k-home-prices-extending-drop-through-2012.html
Morgan Stanley said U.K. house prices
will continue to decline through 2012 as a squeeze on consumers’
incomes and higher  interest rates  restrain property demand.  Home values will fall a total of 10 percent in the two
years through 2012, compared with a previous estimate of a 7
percent decline to the end of this year, Morgan Stanley
economists including London-based Melanie Baker and Cath Sleeman
said in a note to clients dated yesterday. The declines will
cause U.K. banks to post larger loan losses, with  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  the most exposed to price drops, they said.  Housing “demand looks set to be relatively unsupportive
for prices over the next year and a half or so given our
expectation for weak real household disposable income and rising
mortgage rates,” Baker and Sleeman said. “We don’t expect any
significant further increase in availability of higher loan-to-
value mortgages and expect only modest improvements in credit
availability more broadly.”  Bank of England data today showed mortgage approvals fell
more than economists forecast to 45,166 in April. The  property
market  may come under further strain as the government cuts
spending to reduce the  budget deficit  and  inflation  at more than
double the Bank of England’s 2 percent target pressures policy
makers to raise interest rates.  Morgan Stanley said rising home-loan arrears will see
Lloyds, whose Halifax unit is the U.K.’s largest mortgage
lender, post cumulative loan losses of 1.4 billion pounds ($2.3
billion) this year and next, compared with 300 million pounds in
2010. By December next year, Lloyds will have 90 billion pounds
of mortgages in negative equity, where the property is worth
less than the loan, the economists said.  Morgan Stanley expects British home values to drop 3
percent this year and 7 percent in 2012. The forecast is based
on the  Bank of England  increasing its  benchmark interest rate 
from its current 0.5 percent to 2 percent in the period. If the
central bank delays raising borrowing costs, that will push back
house-price declines by a year, the  U.S. bank  said.  The U.K. economy will expand 1.2 percent this year before
growth accelerates to 1.8 percent next year, Morgan Stanley
said. Its predicted house-price declines increase the downside
risk to the 2012 growth forecast, Baker and Sleeman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  