-- 
Tornadoes Touch Down in South-Central Massachusetts, Killing Four People

-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-06-02T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/tornado-rips-apart-buildings-traps-people-in-springfield-massachusetts.html
Tornadoes touched down across south-
central  Massachusetts  late yesterday afternoon, killing at least
four people, injuring others and damaging buildings, cars and
trees.  Scott MacLeod, a spokesman for the  Massachusetts Emergency
Management Agency , said there were four fatalities. Governor
 Deval Patrick  declared a state of emergency and called up 1,000
National Guard troops to assist in rescue efforts.  Two people were killed in Westfield, one in Brimfield and
one in West Springfield, said MacLeod, who had no further
details on the deaths. The three towns are within 10 miles of
the  Connecticut  state border, where the worst tornado activity
was centered.  “The severity of these tornadoes is something we haven’t
seen in a very long time in Massachusetts,” MacLeod said in a
telephone interview from the agency’s emergency headquarters in
Framingham, Massachusetts. “It won’t be until sun-up when we
can get better information on the extent of the damage.”  Possible tornado sightings were reported in 20 separate
towns, though the  National Weather Service  had confirmed only
the two in the Springfield area as of last night, said MacLeod.
Analysts should be able to get a better sense of how many
tornadoes there were and where they struck tomorrow, he said.  David Graves, a spokesman for National Grid Plc, said the
storms cut power to about 33,500 of the utility’s customers in
Massachusetts, mostly in areas east of Springfield and south of
Worcester. Graves said portions of both the transmission and
distribution systems were “very heavily damaged.”  Collapsed Buildings  “We’re looking at a multi-day event” in restoring power
to customers, he said. The utility provides electricity to  New
York  and  New England .  One of the tornadoes overturned a car in  West Springfield ,
killing one person, the governor said. In downtown Springfield,
a second twister was reported.  “We have buildings collapsed,” said Jack Baker, an
official with the West Springfield Fire Department, in a
telephone interview. “It went right through town.”  Brian Freeman, a Westfield police officer, said another
tornado touched down there just before 5 p.m. local time. He
reported trees and power lines down.  Amtrak  said service to Springfield from New Haven,
Connecticut, was disrupted due to weather-related problems.  The New York City area and parts of the Northeast from
Pennsylvania to Maine were under a tornado watch until
8 p.m. local time yesterday, according to the  National Weather
Service .  Tornadoes have killed more than 500 people across the U.S.
this year, including at least 134 in Joplin,  Missouri , on May 22
in one of the deadliest storms in U.S. history. The tornadoes
have destroyed at least $3 billion to $6.5 billion of insured
property, said  Robert Hartwig , president of the Insurance
Information Institute in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  