-- 
House Republicans Press for Faster Action on Renewable Energy

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-06-01T19:33:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/house-republicans-press-for-faster-action-on-renewable-energy.html
U.S.  House Republicans , who have
sought to expedite offshore oil- and gas-drilling permits,
pressed the Obama administration to act faster on renewable
energy projects.  Federal hurdles are slowing growth of solar and wind
companies, industry executives said today at a  House Natural
Resources Committee hearing  in  Washington . The witnesses also
advocated tax incentives and production mandates criticized by
Republicans, who control the House.  “Bureaucratic delays, unnecessary lawsuits and burdensome
environmental regulations” are hampering expansion of renewable
energy, as they have for oil and gas producers, said Committee
Chairman Doc Hastings, a Republican from Washington state.  Hastings’s panel has already passed legislation designed to
expand oil and gas production offshore, including an accelerated
approval process for drilling permits. The bills passed the
House before being blocked in the Senate, where Democrats hold a
majority.  Susan Reilly, chief executive officer of  Renewable Energy 
Systems Americas Inc., of Broomfield,  Colorado , said Interior
Department protection from  wind turbines  for golden eagles will
“make financing projects more difficult.”  The Obama administration proposed  guidelines  in February to
help wind-energy developers identify sites that pose the least
risks to birds and wildlife.  Collisions with wind turbines are a “major source of
mortality” for golden eagles in regions of the U.S. West,
according to a department fact sheet.  Developing Public Lands  Hastings asked witnesses if the Interior Department had an
efficient and effective process for reviewing permits for
developing public lands.  While most responded no, executives also praised the Obama
administration for improving the procedures and focusing more
attention on renewable energy.  They commended policies like a Treasury Department grant
program for renewable developers set to expire later this year
and an Obama plan to generate 80 percent of U.S. electricity
from low-polluting sources by 2035.  The Interior Department is “picking up the pace” on
offshore wind, said Jim Lanard, president of the  Offshore Wind
Development Coalition .  Reilly said clean-energy mandates and a predictable  tax
policy  would promote investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  