-- 
Lloyds-Backed Indian Energy Expects Offer From Buyer in Weeks

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-01T07:02:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/lloyds-backed-indian-energy-expects-offer-from-buyer-in-weeks.html
Indian Energy Ltd. (IEL) , an operator of
wind farms backed by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and AXA Investment
Managers, expects a formal offer from a potential buyer within
weeks.  “We want to see a deal concluded in a relatively short
period of time,” Chief Executive Officer Rupert J. Strachwitz,
co-founder of the company and former financier at Dresdner
Kleinwort’s private equity division, said in a telephone
interview late yesterday. “We’re talking weeks, not months.”  The company is looking for a strategic investor to help
grow the business, he said. He declined to say how much it hopes
to raise. The party could offer to buy out part or all of the
company, he said.  If the negotiations don’t work out, the company may sell
its wind farms in  India , he said. Guernsey-based Indian Energy,
which is listed on  London ’s Alternative Investment Market, is in
exclusive talks with a party whom Strachwitz declined to
identify, citing a confidentiality agreement.  Potential investors in Indian Energy may be smaller private
companies looking for scale in the country’s fragmented wind
industry, said Adam Forsyth, a partner at London-based
investment bank Matrix Group Ltd.  “A possibility is somebody looking to do a consolidation
play in the Indian wind sector,” Forsyth said by telephone from
Edinburgh yesterday.  Acquisition Plan  Indian Energy owns and operates two wind farms totaling
41.3 megawatts in the south Asian nation, which added the most
new wind capacity last year behind  China  and the U.S. It aims to
expand its portfolio to 300 megawatts by 2013 by buying already
operating wind farms or those in advanced development to avoid
India’s land-permitting regulations for new projects.  It has no intention of scaling back those plans and is
talking to a range of parties including financial investors,
Indian and non-Indian, Strachwitz said.  “We have sufficient capital to go on for some time but we
don’t believe being in limbo is creating any value for our
shareholders,” Strachwitz said.  Indian Energy raised  9.75 million pounds  ($16 million) from
its September 2009 initial public offering, which attracted
investors including Lloyds’ Scottish Widows insurance unit,  AXA
SA (CS) , and Standard Life Plc. Indian Energy had entered into
exclusive talks with a separate company in January. That party
didn’t make a formal bid and the exclusivity arrangement
expired, Strachwitz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 