-- 
Toyota, Honda Lead Asia Carmakers’ U.S. Decline After Quake Slows Supplies

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-06-02T19:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/toyota-honda-lead-asia-carmakers-u-s-decline.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor
Co., the automakers hardest hit by Japan’s record earthquake,
led U.S. sales declines among Asia-based car manufacturers in
May as supplies of some models ran low.  Monthly sales fell 33 percent from a year earlier for
Toyota and 23 percent for Honda as the industry total dropped
3.7 percent, according to figures reported yesterday. Nissan
Motor Co. posted a 9.1 percent decline, while  South Korea ’s
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  boosted sales 21 percent and affiliate  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270) ’s deliveries jumped 53 percent.  “It was a pretty frustrating month, particularly for
Toyota dealers,” said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of industry
trends at TrueCar.com in  Santa Monica ,  California , a website
that tracks sales and price trends. “But May was as bad as it
will get for the rest of the summer for these automakers.”  Toyota and Honda said last month their global production
will begin rebounding in June after  Japan ’s March 11 quake and
tsunami slowed output in their home market and  North America .
The U.S. sales declines were accompanied by a 57 percent plunge
in Japan deliveries of Toyota-brand cars last month, and a
35 percent drop for Honda.  Along with shortages of some parts, Japan’s carmakers face
possible blackouts after the natural disasters reduced the
nation’s power-generating capacity by 8 percent.  Industrywide U.S. auto sales fell to 1.06 million cars and
light trucks last month from 1.1 million a year earlier,
according to Autodata Corp. of Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey .  Purchase Plans  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, fell 35 cents to $81.15 at 3:23 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, while Honda’s ADRs
dropped 29 cents to $37.60.  Confidence among U.S. consumers dropped unexpectedly in May
to a six-month low, as incomes were squeezed by gasoline prices
that averaged $3.90 a gallon during the month. The percentage of
consumers planning to buy a new vehicle within six months fell
in May to 3.3 percent, the lowest since January, the New York-
based Conference Board said this week.  U.S. sales of Japanese and South Korean auto brands fell 13
percent to 430,503 vehicles in May. Their combined market share
dropped to 40.5 percent from 45.1 percent a year earlier.  Among U.S.-based automakers, sales fell 1.2 percent for
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and 2.6 percent for  Ford Motor Co. (F) , while
Chrysler Group LLC reported a 10 percent increase.  ‘Two Different Months’  Toyota, Japan’s largest automaker, said sales of Toyota,
Lexus and Scion vehicles slid to 108,387 last month from 162,813
a year earlier. The 33 percent decline for the Toyota City,
Japan-based company was wider than the 27 percent average of
three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We really had two different months in May,”  Bob Carter ,
group vice president for U.S. sales, said in a conference call
yesterday. “Early on, because of inventory concerns, we dialed
back on our marketing programs and the sales pace slowed. By
mid-May, the production outlook was rapidly improving and we
were able to reinstate many of those programs.”  Toyota restored no-interest loan offers for its Camry sedan
and incentives on other models in anticipation of improving U.S.
vehicle supplies, Carter said. The company is also offering
discount financing on Corolla small cars, Sienna minivans, Venza
wagons and Highlander sport-utility vehicles in June, he said.  While supplies of Prius gasoline-electric hybrids plunged
in May, Toyota will get at least 36,000 of the cars to sell in
the U.S. in June through August, he said.  ‘Low Point’  Randy Pflughaupt, a group vice president for Toyota’s U.S.
unit, said May and June will mark the “low point” of the
company’s inventory.  Toyota’s market share dropped to 10.2 percent last month
from 14.8 percent a year earlier, according to Autodata.  Honda reported sales of 90,773 Honda and Acura autos, a
drop from 117,173. Honda’s sales fell less than the 25 percent
average of three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Declines for the Tokyo-based company were led by a 40
percent plunge in sales of midsize Accord cars, Honda’s top-
selling U.S. model, and a 36 percent drop for its new line of
Civic small cars that went on sale in late April.  “It’s all about the inventory situation right now,” said
 Chris Martin , a spokesman for Honda’s U.S. unit.  Nissan Sales  Nissan, Japan’s second-biggest automaker, said sales of its
Nissan and Infiniti brands dropped to 76,148 from 83,764. The
decline was larger than the 7.3 percent average of three analyst
estimates.  While Nissan dealers had better supplies of vehicles than
Toyota or Honda, some consumers assumed May was a bad time to
buy because of reports of higher prices and low inventory, said
 Al Castignetti , the Yokohama, Japan-based company’s vice
president of U.S. sales.  “The consumer was scared by the media and some of those
reports,” he said.  Nissan, which aims to be the world’s biggest seller of
electric cars, delivered 1,142 of its battery-powered Leaf
vehicles to U.S. customers in May, the most since the hatchback
began sales in December.  Nissan’s market share dropped to 7.2 percent in May from
7.6 percent a year earlier, according to Autodata.  Hyundai, Kia  Hyundai reported sales of 59,214 vehicles, an increase from
49,045 a year earlier. The gain was led by the revamped Elantra
small car and the Sonata sedan. The Seoul-based company’s market
share rose 1.2 percentage points to 5.6 percent.  Kia’s deliveries rose to 48,212, a record for any month, on
demand for Optima sedans and Soul wagons. Kia, also based in
 Seoul , said today that it will invest $100 million to expand its
West Point,  Georgia , plant that now builds Sorento and Hyundai
Santa Fe SUVs.  The expansion will boost the plant’s annual capacity to
360,000 vehicles by next year from 300,000 currently, Kia said
in a statement. The company in April said the West Point factory
would start making Optima sedans in September.  Hyundai and Kia, which operate separately, sold a combined
107,426 cars and light trucks last month.  “The trajectory of growth for the Hyundai and Kia brands
is phenomenal,” said Toprak, the TrueCar analyst. “I don’t
know if they’ll be able to be stopped.”  Sales for Subaru, the auto brand of Toyota-affiliated  Fuji
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) , fell 15 percent on limited supplies of
Forester, Impreza and Tribeca models, the company’s U.S. unit
said.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , based in Hiroshima, Japan, reported a
21 percent decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  