-- 
Pao de Acucar Has Biggest Two-Day Slide in Four Months on Controller Spat

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-06-01T20:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/pao-de-acucar-in-biggest-two-day-slide-in-10-months-amid-controller-spat.html
Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo
Pao de Acucar,  Brazil ’s biggest retailer, posted the steepest
two-day drop in four months as a dispute between its controllers
spurred  Raymond James  & Associates Inc. to cut its rating.  The stock fell 1.4 percent in Sao Paulo to 62.30 reais at
the 4:15 p.m. New York time close. The two-session decline of
5.7 percent is the largest since Jan. 27.  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  said yesterday it filed for
international arbitration against the Diniz Group to make its
partner meet the obligations of a November 2006 accord governing
control of Pao de Acucar. The statement, which didn’t elaborate,
came after Casino learned that Pao de Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz held talks with  Carrefour SA (CA)  on a possible deal, according
to two people with knowledge of the talks, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private.  “As with any long-term relationship, when one party wants
to materially change the arrangement, it can become an awkward
situation and bring instability,”  Daniela Bretthauer , an
analyst at Raymond James in Sao Paulo, wrote in a note to
clients today. She cut Pao de Acucar to “outperform” from
“strong buy.”  Pao de Acucar should disclose any talks for a transaction
with Carrefour, said Wagner Salaverry, who oversees 6.3 billion
reais ($4 billion) including Pao de Acucar shares as partner at
Geracao Futuro Corretora de Valores SA in  Porto Alegre , Brazil.  “As it is now, it looks like a big shareholder, with a
controlling stake, knows something about the company that nobody
else does,” Salaverry said in a telephone interview. “If
Casino filed a request for arbitration, it’s because they
probably know that something’s going on.”  Diniz Statements  Pao de Acucar said yesterday it doesn’t have any knowledge
of talks with Carrefour. Diniz said in a separate statement that
he didn’t break the shareholders’ agreement.  Today, Diniz asked the company’s management to maintain
“serenity” during “difficult” days. “I’m doing everything
within my reach to protect you and the company from any
attack,” he said in a letter sent to Pao de Acucar’s management
and e-mailed to Bloomberg by the company.  Carrefour hired Lazard Ltd. to study a merger between its
Brazilian unit and Pao de Acucar, Journal du Dimanche reported
last month, without saying where it got the information. The
Diniz family could take a stake in the French retailer as part
of the operation, according to the newspaper.  Joint Control  Casino, which says it owns 33.7 percent of Pao de Acucar,
has had joint control with the Diniz family since July 2005.
Starting next year, Casino will have the right to appoint the
chairman of Wilkes, the holding company for Pao de Acucar, and
gain control of the retailer, according to Casino’s 2010
registration document.  The Diniz family agreed in 2005 not to sell its shares in
Wilkes until 2014. All major management decisions must be
unanimously agreed upon, and Casino and Diniz each have the
right of first refusal should the other wish to sell their
shares after the lockup period, according to the pact.  Disagreements among the controlling shareholders are “bad
news” for the company, Ricardo Boiati and Alan Cardoso,
analysts at Banco Bradesco SA, wrote in a note to clients
yesterday.  “This distress raises uncertainties regarding the
company’s outlook and could also impact operations if management
is somehow affected and gets distracted,” they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  