-- 
Papandreou Greek Highway Roadblock Hurts Ellaktor Shares: Freight Markets

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 
2011-06-01T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/papandreou-greek-highway-roadblock-hurts-ellaktor-shares-freight-markets.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is trying to clear a $12.5-billion funding roadblock
for highway projects that threatens to stymie efforts to pull
the economy out of recession.  Construction of four freeways linking Athens to the
country’s regions and ports has been stalled for more than a
year in places as a shrinking economy saps toll revenue, slow
land expropriation delays building and banks withdraw loans.  Shares of  Ellaktor SA (ELLAKTOR)  and  J&P-Avax SA (AVAX) , Greece’s two largest
construction companies, have plunged more than 48 percent since
the start of 2010, more than the 41 percent decline in Greece’s
benchmark ASE Index.  Papandreou’s government is seeking to reach an accord this
month with banks and companies as investors cast doubt on his
ability to revive growth, shrink the  budget deficit  and avoid
default. While the prime minister has pledged a 500 million-euro
guarantee to persuade banks to release lending, failure may add
a further barrier to recovery and hurt builder shares even more.  “Despite the government’s focus on austerity measures
lately, they also need to find ways to make the road projects
work,” said George Satlas, head of investments at TT ELTA
Mutual Funds Management SA, which has about 300 million euros
under management, including shares in Ellaktor and GEK Terna SA.
“If the road projects aren’t fixed it’s going to be harder to
attract investment for other key infrastructure projects.”  Greek Builders  The highways are among five being built and operated at a
cost of 8.7 billion euros by consortia of overseas and domestic
companies, in which Ellaktor, J&P Avax and GEK Terna hold stakes
of as much as 72 percent.  While  road construction  makes up a small share of revenue
for Vinci SA and  Ferrovial SA (FER) , domestic companies are feeling
the pinch. Greek building in January was down 73 percent from a
year before, according to the  Hellenic Statistical Authority .  “When the Greek public sector has a problem gaining access
to international financial markets to finance projects, to not
do everything, for whatever reason, to complete what’s already
underway is a very big mistake,” said Anastasios Kallitsantsis,
chairman of Ellaktor, said in an interview on May 19.  The quality of Greece’s transport network threatens to hold
back an economy that the European Commission says will contract
3.5 percent this year after shrinking 4.4 percent in 2010. Its
ports ranked 21st out of the European Union’s 27 members, its
roads came 19th and its railways 24th among 25 of the bloc’s
nations, according to the  World Economic Forum ’s 2010-2011
 Global Competitiveness Report . The island states of Cyprus and
Malta don’t have railroads.  Behind Schedule  Of the four projects where construction is behind schedule,
work has stopped completely on two, neither of which is more
than one-fifth finished, GEK Terna chairman George Peristeris
told investors on an April 4 conference call.  The 43 banks that lent to the projects, including  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
and  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) , started withholding funds for
projects as early as March 2010 after construction deadlines
were missed due to archaeological finds and slow land seizures
and planning approvals.  A settlement that resumes work and frees traffic could
boost share prices of companies involved in the concessions,
said Theodore Krintas, who helps manage 100 million euros for
Athens-based asset manager Attica Wealth Management.  “It makes sense to look at companies that are in these
types of projects,” said Krintas, who holds shares in Ellaktor
and says he would increase his positions in the building
companies if a settlement were reached.  Attica Ring Road  “Works that are self-financing, like the Attica Ring Road
and other roads like that, are very effective in their own
right, but they also give good returns and  cash flow  to the
construction companies,” he said.  The Attica Ring Road, a freeway that eased driving in and
out of the capital in time for the 2004 Olympics, provided
 Greece  with a model for attracting private finance for building
roads in which toll revenues were shared between the state and
the contractors over 30 years.  Similar agreements were negotiated by 2008 for roads
running along the country’s east and west coasts and through its
center, and two roads encircling the Peloponnesian peninsula.  Ellaktor owns a 72 percent stake in the  Corinth-Tripoli-
Kalamata  road, the only one of the five currently under
construction without delays, and a 59 percent stake in the
Attica Ring Road. Net income fell 86 percent to 1.8 million
euros in the first quarter compared with the same period a year
before partly because of falling toll revenue at those projects.  Bulgarian Slowdowns  Greece’s northern neighbors, some with little or no
coastline, rely on Greek ports for imports and exports,
according to Koycho Russev, head of  Bulgaria ’s National
Transport Chamber.  “The delays in Greek road construction have slowed down
our business,” Russev said in a phone interview. “It’s
important to have good transport links with the Greek ports that
attract large cargo traffic.”  Greek exports by road to neighbors including Albania,
Bulgaria and Romania of products such as detergents and aluminum
shutters grew 40 percent in the first two months of the year
amid stronger consumption growth in those markets. Exports to
 Italy , including fresh and frozen fish, increased 43 percent.
Imports of livestock from those destinations rose 19 percent.  Olympia Odos SA , an Athens-based concession company
including  Vinci SA (DG)  and  Hochtief AG (HOT) , in 2008 started building and
upgrading a 365-kilometer freeway from Athens to southwest
Greece via the port city of Patras. On some stretches delays of
up to two years have accrued, the company said in response to e-
mailed questions.  ‘Drastic Increase’  Greece’s economic crisis has hit revenue at completed
sections of Hochtief Concession’s two Greek projects, said
spokeswoman Donatella Gasser, blaming the declines on “drastic
increases” in value-added and fuel taxes and a rising number of
motorists refusing to pay tolls.  Obstacles to a long-term solution include the “complex”
terms of the negotiations, said Javier Martin Rivals, chief
executive officer of two concessions dominated by  Spain ’s
Ferrovial SA. A restructuring needs to balance the need for
investment funding “with the sources of incomes during the life
of the projects,” he said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Another incentive for Greece is the contribution highway
completion could make to its target of raising 50 billion euros
by the end of 2015 from state asset sales.  Greece’s cabinet on May 23 approved plans to raise money
through Hellenic Motorways SA, a special purpose vehicle that
will hold the state’s toll revenue rights on existing and future
road projects.  The government also will sell early next year as much as
100 percent of its stake in Egnatia Odos, the country’s only
freeway under state control. It was completed in 2009 and runs
for 670 kilometers from the Turkish border to the western port
of Igoumenitsa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  