-- 
People’s Bank Still Owes an Accounting to Its Shareholders: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-01T20:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/people-s-bank-still-owes-an-accounting-to-shareholders-on-loans-editorial.html
Imagine that a friend with infinite
resources gives you unlimited access to his bank account in
exchange for a symbolic amount of interest, say 0.01 percent.
Then imagine that you can do as you please with the money,
including lend it back to your deep-pocketed friend at a much
higher rate of interest and keep the difference as profit.  It sounds too good to be true, yet it happens to be a
pretty good analogy for the method the U.S. Federal Reserve used
to rescue the financial system from collapse in 2008. The
biggest U.S. banks -- and some foreign ones -- were given access
to Fed lending programs at negligible rates and then used the
money to, among other things, buy 10-year  Treasury securities 
with yields from 2.05 percent to 4.27 percent. Altogether, the
central bank committed $3.5 trillion to bailing out banks and
restoring the flow of credit to a paralyzed financial system.  Astoundingly, in combination with the $700 billion Troubled
Asset Relief Program and various other bailouts by the Treasury
Department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., this
approach mostly worked: Credit markets gradually thawed, the
biggest U.S. banks were pulled back from the brink and the
economy has posted seven quarters of consecutive -- albeit
modest -- growth since June 2009.  So why does the Fed continue to keep Congress, and the rest
of us, in the dark about the way taxpayer money was used? Last
week, Bloomberg News’s Bob Ivry reported that in 2008  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  each borrowed at least $30 billion from a Fed
emergency-lending program whose details haven’t been disclosed
to shareholders, members of Congress or the public.  28-Day Loans  It was no simple task to uncover this $80 billion Fed
initiative known as  single-tranche open-market operations  (ST
OMO), which from March through December 2008 made 28-day loans
to units of 20 banks that paid interest rates as low as 0.01
percent. Information about the program was buried in just 27
pages of the more than 29,000 pages of data the Fed was forced
to release under the Freedom of Information Act after a request
for disclosure was contested all the way to the  Supreme Court .
Nor was the program mentioned in the reports on emergency
lending the Fed was required to make to Congress last year under
the Dodd-Frank law.  The Fed claims, with some justification, that it has been
more open than ever before in its 97-year history, giving pride
of place to Chairman  Ben Bernanke ’s big press conference on
April 27. Openness is different from transparency, however.
While it is true the central bank has released a trove of data
concerning its  lending facilities  during the 2007-2009 crisis,
it has never done so voluntarily.  Bank-Supervisory Memos  There is a lot more to be done. Specifically, the Fed
should make public the bank-supervisory memos from the period
that preceded the popping of the credit bubble. Determining
which signs and portents were missed, ignored or misinterpreted
will help regulators and Congress -- and the Fed itself -- avoid
similar mistakes in the future.  Another urgent change is to require the Fed’s regional
affiliates to be more transparent. The  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York , which administered the ST OMO program, has rebuffed
requests for information about specific amounts the bank lent
and to which firms. The  New York  Fed claims, unconvincingly,
that it’s not subject to the disclosure laws that cover the rest
of the executive branch because it’s a private entity.  Quantitative Easing  Finally, the Fed’s emergency policy of funneling money into
the banking system has been followed by a post-emergency policy
of quantitative easing, which amounted to funneling even more
money into that same banking system. This has increased the
threat of inflation and weakened the dollar. More disclosure
would force central bankers to tell us how they plan to address
these unintended consequences.  More than two years after the official end of the
recession, the Fed should understand that withholding
information ultimately undermines its ability to preserve its
independence, a fundamental requirement of fulfilling its
mandate. Its opacity only serves to reinforce a misguided sense
among some Americans that the central bank is an occult
organization devoted to mysterious ends. This perception was
visible in a Bloomberg National Poll published in December in
which a majority of respondents said they favored either
bringing the Fed under tighter political control or abolishing
it outright.  Greater disclosure has the power to deepen public
appreciation of an independent Fed’s beneficial role for all
Americans. The central bank should trust the citizens it serves
to understand the actions it takes in their name -- and with
their money.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  