-- 
Peru Dollar Bonds, Sol, Stocks Fall on Speculation Humala May Win Election

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-01T20:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/peru-dollar-bonds-sol-stocks-fall-on-speculation-humala-may-win-election.html
Peruvian stocks fell the most in
seven weeks, the nation’s benchmark borrowing costs rose and the
currency weakened on speculation a private poll shows former
army renegade Ollanta Humala may win a June 5 presidential vote.  The  Lima  General Index dropped 5.9 percent to 20,283.93 at
4:34 p.m. New York time, its steepest decline since April 13.
The sol fell 0.3 percent to a three-week low of 2.7782 per  U.S.
dollar , from 2.7694 yesterday.  Peruvian financial assets are tumbling on speculation that
a private poll commissioned by an investment bank showed
Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori’s lead over Humala narrowed to less
than 1 percentage point, said Gonzalo Navarro, the head trader
at  Banco Santander  in Lima. Separately, research company Eurasia
Group said Humala will likely win a larger share of undecided
voters in the “very tight” race, pushing him past Fujimori.  “A fall in support for Keiko in any survey would create
anxiety,” said Navarro, who added that he hadn’t seen the
private survey. “The race is completely open.”  Humala, a one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , pledges to revise  Peru ’s free-trade agreements and
change the constitution to strengthen the state’s role in the
economy, while Fujimori has promised to preserve policies to
draw foreign investment to the country.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian  government
bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries increased to the highest level
since May 11, rising six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point,
to 195, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Datum Poll  Fujimori led by 4.1 percentage points in a poll by Datum
issued May 29, compared with 5.1 percentage points in a May 26
poll. A May 29 survey by Ipsos Apoyo showed the candidates in a
statistical tie.  Datum is preparing a poll for a client that will be ready
June 3, Urpi Torrado, the company’s deputy general manager, said
in an e-mailed response to questions. Peruvian researchers are
barred by electoral laws from publishing the results of polls in
local media in the week before the vote.  “Humala looks likely to win a larger share of undecided
voters, who are mostly poor and therefore tend to be less
concerned about the risks commonly associated with Humala,”
Eurasia Group analyst Erasto Almeida said. “Despite the tight
race, the risk of serious post-election political instability is
low, even though a slow counting of votes could generate
significant noise in the weeks following the election.”  Concern Humala, who topped the field in the first round of
elections April 10, will win the presidential vote and slow the
region’s fastest-growing economy drove the sol to a 10-month low
of 2.8384 per dollar on May 2. The cost of protecting Peru’s
debt against non-payment for five years with credit-default
swaps rose to the highest since July 2009 on April 29.  The sol rose to a three-year high of 2.7454 on May 26 after
Fujimori took a narrow lead in polls by Datum and CPI. Fujimori
is the daughter of jailed former President  Alberto Fujimori .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  