-- 
Petronet LNG Signs Accord With Gazprom to Boost Fuel Imports

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-06-01T15:37:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/petronet-lng-signs-agreement-with-gazprom-to-boost-imports.html
Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) ,  India ’s biggest
importer of liquefied natural gas, signed a preliminary
agreement to purchase fuel from  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom and boost
long-term contract volumes by 28 percent.  Petronet plans to buy as much as 2.5 million metric tons of
LNG annually for 25 years, the company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The gas will be supplied by Gazprom’s marketing
and trading group in  Singapore .  Indian companies are seeking energy assets and supplies
across the world to meet demand from fertilizer and power
producers in the world’s fastest-growing major economy after
 China . BP Plc and Reliance Industries Ltd., the operator of
India’s biggest gas field, agreed in February to form a venture
to market the fuel on expectations of growing energy demand.  “There’s all this unmet gas demand and we are building new
capacity,” Petronet LNG Managing Director A.K. Balyan said by
telephone. “We will soon start negotiations on the price.”  Gazprom Marketing & Trading buys gas from the export
division of Gazprom as well as other producers, Vitaly Vasiliev,
the unit’s chief executive officer, said in an interview with
Gazprom’s corporate magazine in April.  Gazprom LNG  “In the initial stages, the gas will be supplied from
Gazprom Marketing & Trading’s portfolio of LNG capacity
assets,” Paddy Blewer, a London-based spokesman for the unit,
said by phone today.  Petronet rose 4.2 percent to a record 142.20 rupees in
Mumbai, compared with a 0.6 percent gain in the benchmark
Sensitive Index. The stock has climbed 14 percent this year.  Petronet is building a 5 million ton-a-year LNG terminal in
Kochi in the southern state of Kerala and plans to expand its 10
million ton-a-year plant in Gujarat state.  The New Delhi-based company currently imports 7.5 million
tons of LNG a year from Qatar under a long-term contract and
reached an agreement with Exxon Mobil Corp. in August 2009 to
buy 1.5 million tons annually for 20 years from  Australia ’s
Gorgon project.  LNG is created by cooling gas to about minus 260 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 162 degrees Celsius), shrinking it to about a
600th of the original volume, according to the U.S. Department
of Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 