-- 
Pfizer, SEB, Amazon, Blockbuster: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-01T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/pfizer-amazon-blockbuster-louboutin-intellectual-property.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, settled claims against  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA)  over generic versions of the Neurontin epilepsy drug,
ending a trial in federal court.  Financial terms are confidential, Teva, the world’s biggest
generic-drug company, said in a statement. Teva will be able to
continue selling the copy under a license from Pfizer, according
to a filing in the case. U.S. District Judge Faith Hochberg in
 Newark , New Jersey, who was presiding over the trial that began
May 17, dismissed the suit yesterday, according to the court
docket.  Pfizer claimed that copies of the pill made by Teva and its
Ivax unit, along with Actavis Group hf’s Purepac unit, infringe
a patent that expires in 2017. The drugmaker was seeking
compensation for profit it lost when sales plunged to $150
million in 2005 from $2.5 billion the previous year because of
the low-cost competition.  The agreement covers Teva, its Ivax unit and Actavis Group
hf’s Purepac unit, which had an agreement with Teva over its
Neurontin copy, said Chris Loder, a spokesman for New York-based
Pfizer. He declined to provide any financial details.  Low-cost versions of Neurontin have been on the market
since 2004. A federal appeals court in 2007 overturned a U.S.
judge’s ruling that Teva and Ivax didn’t infringe Pfizer’s
patent.  The generic-drug companies also argued that Warner-Lambert
Co., which Pfizer purchased in 2000, turned Neurontin into a
blockbuster drug by illegally marketing it for uses not approved
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. In 2004, Warner-
Lambert pleaded guilty and agreed to pay $430 million to resolve
U.S. criminal and civil allegations that it marketed Neurontin
for so-called off-label uses.  The subject of the trial is patent 6,054,482, which covers
a process to make gabapentin, the active ingredient in
Neurontin, with fewer contaminants.  The case is Warner-Lambert Co. v. Purepac Pharmaceutical,
00-cv-2931, U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey 
(Newark).  Patent Fee Changes ‘Critical’ to Economy, Commerce Tells House  Letting the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office set its own
fees and keep all the money it collects is “critical” to
promoting innovation, according to the Commerce Department,
which oversees the agency.  The House is considering a measure known as the America
Invents Act that would mark a fundamental change in how patents
are reviewed and the biggest revision to U.S. patent law since
1952. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke wrote in support of the
proposed legislation in letters yesterday to Representative
Lamar Smith, a  Texas  Republican who chairs the House Judiciary
Committee, and Michigan Representative John Conyers, the panel’s
top-ranking Democrat.  The Senate passed a similar measure in a 95-5 vote on March
8. Locke said the administration, which supported the Senate
version, wants “prompt passage” of legislation, saying it may
help promote  job creation .  “Enactment of a balanced bill is an important part of the
administration’s goal of ‘out-innovating’ our economic
competitors and winning the future -- and it can be done with no
cost to taxpayers and no addition to the deficit,” Locke wrote.  The House may take up the measure next month, according to
the office of Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia
Republican.  A key provision of the legislation would give the patent
office more power over its funding by allowing the agency to
alter its fee structure and keep Congress from diverting fees
for non-patent purposes.  “This structure is critical to enable the USPTO to better
meet the needs of America’s innovators,” Locke wrote,
suggesting there should be technical changes to allow the patent
office to make interim fee adjustments “so it can best use this
new authority on day one.”  The measure also calls for granting patents to the first
inventor to file an application, eliminating an often years-long
procedure to determine who first came up with an idea. The
first-to-file system is used in most countries.  The House patent bill is H.R. 1249.  SEB Wins U.S.  Supreme Court  Patent Fight With Global-Tech  The U.S. Supreme Court, in a decision limiting the rights
of some patent holders, upheld a $5 million award against a
home-appliance maker for persuading retailers to sell a copycat
version of an  SEB SA (SK)  deep fryer.  The 8-1 ruling set a high bar for claims that one company
induced another to infringe a patent, while saying SEB met that
standard in its suit against Hong Kong-based  Global-Tech
Advanced Innovations Inc. (GAI)  The majority said the patentholder
must prove the defendant knew about the infringement or at least
was “willfully blind” to it.  The ruling will help companies that make mobile phones or
design software, said Edward Reines, a patent lawyer with Weil
Gotshal & Manges LLP.  “This is a big deal,” said Reines, who
filed a brief on behalf of companies including  Red Hat Inc. (RHT) ,
General Motors Co., Yahoo! Inc.,  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  “In a world with products that are so versatile and
flexible, a higher standard to prove inducement of infringement
makes sense.”  The case divided businesses along what have become familiar
lines in patent cases -- with large technology companies
including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  urging limits on
infringement suits, and the drug industry arguing for robust
patent protection.  Writing for the Supreme Court, Justice  Samuel Alito  said a
lower court standard made it too easy for patentholders to win
suits alleging inducement to infringe.  At the same time, Alito said SEB met the Supreme Court’s
new standard. SEB proved to a jury that a Global-Tech unit
“took deliberate steps to avoid knowing” that it was selling a
knockoff version of a patented SEB fryer, Alito wrote.  In developing its fryer, Pentalpha bought an SEB fryer in
 Hong Kong  and copied its “cool touch” features, Alito said.
Pentalpha never told its lawyer that it had copied the design,
and the lawyer later issued a written opinion that the fryer
didn’t violate any of the patents he had uncovered, Alito said.  Justice Anthony Kennedy was the lone dissenter.  The case is Global-Tech Appliances v. SEB SA, 10-6.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  College Bookstore Association Seeks Dismissal of Amazon Suit  A trade group for college bookstores that has challenged
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s advertising claims for discounted textbooks
asked a federal judge to dismiss the online retailer’s lawsuit
against it.  The National Association of College Stores Inc. was sued by
Amazon.com May 3 in a complaint seeking a court order declaring
that its advertised 30 percent discounts on new textbooks and 90
percent discounts on used books aren’t false or misleading.
Amazon asked the court to say those ads didn’t violate federal
trademark law.  In March, the Oberlin, Ohio-based group asked the Better
Business Bureau’s national advertising division to review the
ads, which it says are deceptive and haven’t been substantiated.
Amazon.com hasn’t been harmed by the association or its request
for a review, so the complaint should be thrown out, the group
said in a May 27 filing in federal court in  Seattle .  The lawsuit appears to have been filed to thwart the
college store group’s effort to have the Amazon.com ads reviewed
by the bureau, the filing says. The complaint was closed because
the bureau doesn’t accept cases that are the subject of
lawsuits, the filing says.  A voice-mail message left at Seattle-based Amazon.com’s
media office wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Amazon.com v. National Association of College
Stores Inc., 11-754, U.S. District Court, Western District of
 Washington  (Seattle).  NCR Sues Blockbuster Trust Over Movie-Rental Kiosks  NCR Corp. (NCR)  sued a trust set up by  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ)  in a bid
to continue licensing the company’s name for movie-rental
kiosks.  The Blockbuster Express name, design and related trademarks
are held by the BB 2009 trust, NCR said in the lawsuit filed in
U.S. District Court in Wilmington,  Delaware . Blockbuster, once
the largest video-rental chain, sold its assets to Dish Network
Corp. in April for about $320 million.  Dish rejected the NCR contract and sent the company a
termination letter, NCR said. NCR, based in Duluth,  Georgia ,
builds kiosks, often placed in grocery and convenience stores,
where customers can rent and drop off movies. The company, which
branded more than 9,000 kiosks with the Blockbuster name, pays
for use of the brand and collects all revenue from rentals.  “NCR has undertaken significant time and expense in
establishing and operating kiosks throughout the  United States 
branded with the trademarks, and has earned substantial revenues
from those operations,” Melanie Sharp, an attorney representing
NCR, said in court papers filed May 27.  Blockbuster transferred its interest in the trust to Dish
as part of its asset sale, according to court papers. NCR
contends that the trust wasn’t included in the sale because it
wasn’t part of Blockbuster’s bankruptcy filing. In addition,
only the trust has the right to terminate the license, not Dish,
NCR claims.  Marc Lumpkin, a Dish spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment. Dish, based in Englewood,
Colorado, is the second-largest satellite-television provider in
the U.S.  The case is NCR Corp. v. BB 2009 Trust, 11-cv-481, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  St. Laurent Tells Court Red Shoe Soles Neither New Nor Unique  Yves Saint Laurent America Inc. responded to a trademark-
infringement case brought by  Christian Louboutin SA  by saying
there is nothing particularly distinctive about putting a red
sole on a pair of shoes.  Louboutin sued St. Laurent in federal court in  Manhattan 
April 7, accusing the French fashion house of misleading the
public and tarnishing the shoemaker’s reputation. The shoemaker
introduced the red soles in 1992 and since then they have been
on all of the company’s luxury shoes, according to the lawsuit.  On  Barneys ’s website, Louboutin red-sole shoes are priced
from $445 to more than $4,000 a pair.  Saint Laurent has been selling red-sole shoes under brand
names such as Tribute, Palais and Woodstock at high-end fashion
stores that also sell Louboutin footwear, including Saks Fifth
Avenue, Barneys  New York  and Bergdorf Goodman, according to the
complaint.  In its response to the complaint, St. Laurent said red
soles have been used for centuries, including those worn by
 France ’s King Louis XIV in the 17th century. Dorothy, the
heroine of “Wizard of Oz” clicked together the heels of her
red-soled ruby slippers and was transported home at the end of
the 1939 film, St. Laurent said in its pleadings.  Louboutin “cannot plausibly assert that red outsoles are
singularly associated with the Louboutin brand,” the French
fashion house said. St. Laurent accused Louboutin of making a
“demonstrably false” statement to the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office when the shoemaker claimed in a trademark
filing that its use of the red sole was exclusive.  St. Laurent also said that it isn’t using a red sole as a
signature element. It colored the soles of all its shoes to
match the uppers, achieving a monochromatic effect, the company
claims. Yves Saint Laurent, the Algeria-born French fashion
designer for whom the fashion house is named, died in 2008.  In addition to seeking a judicial declaration that it isn’t
infringing, St. Laurent asked the court to order the
cancellation of the Louboutin red-sole trademark and for awards
of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. St.
Laurent asked for extra damages because of what it called
“Louboutin’s malicious, willful, tortuous interference and
unfair competition.”  The case is Christian Louboutin SA v. Yves Saint Laurent
America Inc., 11-2381, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Texas Lawmakers Seek Public Disclosure of ‘Fracking’ Formulae  Oil drilling companies that operate in Texas may soon be
unable to protect as trade secrets the formulas for the
chemicals they use to fracture rock formations,  Associated Press 
 reported .  The state House of Representatives approved a measure May
28 requiring drilling companies to disclose their so-called
“fracking” chemicals, the news service reported. The governor
hasn’t said whether he will sign it, AP said.  Drillers pump millions of gallons of water containing their
proprietary blend of chemicals into the ground in their quest
for oil, according to AP. Some environmental groups are
concerned that the chemicals can harm groundwater or soil, AP
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 