-- 
Philippine Stocks: Belle, Philippine Long Distance, San Miguel

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-06-01T04:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/philippine-stocks-belle-philippine-long-distance-san-miguel.html
Shares of the following companies had
unusual moves in Philippine trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the noon close in  Manila .  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index advanced 41.82, or 1
percent, to 4,286.46.  Belle Corp. (BEL)  , which is building a casino in Manila,
sank 2.7 percent to 5.50 pesos after its rating was cut to
“underperform” from “buy” at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. The
company had its 12-month share-price estimate lowered to 4.17
pesos from 4.61 pesos, analyst Leo Venezuela wrote in a report.  International Container Terminal Services Inc. (ICT)  ,
the largest Philippine port operator, increased 4.5 percent to
52.35 pesos, the biggest gain by percentage on the benchmark
stock index. The company said an indirectly owned unit made a
voluntary offer to acquire Singapore-based  Portek International
Ltd. (PORT)  at S$1.20 a share.  Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL)  , the
nation’s biggest company by market value, jumped 3.3 percent to
2,404 pesos, the steepest increase since March 30. The nation’s
regulators have completed a review of the company’s plan to
acquire smaller rival Digital Telecommunications Philippines
Inc., BusinessWorld reported, citing Technology Secretary Mario
Montejo. Montejo couldn’t be reached in his office for comment.  Globe Telecom Inc. (GLO)  , a competitor of Philippine
Long Distance, sank 2.8 percent to 865 pesos, the sharpest loss
since April 1. The company had asked regulators for a “level
playing field” in April, following the announcement of the
planned purchase.  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  , the largest Philippine food and
drinks company, rose 2.9 percent to 114 pesos, the biggest gain
since May 9.  San Miguel  and Kirin Holdings Co., its partner in
 San Miguel Brewery Inc. (SMB)  , may offer shares in their
venture within the year to meet the Philippine bourse’s listing
requirement, San Miguel President Ramon Ang said. Ang also said
San Miguel Brewery plans to build four new bottling plants
valued at about $25 million each. San Miguel Brewery shares were
unchanged at 31 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  