-- 
Platinum Equity Founder Gores Receives NBA’s Approval to Purchase Pistons

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-01T04:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/platinum-equity-founder-gores-receives-nba-s-approval-to-purchase-pistons.html
Tom Gores, the founder of Platinum
Equity, gained unanimous approval from the National Basketball
Association’s board of governors to purchase the  Detroit
Pistons .  “I understand the importance of the trust that has been
placed in us and we’re very excited to be a part of something as
special as the NBA,” Gores said in an e-mailed statement last
night. “We can’t wait to make a difference in  Detroit . We look
forward to getting to work right away.”  The $420 million purchase includes the Pistons, the Palace
of  Auburn Hills  and DTE Energy Music Theatre, according to a
Detroit Free Press report in February. Financial terms haven’t
been disclosed.  “We look forward to the Pistons’ continued growth, both on
and off the court,” NBA Commissioner David Stern said last
night in a news release.  The Pistons won’t comment on the sale until it closes this
month, Kevin Grigg, a spokesman for the team, said in a
telephone interview.  The  46-year-old Gores  is a native of Flint,  Michigan , and
graduated from  Michigan State University . He is the founder and
chairman of Beverly Hills, California-based private equity firm
 Platinum Equity , which owns 34 companies in industries including
technology, industrials and automotive supply.  The Pistons have made the playoffs in eight of the past 10
seasons and won the last of their three NBA titles in 2004. The
team was 30-52 this season, 32 games behind the  Chicago Bulls  in
the Eastern Conference Central division.  The team’s value dropped 25 percent to $360 million from
2010 to 2011, according to Forbes magazine.  The Pistons are the second NBA team to be sold this season.
In December, the league bought the  New Orleans Hornets  from
George Shinn for an undisclosed price. The Hornets are worth
$280 million, the fifth-lowest valuation in the league,
according to Forbes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  