-- 
Polish Manufacturing Growth Slows for Second Month; Rate Pressure May Ease

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-06-01T09:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/polish-may-manufacturing-pmi-declines-for-second-month-to-52-6.html
Polish manufacturing growth
unexpectedly slowed for a second month in May, easing pressure
on the central bank to raise  interest rates  again this month.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
at more than 200 manufacturing companies dropped to 52.6 from
54.4 in April, HSBC Holdings Plc said today based on a survey by
 Markit Economics . The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was 54. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  “The pace of growth slowed markedly, with output, new
orders and input buying all rising at weaker rates compared to
April,” HSBC said in an  e-mailed statement . “The slower rise
in new orders resulted in a moderation of output growth in
May.”  Polish companies including furniture maker Nowy Styl Sp. Z
o.o. and ES-System SA, a Warsaw-listed lighting manufacturer,
have delayed expansion plans because of lower-than-expected
demand. Some members of the central bank’s Monetary Policy
Council have said “excessive” interest rate increases may
choke off corporate investment and slow economic growth.  Fixed investment rose an annual 6 percent in the first
quarter, the  Central Statistical Office  said yesterday, missing
the 10.8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of six
economists. The economy expanded 4.4 percent from a year earlier
in the first three months of the year, compared with 4.5 percent
in the final quarter of 2010.  Rate Increases  That pace of economic growth is in line with central bank
forecasts and gives “no additional argument for a rate
increase,”  Marcin Mrowiec , chief economist at Bank Pekao SA,
said before the PMI survey was published.  The zloty gained to 3.9516 against the euro by 9:22 a.m.
today in Warsaw from 3.9489 yesterday.  The PMI report may point to another month of slower
industrial output growth after the indicator weakened to an
annual 6.6 percent in April, the lowest since October 2009.  “The decline primarily reflected weaker contributions from
the output and new orders components and, to a lesser extent,
stocks of purchases,” HSBC said. “The slower rise in new
orders resulted in a moderation of output growth in May.”  Nowy Styl halted plans to build a 60 million-zloty ($22
million)  production line  this year because of “poor  market
sentiment ,” Chief Executive Officer Adam Krzanowski said at a
news conference in late April.  ES-System suspended investment in a new plant in Dobczyce,
southern  Poland , because of lower-than-expected demand for solar
panels in  Europe , CEO Boguslaw Pilszeczek said at a news
conference on May 12.  Price Rises Slow  “The rate at which manufacturers raised their prices also
slowed sharply,” while “pressure on manufacturing capacity
eased somewhat in May,” HSBC said today.  The central bank on May 11 unexpectedly raised its main
interest rate by a quarter-point to 4.25 percent, the third
increase this year, as it sought to curb inflation that has
exceeded its target for seven months.  Investors in the  derivatives market  are betting on a half
percentage-point rate increase by the end of the year. The
difference between six-month forward-rate agreements, used to
lock in borrowing costs in the future, and the three-month
Warsaw interbank offered rate stands at 60 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  