-- 
Polycom to Buy Hewlett-Packard’s Videoconferencing Business

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-06-01T21:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/polycom-to-buy-hp-s-visual-collaboration-business.html
Polycom Inc. (PLCM) , the world’s largest
stand-alone maker of videoconferencing equipment, agreed to buy
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s competing business, including the Halo
product line.  As part of the deal, Hewlett-Packard will team with Polycom
and resell the products, according to a statement today from
Polycom. Polycom video applications will be integrated on
Hewlett-Packard’s WebOS TouchPad devices. No terms were given.  The acquisition lets Pleasanton, California-based Polycom
add customers as it competes against  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Selling
Halo helps Hewlett-Packard Chief Executive Officer Leo Apotheker
move away from the less-profitable hardware business to
emphasize areas with greater earnings potential, said James Kelleher, director of research at Argus Research Co. in  New
York .  “It looks like HP might be pushing away from
videoconferencing,” Kelleher said.  “It’s partly that  Leo
Apotheker  really wants to focus on this being a solutions
company.”  The Halo videoconferencing system, introduced by Hewlett-
Packard in 2005, relies on large, high-definition screens and
high-speed networks to create the impression attendees are in
the same room.  PC-Based Services  Videoconferencing is evolving as developers work to bridge
the gap between traditional systems costing as much as $300,000
for a just-like-being-there telepresence room and cheaper,
lower-quality PC-based services from companies such as Skype
Technologies SA.  New customers are the biggest draw for Polycom in the
Hewlett-Packard transaction, because Halo is not a “big
player” in the market compared with products from companies
such as Cisco, Kelleher said.  “Often in a deal like this it’s a matter of enhancing your
customer list, particularly when you buy an overlapping
technology,” he said.  Polycom also said today it will partner with companies such
as AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. to create an open
video exchange over the Internet using the so-called cloud, and
separately expanded communications technology agreements with
Microsoft Corp.  “These developments further enable the network effect that
we are beginning to experience in video adoption,” Polycom
Chief Executive Officer Andy Miller said in the statement.  Polycom rose 16 cents to $57.57 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto ,
 California , dropped 75 cents, or 2 percent, to $36.63 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  