-- 
Swine-Flu Recovery for Posadas Bonds as Hotel Rooms Fill Up: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 
2011-06-01T16:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/posadas-bonds-rallying-as-hotel-rooms-fill-up-mexico-credit.html
Grupo Posadas SAB’s bonds are posting
gains that are triple that of Mexican corporate debt as the
country’s largest hotel chain taps into a rebound in travelers
spurred by the fastest economic growth in a decade.  The 12 percent rally this year in Posadas’ dollar bonds due
in 2015 compares with a 3.7 percent advance for debt sold by
companies based in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Debt from global hotel companies returned 4 percent during the
same period, Bank of America Corp. data show. The yield on the
Mexico City-based company’s notes tumbled 251 basis points, or
2.51 percentage points, this year to 9.57 percent.  The country’s economic expansion is fueling a revival in
tourism. Hotel occupancy  rates  in the 70 most-important tourist
destinations rose to 52.3 percent in the first five months of
the year, from 49 percent in 2009, when the global financial
crisis and a swine flu outbreak deterred visitors, according to
the Tourism Ministry. Posadas said on April 29 that revenue rose
10 percent to 1.7 billion pesos ($146 million) in the first
three months of 2011.  “The very worst seems to be over from last year,” Nuria Jorba Arimany, a credit analyst at Union Bancaire Privee in
Zurich, said in a telephone interview. “They have taken the
right measures to get a recovery in the company.”  Posadas’s bonds yield 728 basis points more than similar-
maturity Mexican government dollar bonds, down from a record
1,005 on Nov. 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Outlook  The company  reported  net income of 109.2 million pesos in
the January-through-March period, its second straight three-
month period of profit, as the occupancy rate at Posadas’ hotels
rose to 57 percent from 54.8 a year earlier.  Mexico ’s economy may grow as much as 5 percent this year
after a 5.4 percent expansion in 2010 that was the fastest in a
decade, according to the central bank.  “The operational part of the company is improving along
with the Mexican economy,” Araceli Espinosa, a debt analyst at
 Scotia Capital  in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview.  Posadas Chief Financial Officer Ruben Camiro didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  “We feel like the challenges are behind them,” Geof Marshall, who helps manage about $5 billion in debt denominated
in U.S. and Canadian dollars, including Posadas bonds, at CI
Investments Inc. in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  Violence sparked by drug gangs battling for control of
trafficking routes in the north is keeping international
travelers “away” and hurting Posadas, according to Marshall.  Drug Violence  Deaths related to drug trafficking increased almost 60
percent in Mexico last year and total more than 34,000 since
President Felipe Calderon took office in December 2006. The
government estimates the violence shaves 1.2 percentage points
off economic output annually.  Tourism revenue fell to $11.28 billion in 2009, the lowest
since 2004, as swine flu, the financial crisis and worsening
drug violence dissuaded international travelers from visiting
Mexico. Revenue from tourism rose to $11.87 billion last year.  The yield on Posadas’s bonds climbed to a record 12.5
percent on Nov. 25, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The flu outbreak, drug violence and the bankruptcy of
airline Compania Mexicana de Aviacion “caused quite poor
results last year,” said Esther Chan, a London-based portfolio
manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Ltd., the U.K.’s largest
independent money manager.  Yield Spread  Posadas’s revenue dropped 9.7 percent to 6.5 billion pesos
last year while net income plunged 85 percent to 40.4 million
pesos. The company had to inject money into Compania Mexicana,
which filed for  bankruptcy protection  in August.  “This is not a company that’s flying,” Chan said in a
telephone interview from  London . “They had two years where
tourism really suffered. The business is marginally picking up.
First-quarter results are not phenomenal.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed one basis point to 143
at 12:54 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The peso fell 0.6 percent to 11.6369 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years dropped three basis points to 102 yesterday,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
if a government or company fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Credit Ratings  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December rose one basis point to 5.03 percent.  The yield on Posadas’s bonds may fall below 9 percent and
the company may receive a credit-rating increase should earnings
improve, Union Bancaire’s Arimany said.  Standard & Poor’s rates Posadas B-, six levels below
investment grade, while Moody’s Investors Service has an
equivalent B3 ranking on the company. The ratings companies have
a negative outlook on Posadas.  S&P is not planning to raise the company’s rating in the
short-term, said Monica Ponce, a credit analyst at S&P in Mexico
City.  The company may reach an average 60 percent occupancy rate
in the second half of the year, according to Ponce.  “The tourism sector is being reactivated,” Ponce said.
“We aren’t anticipating any more problems like those caused by
swine flu and Mexicana. The gains in the economy are starting to
be reflected in the  tourism industry .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  