-- 
Pound Falls as Economic Data Weakens Bets on Bank of England Rate Increase

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-01T16:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/pound-weakens-after-u-k-manufacturing-index-mortgage-approvals-decline.html
The pound weakened and gilts rose as
traders cut bets on an increase in central bank interest rates
after a manufacturing index fell to a 20-month low and U.K.
mortgage approvals dropped to the least in four months.  Sterling declined against all but two of its 16 major
peers, reaching a record low against the Swiss franc. The
manufacturing gauge, based on a survey by  Markit Economics  and
the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply , was less than
all 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Two-year and 10-
year gilt yields fell to the lowest this year, as U.S. reports
showed the world’s largest economy may be slowing.  “The weak U.K. macro data raises the likelihood the Bank
of England will keep interest rates on hold to stimulate the
economy,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “The pound should fall as
a result.”  The British currency slid 0.3 percent to $1.6394 as of 4:53
p.m. in London. It depreciated 0.6 percent to 88.03 pence per
euro, and slid as much as 2.2 percent to 1.3744 against the
Swiss franc.  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell four basis points to
3.25 percent, the least since December, while the two-year note
yield also declined four basis points, to 0.88 percent, the
lowest since November. Gilts extended their advance as reports
showed a slide in the U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index and hiring by American employers that fell short
of economists’ estimates.  U.K. Inflation  Bank of England  officials are split over whether to raise
borrowing costs as signs of economic growth deteriorate while
inflation accelerated to 4.5 percent in April, the fastest since
2008. Former policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said in an interview
with Sky News yesterday that the inflation rate, at more than
twice the central bank’s 2 percent goal, may be hurting growth.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Malcolm Barr pushed back his
forecast for the Bank of England to raise its benchmark interest
rate to November from August, he said in a research note today.
Investors are betting on a quarter-point rate increase in
February next year, according to forward contracts on the
sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by
Tullett Prebon Plc. As recently as February, investors were
betting on an increase in May.  The implied yield on short-sterling futures for September
2012 fell seven basis points to 1.50 percent as investors
reduced bets on higher interest rates.  Mortgages, Manufacturing  Lenders granted 45,166 loans to buy homes in April,
compared with a revised 47,145 the previous month, the Bank of
England said.  The CIPS manufacturing index declined to 52.1 in May from a
revised 54.4 in April, according to a report published in  London 
today. The median forecast of 26 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a drop to 54.1 and the lowest was for a reading
of 52.6.  Gilt futures may reach as high as 120.88 should the price
of the September 2011 contract breach a so-called resistance
level at 120.24, UBS AG said, citing trading patterns.  The gilt futures contract expiring in September advanced
0.4 percent to 120.58.  Gilts have returned 2.5 percent so far this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, outperforming German bunds, with a
return of zero. U.S. Treasuries have made investors 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 