-- 
ProLogis, AMB Shareholders Approve Merger to Form Biggest Warehouse REIT

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-01T20:45:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/prologis-shareholders-approve-amb-merger-to-form-biggest-warehouse-reit.html
ProLogis and  AMB Property Corp. (AMB) 
shareholders today approved a merger of the industrial landlords
as demand for warehouse space rises amid a strengthening global
economy.  The combination of the two biggest U.S. industrial real
estate investment trusts will result in a company with $46
billion in assets. The REITs expect about $80 million in annual
general and administrative savings from the merger, according to
a Jan. 31 statement announcing the transaction.  Cost cuts will help the merged company amid an economic
expansion that has sent the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up 4.5
percent this year and Europe’s Stoxx 600 up 0.9 percent. In the
U.S., industrial-property vacancies are falling, indicating
rising demand for warehouse space as manufacturing increases,
real estate broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said May 24.  “It was a very opportunistic deal for AMB to expand their
geographic presence and better utilize their underlying
infrastructure,” Dave Rodgers, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Solon,  Ohio , said before the results of the
shareholder vote were announced. “It’s a deal that puts them in
a very strong competitive position throughout the world.”  The company, which will be the world’s biggest warehouse
REIT, will take the  ProLogis (PLD)  name and have its corporate
headquarters in  San Francisco , where AMB is based. AMB Chief
Executive Officer Hamid Moghadam and Walter Rakowich, who holds
the same position at ProLogis, will be co-CEOs through 2012,
when Rakowich will retire and Moghadam will become sole CEO.  Support for Merger  ProLogis, based in Denver, said that holders of more than
498 million of the company’s outstanding shares, or 87.4
percent, voted and 99.6 percent of those supported the
transaction. More than 154.2 million of AMB’s shares, or 89.6
percent, were voted, with 98.5 percent backing the agreement.
The merger is scheduled for completion June 3, ProLogis said.  The combined company will own or manage properties in 22
countries. The real estate is valued at $28 billion in the
Americas, $13 billion in  Europe  and $5 billion in  Asia ,
according to a proxy statement filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission on May 2.  ProLogis fell 67 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $15.89 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 47
percent in the past year, compared with a 40 percent increase in
the Bloomberg REIT Industrial/Warehouse Index.  AMB fell $1.35, or 3.7 percent, to $35.64.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in San Francisco at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  