-- 
PZ Cussons Nigerian Train Rescue Exposes Emerging-Market Risks

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-01T23:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/pz-cussons-six-month-nigerian-train-rescue-exposes-emerging-market-risks.html
PZ Cussons Plc (PZC)  Chief Executive
Officer Alex Kanellis once spent six months tracking down and
recovering a train load of soap lost in Nigerian bush country.  Delayed by rainy-season bridge washouts, the locomotive had
run out of fuel, leaving the driver to live off yams from a
nearby village and sleep in his cab while waiting to be found.  “He’d probably still be there if we hadn’t rescued him,”
said Kanellis, who drove up and down 1,000 kilometers of
colonial-era track trying to locate the stricken freight train.  PZ Cussons is benefitting from its foothold in Africa 15
years later as companies including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  turn to
emerging markets for growth as consumer demand in Europe and the
U.S. cools. The Manchester, England-based maker of Imperial
Leather soap gets about 60 percent of sales from  developing
countries  and has more than a century of experience moving goods
in  Nigeria , which Citigroup Inc. predicts will have the world’s
fastest-growing economy over the next 40 years.  Investors are showing faith in PZ’ ability to exploit those
ties. The shares have risen 24 percent in the past year,
compared with gains of 9.6 percent for P&G and less than 1
percent for Unilever. They trade at a multiple of about 23 times
analysts’ estimates of earnings for the year ended May 31, more
than Unilever at 14.5 times and P&G at 17 times, Bloomberg data
shows.  Sales probably rose about 5 percent in the year just ended,
to 813.4 million pounds ($1.3 billion), according to five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s twice as much as the
company generated 10 years ago. Profit may gain 3 percent to
65.7 million pounds.  Daily Challenges  “You have to deal with stuff on a daily basis in an
emerging market that you take for granted elsewhere,” the 45-
year-old CEO said in an interview at PZ’s headquarters.  In  Africa , the company’s biggest region, sales declined
last year because of a weakening in the dollar-naira exchange
rate. Revenue was unchanged in the first half because of
violence in the run-up to April’s elections and tighter lending
conditions that hampered distributors of its products.  “With emerging-market potential comes risk,” said Nicola Mallard, an analyst at Investec Securities in  London .  P&G CEO Bob McDonald has emphasized growth in  Brazil  and
other emerging markets since taking over in 2009, while Dove
soap maker Unilever is also expanding in developing economies,
where it now gets about 56 percent of sales. Guinness  Nigeria 
Plc, a beermaking unit of  Diageo Plc (DGE) , is investing $336 million
to expand brewing capacity in the west African nation, while
competitor  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  plans a $100 million plant.  19th Century Startup  PZ Cussons has roots dating to 1879, when George Paterson
and George Zochonis formed a trading post in  Sierra Leone . A
Nigerian office followed in 1899. PZ makes its own silicate for
detergent and generates electricity for its factories.  That infrastructure and marketing expertise are reflected
in the company’s stock multiple, according to Darren Shirley, an
analyst with Shore Capital in London.  “They’re not just a seller of branded goods, they’ve got a
unique distribution program, second only to the Nigerian
military,” said Shirley, who rates the shares “hold.”  With no chain stores, Nigerian retailing “could be
someone’s living room,” according to PZ Cussons’ Chief
Financial Officer Brandon Leigh. “It could be an empty
container someone puts a padlock on, and there’s a retailer.”  The informal nature of selling has helped the company in
dealing with raw-materials inflation. Companywide, costs have
been rising at an annual rate of as much as 8 percent, with PZ
only able to pass on about three-quarters of that because of
resistance from retailers and discounting in  Europe , Leigh said.  Shrinking Bars  To cope, PZ cut soap-bar sizes to 100 grams from 125, and
it’s considering reducing liquid-soap bottle sizes, he said.  In Nigeria, the company increased prices by 10 percent or
more, Leigh said. There, PZ Cussons sells detergent in packages
ranging from 4-gram sachets to 25-kilo bags for distributors who
might sell it by the cup. So changing product sizes is much
easier than in Europe -- the company can reduce a 14-gram packet
of washing powder to 12 grams, Leigh said.  The poorest Nigerians use cheap laundry soap for their
hair, bodies, clothing and tabletops, Kanellis said. PZ sells
laundry sticks than can cost less than 10 U.S. cents. As
Nigerians progress out of poverty, they trade up to bathroom
soaps such as PZ’s Premier brand, he said.  PZ sells beverages in Nigeria that don’t need
refrigeration, some through a joint venture with Dublin-based
 Glanbia Plc. (GLB)  Though its canned and powdered milk compete with
drinks made by PepsiCo Inc. and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the company’s
long-life or UHT ice tea contends with “a bush-type product
that will turn green after several months,” Leigh said.  Palm Oil   PZ is also looking to expand into palm oil, another field
which has micro-competition. Most palm oil sold in Nigeria comes
from small farmers who boil the fruit in old barrels and process
it in pits in the ground, Kanellis said.  He expects the venture, a joint project with  Singapore ’s
 Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  to build a palm-oil processing plant
in Nigeria, to gross at least $300 million annually within three
years after construction.  Nigerian transportation has improved each year since 1999,
when civilian government took over, Kanellis said. Cross-country
deliveries that sometimes took months on the rail network built
when the country was a British colony now take four to five days
using trucks equipped with satellite navigation devices and
mobile phones, he said.  Kanellis still praises the dedication of the 1990s train
driver who delivered 600 tons -- 33 rail carloads -- of Canoe,
Duck and Imperial Leather soap in a six-month odyssey.  “No stealing, no pilfering whatsoever,” Kanellis said.
“Not a bar was missing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  