-- 
Rafael Nadal Finally Finds Rhythm in French Open Defeat of Robin Soderling

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-01T18:13:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/rafael-nadal-finally-finds-rhythm-in-french-open-defeat-of-robin-soderling.html
It took five matches at the  French
Open  for  Rafael Nadal  to find the form that won him five
championships. Not even the lone man to beat him in Paris could
keep up with the world’s top-ranked tennis player today.  The Spaniard defeated  Robin Soderling  of Sweden 6-4, 6-1,
7-6 (7-3) in the quarterfinals on the main court at  Roland
Garros .  “I am starting to find my game, my rhythm here on clay,”
Nadal said in a court-side interview. “I am playing much more
solid than in the days before.”  Nadal produced  24 winners  against the fifth-seeded
Soderling, who beat him in the fourth round on the Parisian clay
two years ago. Nadal’s career record at the French Open is now
43-1.  Soderling’s 32 winners were offset by 41 unforced errors,
28 more than Nadal.  “I had a very good level, while Robin today had a few more
mistakes than usual,” said Nadal, who jumped around the court
in joy after Soderling made his final mistake, a forehand into
the net on match point.  Nadal told reporters after the fourth round that his level
of play wasn’t good enough to win a sixth title and tie Bjorn Borg’s record for championships in the era of professional
tennis. Just like after his opening-round match against  John Isner  of the U.S., when he was taken to a fifth set for the
first time at the French Open, Nadal said he had been “too
anxious” and “nervous” in beating Ivan Ljubicic to set up the
rematch with Soderling.  Djokovic Run  Nadal has a lot to be nervous about in Paris. Novak Djokovic is on a 43-0 winning streak dating back to the Davis
Cup final in December, and will take Nadal’s No. 1 world ranking
if he can defeat  Roger Federer  in their semifinal in two days.  Today against Soderling, Nadal’s confidence returned,
especially when he saved three break points at 5-5 of the third
set.  “I was playing very solid,” Nadal said. “I stayed very
calm.”  His semifinal opponent is No. 4 seed  Andy Murray  of
Britain, who beat  Juan Ignacio Chela  of  Argentina , 7-6 (7-2), 7-
5, 6-2.  “It’s always a tough match,” Nadal said. “Andy is one of
the best players in the world. I have to play my best tennis to
win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  