-- 
Ratner Seeking $100 Million for Apartment Tower at Atlantic Yards Site

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-06-01T16:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/ratner-seeking-100-million-for-apartment-tower-at-atlantic-yards-site.html
The developer of the Atlantic Yards
project in New York’s  Brooklyn  borough plans to borrow about
$100 million to construct an apartment tower near the basketball
arena now going up on Flatbush Avenue.  Work should start on the apartment building in December or
January, Bruce Ratner, Forest City Ratner Cos. chairman and
chief executive officer, said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. The tower would join the Barclays Center sports
arena as the second structure at the $4.9 billion, 22-acre
project in downtown Brooklyn.  “We’ve already talked to banks and we will be able to get
a loan,” Ratner said. “That’s appropriate. Pre the recession,
that’s about what we would have gotten, and I think we should
get that again.”  The master plan for  Atlantic Yards  calls for about 6,400
units of housing, 30 percent of them reserved for low- and
middle-income tenants. Ratner’s Forest City fought in court for
the right to develop the site against local activists, many of
whom objected to losing their properties through government
condemnation.  Ratner is considering plans for a 34-story tower with about
400 apartments, using prefabricated boxes containing floors,
plumbing, bathrooms and kitchens that would be hoisted into
place by cranes, the  New York  Times reported on March 18. The
company is exploring modular construction techniques as a way of
saving time and money, the newspaper said.  Job Growth  New York City ’s economy is improving faster than the rest
of the country, according to Ratner. Job growth is driving
demand for housing, with the vacancy rate for apartments at less
than 1 percent, he said.  The city’s seasonally adjusted  unemployment rate  fell to a
25-month low of 8.6 percent in April, led by hiring in tourism,
finance and business services, the state Labor Department said
May 19.  The  Barclays Center , to be home of the  National Basketball
Association ’s Nets who now play in  Newark ,  New Jersey , is on
schedule for a Sept. 28, 2012, grand opening, Ratner said.  “When we officially open, there’ll be three weeks of
unbelievable entertainment,” he said. “Some of those great New
York celebrities will be back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  