-- 
Treasury Reiterates U.S. Borrowing Authority Expires Aug. 2

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-01T16:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/treasury-reiterates-u-s-borrowing-authority-expires-aug-2-1-.html
The Treasury Department reiterated
that U.S. authority to borrow under the $14.29 trillion debt
limit will expire on Aug. 2.  The Treasury “continues to project that the  United States 
will exhaust its borrowing authority under the debt limit” on
that date,  Mary Miller , the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial markets, said in a statement today.  “I think this indicates they are growing more certain
about the Treasury’s cash flow and any hope they could extend
the deadline further is fading,”  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester , Pennsylvania, said in an
interview. “This is the date, and policy makers need to be
working with that in mind. There had been some hope that the
deadline could be pushed further off, but that doesn’t seem
likely now.”  The House of Representatives voted 318-97 yesterday to
defeat a measure that would have raised the debt limit by $2.4
trillion without spending reductions. Democrats claimed that the
ballot was rigged to ensure its defeat.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  “continues to urge
Congress to avoid the catastrophic economic and market
consequences of a default crisis by raising the statutory debt
limit in a timely manner,” Miller said. Geithner first said
last month the U.S. could keep borrowing until about Aug. 2.  ‘Extraordinary Measures’  The U.S. stayed under the debt limit in May by taking what
Geithner called “extraordinary measures,” including declaring
a “debt-issuance suspension period” under the statute
governing the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund. That
allows the U.S. to redeem existing Treasury securities held by
that fund as investments.  Last week, Republicans announced yesterday’s vote as a way
to demonstrate that lawmakers don’t support extending the debt
limit unless agreement is reached with President Barack Obama’s
administration on significant cuts to curb  government spending .  “No one expects much progress on this until July,” said
 Lou Crandall , chief economist for the Wrightson ICAP LLC unit of
London-based ICAP Plc, the world’s largest broker of trades
between banks. “It is just the nature for people to not show
their hand until the deadline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  