-- 
Treasury Yields to Keep Falling as Growth Slows, Rosenberg Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-01T18:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/treasury-yields-to-keep-falling-as-growth-slows-rosenberg-says-tom-keene.html
Treasury yields will keep falling
amid slowing growth and fading stimulus measures until a
“dramatic and sustainable” improvement in the economy stops
them, said  David Rosenberg  of Gluskin Sheff + Associates.  U.S. 10-year note yields slid below 3 percent today for the
first time this year as data showed U.S. firms added fewer jobs
in May than economists forecast and manufacturing expanded at
the slowest pace in more than a year. The  Federal Reserve ’s $600
billion Treasury-purchase plan to spur the economy ends in June.  “It comes down to Newton’s first law of motion: a ball is
going to stay in motion until some countervailing force will
cause it to move the other direction,” Toronto-based Rosenberg,
the firm’s chief economist, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “Now the cupboard is
bare; when you look at fiscal or monetary policy it’s going to
be slowing down, so to me it’s a no-brainer why yields are
trending lower right now.”  Yields on the benchmark 10-year note fell as much as 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 2.95 percent, the
lowest level since Dec. 7. ADP Employer Services said U.S.
companies added 38,000 workers in May. That compared with
177,000 hired in April and a Bloomberg News survey forecast of
175,000. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
fell to 53.5 in May, the lowest since September 2009.  Growth in U.S. nonfarm payrolls slowed to 175,000 jobs in
May from 244,000 in April, economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast before the Labor Department reports the data on June 3.  Acceleration in Economy  “The only thing that can really boost yields on a
sustained basis is if we can get a dramatic and sustainable
acceleration in economic activity,” said Rosenberg, former
chief economist for  North America  for Merrill Lynch & Co.  The central bank’s bond-buying program, the second round of
stimulus under quantitative easing, fell short in bringing down
 interest rates  on a sustainable basis, Rosenberg said.  Credit Suisse Group AG cut its nonfarm-payroll growth
forecast after the ADP report, Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist at Credit Suisse, said in a separate Bloomberg Radio
interview.  The bank, one of 20 primary dealers that trade Treasuries
with the Fed, reduced its estimate to 120,000, from 185,000,
Jersey said.  “A big miss like this, that 38,000, means expectations for
Friday have to be moved down,” Jersey said. “Certainly the
Treasury market is revising down its own expectations for
growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  