-- 
Shorter Crack Cocaine Sentences Applied to Inmates by Panel

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   P e l h a m
-- 
2011-06-30T19:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/reduced-crack-sentences-should-apply-retroactively-holder-says.html
A U.S. commission voted to apply
reduced sentences for crack cocaine offenses to those previously
sent to prison, a decision that could affect about 12,000
inmates.  Today’s action by the U.S. Sentencing Commission in
Washington is due to take effect in November, unless Congress
votes to override it and President  Barack Obama  signs that
measure into law. The administration has endorsed the
retroactive application of the reduced penalties, except for
offenders who possessed or used weapons in committing their
crimes or have “significant” criminal histories.  “Justice demands this result,” said Ketanji Brown
Jackson, the sentencing panel’s vice chairwoman. Commission
members said the reduced sentences are fairer and also may
reduce prison overcrowding.  Prisoners will be able to petition judges for a sentence
reduction and must show they are not a risk to public safety,
U.S. District Judge Patti Saris, the commission chairwoman,
said. As many as 2,000 inmates probably will be able to seek a
reduction during the first year the new rules are in effect, she
said.  On June 1, Attorney General Eric Holder told a sentencing
commission hearing in  Washington  that retroactive application of
the shorter sentences could affect about 12,000 inmates.  Signed Into Law  Obama last August signed a law reducing crack sentences
after complaints that penalties were out of balance with those
for powder cocaine offenses. Supporters of the change said that
black suspects were more likely to be charged with crack
violations and serve longer sentences. The law reduced the
disparity in sentences from 100-to-1 to 18-to-1.  “We believe that the imprisonment terms of those sentenced
pursuant to the old statutory disparity -- who are not
considered dangerous drug offenders -- should be alleviated to
the extent possible to reflect the new law,” Holder testified
before the sentencing panel.  The law approved last year didn’t include a specific
provision relating to whether it applied retroactively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Pelham in Washington at 
 vpelham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  