-- 
Relativity Media Investor Elliott Resists Plan to Sell Its Stake in Studio

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-06-01T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/relativity-media-minority-investor-not-seeking-to-sell-stake.html
Elliott Management Corp., the New
York-based hedge fund that backed Relativity Media LLC, plans to
hold on to its minority stake in the fledgling film studio even
as partner Ryan Kavanaugh lines up investors to buy it out.  “Elliott is not shopping, not selling, not doing a single
thing,” the New York-based company said yesterday in a
statement.  Elliott’s stance points to a possibly messy breakup to the
partnership that allowed Relativity Chief Executive Officer
Kavanaugh to build the Los Angeles-based film production and
finance company. The statement came in response to a report on
the website  The Wrap  that  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was leading a
group that aims to buy the holding for about $700 million.  Kavanaugh has an option to purchase Elliott’s stake, said
two people with knowledge of the agreement. The option hasn’t
been triggered, they said.  Kristin Cotich, a spokeswoman for Relativity, declined to
comment. Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan Chase, had no
immediate comment.  Elliott, which manages $17 billion, has backed Relativity
since 2008 and in March increased its support for the studio,
the two companies said then. In February, Elliott portfolio
manager Jesse A. Cohn expressed support for the company.  Supportive Stance  “Elliott believes that Relativity’s progress over the past
year is impressive,” Cohn, who oversees Elliott’s investment in
the studio, told Bloomberg Businessweek then. “As partners, we
are focused on assisting the company as it grows into an
innovative studio.”  Last month, Relativity President Michael Joe moved to
Elliott to oversee its investment in the studio.  Until last year, Relativity primarily financed films
produced and distributed by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal unit
or Sony Pictures. Relativity also produced “The Fighter,”
which was distributed by Viacom Inc.’s  Paramount Pictures , and
this year the studio produced and distributed “Limitless.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  