-- 
RIM Shareholder Adds to Rising Pressure for Leadership Changes

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/research-in-motion-falls-to-lowest-level-since-2009.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, faces growing pressure to overhaul
its leadership after an investor called for changes to give the
board more independent oversight of management.  Northwest & Ethical Investments LP called for RIM to
separate the roles of chairman and chief executive officer and
to name an independent board member to the chairman’s post,
according to a securities filing yesterday. Jim Balsillie and
Mike Lazaridis are co-CEOs and co-chairmen at the Waterloo,
Ontario-based company.  “Separating the positions does put the board in a better
position to ask the CEO and other managers the kind of hard
questions they have to ask from time to time,” Robert Walker,
vice president, ethical funds at Northwest & Ethical, said in an
interview. “The chairman and CEO are two separate roles and
should be filled by separate people.”  RIM is coming under increasing scrutiny from investors and
analysts as it loses smartphone market share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
handset makers that use the Android software from  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
RIM cut its sales and profit guidance in April and its stock has
dropped 37 percent so far this year.  Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Northern Securities Inc. in
Toronto, suggested in April that the company should scrap its
dual-CEO structure and put Lazaridis in charge. UBS AG analysts
said last week that RIM has too much concentration of
responsibility with Balsillie and Lazaridis.  RIM Disagrees  Northwest & Ethical’s proposal was included in RIM’s proxy
statement and will be voted on by investors at the company’s
annual meeting July 12. In the filing, RIM advised shareholders
to vote against the proposal, arguing that the board’s outside
lead director already ensures the directors’ independent
oversight and operation.  Northwest & Ethical called and wrote to RIM about its
concerns in January and after getting no response by February,
decided to file a resolution, said Walker. The Toronto-based
company, which manages about $5 billion in assets including RIM
shares, met with RIM twice in March and April, he said.  Balsillie stepped down as chairman of RIM in March 2007
following an Ontario Securities Commission investigation into
backdating of  stock options  because that was “consistent with
current best practices in corporate governance,” RIM said in a
statement at the time. He returned as co-chairman in December.  “We were quite surprised when RIM decided to combine the
co-chairs and co-CEOs,” said Walker.  Lazaridis, who invented the BlackBerry to handle mobile e-
mail, has shared the role of CEO with Balsillie since 1992.  Losing Share  RIM’s share of U.S. smartphone subscribers dropped 4.7
percentage points to 25.7 percent in April from three months
earlier, according to ComScore Inc. Revenue growth in markets
such as  Latin America  may also be threatened as Android devices
catch on outside the U.S., the UBS analysts said last week as
they lowered their price target on RIM to $45 from $60.  RIM fell $1.05, or 2.8 percent, to $36.56 on the Nasdaq
Stock Market yesterday.  “I don’t think separating the chairman and CEO role is
really addressing the problems,” said  Matt Thornton , an analyst
at Avian Securities LLC in  Boston . “Investors are frustrated
and there’s a brewing sentiment that there needs to be a change
of leadership.”  However, any change at the top would be difficult to
trigger and could create a headache for shareholders given the
two men’s involvement and investment in the company from its
inception, said Thornton. He has a “neutral” rating on the
stock. Balsillie owns 31.1 million shares or 5.9 percent of
outstanding RIM stock, while Lazaridis owns 28.1 million shares,
equivalent to 5.4 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  “The problem is these two people own 10 percent of the
company, and have a heavy involvement in sales and engineering,”
Thornton said. “If you were to remove the CEOs, there’d be
chaos in the organization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  