-- 
Resourcehouse to Deliver Owner Palmer $1.2 Billion in Payments After IPO

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-01T03:56:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/resourcehouse-to-deliver-owner-palmer-1-2-billion-in-payments-after-ipo.html
Resourcehouse Ltd., the mining
company seeking to raise $3.6 billion in a Hong Kong share sale,
may deliver A$1.1 billion to owner billionaire  Clive Palmer ’s
closely held companies.  The payments include as much as A$310 million ($332
million) annually for at least three years to Mineralogy Pty.,
owned and chaired by Palmer, to help fund development of an iron
ore mine, the company’s initial public offering prospectus
shows. That includes A$250 million a year towards the
construction of a port that will be owned by Citic Pacific Ltd.  Palmer, a 57-year-old law school dropout who made his
fortune in real estate, is seeking to take advantage of near-
record prices for iron ore and coal driven by demand from  China .
The Brisbane, Australia-based company won’t turn a profit until
output at its coal and  iron ore  projects begins in 2014 or 2015.  “I personally don’t like a company without profits,” Li
Kwok-suen, a  fund manager  at Phillip Capital Management (HK)
Ltd., said by phone. “I don’t really like companies going for
an IPO at such an early stage. For those companies without
profit you may see the performance in the stock market will be
very disappointing.”  The company plans to sell at least 5.7 billion shares at
HK$4.48 (57.6 cents) to HK$4.93 each and may sell 857 million
more shares through an over-allotment option. Pricing is
scheduled to be determined by June 3, the prospectus said.  Palmer will retain a 53.67 percent stake in Resourcehouse
if the over allotment option isn’t exercised. The shares are
expected to start trading June 10. Andrew Crook, an outside
spokesman for Palmer, didn’t return a call to his mobile.  Mining Royalties  Once Resourcehouse’s mines start production, Palmer will
receive annual payments of A$25 million in coal royalties and
A$15 million a year in iron ore royalties. Mineralogy and
Waratah Coal Inc., another company owned by Palmer, remain the
owners of the mines and Resourcehouse has an agreement to
extract specific quantities.  Palmer, ranked as  Australia ’s fifth-richest man with a
fortune of A$5.05 billion according to BRW magazine’s rich list
published last month, has pulled the IPO at least three times
since first announcing plans in 2009. The IPO values
Resourcehouse at as much as $7.8 billion based on the share
price range  “A lot of retail investors would be hesitant about
applying for the IPO because they have to put their cash in, or
draw on their margin in order to put in for shares,”  Andrew
Sullivan , director of institutional sales trading at OSK
Securities Hong Kong Ltd. said by phone.  Global IPOs Rising  The number of basic material companies worldwide conducting
IPOs this year has risen by 30 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. There has been $17.19 billion raised so
far this year, up 78 percent on last year. Commodity trader
Glencore International Plc’s $9.8 billion raising is the biggest
in the sector so far.  Commodities posted the biggest monthly drop in a year last
month as the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  and accelerating
inflation in China fanned speculation the global economic growth
will slow. Still, commodity prices are at historically high
levels with the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw
materials averaging 29 percent higher this year compared with
2010.  “The good news is that commodity prices remain elevated,”
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts led by  Nick Moore  said
in a report dated May 27.  China Railway Group Ltd. and Metallurgical Corp. of China
Ltd. have both agreed to invest about $200 million in
Resourcehouse. The company said the IPO may be followed by a
A$1.9 billion debt sale to a Chinese company.  Chinese Debt  Resourcehouse wants at least one Chinese company to provide
or arrange debt to fund about 70 percent of the cost of the
building the initial stage of the China First iron ore project,
the Brisbane, Australia-based company said in the prospectus.
Any financing deal needs the approval of Mineralogy.  The first stage of the iron ore project in  Western
Australia  may cost A$2.7 billion to develop, according to the
prospectus.  About $2.4 billion of the IPO proceeds will be put toward
its $8.6 billion China First coal project in Queensland state on
the opposite side of Australia. It has received a non-binding
letter of intent from Export-Import Bank of China to provide
credit for up to 85 percent of the construction contract cost,
Resourcehouse said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  