-- 
Rich Nations Need Carbon Cuts to Revive Market, Figueres Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-06-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/rich-nations-need-carbon-cuts-to-revive-market-figueres-says.html
Industrialized nations hold the key
to reviving the United Nations carbon market after its value
fell by nearly half last year amid a lack of clarity on future
emissions goals, UN Climate Chief Christiana Figueres said.  The value of new project transactions under the UN’s Clean
Development Mechanism tumbled 44 percent to $1.5 billion last
year from $2.7 billion in 2009 as global climate talks stalled
and the European Union set restrictions for some UN emission-
reduction credits, according to World Bank estimates. The
program, which generates offsets for projects that cut
 greenhouse gases  in developing nations, needs bigger demand that
would come from stricter climate targets, Figueres said.  “In the absence of deeper emission cuts on the part of
developed countries, you obviously have diminished demand,” she
said in interview at the Carbon Expo conference in Barcelona.
“The supply is there, because  developing countries  have a huge
potential and can certainly bring forward larger projects than
they have been putting forward.”  UN talks to iron out a climate-protection framework for
when the  Kyoto Protocol  expires in 2012 have become stuck amid
differences between industrialized and developing nations.
Countries including Japan and  Russia  have said they don’t want
to extend the treaty, which bound 37 industrialized nations to
targets for cutting greenhouse gases that scientists blame for
heat waves, floods and storms.  The carbon market, which “stems exclusively and only out
of a political agreement,” reacts immediately to regulatory
uncertainty, Figueres said.  ‘Very Bad News’  “ That’s very understandable, and that’s very bad news for
those who are in the carbon market,” she said. “I also have no
doubt that there will be agreement that will inject new,
invigorated growth into the CDM, and I would not exclude the
possibility that governments will chose to either expand the
scope of the CDM to include new activities and new modalities or
to leave the CDM more or less the way it is now and complement
it with another market-based mechanism.”  The CDM, which started supplying credits in 2005, has so
far generated 624 million metric tons of Certified Emission
Reduction credits. A United Nations Environment Program unit
expects 1.08 billion tons to be issued by the end of 2012 and
5.5 billion by 2020.  CERs for delivery in December fell 1.2 percent to 12.77
euros ($18.37) today on the ICE Futures Europe Exchange in
 London , trimming this year’s gain to 12 percent. The offsets can
be a less-expensive way to comply with emission limits in the
European Union. EU permits fell 1.1 percent to 16.80 euros today
on ICE, leaving them up 18 percent for the year.  Companies in the EU system used a record 137 million of
tons offsets in 2010, up from around 81 million in 2009,
according to EU data. UN credits are also used by national
governments to meet their emission-reduction targets under the
Kyoto Protocol.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Barcelona at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in Barcelona at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  