-- 
Ritz Says Canada Government Plans Law to Scrap Wheat Board Later This Year

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-06-01T20:38:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/ritz-says-canada-government-plans-law-to-scrap-wheat-board-later-this-year.html
Canadian Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz said the government plans to introduce legislation to end
the nation’s grain-marketing monopoly by Aug. 1, 2012.  The legislation will end the Canadian Wheat Board’s control
over wheat and barley exports, among the largest in the world,
Ritz said today in an interview in Ottawa. The legislation will
be introduced later this year, allowing farmers and the board
time for input and preparations, he said.  “We’re looking at the fall session” for the legislation,
Ritz said. “It’s a complex issue. It’s going to take some work
with the board itself, and with the industry groups that are
affected, to come up with the right piece of legislation.”  Canada ’s governing Conservatives, who won a majority in the
May 2 federal election, can fulfill a  longstanding promise  to
scrap the Wheat Board because the government no longer needs the
support of one of the opposition parties to push laws through
Parliament. The board, which was established 75 years ago, has a
mandate to buy and export all the wheat and barley produced in
western Canada.  Wheat shipments by Canada ranked only behind the U.S., the
European Union and  Australia , and barley exports were the
fourth-largest, after the EU, Australia and Ukraine, according
to International Grains Council data.  Wheat Board  The government will let the Wheat Board decide how to
reinvent itself after the existing marketing system is wound
down, Ritz said.  “We don’t to be too prescriptive as to what the new board
will construct itself as,” Ritz said before giving a speech in
Ottawa. “That’s up to them.”  The minister said the demise of the grain monopoly will
boost the Canadian economy and encourage farmers to innovate.  “We have a sad lack of value-added commodities in western
Canada due to this buyback situation that we face with the wheat
board,” Ritz said. “This is all about giving farmers the same
options that other farmers around the world enjoy.”  The  New Democratic Party , which became Canada’s official
opposition in the election, says the move will hurt prairie
farmers and cost jobs in Winnipeg, Manitoba, where the Wheat
Board is based.  “There is no business case to scrap the Wheat Board,”
said NDP lawmaker Pat Martin, who represents a district in
Winnipeg. “It’s pure ideology. It’ll take hundreds of millions
of dollars out of the pockets of prairie producers and put it in
the pockets of the big agri-companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  