-- 
Robert Kennedy Jr. Fights Mountaintop Mining in New Documentary

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-01T02:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/robert-kennedy-jr-fights-mountaintop-mining-in-new-documentary-interview.html
More than 40 years after his father
fought strip mining in Appalachia, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is
following in his footsteps.  RFK Jr. is helping local activists in  West Virginia  try to
halt a coal-mining process that blasts off mountaintops, ruining
the landscape and causing a host of environmental and health
problems.  The issue is spotlighted in “ The Last Mountain ,” a
documentary that focuses on efforts to stop mountaintop removal
in West Virginia’s Coal River Valley. The film, written and
directed by Bill Haney, opens Friday in New York and Washington,
D.C.  “If you live next to one of these operations, they rain
boulders and toxic dust on you, they poison your wells and your
children, and they destroy your property values,” Kennedy said
in an interview last week at a Manhattan hotel.  Most mountaintop removal in Appalachia has been done by
 Massey Energy Co. (MEE) , which is being taken over by Alpha Natural
Resources. An investigation into an explosion that killed 29
workers at a Massey mine in West Virginia last year found that
the company operated “in a profoundly reckless manner.”  In 2008, Massey agreed to pay a record $20 million fine for
violations of the federal  Clean Water Act , the largest amount
ever for a water-pollution case.  “The business plan of the whole industry is essentially to
violate the law and then figure out ways not to get prosecuted
for it,” Kennedy said.  Hoarse Voice  Kennedy, a 57-year-old lawyer and environmental activist,
was 14 years old when his father was assassinated in 1968 while
running for the Democratic presidential nomination. He looks
remarkably like his namesake, but no longer sounds like him
because of spasmodic dysphonia, a disorder that makes his voice
raspy.  Despite a grassroots campaign against mountaintop mining,
Kennedy said the coal industry’s political and financial clout
has allowed it to continue.  “They’ve taken away the capacity for individuals to
participate in local democracy and make decisions that determine
the destinies of their community,” he said. “Zoning laws and
planning laws don’t exist in West Virginia. The industry does
whatever it wants.”  Solar, Wind  Kennedy said he doesn’t expect Alpha Natural Resources to
stop the Coal River Mountain project that Massey initiated.  “There’s $190 million worth of coal there and they’re
determined to get it,” he said. “And they don’t have to pay
any taxes for cutting down the mountain because the tax
structure has been rigged in their favor.”  Alternative energy sources such as solar and wind are more
cost efficient and environmentally friendly than coal, Kennedy
said.  He cited a huge solar plant being built in  California ’s
 Mojave Desert  by BrightSource Energy Inc. Kennedy is a partner
in VantagePoint Venture, a major funder for BrightSource.  “We’re building it in three years,” Kennedy said. “It
takes at least 10 years to build a coal plant and 30 years to
build a nuclear plant. And we’re building it at a fifth of the
cost of a nuke plant.”  “Also, once you build a coal plant, your big costs are
just beginning,” he added. “You’ve got to cut down mountains,
ship coal across the country, burn the coal, poison fish and
pollute the air. Once you build a solar plant, you’ve got free
energy forever.”  Union Workers  In the film, some coal supporters accuse Kennedy of being
an outside agitator. Kennedy said the charge is ironic because
many of Massey’s coal miners aren’t from West Virginia.  “Massey doesn’t like to hire West Virginians because
there’s a union culture there and the company has tried to
destroy the miners union,” he said. “They bring in people from
other states, put them to work for five to eight years cutting
down mountains and then move them someplace else.”  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 