-- 
Boyd Gaming, Ameristar Slump in Wake of Emanuel’s Chicago Casino Victory

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-06-02T21:27:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/rookie-emanuel-scores-casino-win-for-ailing-chicago-s-downtown-airports.html
Shares in riverboat-gambling
operators dropped more than the broader stock market after
 Illinois  legislators approved a bill to grant Chicago its first
casino.  The decline reflected the threat that new gaming facilities
may drain customers from some of the existing riverboats located
in Chicago’s suburbs, said Chad Beynon, an analyst at Macquarie
Capital USA Inc.  “Overall that market is fairly saturated,” Beynon said.
“The worst-case scenario, it’s just robbing Peter to pay Paul.
If you see a shift to a different area of the city you could see
a 5 to 10 percent decline at some properties.”  Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  called the bill “excessive”
the day after the Illinois Senate passed the legislation May 31,
though he stopped short of threatening a veto.  Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN) , based in Wyomissing,
 Pennsylvania , has fallen 3.2 percent since the Senate vote. Las
Vegas-based  Ameristar Casinos Inc. (ASCA)  is down 3 percent, and  Boyd
Gaming Corp. (BYD)  of  Las Vegas  dropped 3.5 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s Index fell 2.4 percent in the same period.  Illinois has nine riverboat casinos in suburban Chicago and
elsewhere across the state.  Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  lobbied for the expansion to help
address Chicago’s fiscal problems. The third-largest U.S. city,
which has a projected 2012 budget deficit of $587 million, and
other Illinois communities could benefit financially from a
casino, Beynon said.  No Cannibals  “There are some pockets where I think gaming could bring
incremental tax revenues to the state,” including  Chicago ,
because downtown casinos usually attract different customers and
in many cases “haven’t cannibalized suburban markets.”  Emanuel accomplished on his 16th day in office what eluded
his predecessor for almost two decades -- state legislative
approval of a downtown casino and slot machines for the city’s
two airports.  His muscle-flexing didn’t go unnoticed by Quinn. Asked
whether he was concerned about angering Emanuel if he were to
veto the Chicago casino, Quinn reminded reporters, “I’m the
governor of Illinois.”  “The people of Illinois are the only ones I’m beholden
to,” he said yesterday.  Emanuel Gets Credit  Lawmakers credited Emanuel with helping get the measure to
Quinn’s desk, saying it signaled that they and the governor will
be hearing more from the former White House chief of staff than
they ever did from Mayor  Richard M. Daley .  Emanuel, who as a congressman from Chicago was a top deputy
of former House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , worked Springfield as he
once worked  Washington , said Senator Terry Link, a Democrat from
Chicago’s north suburbs who sponsored the gambling bill.  “He made a huge difference,” Link said. “He understands
how to pass a bill, and he worked the General Assembly.”  Emanuel also lobbied on education reform and changes in the
state’s worker compensation system. Both of those bills passed,
too.  Daley, who governed the city for 22 years before deciding
not to run for a seventh term, repeatedly voiced support for a
Chicago-based casino. Yet Link, a longtime advocate for casino
gambling, said he never got the impression that Daley truly
wanted a gaming house in his hometown.  “I think Daley had mixed emotions,” Link said. “He
didn’t want to be perceived as the guy who put gambling in
Chicago.”  Fiscal Relief  Economic circumstances may have boosted the political
prospects for expanded gambling, Link and others said, as cities
struggle with the effects of declining taxes and the loss of
state and federal financial aid. A casino would create 7,000 to
10,000 jobs while helping “energize our city’s economy,” the
mayor said May 31.  Emanuel has ruled out a property-tax increase to close the
city’s budget shortfall, effectively adding to the financial
importance of new developments, such as a casino.  Quinn, who met with Emanuel shortly after he took office
May 16 to talk about gambling and other issues, said he would
support a Chicago casino “if it’s properly done.”  The governor has amendatory veto power, meaning he can
eliminate certain items in a bill while keeping others.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Jones in Springfield at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  