-- 
Russia Warns U.S., NATO Against Military Aid to Syria Protests After Libya

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r ,   B r a d   C o o k   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-06-02T15:44:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/russia-warns-u-s-nato-against-military-aid-to-syria-protests-after-libya.html
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov warned the U.S. and European nations not to encourage
anti-government protesters in  Syria  by holding out the prospect
of military support like they provided in Libya.  “It is not in the interests of anyone to send messages to
the opposition in Syria or elsewhere that if you reject all
reasonable offers we will come and help you as we did in
Libya,” Lavrov, 61, said yesterday during an interview in
Moscow. “It’s a very dangerous position.”  Rallies against President Bashar al-Assad’s rule have swept
Syria, inspired by the uprisings that ousted authoritarian
rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia . Syrian security forces have killed
more than 1,100 people and detained at least 10,000, according
to human-rights groups. The government blames the protests on
Islamic militants and foreign provocateurs.  Russia  abstained from the March 18 vote by the  United
Nations Security Council  that authorized the use of force to
protect civilians from Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces,
saying the resolution might lead to a “large-scale military
intervention.” Operations led by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization have stretched far beyond the stated goal of
enforcing a no-fly zone, Lavrov said.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  discussed the situation in the
 Middle East  among other issues today in  Rome  at a trilateral
meeting with U.S. Vice President Joe Biden and Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , said Natalia Timakova, the Russian
president’s spokeswoman.  UN Involvement Opposed  The U.K., France,  Germany  and  Portugal  asked the Security
Council on May 25 to demand that Syria end attacks on peaceful
protesters and address their grievances. The European Union last
week imposed a travel ban and asset freeze on the “highest
level of leadership,” a week after the U.S. froze the assets of
Assad and six top officials.  Russia opposes  Security Council  involvement in Syria,
Lavrov said.  “First of all, the situation doesn’t present a threat to
international peace and security,” he said. “Second, Syria is
a very important country in the Middle East and destabilizing
Syria would have repercussions far beyond its borders.”  While Russia is opposed to international intervention, it
supports the need for change in Syria and has encouraged Assad
to implement promised reforms, Lavrov said.  Assad on April 21 ordered the lifting of a 48-year-old
state of emergency, abolished the Supreme State Security Court
and issued a decree allowing peaceful protests. This week he
offered a “general amnesty” covering political detainees.  “We are gratified that our appeals have been heard,”
Lavrov said. “Recently he published a draft of a new
constitution, he declared an amnesty for political prisoners,
and I think this should calm the situation.”  Syria Protests  Protests continued after the amnesty decree, issued late on
May 31, as opposition leaders said it was a ploy to gain time.  Lavrov called for the Libyan resolution to be a unique one
and said Russia will demand that any future UN mandates be more
specific.  “If somebody would like to get authorization to use force
to achieve a shared goal by all of us, they would have to
specify in the resolution who this somebody is, who is going to
use this authorization, what the rules of engagement are and the
limits on the use of force,” Lavrov said.  Russia has stepped up diplomatic efforts to help forge a
Libyan settlement that would persuade Qaddafi to step down and
end NATO military action, Lavrov said.  ‘Acceptable to All’  At the Group of Eight summit last week in France, U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
asked Medvedev to help negotiate a deal acceptable to coalition
forces, the  African Union  and Libyan rebels, Lavrov said.  Medvedev spoke by phone with South African President  Jacob Zuma  before and after Zuma flew to Tripoli,  Libya ’s capital, on
May 30, Lavrov said. The Russian president also told his special
envoy for Libya, Mikhail Margelov, to go to the port city of
Benghazi for talks with opposition leaders as soon as possible.  Any solution must “be acceptable to all Libyans,” Lavrov
said, echoing comments Zuma made after returning from Tripoli in
a trip backed by the African Union.  “I hope that the accumulated effort of all those who want
to see an end to the hostilities and the beginning of the
construction of a new Libya will bring results,” he said.  The U.S. and its partners, including France and the U.K.,
launched the first attacks against Qaddafi’s forces on March 19.
NATO took command on March 31 and yesterday extended its mission
for 90 days in what Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said
was “a clear message” that “we are determined to continue our
operation to protect the people of Libya.”  Bedouin or Trial  The air raids killed 718 civilians and wounded 4,067 from
March 19 to May 26, Agence  France  Presse reported, citing a
spokesman for Libya’s government.  Russia isn’t involved in negotiating “any deals of
immunity or guarantees” for Qaddafi, though others are
considering a range of options, he said.  “I can tell you without revealing too many secrets that
the leaders of countries who can influence the situation are
actively discussing the possibilities,” Lavrov said.  Officials at the G-8 summit discussed options for Qaddafi
ranging “from a quiet life as a simple Bedouin in the Libyan
desert to the fate of Milosevic in the Hague,” Margelov said in
an interview yesterday, referring to the war crimes trial of
former Yugoslav leader  Slobodan Milosevic .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Cook in Moscow at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  