-- 
Sabre Seeks to Raise Antitrust Claims Against American

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-06-01T21:22:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/sabre-seeks-to-file-antitrust-claim-against-american-correct-.html
Sabre Holdings Corp. escalated its
fight with  American Airlines  over the distribution of fares and
schedules to travel agents by asking a court for permission to
sue the carrier for antitrust violations.  Sabre today filed a motion to intervene as a defendant and
file a counterclaim in a lawsuit brought by  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
in federal court in Fort Worth,  Texas . American called the
claims “meritless” and added Sabre as a defendant in the case.  American acted illegally in trying to force agents to use
its proprietary technology to access all of the airline’s data,
Sabre said today in a statement. In doing so, American is trying
to “eliminate” global distribution systems like Sabre, the
Southlake, Texas-based company said.  Sabre, the biggest U.S. global distribution system, and
Fort Worth-based American have been disputing the control and
dissemination of data consumers use to book flights through
travel agents. The U.S.  Justice Department  said May 20 that it
was investigating possible antitrust violations by Sabre and
other GDS companies.  American, through a variety of means, “seeks to destroy
the ability of travel agents, corporate travel purchasers, and
the traveling public to make apple-to-apple price comparisons,”
Sabre said in the proposed complaint.  Orbitz Worldwide  Sabre asked to intervene in a suit American filed in April
against Travelport Ltd., a GDS, and  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW) , an
online travel agency that is 48 percent owned by Travelport.
Closely held Sabre was spun off by American in 2000 and acquired
by units of buyout firms TPG Capital and  Silver Lake  in 2007.  Today marked the expiration of an agreement between
American and Sabre to suspend legal action while they tried to
negotiate an agreement. Chris Kroeger, Sabre Travel Network
senior vice president, said in the statement that the company
would “continue to pursue through negotiations a distribution
agreement with AA.”  American today added Sabre as a defendant in the case in an
amended complaint.  “American’s decision to include Sabre to the antitrust
lawsuit comes after American attempted for several months to
resolve disputes over distribution of the airline’s fares and
schedules,” the airline said in its statement. In a separate e-
mailed statement, American called Sabre’s claims “a spurious
attempt to distract the public and its subscribers from the
serious implications of its own anticompetitive behavior.”  Shares Decline  AMR fell 18 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $6.09 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
declined 22 percent this year. The 11-carrier Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index dropped 3.1 percent today.  The cost to protect Sabre’s debt from default for five
years jumped to the highest since September 2009. Credit-default
swaps on the company’s debt added 7.6 basis points to 774.1
basis points, according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Travelport Ltd., 11-
cv-244, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas ( Fort
Worth ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 