-- 
SAC Capital Faces Biotech Insider Trading Inquiry, WSJ Reports

-- B y   A l a n   P u r k i s s   a n d   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-06-01T06:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/sac-capital-faces-insider-trading-probe-over-2007-medimmune-deal-wsj-says.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, a U.S. hedge
fund firm run by  Steven Cohen , is the focus of an insider-
trading inquiry by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter.  The U.S. regulator is looking into whether traders used
inside information to profit from the $15 billion takeover of
MedImmune Inc., a biotechnology company, by AstraZeneca Plc in
2007, the newspaper said. No allegation of wrongdoing by SAC or
Cohen has been made. A SAC Capital spokesman said the firm
responds fully to all regulatory inquiries and an SEC spokesman
declined to comment, the report said.  SAC Capital, which has about $13 billion under management,
has come under scrutiny, as part of the U.S. crackdown on
illegal stock-tipping at  hedge funds , banks and technology
companies. The U.S. prosecutors are investigating accounts at
the Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund tied to Noah Freeman
and Donald Longueuil, former SAC Capital portfolio managers who
pleaded guilty to federal  insider-trading  allegations.  Billionaire founder Cohen has said his firm takes
compliance “very seriously.”  SAC Capital officials have met with investigators from
Senator  Charles Grassley ’s staff in his examination of the SEC’s
oversight of the hedge-fund firm’s trading practices.  “My staff basically just listened,” Grassley, the top
Republican on the Judiciary Committee, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television on May 26. The lawmaker said his central
focus is on the regulator, not the firm. “What we’re trying to
do is get information from the SEC on whether or not the SEC is
doing its job.”  Handling the Allegations  In a letter last month, Grassley asked SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to explain how the regulator has handled allegations of
suspicious trading at SAC Capital, referring to about 20
examples he received from the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority of possible insider trading involving the firm.  Cohen started SAC Capital in 1992 with 12 people and about
$25 million after leaving brokerage Gruntal & Co., where he
worked his entire career. His track record at SAC Capital, a 30
percent average annual return for 18 years, is one of the best
in the hedge-fund industry. The firm suffered one annual loss
since it was founded: a 19 percent drop for its flagship SAC
Capital International Ltd. fund in 2008.  Jay Luo, Hong Kong-based managing director at SAC Capital,
didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail left at his office,
while Jonathan Gasthalter, an outside spokesman for the firm in
 New York , didn’t respond to a voicemail after office hours.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Alan Purkiss at 
 apurkiss@bloomberg.net ;
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  