-- 
Saliva Tests for Infants May Identify Risk of Hearing Loss, Study Shows

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-06-01T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/saliva-tests-for-infants-may-identify-risk-of-hearing-loss-study-shows.html
A simple saliva swab may help doctors
better identify newborn babies born with an infection that is
responsible for as much as 25 percent of hearing loss early in
life, a study found.  The study, led by researchers from the  University of
Alabama  at Birmingham, identified all babies infected with
 cytomegalovirus , or CMV, when using a wet saliva sample and
about 97 percent when using a dried saliva sample. The research
was published today in the  New England Journal of Medicine.   One in 150 children born in the U.S., or about 30,000, are
infected with CMV, the most common infection passed from mother
to unborn child, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. About 10 percent to 15 percent of those
will develop a disability such as hearing loss, said
pediatrician and lead study author  Suresh Boppana . While babies
aren’t currently screened for CMV, the study’s findings could
help make testing for the infection routine, he said.  “Most babies with CMV infection won’t be identified at
birth, unless you screen them for CMV infection, because they
look like every other healthy baby,” said Boppana, a professor
of pediatrics at the University of  Alabama  at Birmingham in a
May 31 telephone interview.  Studies estimate that about 20 percent of hearing loss at
birth and 25 percent of hearing loss seen in 4-year-olds is due
to CMV, Boppana said. A screening test for CMV would cost about
$2.50 to $3, he said.  Understanding CMV  In a separate trial currently under way, researchers are
following children with congenital CMV and monitoring their
hearing every six months until they are 4 years old. Results
from the study, designed to give doctors a better understanding
of how CMV causes hearing loss, won’t be available for several
years, Boppana said.  “If our results confirm that congenital CMV is a major
cause of hearing loss, then there’s an impetus on the national
agencies to think about considering making a recommendation that
every baby needs to be tested for CMV,” he said.  Researchers took saliva samples from almost 35,000 babies
in seven U.S. hospitals from June 2008 to November 2009. Some of
the saliva samples were stored in solution and some were air
dried. The researchers then compared their results with another
highly accurate test, called the rapid culture method, that
isn’t conducive for widespread use because it involves lengthy
incubation and testing procedures.  Of 17,662 newborns screened with the saliva samples stored
in solution, 85 were positive for CMV, a 100 percent match to
the rapid culture method. Of 17,327 newborns screened by having
their dried saliva tested, 74 were positive for CMV. The rapid
culture method found 76.  “It’s important for us to develop diagnostic tools to
screen babies for congenital CMV infection so that those who
test positive can be monitored for possible hearing loss and, if
it occurs, provided with appropriate intervention as soon as
possible,” said  James Battey Jr.,  director of the National
Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, part of
the  National Institutes of Health , which funded today’s study,
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  