-- 
Samsung SDI Says It Can Fund Investment in Solar-Cell Business

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-06-01T07:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/samsung-sdi-aims-to-boost-revenue-on-solar-cells-batteries.html
Samsung SDI Co. said it won’t have
trouble funding an investment in solar-cell production, easing
concern that the business will strain the company’s financials.  The maker of  lithium-ion batteries  can fund about half the
2.2 trillion won ($2 billion) it plans to spend on the solar-
cell business by 2015 with cash and may borrow to cover the rest
if needed, Chief Financial Officer Ji Myung Chan said at a media
briefing in Seoul today. The company has room to borrow as much
as 3 trillion won as it has relatively little debt, he said.  Samsung SDI rose as much as 4 percent in Seoul trading
after Ji’s comments. The stock fell the most in two years on May
30 after the company said it will buy Samsung Electronic Co.’s
solar-cell business for 160.8 billion won. Samsung SDI aims to
more than double revenue to 13 trillion won by 2015 from last
year with help from the solar business, the Yongin, South Korea-
based company said in a statement today.  “They said a lot of good things today,” said Hwang Joon Ho, a Seoul-based analyst at Daewoo Securities Co., who has a
“trading buy” rating on Samsung SDI shares.  Samsung SDI rose 1.1 percent to 178,500 won at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in  Seoul .  South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index
slipped 0.1 percent.  “There is no funding burden,” Ji said at the briefing.  Clean Energy  Demand for safe, clean energy is poised to receive a boost
from the Fukushima nuclear crisis in  Japan  and will drive
Samsung SDI’s growth in the mid-to-long term as it transforms
into an energy company focusing on rechargeable batteries and
solar cells, executives said.  “We have a vision to be the world’s No. 1 energy company,
and we’ll prove that in the next three to five years.” Chief
Executive Officer Park Sang Jin said.  The company won’t invest to expand its plasma-display
production and will try to maximize current output, he said.  As Samsung SDI’s focus switches to renewable energy, it
likely won’t have enough resources to raise investment in its
Samsung Mobile Display Co. venture, which has been expanding to
catch up with demand for screens used in smartphones, Daewoo’s
Hwang said.  “The whole plan implies that they’ll eventually let go of
the venture,” Hwang said.  ‘No Evidence’  Hwang lowered his rating on Samsung SDI from “buy” on May
30, citing the solar-cell investment. “There’s still no
evidence showing it’ll be a plus to the company’s value,” he
said.  Ji said expanding into solar cells has no direct
implications for the company’s involvement in the display
business. The company has yet to decide whether it will buy new
shares in the venture, he said.  Samsung SDI agreed to set up the display venture with
Samsung Electronics in 2008 by spinning off its organic-screen
operations. Samsung SDI said in March it will spend an
additional 300 billion won to buy new shares in the venture.
Samsung SDI’s stake in the venture decreased to 35.6 percent as
Samsung Electronics bought more of the new shares.  SB LiMotive Co., a venture between Samsung SDI and  Robert
Bosch GmbH , is close to winning battery orders from carmakers in
the U.S.,  India  and  China , Executive Vice President Chi Jae Wan
said. The venture is in “deep discussions” with global
automakers including  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , CEO Park said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  