-- 
State Bank of India Agrees to 14-Year Loan for T-Solar

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-03T19:03:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/sbi-agrees-to-record-14-year-loan-for-t-solar-astonfield-plant.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph to remove reference to Mahindra
& Mahindra, third paragraph to add reference to Export-Import
Bank. Story originally moved on June 1.)  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s
largest lender, and a government trade bank will extend a record
14-year loan to a solar plant being built by Spain’s Grupo T-
Solar Global SA and Astonfield Renewable Resources.  The long tenure may be the longest in the south Asian
nation where banks have been reluctant to offer loans for more
than 10 years to the nascent sector, said Ameet Shah, co-
chairman of Astonfield, which develops solar and biomass plants
in  India .  “It’s a breakthrough” and the first time for  State Bank 
and the Export-Import Bank of India to sanction project finance
for an Indian solar plant, Shah said in an interview in Mumbai
today. In project finance, the lender is repaid from the
project’s profits and has no claim on the borrower’s other
assets.  Banks like  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s second-largest lender,
have expressed fears about issuing loans for solar projects on
concerns that the technology may not perform as expected and
that developers may not get paid by financially troubled state
electricity distributors.  Oil and Solar  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest refiner, is using
their own balance sheets to fund planned solar projects,
industry group  Forum for Advancement of Solar Thermal  said on
May 9.  The 5-megawatt plant will cost 760 million rupees ($17
million), 70 percent of which will be financed by debt, Shah
said.  France ’s  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  is handling engineering and
construction, he said.  India has set a goal of having 20,000 megawatts of solar
capacity by 2022. That won’t happen without more  project
financing  by lenders, Manav Futnani, a Mumbai-based associate
director of project and export finance at HSBC Holdings Plc,
said in  New Delhi  on May 24.  “The game is about the banks,” said Shah. “The real
definition of success here is not if projects get built but how
they’re financed.”  T-Solar and Astonfield plan to develop as much as 32
megawatts of capacity in India by March and may seek funding
from overseas lenders for future projects, Juan Laso, chief
executive officer of Madrid-based T-Solar, said in an interview.
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-largest
lender, led a 25-member consortium that provided 860 million
euros ($1.2 billion) in finance to T-Solar in 2008, Laso said.  “This type of project is just starting in India,” Laso
said. “The banks and the project financiers will start to
understand this technology.”  T-Solar will supply its thin-film panels to the plant under
construction in northwestern Rajasthan state that will be
operational by October, Laso said.  T-Solar, which currently operates 168 megawatts of solar
capacity in  Spain  and Italy, aims to add 200 megawatts in India
within four years, Laso said. Astonfield has 41.5 megawatts of
active solar and biomass projects in India and 927 megawatts in
the pipeline, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 