-- 
Schneider to Acquire Telvent in Bid Valuing Spanish Company at $2 Billion

-- B y   F r a n k   C o n n e l l y   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-06-01T10:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/schneider-electric-to-bid-for-spain-s-telvent-in-deal-valued-at-2-billion.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s
biggest maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, agreed to
buy  Spain ’s  Telvent GIT SA (TLVT)  for about 1.4 billion euros
($2 billion) to double its software development capacity.  Shareholders of Madrid-based Telvent will receive $40 a
share under the terms of the offer, the French company, based
near Paris, said in a statement today. The offer is 16 percent
higher than Telvent’s closing price yesterday on the Nasdaq
exchange.  Abengoa SA (ABG)  has agreed to tender its 40 percent stake.  Telvent extends Schneider’s move into software and real-
time monitors to help manage power grids and other
infrastructure efficiently, joining peers like ABB Ltd. After
holding preliminary talks with Tyco International Ltd.,
Schneider Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire has said
in recent weeks he prefers small- and mid-sized targets.  “Telvent reinforces  Schneider Electric ’s positions in
three key infrastructure markets: smart grid, efficient
infrastructures, and smart cities,” Tricoire said on a
conference call with analysts today. “They are specialized in
the operation management of the applications we are dealing
with.”  ABB’s $1 billion acquisition of Ventyx Inc. last year
marked its expansion in industrial software as the Swiss company
seeks out higher-margin markets. It followed that deal with a
May 9 agreement to acquire private equity-owned Mincom to add
clients in the energy and mining industries.  Spending Cash  For Schneider, the planned Telvent takeover is the second
deal in three days. On May 30, it announced plans to buy 74
percent of Luminous Power Technologies Pvt. Ltd, an Indian maker
of inverters and power-storage systems, for about 215 million
euros.  “In the past two days, we announced two acquisitions that
are really just the strict execution of the strategy that we
explained in November,” the Schneider CEO said. “A very strong
push in the direction of new economies,” and “a very strong
move to technologies for solutions.”  Telvent had sales of 753 million euros in 2010, and
adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 115 million euros, according to Schneider. The
French company predicted 50 million euros to 60 million euros of
“synergies” in terms of earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization by 2016. It said the purchase will add to earnings
per share in the first year, excluding implementation costs.  Schneider shares rose as much as 1.2 percent in Paris
today, and were unchanged at 114.60 euros at 12:03 p.m.  ‘High’ Multiples  “The takeover bid of Telvent is perfectly in keeping with
the group’s strategy aimed at expanding its solutions
activities, especially in the field of smart grids,” said
Ludovic Debailleux, an analyst with Natixis in Paris, in a note
to investors. “The multiples involved are high, however, in
particular with a 2011 Ebitda multiple of 12.”  The median Ebitda multiple in 19 deals announced for
computer-services companies in the past 12 months was 9.04,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Schneider will finance the Telvent purchase through debt
“with a kind of medium term financing, five years,” Chief
Financial Officer Emmanuel Babeau said in the conference call.
“Today, the cost of such financing for Schneider would be
around 3 percent.”  The transaction includes the acquisition of Telvent’s 5.50
percent senior subordinated convertible notes, Schneider said.  The tender offer is set to start by mid-June and to close
in the third quarter, Schneider said. The plan has been approved
by the board of Telvent. The transactions need approval from
European and U.S. competition authorities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  