-- 
Sealed Air Sees ‘Trifecta’ in $2.9 Billion Purchase of Diversey Holdings

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-06-01T21:05:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/sealed-air-agrees-to-buy-diversey-holdings-in-deal-valued-at-4-3-billion.html
Sealed Air Corp. (SEE)  Chief Executive
Officer William Hickey agreed to buy Diversey Holdings Inc. for
$2.9 billion to add sales to emerging-market food-processors
concerned about product safety.  “The old hockey adage is go where the puck is going to
be,” Hickey, 66, said today in a telephone interview.  Sealed Air, a maker of food packaging, chose Diversey
because it’s the No. 1 player in food-safety related products in
emerging markets, Hickey said. Expansion in emerging markets and
taking advantage of demand for prevention of food contamination
are key parts of Sealed Air’s strategy.  “This to me was kind of a trifecta, or a hat trick, so to
speak, in that it gave us scale in a business we identified as
attractive, it gave us the footprint which we thought was
attractive, which is in the right space in the right parts of
the world,” he said. “I could check all the boxes and say this
is the right thing to do for the right reasons.”  Sealed Air, the maker of Cryovac food packaging and Bubble
Wrap, agreed to pay Diversey shareholders $2.1 billion in cash
and 31.7 million shares of Sealed Air common stock valued at
$25.68 as of yesterday’s close. The purchase also includes $1.4
billion of net debt to be refinanced, for a total cost of $4.3
billion.  Second-Biggest Purchase  The acquisition is the second largest in company history,
behind the $4.8 billion purchase of the Cryovac food-packaging
business in 1998 from W.R. Grace & Co., Hickey said.  The deal will be completed in 2011 and is expected to add
to earnings in the first full year after the closing, the
companies said today in a statement.  The purchase of Sturtevant, Wisconsin-based Diversey is the
largest of at least 28 acquisitions of soap and cleaning
preparation companies for which financial terms were disclosed
in the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sealed Air will add cleaning and sanitizing detergents,
gels and foam, plus electronic dispensers to customers in the
food and beverage, health-care and lodging industries.
Diversey’s sales last year were $3.1 billion, and it employs
about 10,000.  Sealed Air fell $1.71, or 6.7 percent, to $23.89 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading as broader
U.S. indexes tumbled. It was the biggest one-day decline for
Sealed Air since July 2009.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on the company’s debt jumped 90.6
basis points to 236 basis points, the highest level since Oct.
15, according to data provider CMA. The contracts soared as high
as 237.3 basis points in October amid speculation Sealed Air
could be the subject of a leveraged buyout.  Citigroup Inc. has committed to structure $4.5 billion of
financing, and Sealed Air aims to “operate for the long term
with an investment-grade profile,” Chief Financial Officer
David Kelsey said on a  conference call .  Moody’s Investors Service ranks Sealed Air’s debt Baa3, the
lowest level of investment grade, and  Standard & Poor’s  rates
the company BB+, the highest rung of junk, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Slight Negative’  The $2.1 billion to be paid in cash and shares “is a
slight negative for  credit quality ,” according to  Sean Egan ,
president of Egan-Jones Ratings Co. in Haverford,  Pennsylvania .  Sealed Air posted 2010 sales of $4.5 billion, and the
Elmwood Park, New Jersey-based company has 16,100 workers and
114 manufacturing facilities, according to a  presentation  on the
company’s website. In addition to Cryovac food packaging and
Bubble Wrap, Sealed Air makes Jiffy protective mailers and
medical supplies such as sterile sealed packaging.  Closely held Diversey is controlled by descendants of
Samuel Curtis Johnson, who started a flooring company in the
1880s that became S.C. Johnson & Son Inc., the maker of Pledge
furniture polish, Windex glass cleaner and Glade air fresheners.
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC also has a “significant ownership
stake” in Diversey, according to its website.  Citi and Blackstone Advisory Partners LP were financial
advisers to Sealed Air, and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP was
legal adviser.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  acted as financial adviser to
Diversey and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom was legal
adviser. Lazard advised the Johnson family, and Debevoise &
Plimpton assisted Clayton, Dubilier & Rice.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  