-- 
SEC’s Top Foreign Bribery Lawyer to Join Simpson Thacher

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-06-01T18:44:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/sec-s-top-foreign-bribery-lawyer-to-join-simpson-thacher-1-.html
Cheryl Scarboro, a 19-year Securities
and Exchange Commission lawyer who has led the agency’s foreign
bribery investigations since last year, is leaving to join law
firm  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP .  Scarboro, 47, will become a partner in Simpson Thacher’s
Washington office in the government and internal investigations
practice, the firm said today in a statement. She’s leaving the
SEC 16 months after being appointed to lead an enforcement unit
focused on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits
U.S. firms from bribing officials to win or maintain business.  Under Scarboro’s watch, the SEC focused corruption probes
to look across industries and regions it considered more prone
to bribery, instead of targeting individual firms. In November,
the agency reached a $237 million settlement with seven oil
services companies accused of bribing officials in  Africa ,  Asia 
and  South America , and earlier this year launched a sweeping
probe into whether financial firms were making improper payments
to win business from sovereign wealth funds.  “While Cheryl’s accomplishments at the SEC are many, she
will long be remembered for her outstanding work in matters
involving the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,” Enforcement
Director  Robert Khuzami  said today in a statement. “Her efforts
in this area coincided with a resurgence in the SEC’s scrutiny
of companies that make illegal payments to win business.”  Satyam, Dow Jones  Scarboro, who also served as counsel to former SEC Chairman
 Arthur Levitt , worked on cases involving Satyam Computer
Services Ltd. and five PricewaterhouseCoopers units based in
 India , as well as a bribery case against Siemens AG, which
resulted in an $800 million settlement. She also led a probe of
former Dow Jones & Co. director David Li, who agreed to pay $8.1
million for tipping a friend that his company was a takeover
target for Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.  “In recent years, the SEC and other regulatory bodies have
increased their focus on identifying violations under the
FCPA,” Paul Curnin, co-head of Simpson Thacher’s litigation
practice, said in the firm’s statement. “Cheryl’s experience
and insight developed over her 19 year tenure at the SEC will be
extremely beneficial to our clients.”  Scarboro holds a degree in political science from the
 University of Alabama  and a law degree from Duke University
School of Law, according to the SEC.  “It has been a great honor to spend the last 19 years
working with the talented professionals at the Commission,”
Scarboro said in a statement. Tomorrow is scheduled to be her
last day at the SEC.  Bloomberg News reported Scarboro’s plans earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  