-- 
Blatter Elected to Fourth Term as FIFA President, Faces Calls for Reform

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-01T21:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/sepp-blatter-wins-re-election-as-fifa-president-with-92-of-votes-cast.html
FIFA President Sepp Blatter was re-
elected yesterday to a fourth term as head of soccer’s governing
body and immediately came under new pressure for changes to
prevent corruption at the World Cup organizer.  Blatter, a FIFA official since 1976, got support on 186 of
the 203 ballots cast, or 92 percent, with five national
associations not voting during the congress in Zurich. Blatter
overcame an attempt by  England ’s Football Association to delay
the election because of corruption probes, one of which involved
the opposing candidate.  Blatter will try to restore the reputation of the body that
controls the most-watched sports tournament, the World Cup, a
quadrennial competition that brings in more than $4 billion. The
only other candidate, Mohamed Bin Hammam, withdrew last weekend,
just before being suspended alongside  FIFA  Vice President Jack Warner following accusations the duo conspired to buy votes.
Soccer officials say the 75-year-old Blatter has much to do.  “The recent happenings have once more proven that FIFA
needs a change in its whole structure,” said Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, chairman of the European Club Association, which
represents teams in the region’s largest leagues. “I request
FIFA to immediately introduce democratic and transparent
structures and procedures.”  Sponsors’ Concerns  FIFA had been fending off corruption allegations for months,
with nine of its 24-member decision-making panel having been
suspended or facing claims of impropriety in the past year. Most
of the allegations centered on World Cup bidding.  Two executives in the selection of the 2018 and 2022 hosts
were removed before the vote for Russia and Qatar following a
newspaper report that they had offered to sell their support.  “We will put FIFA’s ship back on the right course in clear
transparent waters,” Blatter told delegates after the election.
“We will need some time: We cannot do it from one day to the
next.”  Henry Kissinger , a Nobel laureate who served as Secretary
of State from 1973 to 1977 under U.S. Presidents Richard M. Nixon and  Gerald Ford , has agreed to join a “committee of wise
persons” to advise FIFA’s newly formed corporate governance and
compliance unit, Blatter said.  Soccer History  The 88-year-old Kissinger worked on the U.S.’s failed bid
for the 2022 World Cup. He also chaired the advisory panel for
the 1994 World Cup, which the U.S. hosted.  The scandals have concerned sponsors that pay FIFA $343
million to be associated with the World Cup.  Visa Inc. (V) , the biggest bank card network, and airline
Emirates joined Coca-Cola Co. and Adidas AG to voice concerns.  “The current situation is clearly not good for the game
and we ask that FIFA take all necessary steps to resolve the
concerns that have been raised,” Visa said.  Blatter, General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  and FIFA’s
marketing division have spoken to two main sponsors and “not a
single one will withdraw,” Blatter said.  “‘They said, ‘We trust you, but please bring back this
board of FIFA in better waters.’ This is what we are going to
do,” Blatter said. “After the decision was taken today and
direct dialogue I am sure they are happy to go on with us, not
only with the World Cup but with other competitions.”  Proposed Changes  The suspension of Warner and Asian soccer headBin Hammam
came after U.S. official Chuck Blazer alleged the pair gave cash
to Caribbean soccer officials, which Warner and  Bin Hammam  deny.
They in turn asked FIFA’s ethics body to look into Blatter, who
they said knew about their meeting. He was cleared.  Warner also publicized a private e-mail from Valcke in
which he said Qatar “bought” the World Cup. Qatar denied the
accusation.  Blatter said future World Cups should be selected by all
208 FIFA nations, not just the 24 members of its executive. He
said many of FIFA’s troubles can be traced to the process to
choose hosts for the flagship event.  “In one of the interventions we have heard it was said we
should empower the associations, and I am 100 percent in
agreement, and in future the hosting of the World Cup will be
decided by the congress,” Blatter said. “The executive
committee will create a shortlist and make no recommendations,
then the congress will decide on the venue.”  Officials Suspended  The Sunday Times provided evidence to a U.K. government
panel alleging Qatar paid $1.5 million to two voters from  Africa 
to support its bid over four rivals including the U.S. The
former chairman of England’s 2018 bid team told the same
committee that four other officials made improper demands to
secure their backing. FIFA said there’s no evidence to prove any
wrongdoing.  Theo Zwanziger, president of the German soccer federation,
said on the organization’s website that FIFA “needs to take a
closer look” at the decision to award the 2022 World Cup to
Qatar.  England’s F.A. chairman David Bernstein yesterday took the
stage to call for the presidential vote to be delayed because a
“coronation without an opponent provides a flawed mandate.”  His message was poorly received. Officials from  Haiti ,
Congo DR, Cyprus, Fiji and  Benin  voiced their disapproval before
Julio Grondona, a FIFA vice president from  Argentina , complained
about the move.  ‘Attacks From England’  “We always have attacks from England, mostly with lies
and with the support of a journalism which is more busy lying
than telling the truth,” the 78-year-old said.  Blatter told officials that he’d have “zero tolerance”
for wrongdoing and would create a new “committee of the
solutions” to undertake investigations.  Europe ’s top soccer clubs said Blatter must start reform
right away.  “European clubs will no longer accept that they do not
participate in the decision making when it comes to club-related
matters,” the ECA’s Rummenigge said yesterday in a statement.
“We will closely follow FIFA’s development in this respect in
the future and take appropriate measures if there is no
improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Zurich at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  