-- 
SGX to Introduce Trading in Asia Currency Forwards in Bid to Rival Tokyo

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-06-01T02:43:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/sgx-to-introduce-asia-currency-forwards.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  will start
clearing Asian currency forwards contracts by September,
underpinning the city-state’s efforts to challenge  Tokyo  as the
largest foreign-exchange trading center in Asia.  The forwards will include non-deliverable contracts for
currencies such as the Chinese yuan, Indonesian rupiah,  Indian
rupee , South Korean won, Malaysian ringgit, Philippine peso and
Taiwanese dollar, SGX said in a stock exchange filing.  Non-deliverable forwards are agreements in which assets are
bought and sold at current prices for delivery at a future date.
They are short-term contracts, settled in U.S. dollars, allowing
companies to hedge their currency risks.  “Demand for over-the-counter traded financial derivatives
clearing will grow rapidly,” Chief Executive Magnus Bocker said
in the statement. “ Asia  is the world’s fastest-growing region
and this service will benefit our members.”  The new service follows an initiative in November last year
to clear interest-rate swaps denominated in  Singapore  dollars as
part of a global effort to process over-the-counter derivatives
through central clearing houses. SGX has cleared swap contracts
with a notional amount of almost $80 billion to date, according
to its statement.  Improving Efficiencies  SGX, operator of Singapore’s equities market, is focusing
on organic expansion after the Australian government on April 8
rejected its A$8.4 billion ($9 billion) bid for Sydney-based
rival bourse operator ASX Ltd. The merger would have created the
world’s fifth-largest exchange, helping the combined entity
attract more business away from Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd., the world’s most profitable exchange.  The company remains open to merger opportunities although
its priority is to grow existing business and improve
efficiencies, Bocker, who stitched together eight European stock
exchanges under OMX and later merged the combined entity with
 Nasdaq , said on May 19.  Last month, SGX started trading rubber futures in its
 derivatives market . Dealings in lead and steel futures quoted on
the London Metal Exchange will begin in the third quarter, with
those for copper, zinc and aluminum having been introduced in
February. The company invested S$250 million ($203 million) in a 
new trading platform that it said will be the world’s fastest 
order processor when it goes live in August.  Global FX Market  Global foreign-exchange market turnover averaged $4
trillion a day in April 2010, 20 percent more than in 2007,
according to a triennial  survey  of 53 central banks published by
the  Bank for International Settlements  in September last year.  The U.K. accounted for 36.7 percent of the trading volume,
followed by the U.S. with 18 percent.  Japan  ranked third with a
6 percent share and Singapore next with 5 percent, the BIS
report showed.  Eleven SGX member banks will help to clear the currency
forwards, today’s statement shows. They are units of Barclays
Plc, Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse AG, DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,
Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp., Standard Chartered Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
UBS AG, and United Overseas Bank Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 