-- 
Shanda Games Plans to Add Social Online Games to Tencent, Sina Websites

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-01T10:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/shanda-games-says-it-s-in-discussions-with-tencent-to-launch-weibo-games.html
Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) ,  China ’s third-
biggest provider of online games, plans to provide games for
websites run by  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and Sina Corp., Chief
Executive Officer Alan Tan said.  Shanda plans to introduce 10 social and mobile games in the
coming year, as well as 18 of its traditional online games in
the next 12 to 18 months, Tan said in an interview in  Shanghai 
today. Shanda will roll out games on Renren Inc.’s social
network site in the second half of the year, he said.  As the company expands beyond its traditional online games
like “Mir 2,” Shanda will look for opportunities to acquire
developers of games for social networking sites including
 Facebook Inc .’s, Tan said. China’s social mobile game market
will more than quadruple to 27 billion yuan ($4.2 billion) by
2015, according to estimates from Mirae Asset Securities.  “The future of games is going to be in the social area,”
Eric Wen, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Mirae said today.
“It’s a good move for Shanda to move in that direction because
their existing games can’t be shared socially.”  Mobile games will outpace overall growth of the gaming
market in China, and should account for 10 percent of the
company’s total revenue in about three years, Shanda’s Tan said.
Mirae estimates China’s traditional online game market will
double by 2015 to 72 billion yuan, Wen said.  Positive Development  “The listing of social networking sites like Renren is a
positive development” for the industry and Shanda, Tan said. It
shows China’s social network market is “robust and will bring
in more potential users,” he said.  The unit of  Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (SNDA)  has
gained 11 percent this year in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
Tencent, China’s biggest online games company, has climbed 33
percent in  Hong Kong  and  NetEase.com (NTES)  Inc., the second largest,
has risen 28 percent in the U.S.  Tencent, China’s biggest Internet company by market value,
and Sina, operator of the Twitter-like Weibo service, are now
trying to add games and other features to their microblogging
sites as they battle for users.  Tencent has 160 million microblogging users, President
Martin Lau said last month. Catherine Chan, a spokeswoman for
Tencent, didn’t immediately respond to calls for comment on
Tan’s remarks today. Sina said last month it had 140 million
users of its microblog. Sina spokeswoman Catherine Peng didn’t
immediately return calls today.  Profit Falls  New game development costs brought Shanda’s profit down in
the first quarter, according to the company. Net income fell 4.9
percent to 312.9 million yuan, below the 317 million yuan
average of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 9.6 percent to 1.25 billion yuan.  Second-quarter sales will be between 4 percent and 5
percent higher than the previous three months, Shanda
spokeswoman Ellen Chiu said in an e-mail today, citing a
forecast by Chief Financial Officer Richard Wei.  Shanda also plans to expand in the near term into Southeast
Asian markets such as Thailand, Vietnam and  Malaysia , as well as
into  Europe  in the next few years, Tan said. The company, which
generates most of its sales in China, is targeting the overseas
business to make up 20 percent of total revenue in three years,
he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  