-- 
Shaquille O’Neal Retires From NBA After 19 Seasons, $292 Million in Salary

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-06-02T05:19:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/shaquille-o-neal-retires-from-nba-after-19-seasons-four-championships.html
Shaquille O’Neal , at 39 the oldest
player in the  National Basketball Association  this season, is
retiring after a 19-year career in which he earned almost $300
million in salary and millions more in endorsements.  O’Neal drew paychecks of about $292.2 million during his
career, earning an annual high of $27.7 million with the  Miami
Heat  in 2004-05, according to  basketball-reference.com .  He also was paid about $15 million a year for endorsements
of 24-Hour Fitness, Icy Hot, VitaminWater, Burger King, Kraft
Foods, Pepsi, Comcast, Radio Shack,  Reebok  and Taco Bell,
according to Sports Illustrated’s The Fortunate 50.  “I would imagine that he is poised to transition to being
talent in the sports entertainment industry, similar to Charles Barkley and others,” Stephen McDaniel, who teaches sports and
entertainment marketing at the  University of Maryland , said in
an e-mail.  O’Neal was sixth this year on Bloomberg BusinessWeek’s
Power 100, which rates American athletes on and off the field.
His net worth was estimated at $135 million two years ago by
Forbes magazine.  While endorsements may still come his way, sports marketing
experts say O’Neal may lose some of his contracts that were
contingent on his participation as an active player.  Companies seeking sports figures as spokesmen tend to sign
contracts with “existing superstars” such as the Heat’s  LeBron James  and Dwyane Wade, said Steve Olenick, a lawyer with Davis &
Gilbert in New York.  “He may latch on with a start-up or social media
company,” Olenick said, noting that O’Neal used Twitter to make
public his decision.  ‘The Best Bang’  Other companies, however, are looking for big-time talent
to represent their products, Olenick said in a telephone
interview.  “Endorsers want the best bang for their buck,” he said.
“He’s not going to sell your product. He’s not the dominant
force he once was. It’s tough to speculate whether he’ll keep
some of his deals. A lot of companies want existing NBA
players.”  O’Neal, who played for the  Boston Celtics  this past season,
won three titles with the  Los Angeles Lakers  and one with the
Heat. He played on 15 All-Star teams.  O’Neal, unlike some athletes who have muddied their
reputations with off-court activities, has managed to avoid
situations that could drive endorsers away, McDaniel said.  ‘Playful Personality’  “Shaq has always had a likable and playful personality,”
he said. “He is a lock for Hall of Fame. He has also managed
his brand well in that he has avoided off-the-court trouble. So,
he has a good image and hasn’t damaged his credibility.”  In 2004, O’Neal was traded from  Los Angeles  to Miami, where
he won his fourth title in 2006. O’Neal played for the  Phoenix
Suns  and  Cleveland Cavaliers  before joining the Celtics as a
free agent before the start of the 2010-2011 season. He was
limited to 37 games this season for the Celtics because of
injuries.  Off the court, O’Neal has released four rap albums and
headlined a pair of ABC reality television shows, “Shaq’s Big
Challenge” and “Shaq Vs.” He starred in a number of movies,
including “Blue Chips” and “Kazaam,” and has been a reserve
police officer in Los Angeles and Miami.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see him on ‘Dancing with the
Stars’ and other mainstream entertainment, which helps keep him
in the public eye as this did wonders to jump-start Emmitt Smith’s cache on the lucrative public-speaking circuit,”
McDaniel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net 
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  