-- 
Sharapova Drops ‘Cow on Ice’ Moniker as She Closes on French Open Final

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-01T22:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/sharapova-drops-cow-on-ice-moniker-as-she-closes-on-french-open-final.html
Maria Sharapova  once described
herself on clay courts as a “cow on ice.” She’s mastered the
surface well enough at the French Open this year to be one win
from the final and a chance to complete the career Grand Slam.  Sharapova, the seventh seed from  Russia  who won Wimbledon
in 2004 at the age of 17, plays in the semifinals today against
 Li Na , the first player from  China  to reach the last four in
Paris.  Sharapova moved to the U.S. when she was 7 and honed her
tennis game on fast hard courts. Although sliding on the clay of
Roland Garros still doesn’t come easily for the 6-foot-2 right-
hander, she has adjusted.  “There’s no doubt that I’ve improved on this surface,”
Sharapova said at a news conference yesterday after beating
 Germany ’s Andrea Petkovic 6-0, 6-3. “There’s no doubt that as
the years went on I felt better and better.”  Defending champion Francesca Schiavone of  Italy , the No. 5
seed, meets No. 11 Marion Bartoli of  France  in today’s other
semifinal.  The men’s semifinal field was completed yesterday, with
top-ranked Rafael Nadal of  Spain  beating Robin Soderling of
Sweden 6-4, 6-1, 7-6 (7-3) and fourth-seeded Andy Murray of
Britain defeating Juan Ignacio Chela of Argentina 7-6 (7-2), 7-
5, 6-2.  Nadal will play Murray tomorrow for a spot in the final
against the winner of the other semifinal between second-seeded
Novak Djokovic and third-seeded Roger Federer. It’s the first
time the top four seeds have reached the men’s semifinals at a
Grand Slam tournament since the  French Open  in 2006.  Grand Slams  Sharapova won the 2006  U.S. Open  and 2008 Australian Open,
getting as far as the semifinals in Paris just once before, in
2007. She won the Rome clay-court event a week before the French
Open began, her first tournament victory in a year.  Since coming back from shoulder surgery in May 2009,
Sharapova had struggled in the majors, with a quarterfinal spot
in Paris two years ago her best previous performance in that
span.  In an interview in Rome, Sharapova said the will to win had
kept her going when a torn rotator cuff forced her out of the
Beijing Olympics, the 2008 U.S. Open and the 2009 Australian
Open.  “There are times, obviously, when you just want to shut
the alarm clock off and don’t go about your day in the way that
it was planned,” she said. “But it’s so irrelevant when you’re
holding up a trophy and when you’re winning matches and you
realize how good that feels. That’s one of the reasons why, for
10 months when I was out of the game, I really wanted to come
back because I felt like I had a lot left in me.”  Change Coaches  Sharapova left long-time coach Michael Joyce at the start
of the season and has worked with Thomas Hogstedt, who used to
guide Li. After losing to Petkovic in the fourth round of the
Australian Open in January, her form improved. Sharapova made
the finals of Miami and the semifinals in Indian Wells, and
returned to the top 10 of the WTA tour rankings in April for the
first time in two years.  “Obviously, when you’ve won Grand Slams before, when
you’ve been No. 1, you see yourself better, higher than that,”
she said in  Rome .  If she beats Li, Sharapova has a shot at becoming the 10th
woman to win all four majors at least once.  Serena Williams  was
the last woman to complete the set, at the 2003 Australian Open.  “Obviously, experience definitely helps me,” Sharapova
said yesterday. “I’ve been in these types of situations; I’ve
been in this stage of a Grand Slam before.”  Likes Style  Li, who has won twice in seven career matches with
Sharapova, said she was happy to play someone like the Russian
who hits the ball flat and hard, instead of an opponent who has
grown up on clay.  “Spanish or European players, they like to play more
topspin, dropshot,” Li said after beating fourth-seeded
Victoria Azarenka of Belarus 7-5, 6-2 in the quarterfinals. “So
I think this good for me. I don’t like running too much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 