-- 
South Africa’s PMI Declines, Indicating Recovery in Manufacturing Slowing

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-01T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/south-africa-s-pmi-declines-indicating-recovery-in-manufacturing-slowing.html
South Africa ’s purchasing managers’
index declined for a third consecutive month in May,  Kagiso
Securities Ltd.  said, indicating the recovery in manufacturing
output may be losing momentum.  The seasonally adjusted index fell to 55.1 from 56.4 in
April, Johannesburg-based Kagiso said in an e-mailed statement
today. The PMI has been above 50, which indicates an expansion
in factory production, for seven consecutive months.  Manufacturing, making up 15 percent of the economy, has
helped drive economic growth, which accelerated an annualized
4.8 percent in the first quarter from 4.5 percent in the
previous three months, the statistics office said yesterday.
Factory output, which grew an annualized 14.5 percent in the
first quarter, may come under pressure as job losses in  Africa ’s
biggest economy mount.  “The most disappointing indicator of the PMI remained the
employment situation in the factory sector,” Kagiso said. The
employment index, which has only been above 50 once in the last
year, dropped to 48.7 from 49, it said.  The sub-index measuring factory inventories slipped the
most, declining to 54.5 in May from 61.5 the previous month,
Kagiso said. The business activity measure fell to 56.8 from
58.4, it said.  South Africa’s jobless rate, the highest of 61 countries
tracked by Bloomberg, increased to 25 percent in the first
quarter as Africa’s biggest economy shed 14,000 jobs.  The  Bureau for Economic Research , based at the University
of Stellenbosch near  Cape Town , and the Institute of Purchasing
and Supply South Africa conduct the PMI survey on behalf of
Kagiso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 