-- 
South Africa Granted 627 Prospecting Rights Since April 18

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-01T15:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/south-africa-issued-at-least-627-prospecting-rights-since-moratorium-ended.html
South Africa , the nation with the
biggest mineral wealth, granted at least 627 mineral
prospecting rights since April 18, when it lifted a moratorium
on applications, Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu said.  The  Department of Mineral Resources  stopped awarding
prospecting rights on Sept. 1 after errors in the award of some
permits were uncovered. Applications are now only
accepted electronically via the department’s website, a measure
the government hopes will eliminate the mistakes.  “What we want to achieve with the system is what is
happening,” Shabangu told reporters in  Cape Town  today.
“It’s working well” and complaints that the system is too
slow are being addressed.  BHP Billiton Ltd. and Anglo American Plc are among
companies that mine coal, platinum and diamonds in South Africa,
which Citigroup Inc. last year said has mineral resources worth
about $2.5 trillion.  A planned review of South Africa’s Mineral and Petroleum
Resources Development Act is under way that aims to further
streamline the licensing process and should be submitted to
Parliament by the end of July, Shabangu said. Mine safety laws
are also being reviewed to strengthen enforcement and increase
penalties for infractions, she said.  Miner Deaths  Fifty-three miners have died in South Africa’s mines so far
this year, up from 49 over the same period last year, according
to government data.  Shabangu said the Cabinet is evaluating a plan that aims to
ensure companies process more of the mineral they extract
within the country, without compelling them to do so.  Shabangu also said a task team has been appointed to
consider the merits of allowing the extraction of shale gas. A
report is due by the end of July.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has applied to start shale-gas
exploration in South Africa’s Karoo region. Its plans to
drill about 24 wells in an area of about 90,000 square
kilometers (34,749 square miles) faces opposition from the
Treasure the Karoo Action Group on the grounds that it may have
adverse environmental consequences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  