-- 
Spanish Exporters Losing $288 Million in E. Coli Scare Might ‘Take Action’

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-06-01T08:10:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/spain-may-take-action-for-e-coli-damage.html
Spain may “take action” against
 Germany  for saying Spanish cucumbers were the cause of an E.
coli outbreak, Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba
said.  “A lot of money has been lost, and our image,” he said.
“We don’t rule out taking action against the authorities who
cast doubt on the quality of our produce, in this case the
authorities in Hamburg.”  Germany’s largest E. coli outbreak has killed nine people,
and one person has died in  Sweden  also, according to the
European Commission. After German authorities initially named
Spanish cucumbers as the possible source, tests by Hamburg
health authorities on cucumbers from the Mediterranean country
didn’t find the strain of E. coli responsible for the outbreak.  Spanish fruit and vegetable exporters are losing as much as
200 million euros ($288 million) a week in sales as consumers
avoid the country’s products, according to Begona Jimenez, a
spokeswoman for  Fepex , which represents producers in  Spain .  E. coli is spread through contaminated food and water or
contact with animals, and may produce toxins that cause human
disease. Cattle and other ruminants can be healthy carriers of
the bacterium, which can spread through fecal contamination,
according to the  European Centre for Disease Prevention and
Control . Infection may lead to hemolytic uremic syndrome, or
HUS, a potentially fatal type of kidney damage.  While contamination happens in the field, the bacteria can
be carried on trucks to a warehouse and contaminate other
produce on a processing line,  Bruce Hirsch , attending physician
for infectious diseases at North Shore University Hospital in
Manhasset,  New York , said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 