-- 
Squeeze Syria’s Thug-in-Chief Enough to Make It Hurt: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/squeeze-syria-s-thug-in-chief-enough-to-make-it-hurt-view.html
In his posed photograph, the boy is a
tenderfoot teenager -- round-faced, bangs askew, biting his
lower lip. In the final video image of 13-year-old Hamzah al-
Khateeb, released on YouTube, his head is misshapen, his body
marred with cuts, bullet wounds, burns and a hole where his
penis ought to be.  This is the latest handiwork of Syrian dictator Bashar al- Assad’s regime. Young Hamzah was detained by security forces
when he attended an opposition rally with his father on April 29
in their hometown of al-Jiza. A month later, his tortured corpse
was returned to his family.  Hamzah’s case has increased the heat and scope of protests
against the regime in  Syria . In a hopeful scenario, outrage over
his murder would mark a turning point in the popular effort to
end the brutal Assad dynasty, which so far has killed 1,000
civilians in the Syrian Spring, according to Human Rights
groups. Sadly, the regime is showing resilience. The balance in
such matters is determined by the strength of those willing to
terrorize, torture and kill to stay in power versus the strength
of those prepared to be terrorized, tortured and killed to
overthrow those in power.  In  Egypt , President  Hosni Mubarak  fell because the army
wouldn’t fire on protesting citizens. Assad, however, like his
father, Hafez al-Assad, before him, can count on his forces. He
assures the loyalty of the military-intelligence command by
filling it with fellow Alawites, a religious sect that makes up
only 7 percent of Syria’s population. The Alawites are convinced
that if they lose control of the government, Syria’s Sunni
majority will seek reprisals for 50 years of Alawite hegemony.
Thus, for now, the power elite are willing to savage civilians
to maintain their position, while an insufficient number of
citizens are prepared to share the fate of Hamzah al-Khateeb.  Libya  Template  It may be tempting to think that the U.S. and its allies
should do in Syria what they are doing in Libya -- using NATO
air strikes, under a United Nations mandate, to limit the
regime’s ability to attack civilians. But the  Arab League  asked
for action in Libya, and it is divided on Syria. And the factors
that have supported success in the air operation in Libya --
weak anti-aircraft defenses and rebel forces prepared to protect
civilians -- don’t apply in Syria.  The Obama administration should take care not to raise
expectations about change in Syria that it cannot fulfill. The
president came close to doing just that when he said last month
that Assad had a choice: to either lead a transition to
democracy or "get out of the way."  Economic Pressure  What the U.S. and its allies can do is put more economic
pressure on the Syrian regime. Already, the U.S. and European
Union have frozen local assets of Assad and his top associates.
China and  Russia  are unlikely to agree to broader UN sanctions,
so the U.S. should seek alternatives. One would be working with
the EU and  Turkey  to freeze the assets of Syria’s state-owned
banks, which finance the Syrian oil industry and key figures in
the pro-Assad business elite. The U.S. and EU should also bar
flights to and from Syria, and widen visa bans on Syrian
officials, especially military officers and their families.  These measures aren’t likely to bring down Assad’s house.
But they would sting. Having established themselves as
miscreants, the regime’s agents should now be denied the
privileges of international life. The sanctions would also let
the Syrian opposition know the democratic world is behind them.  Should the Syrian Spring fizzle, the Assad regime would
press for a return to normalcy, and many countries would be apt
to go along. But the sanctions must remain, at least until there
has been accountability for the atrocities being committed now.
Since he succeeded his father in 2000, Bashar al-Assad has toyed
with projecting the image of reluctant ruler and reformer. As
Hamza al-Khateeb’s family knows perfectly, he is but one thing:
an irredeemable thug. 