-- 
State Debt Swaps Beating Obama

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-06-01T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/state-debt-swaps-beating-obama-on-budget-cuts-chart-of-the-day.html
Debt sold by U.S. states is the
safest relative to Treasuries since 2008 as municipal finances
recover and President  Barack Obama  struggles to agree with
Republicans on plans to cut the federal budget deficit.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that the average cost of credit-
default swaps on the six most-traded states has fallen by almost
60 percent since the start of the year, while contracts on the
nation increased about 20 percent. The average of California,
Florida, Illinois,  New Jersey ,  New York  and Texas now exceeds
the U.S. by 50 basis points, down from 182 basis points five
months ago and a record 253 in December 2008.  Investor confidence in the ability of states to repay debt
by increasing taxes and slashing spending is spurring the drop
in the cost of default insurance. Treasurers are defying a
forecast by banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  who said in
December that there could be 50 to 100 “sizable” municipal-
bond defaults amounting to “hundreds of billions of dollars.”  “The world is not really ending and the fundamentals are
surprising to the upside,” said  Mikhail Foux , a strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York. “It’s hard to say we’re out of the
woods, but the data is positive.”  Eight of the world’s nine best performing government swaps
so far this year are states, led by California, New York and
Illinois, which all fell by more than 56 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. is the world’s ninth worst
performing government, following Peru, Israel,  Saudi Arabia ,
Egypt, Portugal, Morocco, Greece and Pakistan.  Trading of swaps on the six most active states increased 30
percent to cover a net notional $3.1 billion on May 20, up from
$2.4 billion a year ago, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. Contracts on Treasuries doubled to cover a net
notional $4 billion of debt in the same time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  