-- 
Sudan Proposes That African Peacekeepers Replace UN Forces in Abyei Region

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-01T13:26:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/sudan-proposes-that-african-peacekeepers-replace-un-forces-in-abyei-region.html
Sudan  has proposed that African
peacekeepers patrol the disputed region of Abyei, along with
northern and southern troops, and that a rotating administration
be set up to run the area.  The plan by the authorities in Khartoum, Sudan’s capital,
calls for the replacement of United Nations peacekeepers now in
Abyei with “forces that are more efficient and of an African
nature,” the Foreign Ministry said in a statement on state-run
 SUNA news agency  yesterday.  Sudan’s army seized the main town in  Abyei  on May 21 after
accusing Southern Sudan’s security forces of attacking its
troops while they were pulling out with a UN convoy. The UN
Security Council urged the army to withdraw on concern the
action could reignite the two-decade civil war in sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s third-biggest oil producer that ended in 2005.  Since its occupation of Abyei, the Sudanese army has become
entrenched in the region and has settled at Bahr al-Arab, or the
Kiir River as it is known in the south. More than 45,000 people
fled the region, the UN World Food Programme said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The UN Security Council is “united in deep concern about
the crisis in Sudan,”  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the
UN, said today in a message on Twitter. “Khartoum must withdraw
from Abyei now or face increased pressure.”  Joint forces from the northern and southern armies would be
deployed north and south of the river along with the African
peacekeepers, according to the government’s proposal.  Southern
Sudan  is scheduled to become independent on July 9.  UN Mission  Sudanese Foreign Minister Ali Karti informed UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon that the UN’s 10,000-member peacekeeping
mission will end when the south becomes independent, SUNA
reported May 28. Ban has proposed having a 7,000-member
peacekeeping force in Southern Sudan after independence.  Sudan’s proposal didn’t specify whether the peacekeepers
would be from the  African Union , or African countries, and it
didn’t suggest a timeline for their deployment.  The details of the proposal “haven’t been worked out
yet,” Rabie Abdel Ati, a senior member in Sudanese President
Umar al-Bashir’s  National Congress Party  and adviser to the
information minister, said today by phone from Khartoum.  A referendum in Abyei scheduled for January on whether to
join the south or remain a special administrative region in the
north was canceled because of disagreements over who was
eligible to vote.  Contested  Abyei is contested between the region’s Ngok Dinka people,
who are settled in the area and consider themselves southerners,
and Misseriya nomads who herd their cattle south in the dry
season and are supported by the government in Khartoum.  The government’s proposal said it was “necessary to keep
the current situation” of the two forces present on the
opposite sides of the river “until a final agreement is reached
on the referendum.”  The Abyei region produces less than 2,500 barrels of oil a
day, according to Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 