-- 
Sugar’s 47% Jump Tempts Refiner Away From Ethanol in Brazil

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-06-01T13:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/sugar-s-47-increase-tempts-refiner-away-from-ethanol-in-brazil.html
Alexandre Grendene Bartelle, a
Brazilian investor with stakes in two ethanol refineries, said
he may upgrade the plants to also produce sugar because soaring
demand for the renewable fuel hasn’t led to surging profits.  Grendene and his partners are studying whether to add sugar
lines to the refineries and doubling their processing capacity
to about 4 million tons of cane within two years, he said in a
telephone interview. That would be about the maximum size that a
Brazilian mill could be expanded to.  Sugar, which trades freely, has increased 47 percent from a
year ago. Ethanol prices, which are linked to the state-set cost
of gasoline, sometimes can’t even cover production costs,
Grendene said. In the past year, developers announced just two
new ethanol projects, compared with 48 between 2007 and 2008,
according to data compiled by London-based research company
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Many mills haven’t been profitable over the last two
years” following two poor harvests, said Grendene, chairman and
founder of the shoe company bearing his name. “This isn’t a
marvelous business. It’s a complicated one.”  Grendene co-founded Grendene SA in 1971 and took it public
in 2004, attracting supermodel Gisele Bundchen and actresses
Sharon Stone and Claudia Schiffer to advertise its sandals. He’s
also involved in a steel venture with Votorantim Group.  Below Cost  It costs about 95 Brazilian centavos (60 cents) to produce
a liter of ethanol, and mills often have to sell below the
market price to fulfill their contracts, Grendene said.  The average wholesale price of ethanol at the mill was
about 91 centavos in 2010 compared with 76 centavos in 2009 and
72 centavos the year before, according to Piracicaba, Brazil-
based research institute  Centro de Estudos Avancados em Economia
Aplicada , known as Cepea.  Sugar was making mills 58 percent more money than ethanol
last week, and it’s generally been the more profitable product
for more than two years, according to Cepea.  Brazil  is expected to produce 25.5 billion liters of
ethanol in the current harvest season, up 0.5 percent from last
season, the Sao Paulo-based trade association Uniao da Industria
de Cana-de-Acucar  said  April 1.  “This increase in ethanol supply for domestic use is lower
than the expected growth in demand, given accelerated sales of
flex vehicles,” according to the statement.  Switching Fuels  About 42 percent of Brazil’s cars can run on either
gasoline or pure ethanol, and they make up 85 percent of new
automobile sales, according to the country’s automaker trade
group Associacao Nacional dos Fabricantes de Veiculos
Automotores. The flex-fuel cars are driving up consumption of
the sugar cane-based fuel.  Greater demand for ethanol hasn’t translated into more
investments in production capacity to meet the growing market,
according to Adriano Pires, director of the Rio de Janeiro-based
research company Centro Brasileiro de Infra Estrutura.  One reason is that the fuel competes at the pump with
gasoline, the cost of which is controlled by the government
through the state-controlled energy company  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4) , known as Petrobras, Pires said.  Drivers tend to switch to gas when ethanol prices at the
pump exceeds 70 percent of the price of the petroleum-based fuel
because gas contains more energy, he said. So ethanol prices
rarely surpass that level, capping potential revenue for mills,
he said.  ‘Risky Business’  “Ethanol is a risky business,” in Brazil, according to
Adriano Pires, director of the Rio de Janeiro-based research
company Centro Brasileiro de Infra Estrutura. “Mills have to
sell a product that competes with gasoline while having to cope
with bad harvests.”  “A regulated gasoline price, in certain market situations,
doesn’t help. And we are in such a market situation right now,”
Christoph Berg, managing director of Ratzeburg, Germany-based
commodity analyst F.O. Licht, Christoph Berg. “It’s difficult
to fight against gasoline prices, but mills have managed in the
past.”  Wholesale gasoline prices in Brazil are set by Petrobras,
and rarely change. The last major change was in 2005, when the
state-run company raised the price it charges distributors to
1.05 reais a liter, Pires said.  Over the same period, production costs for ethanol have
risen by about 40 percent, Arnaldo Luiz Correa, an analyst at
Archer Consulting in  Sao Paulo , said yesterday.  “I’ve been involved in Brazil’s ethanol industry for 18
years and some of those years were good but most were bad,”
Grendene said. The government-dictated gasoline price has been a
“major disincentive to construction of new projects.”  Grendene owns 50 percent of the Da Mata mill, in Sao Paulo
state, and 40 percent of the Iaco mill, in Mato Grosso do Sul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  