-- 
Swiss Standards on Tax Evasion Probes to Be Assessed Next Year

-- B y   D y l a n   G r i f f i t h s
-- 
2011-06-01T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/swiss-standards-on-tax-evasion-probes-to-be-assessed-next-year.html
Switzerland ’s bid to meet global
standards for helping foreign governments identify suspected tax
evaders will be assessed in the second half of next year,
according to a new report.  Switzerland agreed in March 2009 to comply with
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development standards
to avoid being blacklisted as a tax haven. The Paris-based
organization earlier this year found the Swiss interpretation of
so-called administrative assistance to be too restrictive.  “Switzerland’s initial interpretation concerning
identification requirements for an exchange of information
request is not in line with that standard,” the Global Forum on
Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes said
in a report today. Swiss efforts to rectify those failings will
be judged in a peer review next year, the report said.  Switzerland’s  Finance Ministry   said  in February that it
will consider helping with tax-evasion probes on the basis of
less detailed evidence rather than requiring a suspected tax
evader’s name, address and banking details. The Swiss
government, in an annex to today’s report, said laws have been
submitted to Parliament to ensure the standards are met.  Switzerland’s commitment to comply with OECD standards came
after attacks on secrecy and an agreement by the nation’s
biggest bank,  UBS AG (UBSN) , to pay $780 million to avoid prosecution
for helping wealthy Americans evade taxes.  Switzerland also currently falls short of global standards
in providing ownership information for bearer shares and bearer
savings books, today’s report said. The Swiss practice of
notifying individuals of an investigation by foreign tax
authorities before any information is handed over may also harm
the probe, the forum said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dylan Griffiths in Geneva at 
 Dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  