-- 
Syrians Protest at Night as President Assad’s Amnesty Offer Is Rejected

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-06-01T09:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/syrian-boy-s-death-fuels-protests-as-opposition-rejects-amnesty-offer.html
Anti-government protesters in  Syria 
held nighttime rallies after President Bashar al-Assad offered a
“general amnesty” covering political detainees, including
members of the banned Muslim Brotherhood movement.  Demonstrators took to the streets of suburbs and towns
outside the capital, Damascus, and the southern governorate of
Daraa, the cradle of anti-government rallies that began about 12
weeks ago, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for
Human Rights, said by telephone today.  The protests follow the killing of at least 23
demonstrators in the past three days during a crackdown by
security forces backed by tanks, artillery and helicopters on
the central city of Homs and surrounding towns.  The death, allegedly from torture, of Hamzah al-Khateeb, a
13-year-old boy from the village of al-Jiza near Daraa, has
fueled protesters’ anger, Merhi said. A video dated May 25 and
posted on YouTube shows the boy’s mutilated and swollen body
with cuts, bruises, burns and bullet holes, as well as broken
jaw and kneecaps.  Hamzah’s death also drew a strong response from the U.S.  “What that symbolizes for many Syrians is the total
collapse of any effort by the Syrian government to work with and
listen to their own people,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said yesterday in  Washington .  After identifying the boy by name, she said: “I can only
hope this child did not die in vain, but that the Syrian
government will end the brutality and begin a transition to real
democracy.”  Unicef  Unicef, the  United Nations Children’s Fund , said in a
 statement  yesterday it “strongly condemns all acts of violence
against children everywhere,” estimating at least 30 youngsters
have been killed during the unrest in Syria.  As party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child,
Syria “has an obligation to ensure children’s right to life, to
freedom of expression, to freedom of peaceful assembly, and to
protection from violence, exploitation and abuse,” Unicef said,
adding that “these rights must be upheld at all times.”  The amnesty issued by Assad late yesterday was swiftly
rejected by the opposition as a regime ploy to gain time, the
 Associated Press  reported.  Pardons Promised  “The pardon includes members of all political currents,
including the  Muslim Brotherhood ,” state television said.
Membership in the Muslim Brotherhood is punishable by death
under Syrian law. It wasn’t clear whether the amnesty applied to
current or past membership in the Muslim Brotherhood.  The “general amnesty” specifies sentence reductions,
according to the  decree  published on the English-language
website of the official news agency SANA.  “At this point, it’s simply more talk about reform, more
talk about addressing the situation, and very little action,”
State Department deputy spokesman Mark Toner said at a briefing
in Washington.  Syrian security forces have killed more than 1,100
demonstrators and detained more than 10,000 people since the
rallies began, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi, head of
Syria’s National Organization for Human Rights.  Crimes Against Humanity?  In a 57-page  report  based on interviews with more than 50
victims and witnesses to abuses and released today,  New York- 
based  Human Rights Watch  said the “systematic killings and
torture” by Syrian security forces in Daraa “strongly suggest
that these qualify as crimes against humanity.”  Assad initially promised reforms in response to the
protests, which followed popular uprisings that ousted rulers in
Tunisia and  Egypt . Those pledges haven’t been repeated in recent
weeks as security forces stepped up their crackdown.  On May 23, the European Union announced sanctions on Syria
aimed at “the highest level of leadership,” as well as a
review of aid programs. The U.S. froze the assets of Assad and
top officials. In a May 19 speech, President  Barack Obama  urged
Assad to stop the killing and lead a peaceful transition to
democracy or “get out of the way.”  Syria’s government has blamed the unrest on Islamic
militants and “terrorist elements” seeking to destabilize the
country.  “For more than two months now, Syrian security forces have
been killing and torturing their own people with complete
impunity,” Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East director at  Human
Rights Watch , said in a statement. “They need to stop -- and if
they don’t, it is the  Security Council ’s responsibility to make
sure the people responsible face justice.”  Economy Unhurt  The uprising has caused little damage to Syria’s economy,
Adib Mayaleh, the governor of the  central bank , said in an
interview yesterday. Deposits at banks declined for 10 days,
then recovered after the central bank took measures to boost
confidence, Mayaleh said. This month, the bank raised the rate
lenders pay on deposits by 2 percentage points and lowered the
reserve requirement to 5 percent from 10 percent.  Syria’s $60 billion economy is forecast to grow 3 percent
this year from 3.2 percent in 2010, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in April, while The  Institute of International Finance 
estimates the economy may contract 3 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Dubai at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  