-- 
Syrian Thugs Assad’s Tool in Crackdown, Groups Say

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-01T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/syrian-thugs-are-assad-s-tool-in-crackdown-on-dissent-rights-groups-say.html
Syria ’s crackdown on anti-government
demonstrations reached Bushra’s street on the evening of May 11.  There was a commotion outside her house, yet the 38-year-
old mother of three said she didn’t dare do more than peek from
behind her curtains to see what was happening. Men in civilian
clothes dragged a neighbor through his front door by the hair,
beat him to the ground and threw him into their van. He hasn’t
been seen since, a victim of the Shabeeha, Bushra said, using a
Syrian term for thugs associated with the regime.  Bushra and her husband fled with their children, joining
hundreds of residents of the town of Tal Kalakh who crossed the
slippery rocks of a river to reach Lebanon, where they are being
hosted by villagers. Bushra, whose given name is being withheld
for her protection, declined to give the names of her family or
her neighbor for fear of Shabeeha reprisals. Civilians are the
majority of about 1,100 people who have died or gone missing in
more than two months of unrest, human rights groups say.  The outsourcing of repression to gangs such as the Shabeeha
has been used by Arab regimes as a tool to try to quell the pro-
democracy protests that have swept the  Middle East  and North
Africa since the start of the year, the rights groups and
analysts said. The dissent unseated the longstanding rulers of
Tunisia and  Egypt  and threatens the leaders of Libya and Yemen.  “It is not unique to Syria, it is a widespread practice
within the Middle East in the current wave of demonstrations,”
Maha Abu Shama, a researcher at  Amnesty International , said in a
telephone interview from  London . She counted Egypt, Tunisia and
Jordan among the most frequent users of thugs.  Coastal Origins  The Shabeeha had been concentrated in the Mediterranean
region around Latakia, Banias and Tartous, where they benefit
from smuggling through the ports in the area, Mahmoud Merhi,
head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said in a phone
interview from the Syrian capital, Damascus. With the outbreak
of unrest this year, they have been used to suppress dissent in
the inland regions, in cities such as Damascus, Homs and Aleppo,
and in border areas such as Tal Kalakh, near Lebanon, and Daraa,
close to Jordan, he said.  Most Syrians view the Shabeeha as frightening groups
operating without any known organization or leadership, he said.  “The Shabeeha include local criminal gangs, members of the
security forces in civilian clothes, informants or simply
unemployed and impoverished youths,” Merhi said. “This is the
first time that they have been used in such an organized manner
by the regime.”  Sectarian Strife  Rights groups also accuse the regime of using the Shabeeha
to pit communities against each other to create a fear that
prompts citizens to turn to the government for stability.
Although Shabeeha members are found across sectarian lines, most
are from the Alawite community, a Shiite Muslim offshoot to
which President Bashar al-Assad and most top security officials belong.  The Shabeeha, comprising people close to the regime as well
as mercenaries, have tried to foment divisions between the
Alawites and the Sunni Muslim majority, and between Muslims and
Christians, according to Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s  National
Organization for Human Rights .  “They’re not afraid to use force, violence, weapons,
racketeering and blackmail,” Qurabi said by telephone from
Cairo. “That way, the regime will remain clean and will say:
‘Look these are gangs doing this, not us.’”  Syria’s violent suppression of demonstrations led the U.S.
and European Union to impose sanctions. The EU on May 23
released a list of Syrians targeted in a travel ban and asset
freeze. They include Fawwaz al-Assad and Munzir al-Assad,
cousins of the president, who are alleged by the EU
to be “involved in the repression against the civilian
population as members of the Shabeeha.”  Telephone calls seeking comment from government spokesmen
on the use of the Shabeeha weren’t answered.  GDP to Fall  In December, before the protests began, the  International
Monetary Fund  forecast that Syria’s economy would grow 5.5
percent this year. Last week, the  Economist Intelligence Unit  in
London forecast that Syrian gross domestic product for 2011-2012
would fall to 3.4 percent.  Syrian authorities have blamed foreign-led “terrorist
gangs” and Islamists for the violence. Assad initially promised
reforms in response to the protests. Those pledges haven’t been
repeated as the crackdown has intensified, with the lifting of a
48-year-old emergency rule in April followed within days by the
deployment of tanks to quell demonstrations in Daraa.  The authorities’ use of torture behind closed doors in many
Middle East and North African countries has been documented for
years by Amnesty and New York-based  Human Rights Watch . The
abuses became public as the regimes unleashed violent gangs to
put down the unprecedented street protests by people seeking
wider freedoms.  Beatings, Seizures  “They grab the men, they beat them, they insult them, they
humiliate them and then they take them away,” Bushra said by
telephone from Lebanon. “If they don’t find anyone at home,
they break the door and then the furniture and everything
inside.”  Iran , an ally of Syria, called in its Basij group to help
quash anti-government protests after the presidential election
of 2009. Basiji violence against Iranian protesters was captured
on mobile-phone cameras and transmitted beyond Iran.  In Egypt, international broadcasters were in place to air
live images of an assault by the Baltagiya, a word for the local
thugs, who rode camels to charge into demonstrators in Cairo’s
Tahrir Square, stomping and beating them.  Since January, the Internet has also been flooded with
hastily shot videos showing groups of men beating and
humiliating unarmed protesters in the capitals of Tunisia,
Jordan and Bahrain, among others. Many of those videos couldn’t
be authenticated. Amnesty is calling for the Syrian regime to
grant them access to the country to investigate such reports.  Social Networking  Syrians have used social networking websites and phones to
tell their story because local reporters operate under
restriction and members of the foreign media attempting to
report from Syria have been jailed or deported.  Syria last month cut communications lines and sealed the
section of the border with Lebanon near Tal Kalakh. Local
Lebanese officials in the area estimated May 20 that 3,500
Syrians refugees were being housed in their communities,  Human
Rights Watch  said.  Bushra and her family have been left with no access to news
on the fate of the town they left behind.  “We sit and watch television all day, desperate for news
about Tal Kalakh,” she said. “We are scared to death for our
families.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 