-- 
U.A.E. Guidelines, Congo Contracts, U.K. ‘CHAPS’, Mizuho: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-01T12:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/u-a-e-guidelines-congo-contracts-u-k-chaps-mizuho-compliance.html
The United Arab Emirates’ central
bank imposed new guidelines on banks that include mandatory
monthly liquidity reports and periodic stress tests as it seeks
to tighten liquidity management through qualitative
requirements.  The requirements, effective Sept. 1, are aimed at reducing
“the frequency and severity of banks’ liquidity problems,”
according to a  central bank  circular distributed to bankers.
“This is achieved by ensuring banks have a robust risk
liquidity management and governance process and they are holding
sufficient liquid assets to withstand a liquidity stress.”  The U.A.E. is struggling to boost bank lending after a
credit squeeze in a market that had been growing more than 30
percent annually in the previous three years.  The circular said boards of directors must familiarize
themselves with  liquidity risk  management and they will bear
responsibility for liquidity risk. It calls on all banks to
submit monthly liquidity reports within the first 15 days of
each month and to conduct periodic stress tests and adjust
liquidity based on the outcome.  In November, the central bank said banks should book
provisions for bad loans quarterly instead of waiting until
year-end. The guidelines classify loans and provisions in line
with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision standards.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Banks Risk Liquidity Cut If CHAPS Hit, BOE Says  U.K. banks could experience liquidity restrictions within
an hour if a lender stops or reduces its transfers through the
nation’s large-value transaction system, according to a Bank of
England research paper.  Analysis showed the risk of at least one counterparty in
the U.K.’s  Clearing House Automated Payment System , or CHAPS,
becoming “liquidity constrained” within the first hour of a
bank halting transfers was “substantial,” economists Marcelo
Perlin and Jochen Schanz said in the  paper  published by the U.K.
central bank on its website yesterday.  The financial crisis strained the payments system with
record volumes and the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
created confusion among traders about how to settle
transactions. CHAPS, operated by the central bank, carries
sterling-denominated inter-bank payments and handled about 250
billion pounds ($413 billion) a day in 2008.  Congo to Publish all Oil, Gas, Timber, Mining Contracts Online  The Democratic Republic of Congo will make all contracts
involving mineral, timber, oil and gas concessions public within
60 days of signing, the government said.  Documents will be published in the official government
gazette, as well as on ministry websites and in at least two
Congolese daily newspapers, according to a decree signed by the
Prime Minister and Ministers of Environment, Hydrocarbons, and
Mines on May 20. The decree was published on the Mines
Ministry’s website May 30.  Congo has a third of the world’s cobalt, 4 percent of its
copper, and deposits of gold, tin ore and diamonds. It also has
the world’ second-largest tropical forest, which it plans to
license for oil exploration.  The  World Bank  has been pushing for Congo to make its
contracts public to increase transparency in the natural-
resource industry after decades of war and dictatorship left the
nation’s economy devastated.  U.K. Fraud Office Said to Stay Independent of New Crime Agency  The  U.K. Serious Fraud Office , which prosecutes Ponzi
schemes and corruption, will remain independent after some
Cabinet ministers sought its abolition, a person involved in the
discussions said.  Home Secretary Theresa May will set out plans as soon as
next week for a new National Crime Agency, which is intended to
tackle serious crime, and make clear the SFO won’t be folded
into it following disagreements over the new bureau’s role, the
person said. He spoke on condition of anonymity because the
government discussions are private.  Chancellor of the Exchequer   George Osborne  announced plans
to fold the SFO into an economic crime agency last year. While
Osborne dropped those plans, the SFO’s future was in doubt until
this reprieve.  South Korea  to Tighten Rules on Card Companies’ Bond Sales  South Korea plans to tighten regulations on bond issuance
of credit-card companies to curb increasing household debt, the
Munhwa Ilbo reported, citing an unidentified financial
regulatory official. The government will announce details at the
end of this month, according to the Korean-language newspaper.  Compliance Action  Telkom South Africa Told to Explain Lawsuit, May Post Loss
     Telkom South Africa Ltd., which said it may post a full-
year loss, was told by the Johannesburg Stock Exchange to
clarify a lawsuit involving its Nigerian unit.  Andre Visser, general manager of issuer services at the
bourse, said in a telephone interview yesterday that the
explanation must determine “whether there is a price-sensitive
matter” that Telkom should have disclosed to its shareholders.
Telkom, Africa’s biggest fixed-line phone company, hasn’t
responded to the exchange’s request, according to Visser.  The company has no comment on Visser’s statement, spokesman
Pynee Chetty said.  Telkom’s Multi-Links Telecommunications Ltd. is being sued
for $252 million by Helios Investment Partners LLP over the
leasing of mobile-phone towers in Nigeria, according to court
papers Helios filed in Lagos, the country’s commercial capital.
Telkom is opposing the lawsuit, it said in an e-mailed response
to questions on May 24. Since then, it has yet to provide
clarification in response to seven written and telephone
requests from Bloomberg News for comment.  The lawsuit represents more than 10 percent of Telkom’s
market capitalization, which makes it “significant” enough to
require official disclosure, Visser said. “We’ve asked Telkom
to explain the circumstances around the matter because we cannot
just look at the value of the claim.”  Telkom said in a statement yesterday it may report a loss
for the fiscal year ended March 31, compared with a restated
profit of 8 billion rand ($1.2 billion) the year before.  For more, click here.  Mizuho Ordered to Improve ‘Corporate Culture’ After Glitch  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Japan ’s third-largest bank by
market value, was ordered by regulators to improve operations
and repair its “corporate culture” after computer systems
failed following the March earthquake.  “Efforts to generate a sense of unity as a group have been
insufficient” since 2002, when it had an earlier systems
failure, the Financial Services Agency said in a statement in
Tokyo yesterday. The bank must submit a report detailing how to
improve its business by June 30, it said.  Malfunctions at the retail bank delayed transactions worth
more than $10 billion after the record earthquake. Mizuho last
week proposed a management reshuffle and unveiled plans to
combine administrative and systems functions at its retail,
corporate and trust units to prevent a repeat of the glitch.  The bank, which apologized for the “great trouble” it
caused to customers, pledged to improve operations and will
unveil details later, it said in a statement.  Washington ’s First Heritage Bank Closed; Columbia State Buys  First Heritage Bank of Snohomish, Washington, was closed
May 27 by state regulators and Columbia State Bank of Tacoma,
Washington, agreed to assume all its deposits, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. said in a statement.  First Heritage had $174 million in total assets and $163
million in total deposits as of March 31, the FDIC said.  For a table listing banks that have failed since 1934 and
their cost since 1986 in millions of dollars to the Deposit
Insurance Fund, click here. The table uses data provided by the
FDIC.  UBS Unit’s Madoff Fund Ties Weren’t Disclosed in E&Y Report  A  UBS AG (UBSN)  unit’s ties to  Bernard Madoff ’s investment fund
weren’t divulged in an auditor report by Ernst & Young LLP to
Luxembourg’s regulator.  The 2008 report didn’t mention Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC in a list of custodians the Zurich-based bank
used, according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg News. An
agreement existed between UBS Luxembourg SA and Madoff’s firm
which allowed the Ponzi scheme operator to be sub-custodian for
LuxAlpha Sicav-American Selection, Jean Guill, the Luxembourg
finance regulator’s director general, said in an interview.  UBS and its local units are defendants in more than 100
lawsuits in Luxembourg filed by investors who lost millions of
dollars through the funds, for which it acted as custodian,
charged with overseeing and managing deposits and payments to
investors.  Irving H. Picard, the trustee liquidating Madoff’s
business, sued the bank last year in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 New York  seeking at least $2.5 billion. He claims UBS “actively
assisted” in the Ponzi scheme by sponsoring and administrating
international feeder funds that invested with Madoff.  Ernst & Young declined to comment.  UBS said it maintains its position that the LuxAlpha fund
was created at the request of wealthy clients who wanted a fund
that allowed them to continue investing with Madoff and that was
made clear to the investors, their advisers and the regulator.  “UBS does not have responsibility to these shareholders
for the unfortunate results of the Madoff scandal,” Dominique
Gerster, a bank spokesman, said in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  Courts  BHP Billiton Wins $580 Million Dispute Over Australia Tax  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  won a $580 million dispute with the
Australian tax office as the country’s top court ruled the
world’s biggest mining company wasn’t liable for additional
taxes sought by the government.  The  High Court  of Australia yesterday upheld a Federal
Court ruling that BHP properly wrote off debt for building a
more than A$2 billion ($2.1 billion) hot-briquetted iron plant
at Boodarie,  Western Australia .  The ruling is a windfall for Melbourne-based BHP, which
already paid half the taxes in dispute in accordance with the
tax office policy and will recover the payment.  Tax authorities disputed BHP’s handling of the write-off
because the mining company borrowed from its finance unit to pay
for part of the plant’s construction beginning in 1995.  The Australian Tax Office disallowed most of the
deductions, saying the finance unit didn’t deal with the
processing plant unit at arm’s length, since both companies were
BHP subsidiaries.  The case is Commissioner of Taxation v. BHP Billiton Ltd.
File No.: M117-120/2010. High Court of Australia.  Interviews/Speeches  Bloomberg’s Cohan Says Warren Cannot Win Confirmation  Bloomberg’s William D. Cohan said  Elizabeth Warren , the
Harvard Law School professor President Obama would like to run
the newly created  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , can’t
get confirmed. Cohan is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.  Cohan talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  They were joined by  Julia
Coronado , chief economist for the Americas at  BNP Paribas (BNPQY)  in New
York.  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Fed’s Stockton, Chief U.S. Economic Forecaster, Will Retire  The Federal Reserve Board said David Stockton, its head of
U.S. economic research and forecasting since 2000, is retiring
Sept. 30 after three decades at the central bank.  Stockton, 57, leads 325 people as director of the  Division
of Research and Statistics , the Fed said yesterday in a
statement in Washington. No successor was named.  Stockton is one of the three top Board of Governors staff
officials who brief Fed policy makers on  interest rates  and U.S.
and international economic developments. While the Fed now
discloses the ranges of economic growth, inflation and
unemployment projections of governors and regional-bank
presidents after Federal Open Market Committee meetings, the
central bank keeps secret for five years the forecasts of
Stockton and his staff. Minutes of the minutes are released
after three weeks and use qualitative, rather than quantitative,
language to describe the staff projections.  The research division also produces statistical releases
including the Industrial Production and Flow of Funds reports
and research to support the Fed’s responsibilities in financial
stability and bank supervision.  Saudi Arabia  to Introduce Quotas on Employment of Foreigners  Saudi Arabia will impose curbs on work permits for
foreigners based on the number of Saudi citizens that a company
employs, the official  Saudi Press Agency  said.  Companies that meet the requirement for employment of Saudis
will be allowed to renew permits for foreign workers for a
maximum of six years, SPA said, citing  Labor Ministry  spokesman
Hattab al-Anazi. No details were given on the proportion
required. Companies exceeding the quota for Saudis will be able
to renew documents for foreign staff without restrictions, while
those that fall short won’t get permits for foreigners, it said.  The quota system will come into effect in September, Labor
Minister Adel Faqih told Al Arabiya television yesterday.  Former Egypt Bank Chairman Arrested on Sex Abuse Charges  The former chairman of Egypt’s Bank of Alexandria was
charged with sexually abusing a maid at the  Pierre Hotel  in New
York, police said.  Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar, 74, chairman of  El-Mex Salines
Co ., was arrested May 30 after a 44-year-old female maid alleged
he attacked her May 29, according to a police department
spokesman. Officers were called to the hotel in midtown
Manhattan after she informed security of an alleged incident
when she went to Omar’s room after he requested tissues.  Police charged Omar with sexual abuse, unlawful
imprisonment, forcible touch and harassment. He plans to plead
not guilty, according to his lawyers.  Omar is the former chairman of the Egyptian American Bank
and the  Federation of Egyptian Banks , according to the  El-Mex
Salines company website.   The Pierre said it’s cooperating with police.  Osama Abdel Aziz, the executive manager at El-Mex, couldn’t
be immediately reached for comment and calls to the company went
unanswered. Nobody was immediately available for comment at Bank
of Alexandria.  Bundesbank Says Weidmann Takes Over Legal Department Duties  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann will take over
responsibility for the bank’s legal department, with immediate
effect.  Weidmann will give responsibility for the bank’s revisions
department to incoming board member Sabine Lautenschlaeger, the
Bundesbank said in an e-mailed statement today. The Bundesbank
said all other board members’ duties remained unchanged.  SEC Employee Fell for Scam, Misled Investors, Watchdog Says  A Securities and Exchange Commission worker who was a
victim in an alleged Ponzi scheme gave fellow investors false
and misleading information that could have hindered
investigation of the fraud, the agency’s watchdog said.  The employee, based at SEC headquarters in Washington,
shared nonpublic information with several investors during the
agency’s investigation and litigation of the case, Inspector
General H. David Kotz said in his semiannual report to Congress
released yesterday. The report didn’t identify either the SEC
employee or the firm accused of conducting the fraud.  Kotz opened his probe in February after a senior SEC
official said the employee had told investors the company was
legitimate and that people “would be receiving considerable
sums of money,” according to the report. Investors knew the man
worked at the SEC and believed he had knowledge of the probe,
according to the report.  The employee was placed on administrative leave, and Kotz
referred the matter for disciplinary action “up to and
including dismissal,” according to the report.  The SEC sued the firm on Oct. 6 and won a judgment on Feb.
14, according to the report. Imperia Invest, a Web-based entity
with a fictitious Bahamian address, was ordered to pay more than
$15 million in a default judgment on Feb. 14 after failing to
respond to the SEC’s lawsuit, according to court documents.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 