-- 
U.K. Mortgage Approvals Drop to Lowest in Four Months on Lower Confidence

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-01T10:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/u-k-mortgage-approvals-drop-to-lowest-in-four-months-on-lower-confidence.html
U.K. mortgage approvals fell in April
to the lowest in four months as rising jobless claims undermined
 consumer confidence  and an extra public holiday for the royal
wedding slowed house purchases.  Lenders granted 45,166 loans to buy homes, compared with a
revised 47,145 the previous month, the  Bank of England  said
today in London. The April figure is the lowest since December.
Economists forecast a decline to 47,000 from an initially
reported 47,557 in March, based on the median of 18 economists
in Bloomberg News survey.  Hometrack Ltd. said this week it expects  house prices  to
fall about 1 percent this year as Britons find it harder to get
home loans. The  property market  may come under further strain as
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government implements the deepest
spending cuts since World War II and inflation at more than
double the Bank of England’s 2 percent target pushes some policy
makers to call for higher  interest rates .  “Given the pressure the U.K. consumer is currently under,
it is no surprise that housing demand remains exceptionally
weak,” said Nida Ali, economic adviser to the Ernst & Young
ITEM Club. “Historical trends suggest that mortgage approvals
of about 45,000 are consistent with falling house prices.”  Manufacturing Index  A separate report today showed an index of manufacturing
fell more than economists forecast to a 20-month low of 52.1 in
May from 54.6 in April. The gauge by the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  had been forecast to fall to 54.1,
according to the median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The pound erased its gain against the dollar after the
reports and was at $1.6423 as of 10:42 a.m. in  London , down 0.2
percent since yesterday.  U.K. mortgage approvals may have been partly held back in
April by the two consecutive four-day weekends at the end of the
month to mark Easter and the wedding of  Prince William  and  Kate Middleton , said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global
Insight in London.  Still, “modest falls in house prices are more probable
than not over the coming months as tighter fiscal policy and the
possibility of gradually rising interest rates before the end of
2011 maintains pressure on the housing market,” he said.  The Bank of England figures today showed net mortgage
lending rose 739 million pounds ($1.22 billion) in April and
gross lending amounted to 11.2 billion pounds. Consumer credit
rose a net 504 million pounds in April. Credit-card lending
increased 347 million pounds, the most since February 2010,
while personal loans and overdrafts rose 157 million pounds.  House Prices  Hometrack’s report this week showed that U.K. house prices
fell 0.1 percent in May. Other reports last month were mixed.
The  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said May 10 its
house-price gauge rose to the highest level in nine months in
April.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax division said a day
earlier prices fell 1.4 percent, the most in seven months.  U.K. unemployment claims rose at the fastest rate in 15
months in April, underlining the fragility of the economic
recovery. Bank of England officials said last month that an
interest-rate increase could damp  consumer spending .  A measure of M4 money-supply growth that the central bank
uses to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases fell 2
percent in the three months through April on an annualized
basis. The gauge excludes financial companies that specialize in
intermediating between banks, such as holding companies and non-
bank credit grantors. Total M4 rose 0.1 percent on the month and
fell 0.9 percent on the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  