-- 
U.S. Tax System ‘Generally’ Complies With Norm, OECD Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-01T23:17:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/u-s-tax-system-generally-complies-with-global-norm-oecd-says.html
The U.S. tax system complies with
most international standards for transparency and information
exchange with other governments, a review by the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development found.  The report, released today at a conference in  Bermuda ,
examined the availability of company ownership information,
accounting records and banking records, along with the
government’s cooperation with tax authorities around the world.  “The U.S. tax system imposes a wide range of substantive
tax and information-reporting obligations,” said the report,
released by the 101-member  Global Forum on Transparency of
Information for Tax Purposes . “Persons seeking to obscure their
affairs for tax or other reasons wouldn’t generally be eager to
expose themselves to the authority of the  Internal Revenue
Service .”  OECD peer reviewers raised two concerns about the U.S. tax
system. The study recommends that the U.S. improve disclosure of
ownership and accounting information of single-member limited
liability companies. It also suggests that the government
respond more quickly to other countries’ requests.  The OECD also  released reports  today on  France , the Isle of
Man,  Italy ,  New Zealand ,  Hungary , the  Philippines ,  Singapore  and
 Switzerland . Each report contained recommendations for
improvement. The report on Switzerland said that the country,
known for its bank secrecy, has “changed significantly’’ in the
past two years in its approach to information-sharing and is
trying to comply with international standards.  Offshore Tax Evasion  The OECD’s report was released as the U.S. government is
taking steps to seek out offshore tax evasion and work with
other governments. The  Senate Foreign Relations Committee  will
hold a hearing June 7 on tax treaties with Switzerland,
Luxembourg and Hungary.  Also, the IRS is implementing a 2010 law that requires non-
U.S. banks to disclose information about U.S. account holders.
The IRS also has proposed rules that would require domestic
banks to report information about their non-U.S. account
holders.  Treasury Department spokeswoman Sandra Salstrom declined to
comment on the report.  The recommendations in the report on the U.S. focused on
single-member limited liability companies, or LLCs, that could
be used as shell corporations, potentially to evade non-U.S.
taxing authorities. Such companies with no U.S. business or
income wouldn’t be required to file federal tax returns.  ‘Serious Deficiency’  During a news conference today after the release of the
report, Pascal Saint-Amans, head of the Global Forum
secretariat, called the LLC issue a “serious deficiency.”  “The Global Forum has considered that the issue was
serious enough to be identified as needing a recommendation as
needing to be fixed,” he said, adding that the U.S. has
acknowledged the issue. “So there is a very clear-cut
recommendation there.”  The report notes that  Delaware  has the largest number of
LLCs of any state, and that the representatives of LLCs based
there aren’t required to know who owns them. The report cites
recent “affirmative steps to curb the opportunities for abuse
by single-member LLCs exploiting the inaccessibility of
ownership information.”  Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, has called for the
U.S. to require more disclosure of the owners of LLCs. When
President Barack Obama was a senator from  Illinois , he
cosponsored  a bill  with Levin in 2008 that would have required
states to collect and keep more information on the beneficial
owners of LLCs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  