-- 
U.S. Mortgage Applications Fell 4% Last Week After Declines in Refinancing

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-01T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/u-s-mortgage-applications-fell-4-last-week-on-refinancing.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
fell for the first time in five weeks as refinancing cooled.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index of loan
applications dropped 4 percent in the week ended May 27. The
group’s refinancing index declined 5.7 percent and the purchase
gauge was unchanged.  Falling home prices are keeping more buyers on the
sidelines while making it harder for homeowners to refinance
current mortgages. Unemployment at 9 percent and the prospect of
more foreclosures in the pipeline mean housing will take time to
recover.  “Nobody wants to buy an asset they think will go down in
value,” Neil Dutta, an economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in  New York , said before the report. “The only people who
can refinance are great credits and you’re only talking about a
very small sliver of the market.”  The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan decreased last
week to 4.58 percent, the lowest since the end of November, from
the prior week’s 4.69 percent, today’s report showed. Borrowing
costs reached 4.21 percent in October, the lowest since the
group’s records began in 1990.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage was unchanged
at 3.78 percent.  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan
declined to 65.7 percent last week from 66.8 percent the prior
week.  Fewer Sales  Recent reports showed the housing market remained depressed
as the broader economy slowed.  Pending sales of previously owned homes plunged 12 percent
in April from the prior month, the National Association of
Realtors said last week. The gauge measures contract signings,
which typically lead closings by one to two months, a sign
existing purchases will slow.  Sales of previously owned homes, based on closings, fell
0.8 percent in April to a 5.05 million rate, with demand for
distressed properties accounting for 37 percent of the total,
NAR said May 19.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped in March to the
lowest level since 2003, showing housing remains mired in a
slump almost two years into the economic recovery.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.6 percent from March 2010, the biggest year-over-year
decline since November 2009, the group said yesterday in New
York.  More Inventory  The overhang of unsold housing inventory will probably
remain an issue for builders and buyers alike. CoreLogic Inc. in
March estimated about 1.8 million homes were more than 90 days
delinquent, in foreclosure or bank-owned, a so-called “shadow
inventory” set to add to the unsold supply of 3.87 million
previously owned homes on the market at the end of April.  Builders project demand will remain depressed into next
year,  Jeffrey Mezger , president and chief executive officer of
Los Angeles-based  KB Home (KBH) , told a housing conference in New York
on May 11.  Any housing recovery will “be slower than in the past,”
Mezger said, adding that he expected sales to “bump along for
the next 18 months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  