-- 
U.S. Stocks Drop Most Since August as Employment Growth Slows

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-01T20:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/u-s-stock-index-futures-little-changed-before-jobs-report-dupont-slips.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the biggest drop since August, as
manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in more than a year
and employers hired fewer workers than forecast.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and DuPont Co. dropped at least 3.2
percent, pacing declines in industrial companies. Banks had the
biggest drop in the S&P 500 within 24 industries, slumping 4.7
percent, amid investors concern about delinquencies and slower
credit trends as the economy loses momentum.  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  lost more than 4.6 percent as sales declined,
missing analysts’ estimates.  The S&P 500 retreated 2.3 percent to 1,314.54 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slumped 279.04
points, or 2.2 percent, to 12,290.37 today. The Russell 2000
index of smaller stocks declined 3.2 percent to 821.45.  “We’re in a soft spot,” said  James Paulsen , chief
investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital
Management, which oversees about $340 billion. “There are, of
course, reasons for a slowdown. The rise in energy prices, the
disruptions from  Japan ’s earthquake and the slower pace in
emerging markets. The market will be consolidating until we get
more evidence that this weakness is temporary.”  The  S&P 500  fell 1.4 percent in May, the biggest monthly
drop since August, amid weaker-than-estimated economic data and
concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis. Citigroup Inc.’s U.S.
Economic Surprise Index, which tracks the rate at which data is
beating or missing estimates, turned negative in May and has
since fallen to the lowest level since January 2009.  Manufacturing Slowdown  Stocks extended declines as the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index fell more than projected to 53.5 last
month, the lowest level since September 2009, from 60.4 in
April, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Economists
projected the gauge would drop to 57.1, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Manufacturing growth from  China  to the euro region and the
U.K. slowed in May, adding to signs that momentum is weakening
in a global economy facing headwinds from rising commodity costs
and regional shocks. A purchasing managers’ index for China
showed the slowest pace of expansion in nine months, while the
equivalent measure for the euro area fell to a seven-month low.
The U.K. gauge of factory growth was at its weakest in two
years, while  Russia ’s index signaled “near stagnation.”  ADP Report  Earlier today, stock-index futures slumped after a report
showed that employment increased by 38,000 last month, the
smallest growth since September, from a revised 177,000 in
April, according to figures from ADP Employer Services. The
median estimate in the Bloomberg News survey called for a
175,000 advance for May.  “While many are saying that continued weak data just
brings on QE3, it’s clear that QE2 has been a complete failure
in helping the actual economy,”  Peter Boockvar , equity
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , wrote in a note to
clients. “Every single time the U.S. economy hiccups, the
market is trained like a dog to expect the Fed to take out all
the firepower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  