-- 
House Demands Obama Explain Military Mission in Libya Amid `War Fatigue'

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/u-s-house-puts-off-libya-vote-that-its-sponsor-says-would-pass.html
The U.S. House of Representatives,
reflecting what one Republican termed “war fatigue” along with
puzzlement over the U.S. military’s role in Libya, is demanding
a fuller explanation for the mission from President  Barack Obama .  In a bipartisan vote, the House yesterday adopted Speaker
 John Boehner ’s resolution that directs Obama to describe “in
detail” the U.S. “security interests and objectives” for
supporting the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s bombing
campaign against Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  The resolution, approved  268-145 , was an alternative to
Ohio Democrat Dennis Kucinich’s proposal to force the end of
U.S. support for the mission in 15 days. The House defeated
Kucinich’s measure,  148-265 .  The proposal by Kucinich, long a critic of U.S. military
involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan, gained enough bipartisan
momentum that it mobilized Boehner to offer his alternative.
Passage of Boehner’s resolution spared Obama from the
constraints that Kucinich’s measure would have imposed.  “The speaker is the biggest friend the president has right
now, because he’s willing to give him some time” to explain the
U.S. involvement in  Libya , Louisiana Republican Representative
Jeff Landry, who voted for both resolutions, said in an
interview.  The resolution by Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said the
president “has failed to provide Congress with a compelling
rationale based upon” national security interests for U.S.
involvement in the bombing campaign against Qaddafi.  Not ‘Far Enough’  Voicing the frustration of colleagues who question U.S.
involvement in Libya, Indiana Republican Representative Dan Burton said he would vote for Boehner’s resolution, “but it
doesn’t go far enough.”  Burton said he preferred Kucinich’s resolution, which he
co-sponsored, because it “tells the president” that “you
cannot take us to war without the consent of the people of this
country.”  Impatience with U.S. military involvement overseas also
surfaced last week in the narrow margin -- 204 in favor, 215
against -- of the House defeat of an amendment that would have
directed Obama to submit an accelerated timetable for
withdrawing U.S. troops from  Afghanistan .  In March 2010, Kucinich received only 65 votes for his
proposal to direct Obama to draft a faster timetable for U.S.
withdrawal from Afghanistan.  Yesterday, 87 Republicans and 61 Democrats supported
Kucinich’s resolution. Boehner’s alternative was supported by 45
Democrats and was opposed by 10 Republicans.  ‘What We Are Doing’  A combination of “war fatigue” plus many members “having
trouble seeing what we are doing in Libya” forced the issue to
the floor, Ohio Republican Representative Steve LaTourette said
in an interview.  Texas Republican Ted Poe, who also voted for both
resolutions, said the cost of the U.S. mission in Libya -- at
least $600 million -- is “one of the issues” troubling
lawmakers. So is the belief that European powers and members of
the  African Union  should deal with Libya “if they wish,” he
said.  “But  Uncle Sam  foots the bills for not only our wars but
the wars of other countries,” Poe said in an interview.  Representative  Barney Frank , a Democrat from  Massachusetts ,
cited “an increasing recognition that reducing military
expenditures is essential to overall  deficit reduction .”  “The public is ready for a sensible recalculation of what
America should and shouldn’t be doing internationally and
militarily,” Frank said.  Constituents’ Concerns  In the floor debate, Boehner said that while “combat
decisions should be left to the president,” the House “has an
obligation to heed the concerns of our constituents” about the
mission’s rationale.  Kucinich’s resolution “goes too far” because “we cannot
turn our backs on our troops and our  NATO  partners,” Boehner
said. The speaker said his resolution “puts the president on
notice. He has the chance to get this right.”  At a news conference before the votes, Boehner said
Congress was prepared to take “further action in the weeks to
come,” though he declined to give details.  Withholding funds for U.S. air operations over Libya is
“probably a good option” if Obama doesn’t comply with the
House’s directive, the chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee, Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon, told
reporters.  “What’s got everybody stirred up” is “kind of an
arrogance” in Obama’s attitude that “Congress doesn’t really
matter,” the California Republican said.  ‘Wrong Message’  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California urged
colleagues to vote against both resolutions, saying in a
statement that they “do not advance our efforts in the region
and send the wrong message to our NATO partners.”  Boehner’s resolution directs the administration, within two
weeks, to describe “in detail United States security interests
and objectives” in Libya.  The  War Powers Resolution  requires the president to
formally notify Congress of U.S. military operations and get
approval of any operation that lasts longer than 60 days.  In a May 20 letter to congressional leaders, Obama urged
adoption of a Senate resolution to “confirm that the Congress
supports the U.S. mission in Libya.” The Senate hasn’t acted
yet on the bipartisan resolution.  White House spokesman Josh Earnest defended Obama’s
consultations with Congress about Libya.  “It is the view of this administration that we’ve acted in
accordance with the War Powers Act because of this regular
consultation,” Earnest said. “That continued consultation
demonstrates why these resolutions are unnecessary and
unhelpful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  