-- 
U.S. May ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-06-01T14:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/u-s-may-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the  Institute for Supply
Management .  Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in
May for the 22nd consecutive month, and the overall economy grew
for the 24th consecutive month, say the nation’s supply
executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM,
CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The PMI registered 53.5 percent and
indicates expansion in the manufacturing sector for the 22nd
consecutive month. This month’s index, however, registered 6.9
percentage points below the April reading of 60.4 percent, and
is the first reading below 60 percent for 2011, as well as the
lowest PMI reported for the past 12 months. Slower growth in new
orders and production are the primary contributors to this
month’s lower PMI reading. Manufacturing employment continues to
show good momentum for the year, as the Employment Index
registered 58.2 percent, which is 4.5 percentage points lower
than the 62.7 percent reported in April. Manufacturers continue
to experience significant cost pressures from commodities and
other inputs.”  PERFORMANCE BY INDUSTRY  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 14 are reporting growth
in May, in the following order: Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Petroleum & Coal Products; Machinery; Transportation Equipment;
Computer & Electronic Products; Textile Mills; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Primary Metals;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Paper Products; Chemical Products;
Plastics & Rubber Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
and Fabricated Metal Products. The three industries reporting
contraction in May are: Printing & Related Support Activities;
Furniture & Related Products; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “Chemical prices are under increasing cost pressure, driven
by feedstock and transportation costs.” (Chemical Products)
“Continued growth through beginning of second quarter, with
strong backlog and outlook for at least the next three months.”
(Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components) “Business levels
remain strong -- better than last year by 20+ percent, but not
back to 2008 or early 2009 levels.” (Fabricated Metal Products)
“Demand remains strong; however, inflation is evident everywhere
in virtually every material purchased.” (Paper Products) “Bad
weather is impacting retail business.” (Printing & Related
Support Activities) “Business is still strong, but we are more
aware of a possible softening than previously.” (Machinery)
MANUFACTURING AT A GLANCE  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price  Adhesives; Aluminum (9); Aluminum Products (5); Brass
Products; Butadiene; Caustic Soda (3); Chemicals (3);
Cocoa/Cocoa Powder (4); Copper(b) (10); Copper Based Products
(7); Diesel (6); Electric/Electronic Components (3); Foam; Fuel
Oils (5); Fuel Surcharges (3); Gasoline; Glycol Ether; High
Density Polyethylene (3); Nickel Products; Oils and Lubricants
(2); Packaging Materials; Paper; Petroleum Based Products;
Plastics (5); Plastic Products (5); Polypropylene (5);
Polypropylene Resins; Propylene Glycol; Resins (3); Rubber
Products (4); Shrink Wrap Film; Silver (3); Stainless Steel (7);
Steel(b) (9); Steel -- Cold Rolled (2); Steel Products (6); and
Titanium Dioxide (2).  Commodities Down in Price  Copper(b); and Steel(b).  Commodities in Short Supply  Electric/Electronic Components (5); Nylon/Nylon Polymer;
Resins; Rubber Products; and Titanium Dioxide (3).  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  (b) Reported as both up and down in price.  MAY 2011 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  PMI  Manufacturing continued its growth in May as the PMI
registered 53.5 percent, a decrease of 6.9 percentage points
when compared to April’s reading of 60.4 percent. A reading
above 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is
generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is
generally contracting.  A PMI in excess of 42.5 percent, over a period of time,
generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy.
Therefore, the PMI indicates growth for the 24th consecutive
month in the overall economy, as well as expansion in the
manufacturing sector for the 22nd consecutive month. Holcomb
stated, “The past relationship between the PMI and the overall
economy indicates that the average PMI for January through May
(59.5 percent) corresponds to a 5.9 percent increase in real
gross domestic product (GDP). In addition, if the PMI for May
(53.5 percent) is annualized, it corresponds to a 3.8 percent
increase in real GDP annually.”  New Orders  ISM’s New Orders Index registered 51 percent in May, which
is a decrease of 10.7 percentage points when compared to the
61.7 percent reported in April. This is the 23rd consecutive
month of growth in the New Orders Index. A New Orders Index
above 52.1 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an
increase in the Census Bureau’s series on manufacturing orders
(in constant 2000 dollars).  The 11 industries reporting growth in new orders in May --
listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Petroleum
& Coal Products; Paper Products; Transportation Equipment;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; Primary Metals; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Chemical Products; Machinery; and Fabricated
Metal Products. The four industries reporting decreases in new
orders in May are: Furniture & Related Products; Printing &
Related Support Activities; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
and Computer & Electronic Products.  Production  ISM’s Production Index registered 54 percent in May, which
is a decrease of 9.8 percentage points when compared to the
April reading of 63.8 percent. An index above 51 percent, over
time, is generally consistent with an increase in the Federal
Reserve Board’s Industrial Production figures. This is the 24th
consecutive month the Production Index has registered above 50
percent.  The 12 industries reporting growth in production during the
month of May -- listed in order -- are: Plastics & Rubber
Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Petroleum & Coal
Products; Paper Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Machinery;
Primary Metals; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Fabricated Metal
Products; Transportation Equipment; and Computer & Electronic
Products. The four industries reporting a decrease in production
in May are: Furniture & Related Products; Printing & Related
Support Activities; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and
Chemical Products.  Employment  ISM’s Employment Index registered 58.2 percent in May,
which is 4.5 percentage points lower than the 62.7 percent
reported in April. This is the 20th consecutive month of growth
in manufacturing employment. An Employment Index above 50.1
percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in
the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data on manufacturing
employment.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 11 reported growth in
employment in May in the following order: Textile Mills;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Computer & Electronic Products;
Transportation Equipment; Machinery; Primary Metals; Plastics &
Rubber Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Chemical Products; and Fabricated
Metal Products. The two industries reporting a decrease in
employment are: Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
and Petroleum & Coal Products. Five industries reported no
change in employment in May compared to April.  Supplier Deliveries  The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing
organizations was slower in May as the Supplier Deliveries Index
registered 55.7 percent, which is 4.5 percentage points lower
than the 60.2 percent registered in April. This is the 24th
consecutive month the Supplier Deliveries Index has been above
50 percent. A reading above 50 percent indicates slower
deliveries.  The seven industries reporting slower supplier deliveries
in May -- listed in order -- are: Textile Mills; Machinery;
Chemical Products; Transportation Equipment; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Computer & Electronic
Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. The four industries
reporting faster deliveries in May are: Printing & Related
Support Activities; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Plastics
& Rubber Products; and Fabricated Metal Products.  Inventories  Manufacturers’ inventories contracted in May for the third
time in the past four months. The Inventories Index registered
48.7 percent, 4.9 percentage points lower than the 53.6 percent
reported in April. An Inventories Index greater than 42.7
percent, over time, is generally consistent with expansion in
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis ’ (BEA) figures on overall
manufacturing inventories (in chained 2000 dollars).  The three industries reporting higher inventories in May
are: Computer & Electronic Products; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; and Machinery. The 10 industries reporting
decreases in inventories in May -- listed in order -- are:
Textile Mills; Furniture & Related Products; Paper Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Transportation Equipment;
Fabricated Metal Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; and Apparel, Leather & Allied Products.  Customers’ Inventories(c)  The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 39.5
percent in May, 1 percentage point lower than in April when the
index registered 40.5 percent. This is the 26th consecutive
month the Customers’ Inventories Index has been below 50 percent,
indicating that respondents believe their customers’ inventories
are too low at this time.  The only manufacturing industry reporting customers’
inventories as being too high during May is Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products. The 10 industries reporting customers’
inventories as too low during May -- listed in order -- are:
Plastics & Rubber Products; Primary Metals; Textile Mills;
Computer & Electronic Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Petroleum & Coal Products; Machinery; Chemical Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; and
Transportation Equipment. Seven industries reported no change in
customers’ inventories for the month of May compared to April.  Prices(c)  The ISM Prices Index registered 76.5 percent in May, 9
percentage points lower than the 85.5 percent reported in April.
This is the first time the Prices Index has registered below 80
percent since December 2010, and is the 23rd consecutive month
the index has registered above 50 percent. While 58 percent of
respondents reported paying higher prices and 5 percent reported
paying lower prices, 37 percent of supply executives reported
paying the same prices as in April. A Prices Index above 49.4
percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in
the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Index of Manufacturers
Prices.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 15 report paying
increased prices during the month of May, in the following
order: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Chemical Products; Paper
Products; Machinery; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Furniture & Related Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; Computer & Electronic Products;
Textile Mills; Plastics & Rubber Products; Transportation
Equipment; Petroleum & Coal Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
and Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components. No
manufacturing industry reported paying lower prices on average
in May.  NOTE: A list of commodities up in price and down in price is
available on pages 2 and 3 of this report.  Backlog of Orders(c)  ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 50.5 percent in
May, which is 10.5 percentage points lower than the 61 percent
reported in April. Of the 85 percent of respondents who reported
their backlog of orders, 21 percent reported greater backlogs,
20 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 59 percent reported no
change from April.  The five industries reporting increased order backlogs in
May are: Primary Metals; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Chemical Products; Machinery; and Transportation
Equipment. The seven industries reporting decreases in order
backlogs during May -- listed in order -- are: Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Furniture & Related Products; Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Printing & Related
Support Activities; Fabricated Metal Products; and Computer &
Electronic Products. Six industries reported no change in order
backlogs in May compared to April.  New Export Orders(c)  ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 55 percent in May,
which is 7 percentage points lower than the 62 percent reported
in April. This is the 23rd consecutive month of growth in the
New Export Orders Index.  The eight industries reporting growth in new export orders
in May -- listed in order -- are: Paper Products; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation
Equipment; Chemical Products; and Machinery. The three
industries reporting a decrease in new export orders during May
are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. Six industries
reported no change in exports in May compared to April.  Imports(c)  Imports of materials by manufacturers continued to expand
in May as the Imports Index registered 54.5 percent, 1
percentage point lower than the 55.5 percentage points reported
in April. This is the 21st consecutive month of growth in
imports.  The nine industries reporting growth in imports during the
month of May -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal
Products; Primary Metals; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Computer & Electronic Products; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Machinery; Transportation Equipment; Chemical
Products; and Fabricated Metal Products. The only industry
reporting a decrease in imports during May is Plastics & Rubber
Products. Eight industries reported no change in imports in May
compared to April.  (c) The Backlog of Orders, Prices, Customers’ Inventories,
Imports and New Export Orders Indexes do not meet the accepted
criteria for seasonal adjustments.  Buying Policy  Average commitment lead time for Capital Expenditures
decreased 4 days to 104 days. Average lead time for Production
Materials increased 2 days to 61 days. Average lead time for
Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies increased 5
days to 28 days.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS code
categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Textile Mills;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Paper
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Furniture & Related Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing
(products such as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry,
sporting goods, toys and office supplies).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
Imports, Production, Supplier Deliveries, Inventories,
Customers’ Inventories, Employment and Prices), this report
shows the percentage reporting each response, the net difference
between the number of responses in the positive economic
direction (higher, better and slower for Supplier Deliveries)
and the negative economic direction (lower, worse and faster for
Supplier Deliveries), and the diffusion index. Responses are raw
data and are never changed. The diffusion index includes the
percent of positive responses plus one-half of those responding
the same (considered positive).  The resulting single index number for those meeting the
criteria for seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production,
Employment, Supplier Deliveries and Inventories) is then
seasonally adjusted to allow for the effects of repetitive
intra-year variations resulting primarily from normal
differences in weather conditions, various institutional
arrangements, and differences attributable to non-moveable
holidays. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by the
U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The PMI
is a composite index based on the seasonally adjusted diffusion
indexes for five of the indicators with equal weights: New
Orders, Production, Employment, Supplier Deliveries and
Inventories.  Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators
and are convenient summary measures showing the prevailing
direction of change and the scope of change. A PMI reading above
50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally
expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally
declining. A PMI in excess of 42.5 percent, over a period of
time, indicates that the overall economy, or gross domestic
product (GDP), is generally expanding; below 42.5 percent, it is
generally declining. The distance from 50 percent or 42.5
percent is indicative of the strength of the expansion or
decline. With some of the indicators within this report, ISM has
indicated the departure point between expansion and decline of
comparable government series, as determined by regression
analysis.  Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting
the current month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number
of days ahead for which commitments are made for Production
Materials; Capital Expenditures; and Maintenance, Repair and
Operating (MRO) Supplies, expressed as hand-to-mouth (five days),
30 days, 60 days, 90 days, six months (180 days), a year or more
(360 days), and the weighted average number of days. These
responses are raw data, never revised, and not seasonally
adjusted since there is no significant seasonal pattern.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the Institute for Supply Management. The Institute
for Supply Management, established in 1915, is the largest
supply management organization in the world as well as one of
the most respected. ISM’s mission is to lead the supply
management profession through its standards of excellence,
research, promotional activities and education. This report has
been issued by the association since 1931, except for a four-
year interruption during World War II.  The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the first
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
June 2011 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Friday,
July 1, 2011.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management
 http://www.ism.ws  