-- 
U.S. Cites Anti-Semitism in Skipping UN Conference

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-06-01T23:27:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/u-s-cites-anti-semitism-in-skipping-un-racism-conference.html
The U.S. has announced it won’t
attend the 10-year commemoration of a global UN conference on
combating racism because past meetings have included “ugly
displays of intolerance and anti-Semitism.”  The Obama administration made the announcement in a letter
from Acting Assistant Secretary of State Joseph Macmanus to
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of  New York . The UN World
Conference Against Racism will be held in New York on September
21st.  The U.S. and more than a half dozen other nations --
including  Israel ,  Canada , Italy, Sweden -- boycotted the UN
conference on combating racism held in Geneva in  April 2009 
because of the prospective treatment of Israel.  In a speech there, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
called Israel a “repressive, racist regime,” sparking a
walkout by European delegates at the conference.  Macmanus said that the U.S. voted against the  United
Nations  resolution establishing the 2011 event because the so-
called Durban process “included ugly displays of intolerance
and anti-Semitism and we did not want to see that
commemorated.”  The 2001 UN conference against racism took place in Durban,
 South Africa , and focused in large part on Israel’s treatment of
Palestinians. Delegates produced a draft resolution that equated
Zionism with racism.  “I commend the Obama Administration decision to
withdraw,” Gillibrand said in a statement. “It is an insult to
America that the United Nations has decided to hold the Durban
III conference in  New York City  just days from the tenth
anniversary of the September 11th attacks.”  Gillibrand and a bipartisan group of 17 other senators
wrote to U.S. Ambassador to the UN Susan Rice on December 17,
urging that the U.S. not participate in the conference.  “Of course, we would welcome the United States’ eventual
return to the conference if it were to become a legitimate forum
for combating discrimination -- but that is a development that
seems highly improbable to us,” they said in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  