-- 
U.S. Lags on ‘Key Milestones’ in Transition Plan for Iraq, Report Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/u-s-lagging-on-key-milestones-in-iraq-transition-plan-1-.html
The U.S. is failing to meet “key
milestones” in advance of the planned Oct. 1 handover of
responsibilities in  Iraq  from the U.S. military to the State
Department, according to a report being issued today by the
State Department’s  Inspector General .  “Although effective planning mechanisms are in place to
manage the transition process, some key milestones are not being
met, and there is a risk that some programs and operations will
not be ready,” the report said.  The report outlined delays in setting up the organizations
and security arrangements needed by State Department personnel
who are assuming responsibility from the U.S. military as the
remaining 50,000 U.S. troops leave this year. It repeats many of
the criticisms made of the transition by the  Special Inspector
General for Iraq Reconstruction  and by the  Commission on Wartime
Contracting .  “Some slippage is due to unanticipated events beyond the
Department’s control, such as securing  land use  and lease
agreements,” the Inspector General’s report said.  Still, “other problems are the result of decision-making
delays or the lack of final decisions” with less than five
months before the State Department assumes control of the
mission.  ‘Years of Effort’  The report noted that “establishing a viable diplomatic
mission to maintain Iraq as a strategic partner will almost
certainly require years of effort and investment of considerable
resources” even as Congress grapples with a “tightening fiscal
situation.”  Setting up an Office of Security Cooperation to manage the
U.S. defense relationship is “significantly behind schedule and
the office is unlikely to reach full mission capability by
October 2011,” the Inspector General said.  The office will be responsible for managing more than $13
billion in military sales and for advising, training and
equipping Iraqi forces.  Other unresolved issues include security matters as well as
the provision of sufficient housing and electricity in the  U.S.
Embassy in Baghdad  to accommodate additional workers, the report
said.  The State Department plans to deploy more than 7,000
private security guards to provide protection throughout Iraq.  ‘Significant Challenge’  Even with that number of security personnel, “conducting
frequent secure ground movements” outside  Baghdad  “will be a
significant challenge,” the report said.  Iraq’s military is now responsible for securing Baghdad’s
International Zone, where most State Department employees will
live.  The Iraqi units have performed “adequately.” Shortcomings
include unreliable “intelligence support” intended to alert
diplomatic personnel to security threats, the report said.  There is also an unresolved issue of how to house 8,000
employees expected by Dec. 31 with the embassy’s existing stock
of 3,959 beds, the report said.  The embassy is negotiating more housing in the
International Zone.  State Department officials told the auditors from the
Inspector General’s office that “creative ways would be found
to accommodate the influx” including “hot bunking” -- sharing
sleeping rooms by shifts -- and requiring private contractors
find accommodations in nearby neighborhoods.  “None of these options is optimal or sustainable in the
long run,” the report said.  Another Complication  Another need is to increase the embassy’s electrical
generation system, which is “already operating at full
capacity.”  Operating at full power means the system will need
maintenance “sooner than planned, which will decrease the
amount of electricity available to support operations at a time
when operations and demand for electricity will be increasing,”
it said.  The report also noted the cost and said “the uncertain
budgetary situation is also hampering the transition process.”  The State Department requested $6.3 billion in fiscal year
2012 for its expanded responsibilities in Iraq, “but recent
congressional debate foretells a tightening fiscal situation
that may require hard choices in the years ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  