-- 
UAW President Says His Union Now Rejects Adversarial Approach

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-06-01T22:29:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/uaw-president-says-his-union-now-rejects-adversarial-approach.html
United Auto Workers President  Bob King , opening contract talks with U.S. automakers next month,
said the union is no longer an adversary and seeks to cooperate
with management.  “The public is looking at us now to see if we’ve learned
anything from the crisis or if we’ll return to business as
usual,” King said today during a speech at the Detroit Regional
Chamber’s Mackinac Policy Conference on Mackinac Island in
Michigan. “The 21st century UAW views management not as an
adversary and the enemy, but as a partner.”  King, 64, elected president of the union a year ago, will
negotiate new contracts this year with  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC. The agreements expire Sept.
14. King has said workers must be rewarded for the $7,000 to
$30,000 in concessions they each gave since 2005 to help the
automakers survive.  In that time, the union surrendered raises, bonuses and
cost-of-living adjustments. The UAW also agreed to a two-tier
wage system, in which new hires earn about $14 an hour, half the
amount paid to senior production workers.  King said the union seeks to take a “moderate, pragmatic
and inclusive” path to ensure that automakers succeed.  “Our union has learned many lessons from the crisis in the
 auto industry , and we are in the process of instituting radical
change,” King said. “We recognize we can no longer take the
same approach as 20 or 10 or even five years ago.”  UAW Concessions  The UAW’s concessions helped the U.S. automakers lower
labor costs to about $58 an hour for wages and benefits from
about $75 an hour and get close to the $52 an hour Toyota gives
its U.S. workers, according to  Sean McAlinden , chief economist
with the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.  Labor rates at U.S. automakers remain above the $44 to $48
hourly rate  South Korea ’s Hyundai Motor Co. pays its U.S.
workers in wages and benefits, McAlinden has said.  “The 21st century UAW recognizes the U.S. auto industry
faces critical challenges in the global auto industry,” King
said. “Our members know the success of their employers is in
their mutual long-term interests.”  GM, which reorganized in bankruptcy in 2009, earned $6.17
billion last year. Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid
bankruptcy, had net income of $6.56 billion last year, the most
since 1999. Chrysler, which also reorganized in 2009, posted a
net loss of $652 million last year and forecast net income of as
much as $500 million this year.  “We all made sacrifices and we all decided to work
together and because of that, there’s been an amazing revival of
the U.S. auto industry,” King said. “For the first time in
seven years, all the U.S. automakers are making money this
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 