-- 
Lukashenko May Survive Currency Plunge, Opposition Says

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-06-01T12:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/lukashenko-may-survive-currency-plunge-opposition-says-1-.html
Belarusian opposition members whose
family members and colleagues have been sentenced to years in
prison for protesting elections said a worsening economy may not
herald the end of President Alexander Lukashenko’s regime.  “If the economy crashed, Lukashenko wouldn’t have to turn
to the West -- he could turn towards  Russia  instead,” Andrey
Dmitriev, who was chief of staff for presidential candidate
Vladimir Neklyaev in the run-up to the December 19 elections,
said in an interview in Warsaw.  Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus since 1994, was returned
to power for a fourth term after an election that the
 Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe  said wasn’t
free or fair. His regime, dubbed the “last dictatorship in
 Europe ” by the administration of former President  George W. Bush , has been forced to seek international aid as the ruble’s
value slumps amid a spiraling current-account deficit, pushing
it to the brink of collapse.  The Belarusian authorities and the central bank began talks
with the  International Monetary Fund  today after the country
asked for a new stabilization loan, a statement on the
government’s website said. Belarus expects to raise $3.5 billion
to $8 billion from the IMF under a new program over a three to
five year period, state news agency Belta reported, citing Prime
Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich. The IMF mission will continue
until June 14, Belta said.  Interest Rates  Rise  Belarus raised its key interest rates twice last month,
with the former Soviet republic’s refinancing rate rising 2
percentage points to 16 percent from today, in an effort to stem
outflows and buoy the ruble, which Belarus devalued by 36
percent against the dollar on May 23.  “Circumstances will force Lukashenko to reform the economy
to a certain extent, but not much -- we’re going to see low,
creeping economic growth and selective changes here and there
that are very small in the aggregate,” Fredrik Erixon, director
of the European Centre for International Political Economy in
Brussels, said in a telephone interview. “My basic bet is that
he’s still going to be around five years from now, and that
things aren’t going to change that much.”  Russia and other partners from the former  Soviet Union 
agreed last month to loan Belarus as much as $3.5 billion over
three years, while Russian Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin has
said Belarus should sell state assets worth $7.5 billion to help
its economy recover.  Economic assistance of various kinds to the Belarusian
regime has already cost Russia “at least $50 billion,”
according to Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski.  Mismanaged Economy  “We thought President Lukashenko knew the scale of his
economic challenge this year,” Sikorski said in an interview.
“But the bill for mismanaging his economy has just arrived, and
he’ll need to be rescued by those who endorsed him.”  A “key danger” with a 60 percent probability is that
“Belarus fails to follow through with sustainable policies to
implement substantial cuts in quasi-fiscal lending, or starts a
credible privatization program and loosens business
regulations,”  Ivan Tchakarov  and Anastasiya Golovach,
economists at  Renaissance Capital , said yesterday in an e-mailed
research note.  “This could lead to an untenable spiral of constant
devaluations, compensatory increases in public sector wages and
current account crises, debilitating the economy and running
entrepreneurial activity into the ground,” they said.  Deficit Soars  The IMF has warned the country must curtail spending, raise
interest rates and liberalize its managed exchange-rate system
as foreign reserves slide and the current-account deficit soared
to 16 percent of gross domestic product.  Lukashenko, in an April 21 speech, said there were
“efforts to spur panic buying in the foreign exchange and
consumer markets, with the assistance of domestic and foreign
analysts.”  “It’s obvious that someone is eager to destabilize the
country, and sow chaos and distrust of the government, and after
the problems that ensue could later strangle our country and our
independence,” Lukashenko said.  President  Barack Obama  said last week during a trip to
 Poland  that Belarus, a country of 10 million wedged between
European Union member Poland to the west and Russia to the east,
was “backsliding” as political repression intensifies,
potentially harming other countries in the region.  New U.S. Sanctions  The U.S. will pursue new sanctions against some Belarusian
state-owned enterprises, in addition to travel restrictions and
asset freezes already in place, after the sentencing of
opposition presidential candidates, Obama said.  “Lukashenko has to understand there can only be dialogue
when the prisoners are released,” Daria Korsak, whose husband
Alexander Atroshchenko was sentenced to four years in a forced
labor camp after the elections, said at a press conference in
Warsaw on May 30.  More than 700 opposition activists were arrested after a
rally in Minsk following the Dec. 19 elections. So far, 45
people have been sentenced on charges in connection with the
post-election protests, five of whom were Lukashenko’s rival
candidates, the Solidarity with Democratic Belarus office in
Warsaw said.  Even if Lukashenko were forced to step down, it’s not clear
whether Belarus would become a democratic country, Dmitriev
said. Neighboring Ukraine, whose 2004 Orange Revolution was
hailed as a milestone in the country’s path to democracy, has
since been mired in corruption allegations and parliamentary
brawls.  ‘Pretty Strong’  The Belarusian regime’s elite is “pretty strong” and
would be “quick to buy and take over the running of currently
state-owned enterprises” if Lukashenko were to lose power,
Dmitriev said. “They’d call themselves by a new name, but
nothing would really change.”  Like Korsak, Sikorski said the EU shouldn’t engage with the
Belarusian regime until the political repression has ended.  “Political prisoners must be released and pardoned for
dialogue with the EU to continue,” he said. “Years in a labor
camp for participating in an election is a grotesque provocation
of the international community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  