-- 
Union Enthusiasm for Obama Re-Election Fades, AFL-CIO’s Chief Trumka Says

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-06-01T18:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/union-enthusiasm-for-obama-re-election-fades-afl-cio-s-chief-trumka-says.html
President  Barack Obama  faces waning
enthusiasm from union members as he prepares for his 2012 re-
election bid, AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said.  “It will be more challenging this time than it was last
time to motivate our members,” Trumka, 61, said in an interview
today at Bloomberg’s offices in Washington.  Trumka, head of the largest U.S. labor organization, said
union members are frustrated by “wasted energy” in Washington
on issues that he said don’t help workers: “hysteria” about
the federal deficit, a White House review of regulations and
Obama’s support for free-trade agreements.  Labor leaders said in recent weeks that they would withhold
financial support in next year’s election from candidates who
haven’t sided with unions consistently, a move that may hurt
Democrats who have relied on labor backing. The International
Association of Fire Fighters has vowed to withhold campaign
money from federal races, throwing its money into state-level
campaigns.  Trumka said the AFL-CIO will spend this summer “holding
candidates on both sides accountable.” Candidates who have
wavered -- those he called “acquaintances” -- won’t receive
support, he said, declining to name such politicians.  “Those Democrats that are friends are going to get more”
aid than in the past, he said.  Trumka was elected president of the AFL-CIO on Sept. 16,
2009. He served as its secretary-treasurer from 1995 to 2009 and
previously was president of the United Mine Workers. The son and
grandson of coal miners, he began working in Pennsylvania mines
in 1968.  Obama a ‘Friend’  Asked if Obama is a friend or an acquaintance, Trumka said,
“He’s a friend. There’s a lot of things we disagree with him
on. There’s far more things that we agree with him on.”  Obama’s support for free-trade agreements with  South Korea ,
 Colombia  and  Panama  has disappointed his union supporters,
Trumka said.  “During the campaign, he made significant promises to do
an inventory of the trade agreements” to be certain they
protected worker rights, Trumka said. “He’s obviously forgotten
that promise.”  The results announced last week from Obama’s review of
regulations throughout the government that burden business
produced little of substance, Trumka said.  Faulting politicians of both parties for pursuing “the
corporate agenda,” Trumka said more  government spending  to
create jobs would revive the economy and lead to a reduction in
the deficit.  ‘Outrageous, Illegal’  Republicans are using “outrageous and probably illegal”
tactics in their defense of  Boeing Co. (BA) , the subject of an April
20 complaint by the  National Labor Relations Board , Trumka said.  “It’s a strategy, it’s not an accident,” Trumka said.
“It’s a way for them to chill the NLRB.”  Lawmakers have threatened to cut off the board’s funds and
demanded that the agency turn over documents related to its
complaint that Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace company,
retaliated against its union employees in the Seattle area by
building a non-union factory in  South Carolina  for its 787
Dreamliner.  “No company is beyond the law, and that includes Boeing,”
Trumka said. Chicago-based Boeing has denied an anti-union
motivation for its decision to add the South Carolina line.  While business groups and Republicans say the NLRB, a five-
member board, has tilted toward unions since Obama’s nominees
gained a majority, Trumka said the panel is doing too little to
protect worker rights to form unions.  “Many unions have almost given up on the NLRB because it’s
so fraught with delays,” he said, He called for the board to
permit quicker union elections and redress for employees who are
fired for organizing.  Trumka said he’d like to see the U.S. become more like a
European nation that provides pensions and health care for all
its citizens. He said he is accustomed to criticism and doesn’t
mind if conservatives call that socialism.  “Being called a socialist is a step up for me,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  