-- 
Turkish Bonds Rally on Prospect of Higher Government Tax Revenue

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-01T15:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/turkish-bonds-rally-on-prospect-of-higher-government-tax-revenue.html
Turkish bonds rallied, sending yields
down the most in six weeks, after Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said the government could receive $36.5 billion from a
tax restructuring scheme.  Two-year debt yields dropped eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 8.86 percent at the 5 p.m. close in
Istanbul, according to the TEB local benchmark bond index.
That’s the biggest drop since April 21. The main  ISE National
100 index (XU100)  rose 0.3 percent to 63,224.65.  Turkey ’s lira
strengthened for a third day, gaining 0.2 percent to 1.5902 per
dollar.  Turkey may get as much as 58.3 billion liras ($36.5
billion) in payments for tax and social security contributions
made under a government debt restructuring offer, CNN Turk
television reported, citing Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan.
The central bank said today it detected a slowdown in credit
growth and wants to track data for a “while longer” before
deciding whether more action is needed to reduce the increase in
lending.  “The bonds’ rise was due to the central bank statement and
the tax offering that strengthens the Treasury’s hand,” Bulent Topbas, a portfolio manager at Strateji Menkul Degerler AS in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  The Treasury could receive extra annual revenue of at least
1 percent of gross domestic product between 2011 and 2013,
 Yarkin Cebeci , an Istanbul-based economist for JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said in a note to clients. Babacan said the government aims
to use the bulk of the revenue to reduce debt.  The central bank expects an improvement in the foreign
 trade gap , excluding energy, to begin in the second quarter of
the year, the bank in Ankara said in the minutes of the May 25
meeting at which it left the benchmark one-week repo rate
unchanged at 6.25 percent. An improvement in the current-account
deficit won’t be seen until the last three months, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  