-- 
Mutual Funds Can Replace Fannie and Freddie: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   J .   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/mutual-funds-can-replace-fannie-and-freddie-laurence-kotlikoff.html
It’s a rare and wonderful thing to
see a Republican agree with a Democrat, especially on an
innovative idea. Yet when it comes to reforming our mortgage
system, we need to tread carefully. Republican Congressman  Scott Garrett  of  New Jersey  and Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of
 New York  are both considering proposing a Danish-type "covered"
bond system. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has also
made favorable noises.  The covered bond system, which I will explain in detail
below, is an admirable attempt to replace  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie
Mac  and the  Federal Housing Administration , which are now
issuing 90 percent of all mortgages in our $11 trillion mortgage
market. The reason they own the market is simple: They borrow
money on the cheap, by pledging repayment by the taxpayer, and
then they lend on the cheap. Private mortgage makers can’t
compete.  If these agencies were headed by Warren Buffetts and making
terrific investments, that would be swell. We’d want them to
borrow every penny they could and invest not just in mortgages
but in every other risky security the world has to offer. Our
nation’s fiscal woes would be over.  But these agencies aren’t shrewd investors. They’re lousy
investors. In our financial debacle, they held or guaranteed 70
percent of all toxic mortgages and lost, well, hmm we don’t know
how much they’ve lost. If housing prices fall another 20
percent, as some gloomy analysts have predicted, their losses
could total $1 trillion. That’s a lot of tax dollars or a lot of
money that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  would need
to print -- which would, presumably, cause a great deal of
inflation.  Bondholders Get Priority  The covered bond proposal would get the mortgage market
back where it belongs -- in the private sector. Under the plan,
banks would borrow (issue bonds) to get the money to buy
mortgages, and would give the lenders priority claim to the
mortgages they purchase. That is, the bondholders wouldn’t have
to stand in line with all the bank’s other creditors if the bank
failed or was otherwise unable to repay all its borrowing. The
IOUs the banks would transmit to lenders are called covered
bonds because the IOUs are backed, or covered, by the mortgages.  Covered bonds were dreamed up in the 18th century in
Prussia and  Denmark . They have served Denmark very well since.
But whether such a system would work here is less clear. The
banks guarantee their loans. But we know what bank guarantees
are worth in this country – bubkes.  Don’t Trust Bankers  Fortunately, putting some teeth into those guarantees would
be relatively easy. Rather than rely on bankers to verify
mortgagees’ employment, income, house value, credit history and
creditworthiness, let’s have the government organize this due
diligence. Specifically, let’s have  Uncle Sam  establish the
equivalent of the  Food and Drug Administration  for the financial
sector -- call it the Federal Financial Authority.  This FFA would hire private companies to do the
straightforward work of verification. The firms would work
solely for the agency and thus have no conflicts of interest.
Liar mortgages would be history. The FFA would move us from
Trust Me Banking to Show Me Banking, and let covered bond
purchasers see, in real time on the Web, precisely what they are
buying.  Still, even with improvements in due diligence, the covered
bond plan leaves other problems unaddressed. First, the banks
would continue to make guarantees they would not be able to keep
in the face of another widespread housing bust like we’re
experiencing. Second, the banks would be forced to hold the
mortgages that back the bonds they’ve issued. And because banks
write local mortgages, they’d be at risk for a regional crunch
in the housing market. Third, the  Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation  is understandably wary about allowing covered bond
creditors senior claims to bank assets.  Equities not Bonds  The solution to all three problems is simple. We should
establish a covered equities market, not a covered  bond market ,
to make U.S. home mortgages. Mutual funds, rather than banks,
would buy the mortgages. This would eliminate the FDIC’s
concern, as it does not regulate or guarantee mutual funds. And
the mutual funds would issue equities -- sell mutual fund
shares, that is -- to raise the money to buy the mortgages.  In so doing, the mutual funds would make no guarantees
about repayment. If housing prices collapsed and the mortgages
held by the mortgage  mutual funds  did poorly, the mutual fund
investors would suffer a loss in the value of their shares. But
the mutual funds themselves would not go bankrupt.  Buyers Can Diversify  In sum, a housing-market collapse would not bring down the
financial system as a whole. And even if the mutual funds
invested in mortgages in particular parts of the country where
we might see a localized collapse, shareholders could easily
diversify their holdings of mortgages by buying different
mortgage mutual funds.  The big question, of course, is whether  mortgage rates 
under this system would be much higher than current rates. One
way to keep the rates down would be to have the mutual funds
compete by buying their mortgages at auction. For now, the
government could boost the system by investing in mortgage
mutual fund shares; gradually, it would limit these investments
as it weaned the country off its cheap money.  Not only does a covered equities market make sense for
mortgages, but it could be applied to all other types of
borrowing, including  student loans , credit-card debt, small
business loans, corporate loans and so on. If applied broadly,
it would give us a completely safe financial system. It would be
safe for a good reason – it would have no banks!  ( Laurence J. Kotlikoff , a professor of economics at  Boston
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this column: 
 Laurence Kotlikoff  at  kotlikoff@bu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net  