-- 
Vancouver Canucks Favored to Win NHL’s 2011 Stanley Cup Final Over Bruins

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-01T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/vancouver-canucks-favored-to-win-nhl-s-2011-stanley-cup-final-over-bruins.html
The  Vancouver Canucks  are the odds-on
favorite to defeat the  Boston Bruins  and win the  National Hockey
League ’s Stanley Cup for the first time.  The top-seeded Canucks are a 1-2 chance to win the best-of-
seven series, Las Vegas Sports Consultants oddsmaker Andrew
Patterson said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “They were the best team during the regular season,”
Patterson said. “They are on home ice and the West has been
better than the East a majority of the year.”  The Western Conference champion Canucks ended the regular
season with a league-best 117 points. The Bruins, who are rated
a 9-5 chance, tied for seventh overall and fourth in the Eastern
Conference with 103 points.  Vancouver , which hosts Game 1 at Rogers Arena tonight, is
7-2 to win in five or seven games and 8-1 to sweep the series.
The Bruins are 20-1 to win the first four games, meaning a
successful $1 bet would return $20 plus the original stake.  “I like Vancouver in six games,” Patterson said. “I
would love to see a Game 7. Game 7s in hockey are the best.”  Boston  needed seven games to win the Eastern Conference
championship; the Canucks won the Western Conference title in
five games.  The Bruins have lost five times in the Stanley Cup Final,
most recently in 1990, since they collected the last of their
five NHL titles in 1972. Vancouver lost in its previous trips to
the final series in 1982 and 1994.  The fact that neither team has been in the championship
series for more than a decade has no impact on the odds,
Patterson said.  Hockey Still Recovering  “It’s been so long, none of these players have been here
before,” he said.  Hockey is still recovering from the impact of the lockout
seven years ago and is bet on the least among the four major
sports in the U.S., Patterson said.  “I’m guessing in  Canada , it’s the biggest,” he said.  Vancouver hosts the first two games of the series, which
then moves to Boston for the next two. The fifth and seventh
games, if necessary, would be in Vancouver, with the sixth in
Boston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  