-- 
Venice Biennale Has Baroque Star, Lots of Videos: Martin Gayford

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-06-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/venice-biennale-has-baroque-star-odd-structures-videos-martin-gayford.html
There’s some great art in the  Venice
Biennale . Mind you, the best isn’t necessarily contemporary.  The main exhibition, ILLUMinations (Central Pavilion of the
Giardini and the Arsenale) starts off with three magnificent
canvases by the 16th-century painter Jacopo Tintoretto.  This neatly makes the point that art doesn’t really
progress, and its raw ingredients -- form, color and light --
are constant. Tintoretto also sets a high standard for the 83
artists of the 21st century exhibiting in the art galleries at
the two venues. That said, there are some showstopping items en
route.  The Biennale director on this occasion, Bice Curiger from
 Switzerland , means the title of the main show metaphorically:
mental enlightenment that might come from art. The name of the
Biennale exhibition is always vague (“Plateau of Humanity”
from the 2001 Biennale still wins my prize for lack of meaning).  This time, a few of the more outstanding pieces actually
are about light. The U.S. artist James Turrell has contributed
one of his Ganzfeld series, where extraordinary spaces in
changing light appear to create solid walls and magically alter
perceptions.  Halfway down the vast array in the Arsenale, the Swiss
artist Urs Fischer displays a brilliant conceit: a full-scale
cast of Giovanni Bologna’s 16th-century sculpture, “The Rape of
the Sabine Women.” The catch is that this is entirely composed
of candle wax. The whole three-figure Mannerist farrago will
burn away during the run of the 54th Biennale -- art literally
giving light. Already, the lower figure is melting badly at one
knee.  Moving Collage  Pipilotti Rist, another Swiss, has a witty take on art
history. Three framed LED screens showing engravings of 18th-
century  Venice  are overlaid with 21st-century moving images of
the sky, the sea and the hands of people at work. You could call
this “video collage.”  A feature of this Biennale, which runs through Nov. 27, is
art in the form of architecture. Mike Nelson, as I wrote
yesterday, has transformed the British Pavilion into a facsimile
of a semi-derelict Ottoman building. In the Greek Pavilion by
the artist Diohandi, there’s a fine minimalist environment
comprising dark water and a column of light in a white space in
which a single note is heard.  The Arsenale display starts off with a beguiling structure
by the Beijing-based artist Song Dong. It’s a maze of wooden
shutters, bamboo roofs and an upstairs gallery that give the
effect of wandering in an old Chinese town. This is the best of
a series of micro-pavilions commissioned from various artists,
art structures for the display of other artists’ work.  Messy Mix  Much of the rest of ILLUMinations -- and also the national
pavilions -- is filled with messy installation and/or video art.
These are the two dominant media of this Biennale. The Dutch,
Israeli, Belgian and Swiss pavilions all contain more or less
this mixture. The Italian pavilion combines old and new: an
installation including numerous, mainly bad, paintings.  Otherwise, painting isn’t much in evidence, and traditional
sculpture even less -- though Katharina Fritsch and Rebecca Warren both make an impact in the second category (Fritsch with
a characteristically weird and colorful work). Many pavilions
seem similar, yet sometimes there’s a striking political
message.  In the past, the Egyptian contribution has tended to more
conservative types of art. No longer: just as the politics of
the country has been transformed, so has its Biennale presence.
This time, it’s a video installation, including footage of a
performance by the late Ahmed Basiony, “Thirty Days of
Running.” “The late” because Basiony was shot dead by sniper
fire in Tahrir Square on Jan. 28. Here, contemporary history and
contemporary art for once truly, and tragically, come together.  Information:  http://www.labiennale.org   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in Venice at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 