-- 
Videotron Says Spectrum Auction Needs Limits on Incumbents

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-01T19:07:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/videotron-says-spectrum-auction-needs-limits-on-incumbents-1-.html
Videotron Ltee, one of  Canada ’s new
wireless carriers, called on the government to establish rules
for the country’s next wireless auction that would offer new
entrants twice as much spectrum as the incumbents.  Carriers such as  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Telus Corp. (T)  and  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  that already own 800-megahertz frequency
spectrum should be limited in bidding for a single 700-megahertz
block, with new carriers eligible to own two 700-megahertz
blocks, Videotron Chief Executive Officer Robert Depatie said in
a speech at the  Canadian Telecom Summit  in Toronto today.
Spectrum are the government-licensed radio frequencies used in
wireless communications.  Canada’s Industry Minister Christian Paradis yesterday said
he’ll consider all options in forming rules for next year’s
auction. Wireless carriers want more spectrum to meet surging
data demand as smartphone growth explodes and Rogers’ wireless
chief Rob Bruce yesterday said limits on the ability of his
company to bid for the 700-megahertz spectrum would be a "slap
in the face" of its customers.  Videotron, based in  Montreal , spent C$555 million in the
latest auction in 2008 ($555 million at the time) to buy
sufficient spectrum to introduce wireless service in  Quebec , to
tap its base at that time of more than 2.5 million Internet and
cable customers across Canada’s mainly French-speaking province.  Costly Spectrum  Videotron hopes to pay less for new spectrum in 2012,
Depatie said in an interview after his speech.  “I’ve never seen, based on the history of auctions in the
U.S., an auction going lower than the previous one, but we hope
it will because C$555 million for 40 megahertz in Quebec and 10
in Ontario, that’s a lot of money.”  Carriers’ interest in the 700-megahertz frequency is high
because it is effective in transmitting calls and data through
buildings and densely inhabited settlements.  The Canadian government should only establish limits on
spectrum purchases if it thinks a company is hoarding the
airwaves it doesn’t plan to use, Ken Engelhart, Toronto-based
Rogers’ head of regulatory affairs, said at a panel discussion
on the topic.  “If a company has a legitimate need for spectrum, then you
have an auction,” said Engelhart. “An auction says you put
your money where your mouth is.”  Telus is open to compromise on the rules of an auction but
there has been too much distortion in how much spectrum it
controls, said Michael Hennessy, senior vice president, of
regulatory affairs at the Vancouver-based company.  Edward Antecol, head of regulatory affairs at Globalive
Communications, whose Wind Mobile service began operating in
late 2009, said government-mandated set asides are a legitimate
option to further stimulate competition.  Bell, Telus and Rogers’s dominance is a “cosy little
oligopoly” which “sucks for consumers,” said Antecol.  Caps and limits "are perfectly reasonable options for
consumers."  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  