-- 
Virgin Money, NBNK Oppose Sale of Additional Lloyds Branches

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-06-01T16:07:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/virgin-money-nbnk-oppose-sale-of-additional-lloyds-branches.html
Virgin Money Holdings U.K. Ltd. and
 NBNK Investments Plc (NBNK) , potential bidders for  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY) ’s planned divestment of 600 branches, said a proposal by the
U.K.’s Independent Commission on Banking for more asset sales
would delay the process.  Lloyds was told 18 months ago by  European Union  regulators
to sell “at least” 600 outlets by November 2013 after the
London-based bank received more than 20 billion pounds ($32.8
billion) of taxpayer aid following the 2008 banking crisis.  “NBNK does not want to see any delay in the process that
is already under way,” said spokesman Olly Scott. “NBNK is
happy with the current number of branches in the divestment
package and feels it would enable the creation of a major
competitor in the banking market.”  In April, the British government-appointed  ICB  proposed
that the bank sell “substantially” more outlets than 600.
Lloyds Chairman Win Bischoff said last month that the sale of
“even one branch more” was not part of the U.K.-EU deal.  “600 branches from Lloyds are enough for a new competitor
to make a real difference and we would rather see that many
sold, and sold quickly, than have to wait around for a new
answer to emerge,” said Virgin Money spokesman Scott Mowbray.  The units account for about 5 percent of the U.K. checking
account market, London-based Lloyds said in a statement in
March. Lloyds has hired Citigroup Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
to oversee the sale.  The Scotsman newspaper reported the Virgin Money response
last week, while Sky News reported NBNK’s announcement earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  