-- 
Wall Street Asks Regulators to Re-Propose Dodd-Frank Rules on Derivatives

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-06-01T18:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/wall-street-asks-regulators-to-re-propose-dodd-frank-rules-on-derivatives.html
Trade groups representing the biggest
U.S. financial companies said regulators should re-propose
derivatives rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act to give banks,
swap dealers and asset managers more time to review them.  Re-proposing rules would delay them by “months, not years,
and the costs of any such delay will be far outweighed by the
benefits,” groups including the  Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association  and the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association  wrote to the  Securities and Exchange
Commission  and the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission .  “Allowing for more than one round of comments helps ensure
that market participants can more fully assess the implications
of a set of rules in their entirety,” the seven groups said in
their letters.  Dodd-Frank, the rules overhaul enacted in July, requires
the SEC and CFTC to write regulations to improve transparency
and curb risk in the $601 trillion over-the-counter swaps market
after unregulated trades exacerbated the 2008 credit crisis. The
CFTC, which is responsible for all but security-based swaps, has
proposed most of its planned rules and aims to complete them
this year, CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler has said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  executed 96
percent of the $298 trillion in over-the-counter derivatives
trades by the top 25 U.S. bank-holding companies as of Dec. 31,
according to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  In re-proposing the rules, regulators should offer a
timetable for implementing them and guidance on how Dodd-Frank
applies to trades conducted outside the U.S., the groups said in
the May 26 letter to the CFTC and the May 31 letter to the SEC.  In addition to Sifma and ISDA, the letters were signed by
the U.S.  Chamber of Commerce , the  Futures Industry Association ,
the  Financial Services Roundtable ,  Institute of International
Bankers  and the  Insured Retirement Institute .  Scott Schneider , a CFTC spokesman, and John Nester, an SEC
spokesman, declined to comment on the industry groups’ letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  