-- 
Wall Street Insurance Fund ‘Choking’ Victims, Investor Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-06-01T20:39:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/wall-street-insurance-fund-is-choking-victims-investor-says.html
Wall Street’s insurance fund for
failed brokerages is “the worst kind of insurance company,”
according to an investor who lost money with Bernard L. Madoff.  The  Securities Investor Protection Corp.  is “constantly
finding technical reasons for choking out victims” said 72-year
old Leah Larsen, who lives in  New York  and works part-time as a
paralegal. Larsen, who said she lost about $100,000 with Madoff,
said her claim was denied because her money was pooled with her
brother’s account.  Larsen was one of five investors who spoke at a forum held
by SIPC today at the Grand Hyatt hotel in New York. The purpose
was to give investors a chance to voice their opinions on how to
improve the group. It was the second in a series of national
 public forums  soliciting input about the organization, which
hasn’t been the focus of major new legislation in at least 30
years, according to the group’s website.  SIPC, based in  Washington , is a nonprofit membership
corporation overseen by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and funded by brokerage firms to compensate investors
whose accounts are missing stocks or other assets because of
theft or other reasons when a member firm fails. SIPC may
reimburse investors for assets of up to $500,000, including up
to $250,000 in cash, and generally doesn’t reimburse investors
who have been sold worthless investments.  Customers Shorted  There should be greater scrutiny of trustee fees, said
Norma Hill, another investor at the forum, who said she lost
more than $1 million in investments directly with Madoff and
through feeder funds. Hill, who lives in Westchester County, New
York, declined to give her age and said she’s currently living
on Social Security benefits.  “There is a lot of over-billing,” Hill said. “Basically,
the customer is always shorted but the trustee is always a
winner.”  SIPC has paid more than $1.1 billion to  Irving Picard , the
trustee liquidating the estate of convicted Ponzi schemer
Madoff, according to a May report. About $779 million was used
to pay customer claims and $346 million was used for
administrative expenses such as rent and fees, the report said.  Five members of the SIPC modernization task force attended
the forum in person, including Joseph Borg, director of the
Alabama state securities commission, and James Giddens, an
attorney and the trustee for  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  The
task force, which didn’t answer questions at the forum, will
review the public input and expects to present a written report
to the SIPC board of directors later this year, Sharon Bowen,
vice chair of SIPC, said in introductory remarks. The board may
then make recommendations for legislation.  Relying on Statements  SIPC should reimburse victims based on account values
listed on their statements rather than by comparing net
contributions to and withdrawals from their accounts, said
Timothy Murray, 58, who lives in  Minneapolis  and flew in for the
event.  “We can’t do business with our banks and brokers and not
be entitled to rely on the statements,” according to Murray,
who said 18 members of his family lost “multiples of millions”
of dollars with Madoff. “Otherwise we’ve got to go back to
mailing paper certificates” of stock ownership, he said.  SIPC should be required to report to Congress periodically
and build a larger fund to pay investors, said Ron Stein,
president of the Network for Investor Action and Protection, an
advocacy group for victims of Ponzi schemes founded by former
Madoff investors.  Denying Claims  It has a “history of sparing no expense in denying
claims,” Stein said. “Its focus now is to remain elusive,
under the radar, to minimize fees to the broker-dealer industry
and to protect its fund.”  SIPC gets money from assessments on its members with a
funding goal of $2.5 billion, according to the  task force 
website, and had about $1.4 billion in assets in December,
according to its  annual report .  The SEC has been reviewing whether SIPC wrongly denied
claims from investors who lost money with R. Allen Stanford. The
SEC will decide “in the near future” whether alleged victims
should receive reimbursement from SIPC, SEC enforcement director
 Robert Khuzami  and inspections chief Carlo di Florio said in May
at a House Financial Services Committee hearing.  Stanford, 61, was indicted in June 2009 on criminal charges
claiming he misled clients about the safety and oversight of
certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based bank.
Stanford denies the charges and is scheduled for trial in
federal court in Houston in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 