-- 
West Ham Appoints Allardyce as Manager to Lead Premier League Return Bid

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-06-01T10:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/west-ham-appoints-allardyce-as-manager-to-lead-premier-league-return-bid.html
West Ham hired  Sam Allardyce  as
manager as the club aims to gain promotion back to English
soccer’s elite Premier League.  Allardyce, 56, replaces Avram Grant, who was fired May 16
after a 3-2 loss at Wigan in the next-to-last game of the season
relegated the club to the second-tier Championship. The Hammers
finished in last place, winning just 7 of 38 matches.  “It is a fantastic club with a great tradition and loyal
supporters who deserve to be in the Premier League,” Allardyce
said on West Ham’s  website . “I can’t wait to begin preseason
training as I am determined to get this club back where it
belongs.”  Allardyce has managed at Blackpool, Notts County, Bolton,
Newcastle and Blackburn, which fired him in December after a
change in ownership. He won promotion to the Premier League with
Bolton in 2001 and led Wanderers to a pair of UEFA Cup
appearances.  West Ham owners  David Sullivan  and David Gold have said
players will have to be sold as the drop from the top flight
will cost the club 40 million pounds ($66 million). Midfielder
 Scott Parker , goalkeeper  Robert Green  and striker Carlton Cole
are among those who may leave over the summer.  Even so, Allardyce said the West Ham job “excites” him
and that he wants to instill a “winning mentality” at Upton
Park.  “I wouldn’t have taken this job if I didn’t think we could
bounce straight back into the Premier League,” Allardyce said.
“More than that, I wouldn’t have contemplated the job if I
didn’t think there was an opportunity to build something
substantial at West Ham.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 