-- 
Wheat Futures Decline on Speculation Rains May Aid Europe Crops

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-06-01T09:59:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/wheat-futures-decline-on-speculation-rains-may-aid-europe-crops.html
Wheat futures declined, erasing an
earlier advance, on speculation rains in parts of Western  Europe 
may limit yield losses caused by dry weather.  Rains forecast in  France  and  Germany  this week may curb
yield losses in Europe’s largest wheat exporters, Drew Lerner,
president of World Weather Inc., said in a report yesterday. The
wheat crop in the European Union, making up a fifth of global
output, is under threat in the U.K., France and Germany from the
driest growing conditions in at least 36 years.  “There are going to be some real issues in the spring crop
but the news and improving weather are helping ease prices in
the overall wheat markets,” said Connor Noonan, an analyst at
Castlestone Management in London.  Wheat for July delivery fell 5.75 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
$7.765 a bushel, reversing a 0.8 percent gain, by 10:25 a.m.
 London  time on the Chicago Board of Trade. The price declined
2.4 percent in May.  The precipitation “will be seen as a negative for the
market, particularly for German production, where that rain will
help alleviate all the short-term stress on the crop and
minimize any yield-paring,” said Paul Deane, an agricultural
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Still, rains in France may not be enough to reverse the
negative impact on yields caused by the drought, he said.  Soils in the northern half of France, which grows 80
percent of the nation’s wheat, had the driest weather in 50
years at the end of April, the  Environment Ministry  said last
month. Wheat harvests in the EU may fall 2.1 percent this year,
the International Grains Council said on May 26.  Hottest April  French soft-wheat production will slide to 31.65 million
metric tons, the least in four years, from 35.7 million tons
last year, Agritel, a Paris-based farm adviser, said May 18. The
hottest April in at least 352 years in the U.K. hurt yields and
Germany’s wheat harvest will fall 7.2 percent, Deutscher
Raiffeisenverband e.V. said May 18.  About 68 percent of spring wheat in the U.S. was planted as
of May 29, compared with 94 percent at that time last year, and
an average of 95 percent in the past five years, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said yesterday. About 44 percent of
the winter-wheat crop was in poor to very poor condition,
compared with 9 percent last year, it said.  “Weather risks remain a source of upside risk for wheat,”
 Barclays Capital  said in a report to clients. “Spring planting
in the U.S. remains well behind historical levels. The quality
of the winter-wheat crop has been poor, while dry conditions
have impacted the Western European wheat crop.”  U.S. Flooding  Flooding in areas around the  Mississippi River  and
excessive rains in other parts of the Midwest, the largest U.S.
growing region, delayed planting of spring wheat, corn and
soybeans, while dry weather in the central and southern plains
parched winter-wheat, raising concerns yields may be curbed.  Corn for July delivery gained 3.5 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$7.51 a bushel in  Chicago . The price has more than doubled in
the past year.  About 86 percent of the U.S. corn crop was planted as of
May 29, behind last year’s pace of 97 percent and the five-year
average of 95 percent, the USDA said. Sixty-three percent of
planted corn was in good to excellent  condition , compared with
76 percent a year ago, the agency said.  Soybeans for export inspected at U.S. ports rose 14 percent
to 10.3 million bushels in the week to May 26, from a week
earlier, the USDA said in a separate report.  Soybeans for July delivery climbed 3 cents, or 0.2 percent,
to $13.79 a bushel. The price has gained 48 percent in the past
year, partly on demand from  China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  