-- 
Twitter Use Climbs to 13% of U.S. Adults Online Boosted by Older Americans

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-06-01T20:05:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/twitter-use-increases-to-13-of-adults-online-as-mobile-tweets-lead-growth.html
Twitter Inc. , the social-networking
site that lets people share 140-character messages, is now used
by 13 percent of U.S. adults online, up from 8 percent in
November, as more older Americans embrace the service.  Among Twitter users who own cell phones, 54 percent have
used the mobile devices to access the social-media service,
according to a  report  today by the Pew Research Center. Twitter
use has more than doubled since late 2010 among people ages 25
to 34, to 19 percent, and increased among adults ages 35 to 44,
to 14 percent. Usage for those ages 55 to 64 doubled to 8
percent.  “It’s more in the public consciousness than it was
probably six months ago,”  Aaron Smith , an analyst with Pew in
 Washington , said in an interview. “Older people are kind of
jumping in, taking a look at what’s going on. In general, it
seems that Twitter is less confusing, for lack of a better word,
than it was, say, this time last year.”  Twitter, competing with social-networking service Facebook
Inc., is trying to improve its products amid management changes
designed to attract more users and advertisers. In March, co-
founder Jack Dorsey, who stepped down as chief executive officer
in 2008, became executive chairman and head of product
development. Dick Costolo, who helped introduce a new
advertising service for companies on Twitter last year, became
CEO in October, replacing co-founder  Evan Williams .  “We’re growing like a weed,” Costolo said today at
AllThingsD’s D9 Conference in  Rancho Palos Verdes ,  California .
“The beauty of Twitter is that more and more people are
flocking to it because it’s shrinking their world.”  The Pew report’s estimates of users was conservative,
Costolo said, noting outside researchers fail to accurately
track Twitter usage. Still, he declined to give specific active
user numbers.  Twitter’s website is no longer where the “vast majority”
of users reside, he said. There has been dramatic growth with
Twitter for mobile devices, including Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  To woo more users, Twitter today unveiled a service that
will enable people to more easily share photos, the company said
on its blog. The social network also is updating its search
service that aims to give more relevant posts and show related
photos and videos.  As for advertisers, Twitter has 600 to 650, up from 150 in
2010, Costolo said. Advertisers, more than 80 percent of whom
return to the site, have run more than 6,000 campaigns.  Ad sales on Twitter may more than triple to about $150
million this year, according to EMarketer Inc. Facebook brought
in ad revenue of $1.86 billion last year, EMarketer estimates.  San Francisco-based Twitter, with 13 percent of adults,
still trails overall social-networking adoption, including
Facebook, at about 65 percent, Pew’s Smith said.  The Pew report also found that non-white Web surfers tend
to use the service more than others. One-in-four African
Americans online use the service compared to 9 percent for
whites. In November, 13 percent of African-Americans used
Twitter versus 5 percent for whites.  “Twitter has a done a really good job of inserting itself
into the news and cultural zeitgeist,” said Debra Aho Williamson, a Seattle-based analyst for EMarketer.“It’s there
when Osama Bin Laden dies. It’s there when the royal wedding
takes place. It’s there when there’s all these big events. Every
time these things happen, Twitter gets a bump in notoriety and
usage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  