-- 
Yemen’s Capital Hit by Explosions, Gunfire as Troops, Tribesmen Clash

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-08-05T15:27:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/yemen-reinforces-troops-in-sana-a-as-deaths-from-street-battles-rise-to-41.html
Explosions and gunfire were heard in
the Yemeni capital, Sana’a, as troops loyal to President Ali Abdullah Saleh clashed with supporters of Skeikh Sadeq al-Ahmar,
leader of the country’s most powerful tribal confederation.  The fighting today in the Hasaba district, involving
tribesmen from the Hashid group, followed the arrival yesterday
in the area of reinforcements for the government’s Republican
Guard and the security forces. Clashes that erupted in the
district in May were stopped after mediation of neighboring
 Saudi Arabia ’s  King Abdullah .  Saleh’s government is trying to quell demonstrations
against his rule that began in January. Saleh, who is recovering
in Saudi Arabia from injuries sustained in an attack on his
compound, also faces secessionist movements and al-Qaeda
militants. His son Ahmed, who had been seen as his successor, is
head of the Republican Guard.  Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators took to the streets
today in about 17 provinces, demanding the removal of Saleh’s
government and saying they reject violence, the protest movement
said on its website. Protesters in Sana’a also denounced the
deterioration of services such as electricity.  The U.S., Gulf Arab nations and Yemeni opposition groups
have called on Saleh to transfer power to Vice President Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi. Under the terms of a proposed peace accord
brokered by the Gulf Cooperation Council, Saleh would step down
within 30 days of signing the deal and be guaranteed immunity
from future prosecutions. He has refused to sign it.  Saleh said he would return home before the start of the
Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which began Aug. 1, Al Arabiya
television reported on July 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 