-- 
Euro Gains After Moody’s Considers U.S. Debt Review, Merkel Backs Currency

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-02T21:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-01/yen-maintains-gains-as-signs-of-slowing-u-s-growth-boosts-refuge-demand.html
The euro gained versus the dollar to
the highest level in almost a month as Moody’s Investors Service
said it may place the U.S. government’s rating under review for
possible downgrade and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
she’s committed to the shared currency.  The euro extended gains after Moody’s said its decision
will be based on progress by Congress and the Obama
administration on increasing the statutory debt limit in coming
weeks. The euro also strengthened as the region’s policy makers
considered asking investors to reinvest in new Greek debt when
existing bonds mature. The dollar dropped against the majority
of its most-traded peers as weaker economic data added to
speculation the nation’s recovery is slowing.  “It’s still a major theme and I don’t see any compelling
reason in the medium term to actually want to be a dollar
buyer,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “The economics
fundamentally support dollar weakness across the board and that
would just add to the fiscal  risk premium .”  The euro rose 1.1 percent to $1.4491 as of 5 p.m. in New
York from $1.4328 yesterday. It touched $1.4514, the most since
May 6.  Europe ’s common currency climbed 1.1 percent to 117.23
yen. The dollar fell 0.1 percent to 80.90 yen.  South Africa’s rand and Norway’s krone rose the most among
the major currencies as commodities advanced. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials rose 0.6
percent.  Top Performers  The rand gained 1.8 percent to 6.7150 per dollar and the
krone rose 1.3 percent to 5.3759 versus the greenback.  The euro has gained 2.7 percent this year, versus a 6
percent drop by the dollar and a 5.6 percent decline for the
yen, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation currencies.  “Would it be too bold, in the economic field, with a
single market, a single currency and a single central bank, to
envisage a ministry of finance of the union?” ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said in a speech today in Aachen, Germany.
He also favors giving the European Union powers to veto the
budget measures of countries that go “harmfully astray,”
though that would require a change to EU treaties. Yesterday he
said the ECB “will continue to deliver  price stability .”  The bank raised its key interest rate by 25 basis points to
1.25 percent in April, even as Portugal joined Greece and
Ireland in requesting financial aid from the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund . In comparison, the  Federal Reserve 
and Bank of  Japan  are holding rates near zero.  No ‘Euro Problem’  “We don’t have a euro problem in Europe,” Merkel said in
a speech in Singapore today on the final day of a three-day Asia
trip that also took her to  India . “We have more of a debt
problem. Financial markets doubt whether some EU states can
manage their debt in the long-term.”  Germany  is committed to
the euro, which is stable, she said.  Spain today sold 4 billion euros ($5.8 billion) of bonds,
meeting the maximum target the Treasury set for the sale. Demand
for three-year bonds, which were sold along with four-year
notes, was 2.49 times the amount sold, compared with 1.79 last
month, and the bid-to-cover ratio for the longer-maturity debt
was 2.9.  In Japan, the Diet’s lower house voted 293-152 against the
no-confidence motion against Kan, as opposition lawmakers failed
to attract enough support from his Democratic Party of Japan.
Former DPJ premier  Yukio Hatoyama  called for party unity in
rejecting the bill after Kan said he would step down once the
disaster is contained.  Earthquake Issues  Deepening discontent over the government’s handling of the
March earthquake and tsunami that precipitated the worst nuclear
disaster in 25 years prompted the measure.  U.S. jobless claims fell by 6,000 to 422,000 in the week
ended May 28, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a
drop in claims to 417,000, according to the median forecast.  The Labor Department will release May unemployment figures
tomorrow. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. yesterday revised its
estimate for an increase in May nonfarm payrolls to 100,000 from
150,000, while Citigroup Inc. trimmed its projection to 100,000
from 170,000. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey is
for a gain of 165,000 following a 244,000 April increase.  “Everybody’s revising down their expectations for
tomorrow’s numbers,” said  Steve Butler , managing director of
foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s
Scotia Capital unit. “Clearly the market is looking for bad
news tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  