-- Abandoned Quarries Headed to Become Energy-Storage Hubs in U.K.
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-09-20T09:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/abandoned-quarries-headed-to-become-energy-storage-hubs-in-u-k-.html
A U.K. company plans to turn
abandoned quarries and mines into energy-storage facilities that
can absorb power from intermittent sources such as the sun and
wind for use when demand peaks.  The company’s first project, in North Wales, won planning
consent Sept. 2 and is budgeted at about 100 million pounds
($160.8 million), according to David Holmes, managing director
of London-based Quarry Battery Company Ltd. Construction on the
and 50-megawatt facility should commence in about 18 months.  In times of power surplus, the plants pump water uphill to
the basins for storage. When demand returns, water is released
through turbines to generate electricity, similar to
hydroelectric plants. Storage can be used to help balance supply
and demand as Britain aims for 15 percent of its energy to come
from unpredictable renewable sources by 2020.  “The more and more renewable energy we have the more and
more we need to be able to store it and manage its flexibility
and its intermittency,” Holmes said. “We think there is a
changing market, and there is more room in this market now for
new ‘pumped storage.’ The economics have changed.”  Quarry Battery  will likely sell its first site fully
permitted for another company to build, Holmes said in a
telephone interview. It has received interest from energy
companies, energy traders and pension funds both in the U.K. and
internationally. The company should be ready to approach them in
about 18 months to two years, he said.  Pumping Water  While pumping water uphill has aided in power generation
for more than 100 years, the technology is limited to
mountainous terrain. Environmentalists have criticized those
sites for being harmful to local wildlife, prompting developers
to look for alternatives. Quarry Battery’s use of old mines and
quarries for smaller projects would be less disrupting to the
environment than projects that require more construction.  As the developer moves its first project through the
development process it will also look to secure other pockets of
land that suit its storage facilities, Holmes said. It may sell
sites in the future or it may retain a portion of each one, he
said.  The company is raising about 3 million pounds and it has
received interest from venture capital companies and so-called
angel investors, Holmes said. The first project is scheduled to
start operating by the end of 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  