-- Macquarie Sees Record Global Fund Flows Into Australian Property
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-20T00:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/macquarie-sees-record-global-fund-flows-into-australian-property.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s
biggest investment bank, is seeing record global investor
purchases of Australian commercial property, which is offering
relatively high yields and secure cash flows.  The bank arranged a total of $3.8 billion of foreign
pension and sovereign wealth fund investment in Australian
property in 2012 and 2013, the most since the bank started
private capital operations in property a decade ago, Chris
Green, global head of real estate at Macquarie, said in an
interview in Sydney on Sept. 17.  “Large pension and sovereign wealth funds have very large,
growing amounts of money and they’re looking to allocate a
significant portion to real estate,” Green said. The bank
assisted a European fund he declined to name with an industrial
privatization in  Australia , residential joint ventures in  India 
and the U.K., and investments in U.S. multifamily properties and
Chinese carparks.  Surging demand from investors for higher returns amid low
bond yields globally is driving up commercial property values
around the world. CBRE Group Inc.’s global industrial  property
index  climbed 6.5 percent in the three months to June 30 from a
year earlier, while the group’s retail property index rose 6
percent and offices 3.4 percent, “reflecting the significant
level of capital migrating to commercial real estate,” the
broker said.  Australian commercial property offered  total returns  of 9.1
percent in the year to June 30, about 80 percent of that from
income and the rest from price growth, according to the Property
Council/IPD Australia All Property Index.  Global Deals  That compares with total returns of 5.5 percent on  U.K. 
properties in the 12 months to August, 7.2 percent in  Canada  in
the year to June and 4.5 percent for  Japanese properties  in the
year ended May 31, according to Investment Property Databank
Ltd. indexes.  Australia’s  10-year government bonds  are offering yields of
3.95 percent.  U.S. Treasuries (USGG10YR)  yielded 2.7 percent yesterday.  Globally, Macquarie Capital completed $3.4 billion of
property deals in 2012 and has already exceeded that with $3.7
billion this year, with the number of transactions staying at
eight both years, Green said.  Investors increasingly prefer to do larger deals with fewer
managers, he said. They’re also moving to riskier investments,
including lower-quality properties, those that need some
refurbishment or even development, as prices at the top end
climb, he said.  Major Deals  Among Macquarie’s biggest transactions since the start of
2012 have been the A$1.9 billion ($1.8 billion) privatization of
Sydney-based Charter Hall Office REIT by the Canadian Public
Sector Pension Investment Board and GIC Pte affiliate Reco
Ambrosia Pte that completed in April 2012; a $500 million
raising from Abu Dhabi Investment Corp. to invest in warehouses
in Japan in partnership with Sydney-based  Goodman Group (GMG)  in
September 2012; and the A$1.75 billion split and restructure of
an Australian shopping mall joint venture between  Westfield
Group (WDC)  and AMP Capital Ltd. last October.  Interest is also growing in U.S. property investments,
where Macquarie has added “a couple of people,” Green said,
without specifying further.  U.S. commercial property  offered an annualized total return
of 10.8 percent in the year to June, compared with a five-year
average of 2.7, according to IPD.  CBRE’s Americas retail value index performed better than
any other region, jumping 8 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, reaching its pre-global financial crisis peak, the
broker said. The Americas office index was also the best
performer globally, according to CBRE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  