-- Madoff Money on Way ‘Fast as Possible,’ DOJ Fund Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-09-20T17:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/madoff-money-on-way-fast-as-possible-doj-fund-says.html
The Madoff Victim Fund controlled
by the U.S. Justice Department said it will distribute
$2.4 billion in forfeitures from the Jeffry Picower estate “as
fast as possible” once all eligible recipients are known.  The statement came in answer to calls for an update from
victims of the fraud, according to the Madoff Victim Fund’s
four-month-old website. The money is part of a $7.2 billion
settlement by the widow of one of  Bernard Madoff ’s largest
individual investors of a lawsuit accusing Picower of having
known of the fraud, which robbed customers of about
$17 billion in principal.  A federal judge approved the settlement in March 2012 and
the trustee liquidating Madoff’s bankrupt brokerage distributed
his $5 billion share of the Picower money a year ago, when a
former Madoff customer lost her legal bid to challenge her
exclusion from the payout.  Any perceived delay by the government in distributing its
share of the money relates to definitions of who is eligible,
according to the Justice Department’s fund. While the trustee
for the Madoff firm’s estate uses bankruptcy law to decide which
customers should be compensated, the fund must screen the
conman’s investors for victims, according to its website.  “The legal definition of ‘victim’ is different,” the fund
said. “The MVF must analyze carefully the circumstances under
which eligible customers are also ‘victims,’ as well as whether
there are ‘victims’ who were not recognized as ‘customers’ in
the bankruptcy proceedings.”  ‘Moving Forward’  While the fund said it can’t yet set a date for the payout,
“the process is moving forward toward necessary decisions in
the relatively near term.” Madoff customers can look for
updates on the site “approximately every 45 days, or as the MVF
has news to report.”  Picower died of a heart attack in the pool of his Palm
Beach, Florida, home. Madoff, after confessing to running the
largest Ponzi scheme in history, is serving a 150-year prison
term.  The Madoff brokerage liquidation case is Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 08-bk-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  