-- All Blacks Recall Weepu, Gamble on McCaw for Rugby Championship
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-20T00:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/all-blacks-recall-weepu-gamble-on-mccaw-for-rugby-championship.html
Top-ranked New Zealand recalled
scrum-half  Piri Weepu  for its final two Rugby Championship
matches and will take captain  Richie McCaw  to Argentina and
South Africa as he recovers from a knee injury.  Weepu, 30, hasn’t played for the All Blacks since being
dropped after the third Test against France in June and returns
to a 28-man squad in place of TJ Perenara, who was ruled out for
six weeks because of a stress fracture in his left leg.  McCaw injured a knee ligament Sept. 7 against Argentina and
had been expected to miss the rest of the southern hemisphere
championship, which New Zealand leads after winning its first
four games. Although the openside flanker won’t play against the
Pumas in La Plata on Sept. 28, he may be fit to face the
Springboks a week later, All Blacks coach  Steve Hansen  said.  “With Richie, we believe that the best chance of having
him available to play against South Africa is by having him
travel with the squad and getting hands-on treatment from the
All Blacks medical staff,” Hansen said in a statement.  A decision on whether or not McCaw is available for the
Oct. 5 match in Johannesburg will be made next week. If he’s not
available, fellow openside Matt Todd will join the team in South
Africa, the All Blacks said.  Tom Taylor was added to the squad in place of fly-half Dan Carter, who suffered a tournament-ending injury in the All
Blacks’ 29-15 win against the Springboks last weekend.  With two rounds left, the All Blacks lead the standings
with 18 points, four clear of South Africa. Australia is third
with four points, two ahead of Argentina, which today named
Patricio Albacete in a 26-man squad to face the All Blacks and
Wallabies after the second-rower recovered from a hamstring
injury picked up in the tournament opener.  NEW ZEALAND SQUAD:  Backs: Israel Dagg,  Ben Smith , Julian Savea, Charles
Piutau, Ma’a Nonu,  Conrad Smith , Aaron Cruden, Tom Taylor,
Beauden Barrett, Tawera Kerr-Barlow,  Aaron Smith , Piri Weepu.  Forwards: Kieran Read, Richie McCaw, Sam Cane,  Liam Messam ,
Steven Luatua, Samuel Whitelock, Brodie Retallick, Jeremy
Thrush,  Wyatt Crockett ,  Ben Franks , Owen Franks, Charlie
Faumuina, Tony Woodcock, Andrew Hore, Dane Coles, Keven Mealamu.  ARGENTINA SQUAD: Horacio Agulla, Patricio Albacete, Marcos
Ivan Ayerza, Marcelo Bosch, Manuel Carizza, Felipe Contepomi,
Agustin Creevy, Tomas Cubelli, Julio Farias Cabello, Juan Martin
Fernandez Lobbe, Santiago Fernandez, Juan Figallo, Mariano
Galarza, Lucas Gonzalez Amorosino, Eusebio Guinazu, Juan Martin
Hernandez, Juan Jose Imhoff, Martin Landajo, Juan Manuel
Leguizamon, Nahuel Lobo, Benjamin Macome, Pablo Matera, Juan
Pablo Orlandi, Federico Nicolas Sanchez, Gonzalo Tiesi, Joaquin
Tuculet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  