-- Allegiant Falls as 15% of Flights Parked Over Jet Slides
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-09-20T21:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/allegiant-to-park-almost-half-of-jet-fleet-to-fix-slides.html
Allegiant Travel Co. (ALGT)  slumped the
most since July after the low-cost airline canceled 15 percent
of its flights today following the grounding of all its Boeing
Co. MD-80s to ensure emergency slides meet safety standards.  The airline will move 16 of today’s 18 canceled flights to
tomorrow, when it expects to complete a full schedule,  Brian
Davis , a spokesman, said on a conference call today. The company
hasn’t determined how the parked planes will affect flights this
weekend or early next week, its busiest period.  The MD-80s that make up 85 percent of Allegiant’s fleet
have an average age of about 23 years, according to company
regulatory filings. The Las Vegas-based carrier offers low fares
and few amenities on its flights to holiday destinations.  “It was our decision to take the aircraft out of  service 
and remedy the problem,” Davis said in an interview.  Allegiant fell 4.9 percent to $97.91 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest drop since July 23. The stock has gained
33 percent this year.  Allegiant found the problem after slides were deployed
during an emergency evacuation of a plane taxiing for departure
from  Las Vegas  on Sept 16, Davis said on the call.  The  Federal Aviation Administration , which learned of the
problem while investigating the deployment, directed Allegiant
to immediately report the inspection status of all slides
installed on its MD-80 fleet, Ian Gregor, an FAA spokesman said
in an e-mail.  The airline discovered during those inspections that it
hadn’t met more stringent maintenance standards it agreed to
previously with the FAA that required it to overhaul slides more
than 15 years old each year, Davis said in the interview. The
company instead had been doing the work every three years, which
met the manufacturer’s required timeline, he said.  Manufacturer’s Guidelines  Fifteen MD-80s were operating today with four compliant
slides each, he said. Davis didn’t say how many slides have been
found that didn’t meet the overhaul standard. Non-compliant
slides must be sent back to the manufacturer for the work, which
takes about five business days.  Each plane has four slides, and all of them may have
different inspection dates, Davis said. Allegiant is buying new
slides that it can find on the market and has added an
unspecified number of workers to handle calls to and from
passengers.  He couldn’t say how many passengers are affected by the
flight cancellations and delays. The airline is compensating
passengers with up to a $200 credit toward another Allegiant
flight, based on the length of their delay.  Allegiant also operates six Boeing 757s and three Airbus
A319s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  