-- Ally Says Santander Stole Trade Secrets for Chrysler Job
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-09-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/ally-says-santander-stole-trade-secrets-for-chrysler-job.html
A joint venture of a  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  unit and Chrysler Group LLC was accused in a
lawsuit by Ally Financial Inc. of violating a copyright on loan
forms to avoid a $150 million accounting penalty.  Ally sued Santander Consumer USA Inc., claiming copyright
infringement and misappropriation of  trade secrets . Ally asked a
federal court in Detroit to prevent the venture, Chrysler
Capital, from “imitating, copying or making use of” the
copyrighted forms.  Santander “elected to take a short cut rather than do the
hard work that was required to develop the comprehensive,
foundational auto finance platform needed to service the
Chrysler dealerships and consumers on the scale contemplated by,
and contracted with, Chrysler,” Ally said in the complaint
filed Sept. 13 in federal court in  Detroit .  Ally claims that a former employee hired by Santander
“took several proprietary documents when he left Ally,”
including the company’s “Retail Procedures Manual.” Ally, the
Detroit-based auto lender, is seeking to repay a U.S. bailout of
$17.2 billion.  Chrysler Capital, which began operating May 1, finances car
and light-truck purchases and provides dealers with wholesale
loans for buying vehicles from the manufacturer. Chrysler
allowed its agreement with Ally to expire at the end of April.  Michael Palese, a Chrysler Group spokesman, declined to
comment on the lawsuit. Laurie Kight, a spokeswoman for
Santander Consumer USA, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message yesterday seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  v. Santander Consumer USA
Inc., 13-cv-13929, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  