-- American Water Sees Expansion Driven by Wastewater
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-09-20T15:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/american-water-sees-expansion-driven-by-wastewater.html
American Water Works Co. (AWK) , the
largest publicly traded water company in the U.S., sees its
growth being spurred by expanding wastewater services as systems
age and municipalities juggle competing demands for funds.  “You’ll see more of our growth, probably an acceleration
of it, being driven by wastewater,” Chief Executive Officer
Jeffry Sterba said in a phone interview yesterday. He’s also in
talks to treat the resulting waste from the vast volumes of
water required by shale explorers for hydraulic fracturing.  Handling wastewater for cities and other utilities accounts
for about 3 percent of the Voorhees, New Jersey-based company’s
regulated sales, Sterba said. In 2012,  regulated revenue was
$2.52 billion , 88 percent of total sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. About half of sales from the non-regulated division, which includes revenue from oil and natural
gas companies, is tied to wastewater services.  American Water, which serves 14 million people in more than
30 states, has made 10 acquisitions this year on top of 16 in
2012, more than the previous four years combined, Sterba said.
Bidding to take over municipal water networks will intensify as
local governments shed century-old systems they find too
expensive to maintain, he said.  Sterba declined to give a target for wastewater expansion.
The company has a goal of increasing earnings per share by 7 to
10 percent annually. It doesn’t plan to issue equity under
“normal operating conditions for the foreseeable future”
unless a large acquisition is considered, Chief Financial
Officer Susan Story said in the interview.  Spending Needed  The U.S. government predicts as much as $1 trillion in
water and wastewater upgrades are needed by 2020. Cities face
competing needs from libraries, schools, police departments and
often pension plans just as water and wastewater systems need
replacing.  Like the second-biggest publicly traded water company  Aqua
America Inc. (WTR) , American Water sees a boon from fracking, the
technique that’s revived U.S. oil and gas output. Producers in
the Marcellus and Utica shales in  Pennsylvania , West Virginia
and  Ohio  will spend as much as $5 billion over the next 20 years
for the vast volumes of water needed to fracture rock deep
underground and Sterba is signing agreements to deliver it by
pipe, rather than by truck. He’s also in talks to treat the
resulting waste.  The company sees a potential $2 billion to $5 billion
market for energy company water services during the next two
decades, Sterba said.  “It’s not a huge part of our business, but a significantly
growing part of our business,” Sterba said.  Shares of American Water Works fell 1.4 percent to $40.03
at 11:04 a.m. in New York. They have climbed 7.8 percent so far
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  