-- Angela Merkel’s Next Road Trip
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-20T10:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/angela-merkel-s-next-road-trip.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
deserves to be re-elected this weekend. If she is, as expected,
she owes Europe a speech on how she plans to secure the future
of the union and its currency, the euro.  This won’t come naturally for “Mutti,” or Mom, as Germans
like to call her. She doesn’t do charisma, and she abhors the
kind of visionary politics implied by a Big Speech on Europe.
Indeed, Merkel is a paradox: Popular at home and a heavyweight
among European leaders, she has failed to deliver any major
economic reforms during her eight years in office, has no
discernible foreign policy, and has blocked the adoption of most
measures that would resolve the euro crisis.  If Merkel wins, she will face expectations across  Europe  to
make decisions that will be unpopular at home. Merkel will
undoubtedly resist, but she might do better to respond with a
speech that lays out a plan to fix the euro’s unfinished
architecture.  Europe needs this speech for two reasons. The first is that
Merkel’s firefighting policies have managed to keep the euro
area together, but at a cost to the European Union; the “ever-closer” integration that has been under way since the 1957
 Treaty  of  Rome  is in question. Merkel may be the only person who
can credibly restore a sense of direction to the union. The
second is that financial markets, investors, Greeks, Spaniards
and others need to know that Europe’s most important economy is
committed to securing the euro area’s future.  With apologies to the chancellor’s speechwriters (though
we’re available), here are some points she should cover.  Germany, to borrow from European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi , will do “whatever it takes” to secure the euro -
- and other euro-area members must do so, too. All 17 countries
must recognize that they have a choice to make: Either pool risk
and responsibility or live with a euro perpetually exposed to
the risk of breakup.  Merkel should deal first with the responsibility part, her
comfort zone.  Greece ,  Spain ,  Italy  and others struggling with
oversize debt burdens and trade deficits must press ahead with
the reforms required to make their countries competitive. Their
progress will determine the speed at which risk is pooled.  To keep moral hazard and potential transfers in check,
Europe needs a clear framework for future bailouts, clarifying
how investors will be expected to share the cost with taxpayers.
Merkel also needs to make the case for a functioning banking
union that includes a single supervisor, a single resolution
mechanism and the fiscal capacity to make capital injections.  The next step must be debt relief. At least four euro-area
governments, with a combined debt of almost 3 trillion euros,
have no hope of reducing their debt obligations to less than 60
percent of gross domestic product, the level the EU has defined
as prudent. These economies won’t be healthy until that debt
burden is relieved and Merkel should make clear this can be done
if the countries reform as asked.  Some system of fiscal transfers in times of crisis is
essential, and the best mechanism for this in Europe is an
 unemployment-insurance  fund to help those who lose their jobs in
a downturn. Merkel cannot commit to creating euro bonds, the
ultimate guarantee that the currency will need. But she should
make clear that option is open, at the end of the process.  So much for the substance. Where should she deliver it? We
propose a road trip: Merkel could take her speech around Europe,
spelling out what will be required of each audience and what it
has to gain. (How to travel? A bus might fit Merkel’s down-to-earth style.)  In Berlin, for example, she needs to explain why  Germany 
must give up its  opposition  to collective funding for a banking
union. In  Athens , Merkel can spell out that pushing forward with
stalled privatizations and fully implementing the International
Monetary Fund’s bailout requirements is a prerequisite for the
reward of debt relief. In  Madrid , she can talk about the need to
restructure the country’s banks. In Paris, she can focus on the
need for labor-market reform.  Merkel has been lucky so far with her incremental approach
to  Europe’s debt crisis . But events can get quickly and
unexpectedly out of control. A permanent solution is necessary,
and the next German chancellor is the only person in Europe who
can credibly set out a plan to reach it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 