-- Apple Sticks With Samsung for IPhone Chip, IFixit Says
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-09-20T17:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/apple-sticks-with-samsung-for-iphone-chip-ifixit-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPhone 5s uses a
microprocessor manufactured by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , IFixit
said, countering speculation that the world’s most-valuable
technology company would move orders away from its largest
competitor.  The iPhone 5s’s new A7 processor was made by Apple’s South
Korean rival, according to a tear down of the handset by IFixit,
which performs analysis of consumer electronics and sells repair
parts. Applications processors are the main chip in smartphones
and run all of the software that enable users to play games,
send messages and more. Samsung has made all the previous chips
in Apple’s A range of processors for the iPhone and iPad.  The decision to stick with Samsung underscores how
difficult it is for Apple to reduce its reliance on the company
that has become its biggest threat in the $280 billion
smartphone business. Analysts and media reports have speculated
that Apple would switch to using Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. for the chip because of the rivalry.  Apple and Samsung are entangled in patent lawsuits
globally. Samsung, the world’s largest phone maker, is also the
biggest producer of memory chips, flat-panel displays and is
trying to expand into the made-to-order chip business to compete
with TSMC.  “Apple is saying Samsung has the best solution and as much
as we’d like to diversify, we’re not willing to compromise the
product,” Kyle Wiens, founder of IFixit, said in an interview.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Chris Goodhart , a spokeswoman
for Samsung, declined to comment.  Future Shifts  Apple could still switch to TSMC down the line, Wiens said.
TSMC, which is the biggest custom maker of chips,
Globalfoundries Inc. and  United Microelectronics Corp. (2303)  are all
vying for orders as other chip companies and device makers bow
out of building their own components.  “Everyone is still expecting it to be TSMC at some point,
it’s just a matter of when,” Wiens said. “When is not now.”  The iPhone 5s went on sale today worldwide, along with a
cheaper new smartphone called the 5c. The debut of the handsets
attracted long lines of shoppers globally. Opening-weekend sales
are crucial to boosting Apple after almost a year without
releasing a new device.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net  