-- Ara Sinks in Mexico City on Concern New Tax Will Cut Home Sales
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-09-20T19:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/ara-sinks-in-mexico-city-on-concern-new-tax-will-cut-home-sales.html
Consorcio Ara SAB, Mexico’s best-performing homebuilder in 2013, headed for its first weekly drop
this month amid concern that President Enrique Pena Nieto’s
proposed tax changes will reduce sales.  Ara  fell  3.2 percent to 5.54 pesos at 2:09 p.m. in Mexico
City, pushing its decline since Sept. 13 to 3.7 percent. It was
the worst performer among the four stocks on the country’s
Habita Index of homebuilders, which sank 2.8 percent today and
is down 3.4 percent this week.  Pena Nieto is proposing a new value-added tax on home
sales, mortgages and rents that Credit Suisse Group AG estimates
would reduce the purchasing power of potential buyers by about
28 percent. The levy is included in a package of legislation he
sent to Congress Sept. 8 as part of an effort to increase the
country’s tax revenue and lessen its dependence on oil income.  Passage of the new taxes would be a “negative catalyst”
for the entire homebuilding industry, Credit Suisse analysts
Eugenio Amador and Julian Bravo Lozano wrote in a research note
e-mailed late yesterday. Lawmakers will probably amend Pena
Nieto’s bill before approving the changes because as written
they would be “so detrimental to the sector,” the analysts
wrote.  Mexico ’s biggest homebuilders -- Desarrolladora Homex SAB,
Corp. Geo SAB and Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB -- are already
preparing to restructure debt after their cash balances
plummeted. Geo and Urbi have been suspended from Mexican stock-exchange trading for failing to file second-quarter results.
Homex fell 1.9 percent today, pushing this week’s drop to 2.8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  