-- Marchionne Said to Hire Obama Car Czar Bloom for Chrysler
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2013-09-20T16:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/marchionne-said-to-hire-obama-car-czar-bloom-for-chrysler.html
Fiat SpA Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  hired  Ron Bloom , who helped run President
 Barack Obama ’s  auto-industry  team, to advise the carmaker on
buying the rest of Chrysler Group LLC, people familiar with the
matter said.  Bloom, now a  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  vice chairman, will assist the
Fiat CEO in trying to strike a deal with the United Auto
Workers’ retiree health-care trust, the only other shareholder
in Chrysler, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. Marchionne needs an agreement to
complete his takeover of the U.S. auto manufacturer.  At the same time that he seeks concessions on behalf of the
Fiat boss, Bloom is advising Detroit retirees fighting benefit
cuts in the city’s $18 billion bankruptcy.  The unrelated roles mean Bloom, 58, will be defending
worker benefits in Detroit while trying to trim them at
Chrysler. He’s had experience in both arenas. The Lazard banker
with a Harvard Business School degree worked with corporate
clients on hundreds of bankruptcies and also spent 13 years
advising the  United Steelworkers  union president.  Judi Mackey, a Lazard spokesman, confirmed the Detroit
role. She declined to comment on the  Fiat (F)  position.  Bloom’s new mandates reflect his longstanding ties to the
auto industry and place him on opposite sides of the table from
officials he worked with in an earlier era.  Auto Bailout  The Detroit bankruptcy role pits Bloom against Detroit
Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr, one of the lawyers for Chrysler and
Marchionne when Bloom helped lead the $80 billion bailout that
saved General Motors Co. and Chrysler in 2009. Andrew Yearley,
who negotiated opposite Bloom for the UAW during the Chrysler
bankruptcy, now will be his partner in Detroit.  Bloom and Yearley will provide financial advice to the
committee representing Detroit retirees in the bankruptcy case.  At Fiat, Marchionne, 61, has spent the past four years
seeking to unify the companies so they can better compete with
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , GM and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  A fully integrated
automaker would feature the mass-market Fiat, Chrysler, Jeep and
Dodge brands, along with high-end Maserati and Ferrari cars.  Marchionne first must reach a deal that resolves a
valuation dispute with the trust, known as a voluntary employee
beneficiary association. The U.S. carmaker may file initial
public offering documents this week with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to list a 16.6 percent stake. The trust,
which owns 41.5 percent of Chrysler, has the legal right to
initiate the sale under the terms of its holding.  2009 Work  Bloom worked closely with Marchionne in 2009 when the Fiat
CEO negotiated with the  U.S. Treasury  to acquire a controlling
stake in Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler. A representative
at Turin, Italy-based Fiat declined to comment.  Bloom has been working with Marchionne for months and is
helping him understand the priorities of the UAW and the health-care trust, one of the people said. Because of his longstanding
ties to labor, Bloom has also served as a backdoor channel to
the UAW, the person said.  Fiat currently owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler. It started
accumulating the stock in 2009, building on an initial 20
percent holding received as part of a government-backed bailout
of the U.S. carmaker, which was losing as much as $100 million a
day at the time. The trust received its stake as part of the
rescue package.  Market Value  Marchionne’s ultimate goal is to use the IPO process to set
a market value for the trust’s holding and force the labor group
back to the bargaining table, people familiar with the matter
said earlier this month. The trust has been holding out on
selling its Chrysler stake, seeking at least $1 billion more
than Fiat wants to pay. The two sides are in court over the
value of the initial shares that Fiat has options to buy.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. will be the lead underwriter of the
offering, said a person with knowledge of the plan. The person
asked not to be identified because the preparations are private.  Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment.  Buying the trust’s 41.5 percent stake will help Marchionne
access Chrysler’s $11.9 billion in cash to fund a turnaround in
Europe, where Fiat is losing money and market share.  Fitch
Ratings  this week confirmed its negative outlook on Fiat.  Detroit Pensions  In Detroit, Bloom will need to argue against trimming
benefits. The pensioners have said the Michigan Constitution
protects the unfunded benefits from proposed cuts of as much as
90 percent in the $18 billion bankruptcy. Orr and his boss,
Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , have countered that under U.S.
bankruptcy law the police, fire and city retirees are unsecured
creditors, like bondholders, and aren’t exempt from potential
cuts.  Bill Nowling, a spokesman for Orr, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Bloom rejoined Lazard in February 2012 after resigning in
August 2011 from a White House post advising Obama on
manufacturing policy. Orr, 55, who worked on the Chrysler
restructuring, left the  law firm  Jones Day in March to take the
job overseeing Snyder’s takeover of Detroit.  The industry bailout that Bloom helped lead and Orr advised
on has produced a U.S. auto industry with sales on track for a
fourth straight year of annual increases. Chrysler has reported
41 straight months of gains, and  GM (GM)  has said it expects a modest
improvement over its $6.19 billion in  earnings  in 2012 as it
heads for its fourth consecutive annual profit. Next year, U.S.
auto sales are projected to exceed 16 million for the first time
since 2007.  Obama, Unions  Bloom became Obama’s top manufacturing adviser after the
auto bailouts. Before joining the bailout team in 2009, Bloom
was an adviser to the United Steelworkers union and a
manufacturing specialist at Hamilton, Bermuda-based Lazard.  During the auto bailouts, Bloom argued that pensions for
UAW members deserved protection even as bondholders and banks
faced cuts because the workers were necessary to build cars and
trucks once the companies exited court protection. A bankruptcy
judge supported that position.  Detroit’s retired public workers will be represented by
nine people, including at least two union officials, on a panel
that may negotiate with the city, a U.S. trustee monitoring the
bankruptcy decided last month.  Orr said in a July interview that a retiree committee is
needed because, unlike union members or bond investors, the
pensioners don’t have a strong organization backing them.  Constitutional Question  Detroit retirees joined with unions earlier this month in
claiming the bankruptcy law that lets municipalities seek court
protection from creditors violates the U.S. Constitution.  The groups, which want the bankruptcy case thrown out in a
hearing next month, also point to a line in the Michigan
Constitution that says public-worker pensions are a contractual
right that cannot be undone.  The retirees argue that Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code  can’t trump a state constitution. The groups asked U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to find either that the
bankruptcy filing doesn’t meet the tests set out in Chapter 9 or
that Chapter 9 itself violates the U.S. Constitution because it
interferes with Michigan’s sovereignty.  In business cases, where Orr has more experience, federal
courts have routinely upheld the power of bankruptcy judges to
impair or cancel contractual rights, even those protected by
state laws.  Before joining  Jones Day , Orr held several U.S. government
jobs, including director of the Justice Department unit that
oversees bankruptcy cases and trustees, according to the law
firm.  Union Adviser  As an adviser to the United Steelworkers for 13 years, and
before that as a manufacturing specialist at Lazard and his own
boutique investment firm, Bloom participated in more than 100
bankruptcies and restructurings, trying to balance the realities
of business with the need for jobs, he said in a 2010 interview.  Marchionne praised Bloom in a 2011 interview for working
around the clock to complete the deal on Chrysler in 2009,
saying he once had a conversation with the banker on the steps
of the U.S. Treasury building during a cigarette break.  “I asked him: What the hell are you doing here?”
Marchionne said at the time. Bloom “turned around and he said,
‘when I die, I want to be able to put on the tombstone: he made
the difference.’”  The Detroit case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  