-- Arctic Sea Ice Melted Less This Year Than 2012’s Record
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-09-20T16:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/arctic-sea-ice-melted-less-this-year-than-2012-s-record.html
Arctic sea ice rebounded in 2013
from last year’s record melting season, though scientists warned
that the long-term trend is for the ocean to become increasingly
ice-free in the summer.  The sea ice covering the Arctic Ocean melts every summer
through mid-September before freezing over winter. This year,
the ice cover fell to 5.1 million square kilometers (1.97
million square miles) at its lowest, the U.S. National Snow and
Ice Data Center at the University of  Colorado  at Boulder said
today in an e-mailed  statement . That’s 50 percent more than
2012’s minimum extent, the lowest in data going back to 1979.  “While this is a very welcome recovery from last year’s
record low, the overall trend is still decidedly downwards,”
NSIDC Director Mark Serreze said in the statement. “We could be
looking at summers with essentially no sea ice on the Arctic
Ocean only a few decades from now.”  Researchers say Arctic sea ice retreat is one of the most
visible signs that the planet’s climate is warning. The
increased melting is opening the Arctic Ocean to more shipping
and exploration for oil and minerals. At the same time, it
serves to multiply climate change, because the dark exposed
ocean absorbs more of the sun’s heat than the reflective ice.  This year’s summer low was reached on Sept. 13, before the
ocean began to freeze again, the NSIDC said. Its data are
preliminary and it will publish a full analysis next month.  “It’s not in any way a recovery, it’s just a rebound from
last year,” Walt Meier, a research scientist with the U.S.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, said in an
interview from Greenbelt,  Maryland  earlier this month.  “There are two schools of thought. One is that there’s a
tipping point where you’ll go off a cliff and head very rapidly
towards ice-free summers,” Meier said. “Last year was a data
point that hinted at that. And there’s another school that says
it’ll be more of a linear trend with ups and downs,” he said.
“I’m thinking it’ll be more linear -- but an accelerating
linear trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net  