-- Argentine GDP Surged More-Than-Expected 8.3% in Quarter
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-20T19:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/argentine-gdp-surged-more-than-expected-8-3-in-quarter.html
Argentina’s  economy  expanded at the
fastest pace in about two years last quarter, boosting the
chances that holders of securities linked to the country’s
growth will be paid as much as $3 billion next year.  Gross domestic product expanded 8.3 percent from a year
earlier, according to a report released today by the national
statistics institute, compared with the 7.0 percent median
estimate of nine economists in a Bloomberg  survey .  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is fueling growth
by boosting spending and subsidies to fuel consumption ahead of
congressional elections next month. Argentina’s economy needs to
grow more than 3.22 percent to trigger an annual payment to
holders of the country’s GDP warrants.  The International Monetary Fund in February censured
Argentina for failing to report accurate data on inflation and
GDP. Opposition lawmakers publish a monthly inflation report
that shows consumer prices rising at more than double the 10.5
percent rate reported by the government.  Lawmakers opposed to the government released a report
yesterday based on 12 forecasts by private economists that
estimated growth at 5.4 percent in the second quarter. The
economy grew 2 percent from the first quarter, they said.  International Reserves  “The government needs to stop lying because that will cost
us about $3.8 billion in payments next year, and the truth is
that we don’t have enough money,” opposition lawmaker Federico
Pinedo told reporters yesterday. “This payment would lead to a
significant drop in  international reserves , would mean a biggest
unbalance and we are concerned about the solvency of the central
bank.”  Central bank reserves have fallen to $35.1 billion
yesterday from about $45 billion a year ago.  Payment for GDP warrants based on this year’s growth will
be made in December 2014, according to the bond prospectus.  Argentina posted a current account surplus of $650 million
in the second quarter, compared with a revised surplus of $1.2
billion a year earlier.  The peso, whose rate is managed by the central bank, has
weakened 15 percent this year. The currency was little changed
today at 5.7604 per dollar.  Argentina, the world’s biggest exporter of soybean
derivatives, produced 49.3 million metric tonnes during the
2012-2013 soybean season, the second-largest ever harvest,
according to preliminary estimates by the Agriculture Ministry.  Export revenue from grains and oil seeds was $18.4 billion
as of Sept. 13, compared with $23.1 billion in the whole of
2012, according to the Association of Grain Exporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Buenos Aires at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  