-- Tarullo Calls Rules Reducing Short-Term Funding Risk a Priority
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-09-20T16:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/tarullo-calls-rules-reducing-short-term-funding-risk-a-priority.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said setting policies to contain the risk of fire sales
in short-term funding markets should be the “highest priority”
as policy makers consider additional steps to reduce the danger
of another financial crisis.  Short-term wholesale funding such as  repurchase agreements 
served as an “accelerant” in the financial crisis, Tarullo,
the Fed governor responsible for financial regulation, said
today in a speech laying out five proposals to guide policies
aimed at reducing systemic risk.  “Specific policies to counteract the structural
vulnerabilities created by short-term wholesale funding are a
priority, not just for the stability of our large prudentially
regulated institutions, but for the financial system as a
whole,” Tarullo said in prepared remarks at  Yale University  in
New Haven, Connecticut.  He did not speak about  monetary policy  or his economic
outlook in the text of his remarks.  Tarullo said regulators are still trying to come up with
tools that they could adjust through economic cycles in response
to building risks. For now, such “time-varying” tools have a
“fair number of significant issues,” he said. For one, he
said, regulators would have to have reliable measures of when
systemic risk was rising or falling.  Because these tools are still in development, regulators
might have to resort more to capital surcharges and supervisory
oversight, measures that don’t vary with the economic cycle,
Tarullo said. “It might be necessary to have through-the-cycle
constraints that strengthen financial stability at greater cost
to economic activity,” he said.  Monetary Policy  He also ruled out monetary policy, the raising and lowering
of  interest rates , as an effective variable response to
increased or waning risks.  “Monetary tightening will surely not be the correct
response to most instances of increasing leverage or asset
prices that raise macroprudential concerns,” Tarullo said.  The Fed and other U.S. financial regulators are working to
implement the Dodd-Frank Act three years after it became law.
President  Barack Obama  urged quicker progress on implementing
the industry overhaul in an Aug. 19 meeting with Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  and the leaders of other financial regulators.  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by Obama in July 2010,
expanded the central bank’s power to oversee the largest
financial institutions and gave regulators new tools aimed at
preventing a repeat of the 2007-2009 financial crisis. It
imposed new rules on derivatives, limits the ability of banks to
trade on their own account and new rules for mortgages.  Tarullo, 60, has led the Fed’s effort to implement the
Dodd-Frank Act, the biggest overhaul of financial regulation
since the 1930s, and pushed to raise capital standards for the
largest banks, subject them to annual stress tests and boost
scrutiny of their lending and trading practices.  Tarullo previously was a professor at the  Georgetown
University Law Center  in Washington and an aide to President
 Bill Clinton . He was nominated by Obama and has served on the
Fed board since 2009. His term ends in 2022.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  