-- Ringgit Leads Asian Currencies Higher This Week on Fed Decision
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-09-21T01:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/asian-currencies-set-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-a-year-on-fed.html
Asian currencies rallied this week,
led by Malaysia’s ringgit and Thailand’s baht, after the  Federal
Reserve  unexpectedly maintained monetary stimulus that’s led to
capital inflows to  emerging markets .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Sept. 18 more evidence of
a recovery in the world’s largest economy is needed before the
central bank starts paring its $85 billion a month of bond
purchases. Global funds bought $951 million more stocks than
they sold this week in Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand.  “Investors reversed positions built up across the board on
speculation about the stimulus reduction,” said Tohru Nishihama,
an economist covering emerging markets at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “But the Fed will eventually trim
stimulus, and investors will become more selective. The long-term trend of gradual dollar appreciation may remain intact.”  The ringgit strengthened 4 percent this week to 3.1650 per
dollar in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The  Thai baht  appreciated 2.9 percent to 30.96 and the
Indonesian rupiah gained 0.5 percent to 11,350. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, climbed 0.5 percent during
the five days to 115.84 in Singapore.  Bernanke Concern  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is concerned that the
rapid tightening of financial conditions in recent months could
damp growth, Bernanke said at a press conference in  Washington 
on Sept. 18. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg were predicting a
cut of $5 billion in the Fed’s monthly bond buying.  The Malaysian currency posted its biggest weekly gain since
the 1998 Asian financial crisis, helping the FTSE Bursa  Malaysia 
KLCI Index of shares climb 1.8 percent. The U.S. is Malaysia’s
fourth-largest overseas market. Shipments rose in July after a
five-month contraction.  “We are building up our portfolio to come back to a long
position on emerging currencies versus the dollar,” said
Philippe Jauer, chief investment officer for global fixed income
and currencies in Singapore at Amundi, which oversees about $1
trillion, said in an e-mail interview. “The Philippines,
Malaysia and Thailand are the first countries any investor
should come back to because the economic fundamentals are much
better than in India and Indonesia.”  RBI Policy  The  Reserve Bank  of India unexpectedly raised its benchmark
repurchase rate by a quarter percentage point to 7.5 percent
yesterday, the first increase since 2011. Governor  Raghuram
Rajan , who took office two weeks ago, is seeking to rein in
inflation that’s hurting the poor and dimming economic prospects.  The rupee dropped 0.8 percent to 62.2775 in Mumbai,
trimming the week’s gain to 1.9 percent. The S&P BSE Sensex
Index of shares fell 1.9 percent, after climbing 4.6 percent in
the previous four days.  The rupee and Indonesia’s rupiah have lost 12 percent and
15 percent this year against the dollar, respectively, as
investors fled nations with worsening current-account deficits.  “Asian currencies’ strength this week has a lot to do with
the Fed’s decision not to taper quantitative easing,” said
 Nizam Idris , the head of fixed income and currency strategy at
Macquarie Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “It gives countries with
worsening current accounts more time to get their houses in
order.”  Elsewhere in Asia, the Philippine peso rose 1.9 percent
this week to 43.037 per dollar. Vietnam’s dong traded at 21,115,
unchanged from the end of last week. South Korea’s markets are
shut for three days from Sept. 18 for public holidays, while
China and Taiwan are closed for two days from Sept. 19.  Hong
Kong  also had a public holiday yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  