-- Assad Submits Chemical Arms as UN Resolution Debate Nears
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-09-21T09:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/assad-submits-chemical-arms-list-amid-u-s-russia-tension.html
Syria  turned in an initial
inventory of its chemical weapons yesterday, in advance of U.S.-
Russian talks in the coming week on United Nations action to
compel the Arab nation to surrender its toxic arsenal.  The  Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons 
said yesterday it had “received an initial disclosure from the
Syrian government of its chemical weapons program.” A Sept. 14
U.S.-Russian agreement, which averted an American military
strike on President Bashar al-Assad’s regime, called for an
itemization of Syria’s poison gas stocks by today.  Ben Rhodes , White House deputy national security adviser,
said yesterday that it was “a positive step” for Syria to
submit the list within the period outlined in the agreement,
which calls for the Arab country to turn over its chemical
weapons to international control for eventual destruction.  The move came as the U.S.,  France  and the U.K. push for the
UN Security Council to adopt a resolution next week giving
international force to the terms of the Geneva accord between
the U.S. and  Russia .  Efforts to agree on a UN resolution encountered headwinds
from Russia, Assad’s strongest ally, which opposes any measure
that alludes to a threat of force.  “There need to be consequences for noncompliance,” Rhodes
told reporters on a conference call. “We would want to see the
strongest enforcement possible.”  Russia is also resisting any attempt to assign blame to
Assad’s regime for an Aug. 21 chemical attack that the U.S. says
killed 1,400 people, including more than 400 children.  Moving Quickly  The  Security Council  is set to negotiate on a resolution
next week, as world leaders travel to  New York  for the opening
of the UN General Assembly.  “We believe there needs to be a sense of urgency,” Rhodes
said. “We want to be moving as quickly as we can to get those
weapons under international control and to destroy them.”  The timetable has started to slip. The executive council of
the chemical weapons organization in  The Hague , which would
oversee Syria’s chemicals disarmament, said yesterday it has
postponed a meeting on Syria that was scheduled for tomorrow,
aiming for a new date in the middle of next week.  Comprehensive List  The OPCW will submit the initial document for review by its
executive council, of which the U.S. is a member, State
Department’s deputy spokeswoman, Marie Harf, said, declining to
comment further on whether Syria’s submission met requirements
of the U.S.-Russian agreement.  “Clearly, we said they needed to submit a comprehensive
list of their entire stockpile and programs,” Harf said. “But
we’ll have more to come, I’m sure, as we go through the list.”  Russia has had close ties with Syria since Assad’s father,
Hafez al-Assad, took power in a coup in 1970. Russia has been a
major arms provider to the regime and maintains its only
military base outside the former  Soviet Union  at Syria’s
Mediterranean port of Tartus.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  told reporters in
 Washington  that he pressed for a “firm and strong” UN
resolution in a “fairly long conversation” with Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  yesterday.  Assad is likely to stop complying if the UN Security
Council adopts a resolution that doesn’t threaten force against
his regime, said Firas Abi Ali, a London-based Middle East
analyst at research firm IHS.  Delaying Tactics  “Then you’ll start seeing delaying tactics as part of the
technical process,” he said by phone. “For now, while there is
a credible threat of force being used against them, they are
going to try and appear very reasonable.”  George Sabra, a member of the main Western-backed
opposition group, the Syrian National Coalition, said he had no
faith in Assad’s pledge to implement the agreement.  “Everybody knows about the credibility of the regime and
how it honors its obligations,” Sabra said in a televised
interview with SkyNews Arabiya. “There will be lists going and
delegations coming for months, and even for years, while the
regime continues committing crimes against humanity.”  With the threat of military action receding, West Texas
Intermediate crude for October delivery, which expired
yesterday, fell $1.72, or 1.6 percent, percent to $104.67 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Aug. 21. Prices slid 3.3 percent this week, the
biggest five-day drop since June.  Slow Destruction  In an interview that aired Sept. 18 on  Fox News , Assad said
his regime will abide by the convention banning chemical weapons
and won’t impose conditions. Syria’s government is willing to
discuss with international organizations the timeline for
destroying its stockpiles, Assad said, adding that some experts
estimate it would take a year to eliminate all of them.  In an indication of the challenge, a U.S. stockpile of
munitions armed with the same type of nerve gas used in Syria
last month is still stored in concrete bunkers at an Army depot
in Kentucky 30 years after the U.S. government promised to
destroy it.  Once a plan is in place for Syria, UN member states will
need to help carry it out because the world body and the
chemical weapons organization lack the resources do so on their
own.  The OPCW has only about 70 inspectors to visit an estimated
45 to 50 chemical weapons sites in Syria, and countries such as
the  Czech Republic ,  Japan  and Russia with expertise in disarming
chemical weapons would have to provide support, said a UN
diplomat who asked not to be identified because of the
sensitivity of the matter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Beirut at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  