-- AT&T Sees Third-Quarter Smartphone Sales Steady on Upgrade Plans
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/at-t-sees-third-quarter-smartphone-sales-near-previous-period.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-biggest U.S.
wireless carrier, said it will report third-quarter smartphone
sales similar to the 6.8 million it had from April to June,
aided by new upgrade programs.  The result will be a record for any third quarter in AT&T’s
history, the company said yesterday in a statement. Fourth-quarter smartphone upgrades will decline from a year earlier,
though, because some customers went ahead and got new phones
already.  AT&T began providing an option in July to pay for phones
and tablets on an installment plan, with the ability to upgrade
yearly. The promotion mimicked a service by T-Mobile US Inc.,
and  Verizon Wireless  and Sprint Corp. have since made similar
offers. The program will help Dallas-based AT&T expand its base
of smartphone users by 1 million this quarter, it said.  The company reported its third-quarter smartphone sales
estimate on the same day  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  debuted new iPhones, an
event that typically triggers a wave of upgrades among
smartphone users. As many as 6 million of the new models could
be sold worldwide in the first weekend, estimated  Gene Munster ,
an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  AT&T also said it expects to report a total of 10 million
subscribers to its U-verse television and Internet services,
with overall consumer landline sales growth similar to last
quarter’s 2.4 percent year-over-year expansion. The company,
which is scheduled to report third-quarter results Oct. 23, made
no change to its full-year forecasts.  AT&T said it is exploring the sale of some or all of its
cellular towers, meanwhile.  Bloomberg News  reported this week
that the company is working with TAP Advisors LLC and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. on the sale of the assets, which could fetch about
$5 billion. Possible buyers include SBA Communications Corp.,
Crown Castle International Corp. and American Tower Corp., a
person with knowledge of the matter said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  