-- Aussie Set for Fourth Weekly Drop Against Kiwi on Rate Outlooks
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-09-20T07:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/aussie-set-for-fourth-weekly-drop-against-kiwi-on-rate-outlooks.html
Australia’s dollar was set for a
fourth weekly decline against its  New Zealand  counterpart as
prospects for the nations’ monetary policies diverged.  Reserve Bank  of Australia board member  John Edwards  said in
an interview with the Australian Financial Review that he
prefers a weaker currency. The kiwi was near a four-month high
against the  U.S. dollar  after the  Federal Reserve  refrained from
tapering monetary stimulus that has propped up asset prices
worldwide. The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  said on Sept. 12 that
interest-rate increases will probably be required next year from
the all-time low of 2.5 percent as inflation picks up.  “The difference in the monetary-policy outlooks is very
clear: the RBA continues to signal a possible rate cut, while
New Zealand’s central bank has said it may raise rates next
year,” said Kengo Suzuki, the chief currency strategist in
 Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-biggest
financial group by market value. “Aussie-kiwi has some more
room to fall.”  Australia ’s currency fell 0.1 percent to NZ$1.1262 as of
4:53 p.m. in Sydney, having dropped 0.9 percent this week. It
earlier touched NZ$1.1255, the weakest since Aug. 1, when it
slid to as low as NZ$1.12, a level unseen since October 2008.  The Aussie rose 0.1 percent to 94.48 U.S. cents, extending
a gain this week to 2.2 percent. The kiwi added 0.2 percent to
83.90 U.S cents after reaching 84.36 yesterday, the strongest
since May 9. It has advanced 3.2 percent since Sept. 13.  Bond Yields  Ten-year Australian  bond yields  climbed six basis points to
3.94 percent, trimming a weekly decline to 15 basis points.
Three-year yields gained four basis points to 2.81 percent,
having fallen 11 basis points since Sept. 13. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Australia’s government will sell a new 2035 inflation-linked note via banks, the government funding arm said today in
an e-mailed statement. The issue will be the longest-maturity
note since the 1996 offering of indexed securities due in 2020,
official data show.  Traders are almost certain that the RBNZ will raise the
benchmark rate by April, overnight-index swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg show. There’s a 48 percent chance the RBA will lower
its benchmark rate, already at a record-low 2.5 percent, by
then, according to the figures.  The Fed maintained its $85 billion pace of monthly debt
purchases on Sept. 18, while economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  had projected it would dial down the quantitative-easing
program by $5 billion.  National Australia Bank Ltd. raised its forecasts on the
Australian and New Zealand currencies, saying the Aussie will
finish this year at 92 U.S. cents, compared with its previous
projection of 86. The kiwi will probably stand at 84 U.S. cents
at the year-end, up from the prior forecast of 78, NAB said.  Proxy Trades  The 60-day  rolling correlation  between the Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index and the Aussie climbed to 0.64, the
highest since October. The measure, which shows to what extent
two variables move together between zero and one, was 0.60 for
the kiwi and the Asian  Dollar Index .  The Asian Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 major
currencies excluding the yen, has rebounded 2.4 percent since
sliding to a three-year low on Aug. 28.  India ’s rupee and
Indonesia’s rupiah had slumped in the past three months on
concern tapering by the Fed would accelerate capital outflows
from  emerging markets .  “The Fed has a sort of thrown a lifeline to a lot of
emerging-market currencies, which see very high correlation
between EM FX and the Aussie and kiwi as a kind of proxy
trades,” Ray Attrill, the global co-head of currency strategy
at National Australia Bank in Sydney, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “To the extent that it’s just relieved
the downward pressure on those currencies for the time being,
it’s putting some upward pressure on the Aussie and kiwi.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  