-- Azeri Debate Gets Violent as Aliyev Opponent Ducks Bottle, Barbs
-- B y   B r a d   C o o k
-- 2013-09-20T09:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/azeri-debate-gets-violent-as-aliyev-opponent-ducks-bottle-barbs.html
Azerbaijan’s sole opposition
candidate for president endured screaming insults, fist-pounding
and a hurled bottle as he squared off against nine pro-government challengers in a  televised  debate.  Camil Hasanli escaped injury when Muasir Musavat party
leader Hafiz Haciyev’s bottle missile from 2 meters away came up
short and ricocheted off their round table late yesterday.
Haciyev was trying to stop Hasanli from criticizing President
 Ilham Aliyev  for the lavish villas he reportedly owns in Dubai.  “I will destroy you,” Haciyev screamed before hurling the
plastic container. “You let your daughter marry an Englishman.
You are trying to stage a revolution here with the help of the
English.”  Aliyev, 51, who succeeded his late father in disputed
elections 10 years ago, is seeking a third term in the Oct. 9
poll. The Caspian Sea country of 9 million predominately Shiite
Muslims, nestled between Russia, Iran and  Turkey , is the third-largest oil supplier in the former  Soviet Union .  Other candidates, including Aliyev’s proxy in the debate,
Ali Ahmadov, drowned out Hasanli, 61, as he raised a handful of
documents that he said showed some of Aliyev’s undeclared
business interests abroad.  “Dear viewers, you saw what kind of person Camil Hasanli
is,” Ahmadov shouted. “You saw his culture and morals.”  Ear Bounty  The National Council of Democratic Forces, a coalition of
opposition groups, nominated Hasanli, a history professor, just
last month. The alliance’s initial choice, Oscar-winning
screenwriter Rustam Ibrahimbayov, was disqualified for holding
Russian citizenship. Russia denied Ibrahimbayov’s request for a
quick annulment of his passport, saying the process may take as
long as a year by law.  The Washington Post  reported  in 2010, citing Dubai property
records, that Aliyev’s only son, then 12, bought nine waterfront
mansions on the Palm Jumeirah man-made island for a total of $44
million. Aliyev has never denied the report.  Azerbaijan ranks among the most repressive countries in the
world, in part for its intolerance toward opposition groups,
according to Freedom House, a Washington-based democracy
advocate partly funded by the U.S. government.  Aliyev’s government is engaged in a “deliberate” and
“abusive” strategy to limit dissent before the presidential
election,  Human Rights Watch  said Sept. 2. The New York-based
group also reported a “dramatic” deterioration in the
government’s record on freedom of expression, assembly, and
association in the last 18 months.  In February, Haciyev, the bottle thrower, offered $13,000
to any member of his party who would cut an ear off opposition
writer Akram Aylisli. He later rescinded the bounty under
international pressure, including from the U.S. embassy in Baku.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brad Cook in  St. Petersburg  at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  