-- Barclays Cybercrime Suspects Arrested Over $2.1 Million Theft
-- B y   S u z a n n a   R i n g
-- 2013-09-20T09:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/barclays-cybercrime-suspects-arrested-over-2-1-million-theft.html
London police arrested eight men in
connection to a 1.3 million pound ($2.1 million) computer-aided
robbery from a  Barclays Plc (BARC)  branch in the capital.  The money was taken from the Swiss Cottage branch via the
bank’s computer system in April, the Metropolitan Police said in
a statement today. Barclays has recovered a “significant
amount” of the stolen funds, police said.  The men, who are between 24 and 47, were arrested yesterday
and today and are in custody in a London police station.
Searches are being carried out at addresses across London where
cash, jewelery, drugs and credit cards have been found.  It’s the second time in a week that London police announced
arrests over suspected bank hacking. The Met said on Sept. 13 it
detained twelve men over an attempt to hack into  Banco Santander
SA (SAN)  computers, preventing a theft potentially worth millions of
pounds.  Banks face cyber-security threats from increasingly
sophisticated hackers trying to steal customer identities or
access funds. Andy Haldane,  executive director  for financial
stability at the  Bank of England , told lawmakers in June that
regulators should “take a close look at the state of
preparedness” of major banks to protect against cyber-attacks.  In the Barclays case, police said a man posing as an
information technology engineer had installed a device in the
local branch that allowed the group to remotely transfer money
to accounts.  “Barclays has no higher priority than the protection and
security of our customers against the actions of would-be
fraudsters,” Alex Grant, a managing director for fraud
prevention at the bank, said in a statement. “We can confirm
that no customers suffered financial loss as a result of this
action.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Suzi Ring in  London  at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net  