-- BASF Agrees to Buy Verenium as It Attacks DuPont, Novozymes
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-09-20T14:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/basf-agrees-to-buy-verenium-as-it-attacks-dupont-novozymes.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest
chemical maker, agreed to buy  Verenium Corp. (VRNM)  to pursue growth in
biotechnology and close the gap on market leaders DuPont Co. and
 Novozymes A/S (NZYMB)  in the $3 billion industrial enzyme industry.  The cash purchase of the San Diego-based company for $4 a
share, or about $62 million including debt, gives BASF a gene
pool that can be combined with its existing enzymes, it said in
a statement today. The price paid is 56 percent higher than the
six-month average price of Verenium.  ‘We believe this deal should enhance the growth profile of
BASF’s enzymes franchise, and herald a significant longer-term
shift in the competitive landscape in industrial enzymes and
agricultural enzymes for Novozymes and DuPont,’’ Laurence Alexander, an analyst at Jefferies, said in a note.  While small in size, BASF’s acquisition is a sign that
Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock is committed to breaking the
strangehold of the two leading rivals. Chemical companies use
enzyme technology to produce ingredients and enhance the
performance of products such as animal feeds and detergents.
Verenium, which has collected microbes from diverse environments
including volcanoes and rainforests, brings 10 industrial
enzymes derived from bacteria and fungi.  “BASF, by buying Verenium is gaining market share, and
more importantly access to a large and diverse enzyme library
that we anticipate will expand and accelerate BASF’s product
offerings,” said Mark Emalfarb, CEO of  Dyadic International
Inc.. (DYAI)  The enzyme platform provider received a $6 million upfront
payment from the German company as part of cooperation accord.
Dyadic’s so-called C1 enzyme technology platform and Verenium’s
gene library “are highly complementary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  