-- BB&T Loses Court Bid to Recoup $688 Million in Taxes
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-09-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/bb-t-loses-court-bid-to-recoup-688-million-in-taxes.html
BB&T Corp. (BBT)  lost a bid to recover at
least $688 million in taxes and penalties as a federal judge
ruled a series of transactions with  Barclays Plc (BARC) , aimed at
generating tax credits, lacked economic substance.  U.S. Court of Federal Claims Judge Thomas Wheeler in
 Washington  yesterday slammed BB&T, Barclays and other
participants in the transactions, including the KPMG consultancy
and the Sidley Austin LLP law firm, for conduct he said was
“nothing short of reprehensible.” BB&T “engaged in an
economically meaningless  tax shelter ” Wheeler said.  Those firms followed a path “rife with its conflicts of
interest, questionable pro forma legal and accounting opinions,
and a taxpayer with a seemingly insatiable appetite for tax
avoidance,” Wheeler wrote, upholding the  Internal Revenue
Service ’s rejection of transactions from August 2002 through
April 5, 2007.  BB&T said it expects to book a $250 million charge this
quarter because of the ruling, at least the second charge the
bank has taken in connection with the case. In February, BB&T
announced a $281 million charge after  Bank of New York Mellon 
Corp., lost a similar lawsuit involving deals with Barclays
designed to generate tax savings.  Bank’s Liability  This quarter’s charge and previous reserves fully address
the bank’s liability for the disallowed transaction, and the
company will remain profitable in the period, BB&T Chief
Executive Officer Kelly S. King said in a statement.  “We are surprised and very disappointed with the court’s
ruling and continue to firmly believe that this was a legitimate
financing transaction,” King said. “We will continue to review
the decision and evaluate our legal options.”  BB&T was seeking to recover payments made after the IRS
objected to the bank’s use of foreign tax credits and other
deductions. The lender has said it initially complied with a
2010 IRS demand for $892 million in taxes, penalties and
interest.  The Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based then sought to
recover money through its lawsuit, filed in March 2010. It
booked some of the anticipated proceeds as a receivable,
according to a November filing, meaning that it expected a
recovery.  BB&T sought $688 million in its complaint while Wheeler
said in his ruling that the amount at issue is $772 million.  Shares Climb  BB&T’s shares have climbed 20 percent to $35.05 this year,
lagging behind the 25 percent gain in the 81-company Standard
and Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  Manuel Goncalves, a KPMG spokesman, declined to comment on
yesterday’s decision, citing a confidentiality obligation to the
firm’s clients. Kellie Mullins, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based
Sidley Austin, didn’t immediately reply yesterday to phone
messages, and no one responded to a request for comment left on
Barclays media relations line in  New York .  The “ruling sends a strong message that no matter how
sophisticated the scheme, these sham tax shelters will not
stand,” Kathryn Keneally, assistant attorney general for the
 Justice Department ’s tax division, said in a statement.  Wheeler’s decision rejected the validity of an elaborate
set of financial exchanges known as a Structured Trust
Advantaged Repackaged Securities, or STARS, transaction. The
arrangements with BB&T and  BNY Mellon (BK)  were among six sets of
STARS transactions Barclays entered into with U.S. banks,
according to the ruling.  British Trustee  In the BB&T transactions, the bank established a trust
containing $6 billion in revenue-producing assets. Monthly
revenue from the trust was cycled through a British trustee,
which served as the basis for British taxation, according to
Wheeler’s decision.  The assessment of taxes generated British tax credits which
were split evenly between Barclays and BB&T, according to the
ruling.  There are at least two more lawsuits pending against the
IRS over STARS transactions, one brought by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
the other by  Banco Santander SA. (SAN)   “The weight of evidence shows that tax avoidance was
singularly and precisely the goal pursued in execution of the
STARS transactions” by BB&T, Wheeler wrote.  Wheeler said he agreed with a government expert who said
that “the human effort, the amount of creativity and overall
effort that was put into this transaction is a waste of human
potential.”  The case is Salem Financial Inc. v. U.S., 10-192, U.S.
Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Andrew Zajac} in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  