-- Bill Gross’s I-Told-You-So Moment Added Boost in Mexico
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-09-20T13:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/bill-gross-s-i-told-you-so-moment-added-boost-in-mexico.html
Bill Gross ’s prediction that the
 Federal Reserve  would unwind its unprecedented stimulus slowly
at a time when bond traders were bracing for a quicker reduction
is paying some of the biggest dividends south of the border.  Mexico ’s peso-denominated notes due 2024 surged this week,
reducing  yields (USGG2YR)  by the most in 15 months, as the Fed on Sept. 18
refrained from curbing its $85 billion of monthly bond buying.
The 0.34 percentage point drop is more than the 0.22 percentage
point average decline in borrowing costs for emerging-market
debt and halted a jump in peso bond yields since May as the Fed
debated paring purchases. Gross’s Pacific Investment Management
Co., which runs the largest bond fund, is also the biggest
holder of the 2024 notes.  Gross said one day before the Fed’s decision that investors
should buy short-maturity Treasuries because the bank was likely
to continue favoring monetary stimulus after  Lawrence Summers 
quit the race this week to replace Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . The
Fed’s move spurred a rally in emerging-market assets, while peso
bonds also jumped as the rebound in the local currency bolstered
speculation Mexico’s central bank will lower  interest rates  to
revive the economy, Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  “Both the external and the domestic point to a flatter and
tighter curve” in Mexico, Alejandro Urbina, who helps oversee
$800 million at Silva Capital Management LLC, said in a
telephone interview from Chicago. “We get this relief rally due
to the no-taper, and then you have this other side of it, which
is  Banco de Mexico .”  ‘Increasingly Dovish’  When Gross recommended in a Sept. 16 tweet that investors
buy the “front end” of the Treasury bond curve, he said he
still expected the Fed to taper bond buying.  “Not braggin’ but what did we tell you,” Gross wrote on
Twitter on Sept. 18 after the Fed kept the pace of stimulus.  Yields on two-year U.S. Treasury notes dropped five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to a one-month low of 0.32
percent on the day of the Fed’s decision.  Summers’s decision made Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  the
top candidate, a sign to Gross that the central bank will
maintain its easy-money policies.  “What we got was an increasingly dovish handoff from
Chairman Bernanke to Janet Yellen,” Gross said yesterday in an
interview on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee . “Bernanke has metaphorically left
the building. We are living in a Yellen world. And Yellen is a
dove with a capital D.”  Bond Returns  Mexico’s peso bonds have returned 16.8 percent in dollars
since Gross wrote June 19, 2012, on his Twitter account that the
country’s notes bonds were an obvious choice, versus 6.3 percent
for local-currency emerging-market government debt tracked by
Bank of America Corp.  He said Mexico’s lower debt levels and higher yields make
investing in the country’s bonds instead of German notes a
decision so obvious that he ended his comments on the Pimco
Twitter account with the word “duh.”  Andrew Balls , the head of European  portfolio management  at
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on Sept. 16 that he sees value in local
Mexican and Brazilian bonds.  “We have been pretty realistically constructive about the
prospects for Mexican fixed income,”  Michael Gomez , managing
director and co-head of  emerging markets  at Pimco, said in a
telephone interview. “We’ve seen a market that is backed by a
set of policy makers who are fairly proactive, whose
fundamentals are very strong.” Gomez said “the view that the
Fed is anchored in the front end provides a constructive
backdrop for the value and the strength of the fundamentals of
Mexico to be realized.”  Mexico’s Policy  Mexico’s central bank cut its target lending rate by 0.25
percentage point to a record low 3.75 percent on Sept. 6 after
the economy posted its weakest first-half growth since the end
of a recession in 2009. It has trimmed rates by 0.75 percentage
point this year.  Interest-rate swaps  reflect a 52 percent
likelihood that the bank will lower borrowing costs by 0.25
percentage point in the next three months.  Mexico’s peso rallied 2.1 percent against the dollar after
the Fed decision on Sept. 18, the most since June and boosting
speculation the central bank may cut rates as stronger currency
helps tame inflation by reducing the cost of imports.  “It improves the chances for a cut given the impact it’s
had on” the peso,  Edwin Gutierrez , a  fund manager  who oversees
$10 billion at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  ‘Temporary’ Bounce  Roberto Ivan Garcia Castellanos, a bond trader at Casa de
Bolsa Finamex SAB, said that Fed will eventually have to reduce
its stimulus measures, making the rally in Mexican bonds short-lived.  “The data in the U.S. hasn’t been so bad as to justify a
decision like this,” Garcia Castellanos said by telephone from
Guadalajara, Mexico. “This is going to be temporary.”  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 12.7472 per dollar at 9:03
a.m. in New York.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of Treasuries rose one basis point to 184
basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Mexico’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts that protect holders of the
nation’s debt from non-payment, climbed seven basis points to
105 basis points.  Yields on Mexico’s bonds due 2024 soared as much as 1.1
percentage points since the end of May to a 17-month high of
5.81 percent on concern the Fed would pare back stimulus,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given the selloff that we had in emerging markets, there
is some value here,”  Henry Stipp , who oversees $3 billion as
co-head of emerging-market fixed-income at Threadneedle Asset
Management, said in a telephone interview from London. “They
are more dovish. There is no doubt about it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  