-- Billionaire Rupert Buys $4.1 Million Buffalo Mystery
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-09-20T13:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/billionaire-rupert-buys-4-1-million-buffalo-mystery.html
Billionaire Johann Rupert, South
Africa’s richest person, led a group that bought a Cape Buffalo
bull named Mystery for a record 40 million rand ($4.1 million).  “He’s not a mystery anymore,” Andrien White, the
marketing manager for  Thabo Tholo , a game reserve and animal
breeder in Limpopo Province, said in a phone interview.
Mystery’s horns span almost 4 1/2 feet and the breed can weigh
as much as a metric ton.  “Obviously where he’s going he’s not going to be hunted,”
White said. “He’ll be used as a breeding bull.”  Two men bought Mystery on behalf of Rupert and a group of
game breeders in the semi-desert Karoo region, Johann Vosser,
the managing director for  Vleissentraal  Bosveld, a South African
auctioneer, said by phone. The purchase was the most ever paid
for a buffalo, according to an e-mailed statement on the sale. A
sable antelope named “Wiele,” which means “wheels” in
Afrikaans, was also sold for 11 million rand.  Rupert, born in Johannesburg, is the oldest son of deceased
industrialist Anton Rupert, who founded the tobacco company
Rembrandt Group in 1948. The  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) 
chairman, who is worth $8.8 billion according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index, said on May 16 that he will take a year off,
leaving management of the world’s second-biggest luxury-goods
company to a team of executives including Cartier’s former CEO.  Great Genes  Derek Light of Graaff Reinet, South Africa-based Derek
Light Attorneys, who represents the billionaire and acts as a
spokesman, said he couldn’t comment.  Mystery beat a record 26 million rand paid for a buffalo
last year, Vosser said. Gnu, oryx and impala were also sold in
the auction that brought a total 233 million rand in sales.
“People are concentrating more on these exceptional animals to
get the genetics,” he said.  Mystery’s horns, which span 53 3/8 inches (135.6
centimeters), and status as disease free are the main factors
behind the price of the animal, White said. Many wild buffalo in
 South Africa  carry tuberculosis.  To be able to sell buffalo and move them around in South
Africa “they have to be disease-free and there aren’t many of
those,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  