-- Blackstone Said to Buy Vegas’s Hughes Center for $347 Million
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-09-20T22:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/blackstone-said-to-buy-vegas-s-hughes-center-for-347-million.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , one of the
largest U.S. office owners, bought the Hughes Center complex in
Las Vegas for $347 million in a bet on growth in the  Nevada 
economy, said two people with knowledge of the purchase.  The acquisition was completed today, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the deal is private. The seller
was Crescent Real Estate Holdings LLC, a joint venture of
Barclays Plc’s Barclays Capital unit and Goff Capital Partners
LP, based in Fort Worth,  Texas .  The Hughes Center has about 1.5 million square feet
(139,350 square meters) and includes office space, a hotel,
restaurants and corporate residential facilities on 68 acres (28
hectares), according to the website of Blackstone’s Equity
Office unit, which will manage the property. The Las Vegas Sun
reported the deal earlier today.  Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, declined to comment. Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman
for Barclays Capital, and John Goff, the owner, chairman and
chief executive officer of Goff Capital, didn’t immediately
respond to calls or e-mails seeking comment. Goff also is
chairman and CEO of Crescent.  Crescent has been selling assets it acquired at the bottom
of the market in 2009 as the real estate market rebounds from
the recession. John Goff previously was the head of Crescent
Real Estate Equities Co., which he sold to Morgan Stanley for
$6.5 billion in 2007, close to the real estate market’s peak. He
then bought back the holdings with Barclays at a discount after
the credit crisis forced Morgan Stanley to take writedowns and
losses of about $950 million.  Crescent Real Estate Holdings recently sold Greenway Plaza,
a 4.4 million-square-foot office complex in Houston. The
company’s other assets include offices in Denver, a Ritz-Carlton
hotel and condominiums in  Dallas , and Canyon Ranch spas in
Tucson,  Arizona , and Lenox,  Massachusetts .  Blackstone in May agreed to buy 17 million square feet of
warehouses with Prologis Inc. for about $960 million, including
about 9.5 million square feet of warehouses and distribution
centers in Reno, Nevada, that Blackstone will operate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  