-- Brady Renews Revis Rivalry as NFL Patriots Host Winless Bucs
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-20T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/brady-renews-revis-rivalry-as-nfl-s-patriots-host-winless-bucs.html
Tom Brady has overcome a depleted
receiving corps in leading the  New England  Patriots to a 2-0
start. His next challenge comes from a defense featuring
 Darrelle Revis , the best cornerback the two-time National
Football League Most Valuable Player says he’s ever faced.  The Patriots on Sept. 22 host the Buccaneers and Revis, who
was traded to  Tampa Bay  during the offseason after spending the
previous six years with the  New York Jets . Brady faced Revis, a
three-time All-Pro, on nine occasions when they were division
rivals in the American Football Conference.  “I’ve never played against anyone who is as good as him,”
Brady told reporters this week when asked about Revis. “You
just have to be careful when you throw his way because you know
he’s going to be close.”  Brady said Revis, 28, looks fully recovered from a torn
ligament in his left knee that limited him to two games with the
Jets last season. The Buccaneers in April sent two draft picks,
including this year’s first-round selection, to  New York  for
Revis and then made him one of the NFL’s highest-paid non-quarterbacks with a six-year, $96 million contract.  “I don’t think there have been many balls caught on him in
these two weeks,” Brady said after watching tape of the
Buccaneers’ defense. “He looks like the same guy to me.”  The Patriots are seven-point favorites against the
Buccaneers, who lost their season opener to the Jets 18-17 on a
field goal with two seconds remaining and then were beaten 16-14
by the  New Orleans Saints  on a field goal as time expired.  Completion Rates  New England has won its first two games by a total of five
points, with Brady completing just 52.7 percent of his passes.
Brady, who has never had a completion percentage under 60 in any
of the past 12 seasons, has had to deal with the loss of his
five leading pass-catchers from a year ago.  Receivers  Wes Welker  and Brandon Lloyd left during the
offseason, as did running back  Danny Woodhead , while tight end
 Rob Gronkowski  has been recovering from injuries and fellow
tight end  Aaron Hernandez  was charged with murder.  Danny Amendola -- signed during the offseason as a possible
replacement for Welker, who had more than 110 receptions in five
of his six seasons in New England -- will be out several weeks
with a sports hernia, the Boston Herald reported.  Brady also has had to deal with the struggles of rookie
wide receivers Aaron Dobson and Kenbrell Thompkins. Dobson has
three receptions and is tied for the NFL lead with four dropped
passes, while Thompkins has had problems running routes, with
only six catches while being targeted 21 times by Brady.  Gaining Confidence  “ Tom Brady  is a fantastic player,” Buccaneers coach  Greg Schiano  told reporters this week. “He is finding a way to get
it done. As you do that and win, your confidence grows. I have
been there before when the young players start to say, ‘Hey, we
can do this.’ I just hope it’s not Sunday that they really catch
fire.”  If Brady is able to get the best of Revis and the
Buccaneers, the Patriots would be well positioned. Since the NFL
went to its current 12-team postseason format in 1990, 75.4
percent of teams that started 3-0 made the playoffs. The
Buccaneers odds of winning the  Super Bowl  have gone to 200-1
from 60-1 since the start of the season.  Brady has thrown a touchdown pass in 50 straight games, the
second-longest streak in NFL history behind a run of 54 in a row
by  Drew Brees  of the New Orleans Saints.  This weekend, Brady also will have to deal with Buccaneers
Pro Bowl safety Dashon Goldson, who is able to play after having
a one-game ban for an illegal hit overturned. Yet Brady said he
knows his biggest challenge may come from Revis, or from
avoiding him effectively.  “He covers big guys, small guys, he’s quick, he’s fast,
he’s patient, he’s strong,” Brady said. “He doesn’t have any
weaknesses. I don’t think I’ve completed many balls on his side
of the field very often. He’s not a guy that you want to test
and see how well you’re going to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  