-- Brazil’s Coffee Trees to Flower a 2nd Time Next Week After Rain
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-09-20T10:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/brazil-s-coffee-trees-to-flower-a-2nd-time-next-week-after-rain.html
Coffee trees in  Brazil , the world’s
largest producer, will probably flower for a second time next
week as rain continues to fall over growing regions, inducing
blossoming before next year’s crop, local brokers said.  A good amount of rain fell over the coffee belt this week,
helping keep flowers that blossomed last weekend on the trees,
Rio de Janeiro-based broker Flavour Coffee said in a report e-mailed yesterday. Flowers will become the cherries that contain
the beans to be harvested. While mostly dry weather will return
today, rain is seen for the eastern part of Southeast Brazil
next week, Sao Paulo-based forecaster Somar Meteorologia said in
a report yesterday.  There were “lots of rains throughout the coffee belt,
washing away the drought speculation and bringing flowering for
most of the area,” Thiago Cazarini, a broker at Cazarini
Trading Co. in Varginga,  Minas Gerais , Brazil’s biggest arabica-producing state, said in a separate report yesterday. “Stronger
rains continue and if it stops raining soon and the sun comes,
we might see another flowering next week.”  Arabica coffee futures, down 20 percent on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York  this year, are heading for a third annual decline,
the longest slump since 1993. Supply is outpacing demand and
Brazil is now gathering a record crop for a year in which trees
enter the lower-yielding half of a two-year cycle, the
government estimates.  Brazilian Real  The amount of coffee sold in Brazil this week was smaller
than in the previous seven-day period as a stronger Brazilian
real means lower margins for exporters, Flavour Coffee said. The
real, down 6.8 percent this year, rallied 3.2 percent on Sept.
18 after the Federal Reserved left its fiscal stimulus intact.  “Producers and cooperatives tried to keep the prices, but
with the stronger Brazilian currency and lower New York-ICE, the
exporters couldn’t afford to pay,” Flavour Coffee said.  Brazilian arabica beans of good-cup quality were at a
discount of 18 cents to 21 cents a pound to the price on ICE,
according to Flavour Coffee data. That is little changed from a
discount of 19 cents to 21 cents a pound last week. Fine-cup
beans were unchanged at a discount of 13 cents a pound to the
exchange prices. Fine-cup beans are usually more expensive
because of their taste profile.  Premiums  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known, were
offered this week at a premium of 8 cents a pound ($176 a metric
ton) to the price on NYSE Liffe in  London , according to Flavour
Coffee. That’s up from a premium of 5 cents a pound last week.
The premium asked by growers “did not attract any buying
interest,” the broker said, adding that some grades of arabica
were the same price as robusta or even cheaper.  Robusta coffee is grown mainly in  Asia  and parts of  Africa 
and used for instant drinks and espresso. Arabica coffee is
grown mainly in  Latin America  and favored for specialty drinks
such as those made by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)   Robusta coffee for delivery in November was 0.7 percent
lower at $1,675 a ton by 10:30 a.m. in London. Arabica coffee
for December delivery retreated 0.5 percent to $1.152 a pound in
New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  