-- Browne’s ETF-Trading Team Joins Cantor After Leaving KCG
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-09-20T18:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/browne-s-etf-team-said-close-to-joining-cantor-fitzgerald.html
Reggie Browne, who left  KCG
Holdings Inc. (KCG)  last week as head of exchange-traded funds, has
joined Cantor Fitzgerald LP, the trading firm led by Howard W. Lutnick.  Darren Taube, Eric Lichtenstein and “approximately 20” or
more additional members of Browne’s former team at KCG will also
come to New York-based Cantor in similar roles, Shawn Matthews,
chief executive officer of Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., the
investment-banking unit, said today in an interview. Cantor
previously had a small presence in ETF trading, Matthews said.  “This represents a magnitude of change for us,” Matthews
said. “ETFs continue to offer substantial growth on a global
basis and give us the ability to match up with existing
customers in a more significant way.”  Browne, 45, helped make KCG, formerly known as Knight
Capital Group Inc., the biggest lead market maker for ETFs on
the  New York  Stock Exchange, backing more than a third of the
funds listed there. He has a reputation for supporting
innovation in the industry, helping smaller providers reach the
market with new products since joining Knight four years ago.  Cantor Fitzgerald  marks the third stop for Browne, Taube
and Lichtenstein as a team. The trio came to Knight from Newedge
Group SA in June 2009, where they had been co-heads of ETF
trading, bringing 10 colleagues with them.  ‘Compelling Choice’  Browne will report to Jarred Kessler, global head of
equities at Cantor Fitzgerald & Co.  Browne said the move to a closely held firm carried
advantages for his business because it may face fewer regulatory
hurdles in putting its balance sheet behind trading operations.  “It being a private firm, in anticipation of regulation in
the marketplace, has made Cantor a compelling choice for us,”
he said today in an interview.  Browne, Taube and Lichtenstein were unable to come to terms
on a renegotiated employment contract with KCG, two people
familiar with the situation said earlier this month. The company
said Sept. 4 it had ended its employment agreement with them,
with the trio staying until Sept. 13 to ensure an “orderly
transition.”  Knight agreed in December to be purchased by Chicago-based
Getco LLC in a deal valued at $1.4 billion at the time, ending a
four-month saga in which it almost went bankrupt. Closely held
Getco LLC, founded in 1999, was among six financial firms that
bailed out  Knight Capital  in August 2012, after a software
malfunction caused more than $450 million in trading losses.
Thomas Joyce, Knight’s founder and chief executive officer, left
the firm after the merger.  Lutnick, chairman and CEO of closely held Cantor, has said
he’s pushing to expand in  capital markets  and outside the U.S.
as a decline in trading squeezes profit at brokerages. The firm
hired a municipal-bond sales team in January after a previous
foray into that market faltered and added seven corporate-debt
brokers from Gleacher & Co. in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  