-- Brown Spurs Rally With School Zero-Coupon Limit Law: Muni Credit
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/brown-spurs-rally-with-school-zero-coupon-limit-law-muni-credit.html
Bonds issued by California school
districts that defer billions of dollars in interest payments
for decades are rallying to a five-month high as Governor Jerry Brown prepares to sign a  bill  limiting their use.  The measure the 75-year-old Democrat is considering passed
unanimously. It would cap interest on securities known as zero-coupon capital-appreciation bonds at four times the principal,
and limit maturities to 25 years from the current 40. A school-finance lobbying group dropped its opposition to the bill.  The legislation was inspired by reports that the Poway
Unified School District near San Diego would pay almost $1
billion to finance $105 million borrowed to improve facilities.
Schools in the most-populous state issued $6.94 billion in such
bonds from 2007 to November 2012, according to state Treasurer
Bill Lockyer, who called for a crackdown. With curbs looming,
the extra yield buyers demand on some Poway debt has shrunk to
the lowest since April, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We have generally seen good value in CABs and it is a
structure that we have and will continue to buy,” Michael Johnson, managing director at Gurtin Fixed Income Management in
Solana Beach,  California , said by e-mail. The debt “generally
has a yield premium above what should be expected to compensate
investors for the lengthy holding period to receive income.”
The firm oversees $7.4 billion.  Revenue Plug  Boards overseeing California’s nearly 1,000 school
districts increasingly turned to the financing mechanism after
the recession that ended in 2009 reduced property-tax revenue
used to build and modernize classrooms, an  analysis  of the bill
shows. In 2009, lawmakers also eliminated a 10 percent cap on
the annual growth in debt service, according to the analysis.  The result was an explosion in practices that Lockyer, a
72-year-old Democrat, termed “abusive” as districts pushed
interest payments decades into the future, often with
“balloon” payments due in 40 years. The securities differ from
coupon-bearing bonds, which pay interest on a regular basis.  A Brown spokesman, Evan Westrup, declined to say whether
the governor intends to sign the measure, noting that he rarely
signals a position on pending bills. Brown has until Oct. 13 to
act on the bill, according to Westrup.  Rebound Road  As the municipal market gained in September, rebounding
from a four-month slide, the school bonds have done even better.  Poway securities maturing in August 2033 yielded about 5.81
percent in trading last week, or about 1.64 percentage points
above benchmark debt. That spread is the smallest since at least
April, when it was about 2 percentage points.  The tax-free obligations are rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, third-highest, with a negative outlook.  “They present decent value to investors,” said Eric Friedland, head of muni credit research for Schroder Investment
Management North America in New York, which oversees $3 billion
in munis. “There is limited downside risk because they have
been trading at such a discount.”  Some districts complained the pending legislation would
unfairly cripple their ability to finance new and improved
schools. The California Association of School Business Officials
withdrew its opposition to the measure after negotiating changes
clarifying that districts could still issue current-interest
bonds.  Project Obstacle  Yet Jeff Vaca, the association’s chief lobbyist in
 Sacramento , the state capital, said the limits on maturities and
interest payments will hinder projects in districts where
property values haven’t rebounded from the recession.  The 25-year limit on maturities will probably handcuff
school boards looking to finance major projects without
significant increases to property levies, said Jacob Manaster,
the school-board president in Beverly Hills.  Leaders of the 4,600-student district near Los Angeles
already have cut in half a $90 million bond issue planned for
this year, he said by telephone. Voters in 2008  authorized  the
Beverly Hills Unified School District to borrow $334 million in
the municipal market to renovate schools, with maturities as
long as 40 years.  As a result of the new bill, officials are limiting
maturities to 25 years and some schools won’t be reinforced
against earthquakes or have classrooms enlarged to current
standards, Manaster said.  Fading Facilities  “This just means more deterioration of the facilities,”
he said. “It means the bonds will be less attractive to
investors, which will drive up borrowing costs.”  Lockyer’s spokesman, Tom Dresslar, said he doesn’t expect
the measure to chill issuance of school debt, only “the most
abusive CAB deals that have inflicted the most harm on
taxpayers,” he said by e-mail.  “The legislation does not hinder districts’ building
programs, only their ability to unjustly shift the financing
burden to future generations,” Dresslar said.  The restrictions will disproportionately affect districts
in inland regions of California that have experienced rapid
population growth coupled with a decline in property values,
necessitating a financing mechanism that pushes costs into the
future, said James Bridges, superintendent of the Jefferson
School District in Tracy, California.  The district southeast of San Francisco has four  schools ,
two of which opened since 2002.  Legislative Reach  Bridges said it’s unfair for lawmakers to remove a
financing tool at the same time that state aid for modernization
has evaporated. The district sold about $23 million in zero-coupon bonds in May with maturities as late as 2052.  In the most recent trades last month, the additional yield
buyers demand on the bonds due in 2052 shrank to about 1.7
percentage points, from about 2.4 percentage points in May,
Bloomberg data show.  “The local citizens should have the right to make that
decision,” he said. “If they’re comfortable obligating
themselves for 40 years, they should be able to do that. We’ve
had state funding for modernization projects in the past, but
not in recent years. We’re having to fund those on our own.”  Many districts have dug themselves into a hole by deferring
payments for decades, said Craig Brothers, at Bel Air Investment
Advisors in Los Angeles. While meeting the immediate needs for
new or modernized facilities, the bonds “leave the issuer on
the wrong side of the power of compounding interest,” Brothers
said. The firm oversees $7 billion.  California Market  In the market for California debt, the University of
California Regents are set to sell about $2.6 billion of revenue
bonds next week, according to Lockyer’s website.  The sale will come as benchmark 10-year muni yields have
dropped to a one-month low of  2.87 percent , compared with  2.75
percent (USGG10YR)  for similar-maturity Treasuries. The ratio of the
yields, a measure of relative value, is about  104 percent ,
compared with an average of 93 percent since 2001. The higher
the figure, the cheaper munis are in comparison.  Following is a pending sale:  The Dormitory Authority of the State of New York plans to
sell $183 million of debt for New York University, according to
Moody’s. Proceeds will go in part toward buying a facility on
 Manhattan ’s Lafayette Street and constructing a building for
dental and nursing programs, according to Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  