-- Bullard Says Taper Possible After Close Call QE Decision
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-09-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/bullard-says-weaker-data-prompted-borderline-fomc-taper-delay.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President James Bullard, a voter on policy this year who has
backed record stimulus, said the Fed may make a small cut to
bond purchases in October after its narrow decision this week
not to reduce accommodation.  “That was a borderline decision” after “weaker data came
in,” Bullard said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “The
committee came down on the side of, ‘Let’s wait.’”  Bullard called October a “live meeting,” because “it’s
possible you could get some data that change the complexion of
the outlook and could make the committee be comfortable with a
small taper in October.”  The Fed this week unexpectedly refrained from reducing its
$85 billion in monthly asset purchases, saying it needs to see
more signs of sustained labor market gains. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said Sept. 18 the central bank would decide on whether
to taper purchases based on “what’s needed for the economy.”  The Fed will be able to weigh the September jobs report and
revisions of prior months as well as updated housing reports at
its Oct. 29-30 meeting, Bullard said in a separate interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “This was a very close
call so maybe the information would come in in a way that would
change the complexion” of the outlook, he said.  Markets shouldn’t have been surprised by the decision
because Federal Open Market Committee members have repeatedly
said the decision to slow, or taper, would be “data
dependent,” Bullard said.  Slightly ‘Dismayed’  “I’m a little dismayed at those in markets that are saying
they’re surprised by this,” Bullard said. The Fed said that,
“if the economy was going to improve in the second half of the
year, and if we saw that improvement, we would taper.”  Kansas City Fed President Esther George, who has
consistently dissented against additional stimulus, said the
central bank missed an opportunity to begin reducing bond
purchases because markets were primed for such a move.  “Costly steps had been taken to begin to prepare markets
for an adjustment in the pace of asset purchases,” George said
yesterday in a New York speech. “This week’s decision by the Fed
to taper expectations and not bond buying surprised many,
disappointed some like me.”  George has voted this year against all six decisions by the
FOMC to press on with bond buying, saying the program risks
creating imbalances in the economy and financial markets and
pushing up long-term inflation expectations.  Possible Timetable  Bernanke’s remarks earlier this year on the prospect for
tapering sent bond yields as much as a percentage point higher.
Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed as high as
2.99 percent on Sept. 5 from 1.93 percent on May 21, the day
before Bernanke first outlined a possible timetable for a
reduction in the asset purchases.  This week’s FOMC decision not to taper helped reverse that
rise and pushed back expectations for a tightening of monetary
policy. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell
yesterday 0.02 percentage point to 2.73 percent in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield earlier
rose 0.03 percentage point after Bullard said the FOMC may trim
bond buying next month.  Most economists surveyed say the Fed will begin curtailing
asset purchases in December. Twenty-four of 41 economists
surveyed Sept. 18-19 said the Fed will now wait until December
before taking the first step in dialing down monthly bond
purchases, according to a Bloomberg survey. The median estimate
in an Aug. 9-13 poll projected the Fed would begin paring at
this week’s meeting.  Tapering Odds  Investors see a 43 percent chance policy makers will
increase the federal funds rate target to 0.5 percent or more by
January 2015, based on data compiled by Bloomberg from futures
contracts. The odds were 68 percent two weeks ago.  “Rates went up a lot over the summer” and “for many on
the committee that was a surprise,” Bullard said. It wasn’t a
“surprise for me because I’ve said the flow of QE matters a
lot.”  So “when we threatened to pull that back, markets
naturally” sent yields higher, he said. Bullard during the past
two months has urged the Fed to hold off on adjusting so-called
quantitative easing, saying any change should depend on whether
inflation moves toward the Fed’s 2 percent target. Policy
shouldn’t rely on central bank forecasts for the economy that
have proven too optimistic in the past three years, he said.  “We got some weaker data, so that put the committee in a
position where we could delay,” he said. With inflation low,
Bullard said “we can afford to be patient.”  Adjust Guidance  The FOMC might also want to adjust its guidance on rates,
Bullard said.  A “more likely” scenario than lowering the 6.5
percent unemployment threshold is introducing an inflation
floor, Bullard said. The threshold would be something like “so
long as inflation was running below 1.5 percent,” the Fed
wouldn’t raise interest rates, he said.  Bullard said he thought 1.5 percent was a good level
because it’s “symmetric” with the 2.5 percent threshold on the
“high side” of the central bank’s 2 percent goal for price
increases. Bullard said he doesn’t see the Fed lowering its
unemployment threshold.  “I don’t think that’s going to happen,” he said. “If you
move that threshold” it “loses meaning” as “markets would
rightly think” the Fed could move them around “for
convenience.”  The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index, showed prices rising 1.4 percent
in the 12 months ended in July.  ‘See Evidence’  Bullard, referring to inflation in remarks prepared for a
speech in New York, said he wants “to see evidence” of “an
increase before endorsing less accommodative policy action.”  Bullard dissented from the FOMC’s June 19 policy statement,
saying the panel should “signal more strongly its willingness
to defend its inflation goal.” He dropped the dissent at the
following meeting when the FOMC added language saying
persistently low inflation posed risks to the economic outlook.  Bullard said he disagreed with the committee indicating a
plan to taper bonds buying at that point, including stopping
purchases in the middle of next year.  “It was premature to lay out the road map” for tapering
in June, Bullard said. “I do think it was a mistake.”  “We should defend our inflation target from the low
side,” Bullard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  