-- Canada Dollar Falls for Second Day Amid Renewal of Taper Bets
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-09-20T21:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/canada-dollar-falls-for-second-day-amid-renewal-of-taper-bets.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for a second
day as traders started to price in a reduction in monetary
stimulus after the U.S. Federal Reserve surprised markets this
week by maintaining its $85 billion in monthly bond buying.  The currency extended the decline after BlackBerry Ltd.,
the smartphone maker that’s evaluating a sale, said it will cut
4,500 jobs and record an inventory writedown of as much as $960
million. Canada’s inflation rate slowed for the first time in
four months in August, approaching the bottom of the central
bank’s target band. Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James
Bullard  said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television
that a “small” tapering is possible next month.  “The Canadian dollar and all the other beneficiaries of
quantitative easing remain vulnerable in the long term as
tapering will occur -- the only question is when,”  John Curran ,
a senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online
foreign-exchange dealer, said in a note to clients. “Markets
are still jittery, but I believe we have seen a near-term base
for the  U.S. dollar  against most Group of Seven currencies.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.4 percent to
C$1.0304 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, paring gains this
week to 0.5 percent. One loonie buys 97.05 U.S. cents.  Futures on crude oil, the nation’s largest export, fell 1.6
percent to $104.67 per barrel in  New York . The average price
over the past year is $95.38. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropped 0.7 percent.  BlackBerry Loss  BlackBerry (BB) , based in Waterloo, Ontario, expects to report a
net operating loss of as much as $995 million for the fiscal
second quarter after a new set of devices failed to lure buyers,
according to a statement today. Sales in the quarter were about
$1.6 billion -- just more than half the $3.03 billion average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The job cuts are “actually enough to impact the overall
Canadian labor market,” Terrence Connelly, founder of
Lafayette, California-based hedge-fund advisory firm Contingent
Macro Advisors LLC, said in an e-mailed reply to questions.
“The knock-on effects could be significant over the coming
months.”  Benchmark 10-year bonds extended gains after the BlackBerry
announcement, with yields falling two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.69 percent.  The  interest-rate gap  between Canadian and U.S. two-year
government debt narrowed to 90 basis points after widening to 92
yesterday, the most since January. Two-year Canadian bond yields
dropped two basis points to 1.22 percent. U.S. two-year debt
yielded 0.33 percent.  Inflation Rate  Canada’s inflation rate slowed in August as the  consumer
price index  rose  1.1 percent  from a year earlier, following
July’s 1.3 percent pace,  Statistics Canada  said from Ottawa. The
core rate, which excludes eight volatile products, slowed to 1.3
percent from 1.4 percent.  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz, who sets policy to
keep price gains in the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent
range, has said inflation will remain below 2 percent until
mid-2015. The central bank’s key lending rate has been 1 percent
for three years, the longest pause since the 1950s, and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict Poloz won’t raise
borrowing costs until the second half of 2014.  Taper Expectations  The loonie jumped to a three-month high on Sept. 18 after
the Fed refrained from a reduction in asset buying, with
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  saying the central bank would make the
taper call based on “what’s needed for the economy.”
Economists had expected the Fed to trim monthly bond buying by
$5 billion. Policy makers have pledged for more than a year to
press on with the strategy until achieving substantial labor
market gains.  “Expectations still remain that the Fed will taper
quantitative easing, just at a later date,” Blake Jespersen,
managing director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal, said
by phone from Toronto.  The loonie, has fallen 1.7 percent this year against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has added 2.5
percent. The yen is the biggest decliner, down 12 percent, while
the euro climbed 5.4 percent to lead gainers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  