-- Canada August Inflation Slows to 1.1% on Mortgages, Drugs
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-09-20T13:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/canada-august-inflation-slows-to-1-1-on-mortgages-drugs.html
Canada’s  inflation  rate slowed for
the first time in four months in August, approaching the bottom
of the central bank’s target band, on lower costs for mortgage
interest and  prescription drugs .  The  consumer price index  rose 1.1 percent in August from a
year ago, following July’s 1.3 percent pace,  Statistics Canada 
said today from Ottawa. The  core  rate, which excludes eight
volatile products, slowed to 1.3 percent from 1.4 percent.  Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz, who sets policy to
keep price gains in the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent
range, has said inflation will remain below 2 percent until
mid-2015. The central bank’s key  lending rate  has been 1 percent
for three years, the longest pause since the 1950s, and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict Poloz won’t raise
borrowing costs until the second half of 2014.  “I don’t see the case to be really worried about inflation
and that backs a dovish Bank of Canada for a long time,”  Derek Holt , vice president and economist at Scotiabank in Toronto,
said in a telephone interview.  The Canadian dollar fell 0.2 percent to C$1.0290 per  U.S.
dollar  at 9:36 a.m. in Toronto. One dollar buys 97.18 U.S.
cents. Government bond yields declined with two-year yields
falling 2 basis points to 1.23 percent and five year notes by 1
basis point to 2.01 percent.  The slower year-over-year total and core inflation rates
matched the median estimates in Bloomberg economist surveys.  Mortgage interest costs fell 3.6 percent in August from a
year earlier while prescribed medicines declined 4.2 percent,
according to the report. Major price increases included a 9.5
percent jump in natural gas and a 1.7 percent rise in rental
costs.  Cheaper Phones  On a monthly basis, consumer  prices  were unchanged in
August as clothing costs rose 1.9 percent and telephone services
declined 1.7 percent. The core rate climbed 0.2 percent in
August from July. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
that monthly prices would rise 0.1 percent and the core rate
would increase 0.2 percent.  BCE Inc. (BCE) ’s Bell Canada unit lowered its U.S. roaming fees
on mobile devices by 50 percent in response to customer
requests, the Montreal-based company said Sept. 16.  Seasonally adjusted inflation rose 0.1 percent in August
and adjusted core prices were unchanged, Statistics Canada said
today.  Increased retailer competition is helping restrain
inflation, said Holt and Toronto-Dominion Bank economist Leslie Preston. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is expanding the number of stores
that carry fresh food in Canada this year while Target Corp. is
expanding in the country.  “We don’t expect enough inflationary pressures to be
generated to pull the Bank of Canada off the sidelines until the
end of 2014,” Preston wrote in a research note. “Intense
competition in retailing, a persistent decline in mortgage
interest costs and very little upward pressure from wages are
conspiring to keep inflation in  Canada  very soft.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  