-- CFE Climbs Most in 2 Decades on Ackermans Offer: Brussels Mover
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-09-20T09:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/cfe-climbs-most-in-2-decades-on-ackermans-offer-brussels-mover.html
Cie. d’Entreprises CFE SA , the
construction company that owns half of Dredging Environmental &
Marine Engineering NV, rose the most in two decades in Brussels
trading after  Ackermans & van Haaren NV  offered to buy CFE for
451 million euros ($610 million).  CFE shares climbed as much as 19% to 51.32 euros following
the offer of 45 euros per share, the biggest intraday percentage
gain since at least 1994 and the  highest price  since July 2011.
The stock traded at 48.39 euros, or 12 percent higher, at 11:02
a.m. local time. Ackermans rose as much as 4.4 percent.  Ackermans, based in Antwerp,  Belgium , agreed to transfer
its 50 percent stake in DEME to CFE for stock valuing the
dredging company at 1.1 billion euros. Ackermans will also buy
half of  Vinci SA (DG) ’s holding in CFE for about 138 million euros in
cash, boosting its stake in CFE to 60.4 percent prior to the
mandatory offer.  “The transaction is an excellent timed grandmaster move by
AvH’s management, effectively allowing to gain control over this
prime dredging asset, unlocking its value, while paying a very
attractive price,” Matthias Maenhaut, an analyst at ING Groep
in Brussels, said in note to investors.  For CFE shareholders, the offer is “too low” as the
company is worth at least 52 euros a share, according to Tijs
Hollestelle, another analyst at ING in Amsterdam. The offer for
CFE represented a  4.3 percent premium  on yesterday’s closing
price and an enterprise value ratio for DEME of 4.6 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  “Although we consider this a done deal, current
shareholders in CFE should bear in mind that a potential float
of DEME, or part later on, would very likely go at an EV/EBITDA
multiple of 5.6 times to 6 times indicating a much higher value
than this transaction implies,” Hollestelle wrote.  KBC Securities (CFEB)  raised its recommendation for CFE to “buy”
from “accumulate” and increased its price estimate to 65 euros
from 50 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  