-- China, H.K., Taiwan Brace as Year’s Strongest Storm Looms
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-09-21T22:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/china-hong-kong-taiwan-brace-as-year-s-strongest-storm-looms.html
Super Typhoon Usagi, the world’s
strongest storm this year, lashed  Taiwan  with rain and wind as
it swept past the southern part of the island, cutting
electricity and forcing evacuations while disrupting cross-strait shipping with  China .  Taiwan’s  Central Weather Bureau  yesterday issued land and
sea warnings, advising people to stay indoors as the storm
approached the island’s southeast. As of 3:30 p.m. yesterday in
Taipei, 3,000 people had been evacuated, the Central Emergency
Operation Center said on its website. More than 88,000
households were without electricity as of 5 p.m. yesterday,
state-run Taiwan Power said.  Usagi will probably make landfall on the central-eastern
coast of China’s Guangdong province sometime from this afternoon
to tomorrow morning, China’s Meteorological Administration said
in a statement posted on its website yesterday.  At 6 a.m. Hong Kong time, the storm was about 430
kilometers (267 miles) east of Hong Kong, the city’s observatory
 said . Usagi is forecast to move west-northwest at 18 kilometers
an hour, the observatory said. The agency also issued a strong
wind signal, No. 3, which means maximum sustained winds of 41km-62km per hour are expected.  Shipping Disrupted  Shipping transportation between China and Taiwan was
partially suspended as Usagi heads toward China’s coast, the
official Xinhua news wire reported. All lines from Quanzhou to
Kinmen were canceled today and most from Xiamen to Kinmen were
halted, Xinhua said.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , Hong Kong’s largest airline,
and its unit Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd. will stop Hong Kong
operations from 6 p.m. today through Sept. 23, as the storm
affects the city, the companies said in separate statements
yesterday. The carriers advise passengers to defer non-essential
travel on those days and will waive rebooking fees for all
tickets issued on or before Sept. 20 for travel between today
and Sept. 24, according to the statements.  Taiwan canceled 82 domestic and international flights
yesterday and 33 were delayed, the emergency operation center
said.  “Usagi will come rather close to the vicinity of the Pearl
River Estuary” today and tomorrow and pose a severe threat to
 Hong Kong , the observatory said. Local winds are expected to
strengthen gradually today, with weather deteriorating
significantly amid rough seas and squally, heavy showers, the
observatory said.  Super Typhoon  Usagi is the most powerful storm system globally this year
by wind speed, Cheng Ming-Dean, director of Taiwan’s weather
bureau forecast center, said by phone from Taipei Sept. 20. At
its current maximum sustained wind speed, Usagi is equivalent to
a Category 2 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson scale, meaning
“extremely dangerous winds will cause extensive damage,”
according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center  website .  Usagi was upgraded to a super typhoon on Sept. 19,
according to the China Meteorological Administration. Super-typhoon intensity is reached when sustained winds are 185
kilometers per hour, according to the  Hong Kong Observatory .  The threat of Usagi didn’t deter some business people in
Hong Kong from operating as normal.  “We will still be open even under Typhoon Signal No. 8. or
No. 10 as we have a group of loyal customers who will come,”
Maggie Ho, a manager at Fu Sing restaurant, said by telephone
yesterday, referring to two of the highest typhoon warning
levels in the observatory’s rating system. “Based on past
experience, we will be at least half-full under the typhoon.”  Seven Typhoons  The storm has already affected parts of the  Philippines .
Flooding forced 242 people in the north of the country to flee
their homes for temporary shelters on Sept. 18, the country’s
disaster agency said.  An average of seven typhoons are monitored by Taiwan
authorities every year, with the greatest frequency from July
through September, according to data from Taiwan’s weather
bureau. Usagi would be the  fourth  typhoon to hit the island this
year, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  