-- Coffee Resumes Fall After Rallying on Fed Decision; Cocoa Drops
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-09-20T10:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/coffee-resumes-fall-after-rallying-on-fed-decision-cocoa-drops.html
Coffee resumed declines in  New York 
after rallying yesterday when the  Federal Reserve  said it would
keep bond purchases at the same level to stimulate growth in the
U.S. Cocoa dropped.  Arabica futures on ICE Futures U.S. gained as much as 1.6
percent yesterday as the Fed’s decision to keep its stimulus
program sent the dollar plummeting 3.1 percent against  Brazil ’s
real. A stronger Brazilian currency reduced the appeal for the
world’s top producer to sell beans priced in dollars. Coffee
also rose as raw materials climbed. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
 gauge  of 24 raw materials rose as much as 1 percent yesterday.  “The strength looks to be largely tied to the Fed decision
not to begin tapering,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at
Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said in a report e-mailed yesterday.
“We have yet to see convincing bottoming action.”  Arabica coffee for December delivery retreated 0.6 percent
to $1.1515 a pound by 6:58 a.m. on ICE in New York. Robusta
coffee for delivery in November was 0.5 percent lower at $1,678
a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in London.  Arabica coffee futures, down 20 percent this year, are
heading for a third annual decline, the longest slump since
1993. Supply is outpacing demand and Brazil is now gathering a
record crop for a year in which trees enter the lower-yielding
half of a two-year cycle, the government estimates.  Policy makers want to see more evidence that improvement in
the  U.S. economy  will be sustained before adjusting the Fed’s
$85 billion in monthly debt purchases, the central bank said.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted a $5 billion
reduction of quantitative easing, as the stimulus is known.  Positive  “The decision by the Fed to leave bond purchases steady in
an attempt to reverse the recent tightening in financial
conditions will be good for growth, negative for the  U.S. dollar 
and positive for commodities,” Christina McGlone, a strategist
at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  Raw sugar for delivery in March fell 0.3 percent to 17.68
cents a pound in New York. White sugar for December delivery
slid 0.4 percent to $485.80 a ton in  London .  The strengthening of Brazil’s real will be “positive” for
sugar as it lifts the price at which millers in the world’s
biggest producer favor ethanol over the sweetener, said McGlone.
Producers in the South American nation make both sugar and the
biofuel from raw material sugar cane.  Cocoa for December delivery slid 0.6 percent to $2,614 a
ton on ICE. Cocoa for delivery in the same month fell 0.4
percent to 1,703 pounds ($2,730) a ton on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  