-- Cornell Lacrosse Suspended by School After Hazing Incident
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-09-21T00:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/cornell-men-s-lacrosse-suspended-by-school-after-hazing-case.html
Cornell University  suspended its
men’s lacrosse program for the semester following an alcohol-related hazing incident, two years after the death of a
sophomore led the school to ban all forms of hazing.  “It’s a teamwide penalty for a teamwide incident,” John
Carberry, a spokesman for the Ithaca, New York-based school,
said in a telephone interview. “It involved coerced alcohol
consumption by underage freshmen.”  More than half of all U.S. college students in clubs, teams
and other organizations are hazed, according to a University of
Maine study. Hazing was responsible for the 2011 deaths of
Robert Champion, a Florida A&M University student beaten by
fellow band members, and George Desdunes, a Cornell fraternity
member who died after being bound with duct tape and forced to
drink alcohol. Desdunes’s death prompted Cornell President  David Skorton  to vow to “end hazing as we know it.”  Cornell’s lacrosse suspensions began Sept. 13 and include
its fall schedule and exhibition games. The players are allowed
to practice during the ban. Last year’s intercollegiate season
started in February, with the first Ivy League game in March.
Cornell’s Big Red is a 26-time Ivy League champion and won three
national championships in the 1970s.  Campus police aren’t investigating the incident, Carberry
said late today. Earlier, the Ithaca Police Department said
university police were looking into it and that the city agency
wasn’t, according to Officer Jamie Williamson, a spokesman for
the Ithaca Police. Cornell gave no further details of the
hazing.  Hazing Punishments  Kent State University in  Ohio  canceled its 1998-1999 hockey
season after a hazing incident in which some freshman team
members were hospitalized for reactions to alcohol, according to
Hank Nuwer, a journalism professor at Franklin College in
Franklin,  Indiana , who  studies hazing . In 2000, University of
 Vermont  canceled a portion of its hockey season because of
alcohol-related hazing allegations.  “In comparison, this punishment doesn’t appear as
severe,” Nuwer said about Cornell.  Rob Pannell, who spent 2008-2013 at Cornell, winning last
season’s Tewaaraton award as player of the year, said he never
saw any hazing during his time with the program, adding that
Coach Ben DeLuca and the players don’t condone the practice.  “I’m having trouble believing that any hazing took
place,” Pannell said by phone. “In my five-plus years as a
member of the Cornell lacrosse family, I can confidently say
that no hazing took place. We’re a program many teams on campus
strive to be like.”  He said the light punishment is probably in line with the
severity of the alleged incident.  Long History  Cornell was the site of the first known fraternity hazing
death in 1873, Nuwer said. Mortimer Leggett was walking
blindfolded with other fraternity pledges when he fell to his
death.  “Cornell has a long history of fraternities and hazing-related deaths,” he said. “It gets into the system, and
they’re trying to get it out.”  Since Desdunes’s death, Cornell has suspended at least four
fraternities for hazing and banned pledging. The university
encourages anonymous reporting of hazing and maintains a website
that details incidents on campus.  “Hazing practices are harmful and antithetical to our
values as a university and our commitment to student athletes,”
Andy Noel, Cornell’s athletic director, said in a statement.
“They have no place in Cornell University athletics. I am
particularly concerned with coercive traditions that abuse the
power differential between new students and upperclassmen.”  In 2006,  Duke University  canceled its men’s lacrosse season
after three players were arrested for the alleged rape of a
stripper who performed at a team party. All charges were later
dropped and the prosecutor in the case was disbarred after the
charges were found to be false.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  