-- Corsair Group Seen as Frontrunner to Buy 316 RBS Branches
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-09-20T15:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/corsair-group-seen-as-frontrunner-to-buy-316-rbs-branches.html
A group headed by private-equity
firms Corsair Capital LLC and Centerbridge Partners LP is in the
lead to buy the 316  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  outlets,
said a person with knowledge of the discussions.  RBS may choose a preferred bidder from the three offers on
the table as soon as next week, said the person who asked not to
be identified because they are not permitted to talk publicly.
AnaCap Financial Partners LLP and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , and a
group led by  W&G Investments (WGI)  have also made offers.  RBS was ordered to sell its branches by 2014 to comply with
European Union rules after receiving a 45.5 billion-pound ($73
billion) bailout in 2008 and 2009. Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Hester , who steps down later this month, said in August
that while the lender would prefer to sell the outlets in an
initial public offering, it was open to private offers.  Corsair, based in  New York , is looking to take a minority
stake in RBS’s branch business after a public listing, two
people with knowledge of the plan said. It would do so through
an investment of 600 million pounds to 800 million pounds in a
so-called pre-IPO convertible bond, the people said.  ‘Constructive Discussions’  The group may see off competition from a joint bid from
AnaCap and Blackstone, which was similarly structured. W&G
Investments, backed by money managers including  Schroders Plc (SDR) ,
 Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd . and Lansdowne Partners Ltd.,
tabled a bid of as much as 1.5 billion pounds to buy the
business outright, the people said.  Officials at RBS and Corsair declined to comment. Andy
Donald, a spokesman for W&G Investments, said the firm remains
in “constructive discussions” with the Edinburgh-based bank. A
spokesman for AnaCap wasn’t immediately able to comment.  The RBS branches have about 21.5 billion pounds in customer
deposits and serve about 2 million small businesses and
consumers. They generated 305 million pounds in operating profit
in 2012, about 10 percent of the lender’s annual total.  After Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  last year abandoned its
1.7 billion-pound planned purchase of the branches,  RBS (RBS)  signaled
to the European Commission that it may seek an extension to the
deadline, though it hasn’t formally asked for one yet.  The British Broadcasting Corp. reported Corsair is the
frontrunner earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  