-- Credit Suisse, Qatar Venture to Start Foreign Operation
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-09-20T14:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/credit-suisse-qatar-venture-to-start-foreign-operation.html
Aventicum Capital Management, the
joint venture of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Qatar Holding LLC,
plans to begin international operations by the end of the year
after starting its first fund in July, according to a memo.  Aventicum’s Doha office is fully operational after
receiving a license from the Qatar Financial Centre Regulatory
Authority, according to the memo seen by Bloomberg News. The
international business will be based outside the Middle East,
according to the memo. Sofia Rehman, a Credit Suisse spokeswoman
in  London , confirmed the contents of the memo.  Aventicum was started in November as Qatar and Credit
Suisse boosted ties after the nation took a 6 percent stake in
the bank and bought its London headquarters. The country, which
has the world’s third-largest gas reserves, is buying assets
across the globe as it seeks to reduce its energy dependency.  The venture’s Middle East and North Africa equity fund,
managed by Hashem Montasser, will invest in regions such as the
Middle East and  Turkey , according to the memo.  Qatar in February said it’s creating a $12 billion
investment fund to buy distressed assets overseas. Qatar
Holding, a unit of the Persian Gulf emirate’s sovereign wealth
fund, will contribute $3 billion from its assets to the new
company, called Doha Global Investment, which will seek to raise
$3 billion in a share sale to Qatari nationals, Aladdin Hangari,
head of Credit Suisse in Qatar, said at the time.  The government-run Qatar Financial Center Authority,
charged with expanding the country’s financial-services
industry, announced a strategy in 2010 to make the nation a hub
for asset management as well as reinsurance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  