-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as Traders Shift to New Index Series
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-20T16:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-traders-shift-to-new-index-series.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose as banks,  hedge funds  and other money managers moved trades
into a new version of the credit-default swaps index. The cost
to protect the debt of  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI)  increased.  Series 21 of The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade
Index, a credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, traded
at 79.3 basis points as of 12:05 p.m. in New York, 9.5 basis
points higher than where Series 20 ended yesterday, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  New versions of Markit Group Ltd.’s indexes are created
every six months. Companies in the measure are replaced if they
no longer hold appropriate grades, aren’t among the most
actively traded borrowers or fail to meet other criteria. The
new version of the index may trade about 10 basis points wider
due to the six-month extension in maturity, Morgan Stanley
analysts led by Ashley Musfeldt wrote in a note Sept. 18.  “In comparing the names added and removed, we see very
little difference in  credit quality , sector composition and
spread differential, leading to a negligible change from one
index to the next,” the note said.  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., Weatherford International
Ltd. and Avon Products Inc. were added to the index and SLM
Corp., H.J. Heinz Co. and Dell Inc. were removed.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Darden Risk  Darden’s credit risk rose to the most since April after the
 Orlando , Florida-based restaurant operator missed first-quarter
earnings projections.  Five-year swaps tied to the debt of Darden rose 30 basis
points to 204 basis points as of 10:29 a.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Profit excluding some items in the quarter ended Aug. 25
was about 53 cents a share, trailing an average of 70 cents from
29 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN)  may issue $500 million of eight-year
senior notes today, according to a person with knowledge of the
offering. The securities may be rated B2 by Moody’s Investors
Service said the person, who asked not to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  Nielsen Sale  The consumer information company may use proceeds from the
sale for general corporate purposes and debt repayment,
according to the person.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 2.2 basis points to 348.3, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 1.5 basis points to 129.6
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt rose 4.6 basis points to 656.1.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  