-- Croatia Can Meet Green Goals With Less Subsidies, Officials Say
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-09-20T11:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/croatia-can-meet-green-goals-with-less-subsidies-officials-say.html
Croatia can achieve its climate-change goals by the end of the decade even as it plans to cut
subsidies by as much as two-thirds, officials said.  New quotas for clean energy to be released next month will
be sufficient to meet the country’s commitment to the European
Union to get 20 percent of its energy from renewable sources,
said Barbara Doric,  executive director  at the Zagreb-based
Center for Monitoring of Energy Business and Investments, a
government agency.  “We will only come out with numbers which are enough for
Croatia to obtain the goal of 20 percent by 2020 and for these
numbers we will provide feed-in tariffs,” Doric said yesterday
by phone. Developers with plans surplus to those amounts could
seek other sources of finance, such as EU funds, she said.  Croatia, which was admitted to the EU this year, outlined
an energy strategy in 2009 that includes plans to subsidize as
much as 1,200 megawatts of wind power by 2020 with a feed-in
tariff. In  draft documents  published in July, this was scaled
back to 400 megawatts. The country installed 229 megawatts of
wind power by the end of August.  Tomislav Cerovec, a spokesman at the Ministry of Economy,
confirmed a new tariff model is “in the works, and should be
completed by end of October,” without giving further details.  Forty-seven megawatts of projects that won’t be eligible
for subsidies already have grid connection contracts, said
Kresimir Stih, head of the energy unit within the industry and
technology department of the Croatian Chamber of Economy.  ‘Not Bankable’  “These projects won’t be bankable as I don’t know any bank
willing to finance such projects with such a high risk level,”
he said by e-mail. “I expect that there will be a strong
disagreement between government and developers.”  The nation is likely to reach its EU goals with about 400
megawatts of wind, 50 megawatts of solar and 200 megawatts of
small hydro, biomass and biogas, he said.  Croatia ’s transmission system, designed for baseload or
round-the-clock power, may not be able to accommodate more than
400 megawatts of wind power, he said.  Investors with plants surplus to the limit could seek to
trade renewable energy at a European level, such as through so-called green certificates awarded for producing clean power.
This will depend on EU regulation and how the market is
organized, he said.  Dario Traum, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance,
said Croatia announced it would review its feed-in tariff each
year when it introduced the subsidy and therefore the new quotas
are unsurprising.  “The scaling back of the support this year should not be
interpreted as a sign of an unstable policy environment for
developers of renewable energy in the country,” he said.
“There are no signs of the government considering retroactive
cuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net  