-- Croatia Credit Rating Cut to Junk by Fitch on Budget Deficit
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-09-20T17:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/croatia-credit-rating-cut-to-junk-by-fitch-on-government-finance.html
Croatia had its  credit rating  cut
to junk by  Fitch Ratings , which cited a deterioration in the
newest European Union member’s fiscal outlook.  Fitch lowered the country’s long-term foreign-currency debt
assessment to BB+, one level below investment grade, from BBB-,
and its local currency rating to BBB- from BBB, the company said
today in an e-mailed statement from London. The outlook on the
ratings is stable. The move leaves Croatia on par with Portugal
and  Hungary .  “A structurally weak growth outlook has impaired the
prospects for fiscal consolidation and the attainment of public
debt sustainability,” Fitch said in the statement. “Measures
to clamp down on  tax evasion  and improve compliance have borne
fruit, but revenues have fallen this year, whilst pressures
continue to build on the expenditure side.”  The government of the former Yugoslav nation, which became
the EU’s 28th member in July, is struggling to keep public
finances in check after the economy shrank more than 10 percent
since 2008, during which time foreign direct investment has
plunged 80 percent. Gross domestic product will fall 0.9 percent
in 2013, Fitch predicted, lowering a previous forecast of 0.3
percent.  The yield on  Croatia ’s 2023 dollar bond rose to 5.646
percent from 5.559 percent at 7:10 p.m. in Zagreb, snapping a
six-day decline. The kuna weakened 0.1 percent against the euro
to 7.6131.  Growth Outlook  The economy, which hasn’t posted growth since 2008, shrank
0.7 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier as
declines in investment and consumption persisted. GDP will grow
0.7 percent this year, the government predicted in February,
trimming a previous 1.8 percent forecast. That compares with the
European Commission’s projection of 1 percent contraction.  “Failure of the economy to recover would put further
strains on the public finances and could lead to negative rating
action,” Fitch said. “Conversely, restoring economic growth
and anchoring fiscal policy would be rating positive. Structural
reforms could improve potential growth over the medium term.”  Fitch, which followed  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service in downgrading Croatian debt to junk, raised
its 2013 budget-gap forecast to 4.7 percent of economic output
from 3.9 percent and said public debt will peak at 66 percent of
GDP in 2016 rather than 62 percent.  The deficit will widen to 4.7 percent his year and to 5.6
percent in 2014 from 2.4 percent in 2012, the commission
forecasts.  “Failure to implement a credible medium term fiscal
consolidation strategy would further impair public debt
sustainability,” Fitch said. “This would ultimately lead to a
further negative rating action. By contrast, greater progress on
fiscal reform and deficit-reduction would put positive pressure
on the rating over the medium term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  