-- Desire for Tax Revamp Mired in Dysfunctional Congress
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-20T04:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/desire-for-tax-revamp-mired-in-dysfunctional-congress.html
The 23 Republicans on the House
Ways and Means Committee have been huddling in the Capitol for
two weeks, identifying potential disagreements as they consider
the biggest U.S. tax changes in 27 years.  They’re promoting an emerging plan to simplify U.S.
taxation with an optimism countered by what’s outside that
first-floor meeting room. They’re operating inside a polarized
Congress that can’t agree on how to keep the government open
past Sept. 30 or prevent the U.S. from being able to pay all its
bills past mid-October.  “There are these mega-issues that can just supersede all
the hard work that’s been done,” said Dave Kautter, managing
director of the Kogod Tax Center at American University in
Washington.  The details of Chairman  Dave Camp ’s bill, which he plans to
push through the committee this year, remain either unwritten or
shrouded in secrecy as he tries to curb enough tax breaks to
reduce top individual and corporate rates to 25 percent. The
Michigan Republican is seeking to do that without increasing the
 budget deficit  or making the  tax code  less progressive.  Camp and Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, have been “thoughtful” and “methodical,”
cooperating across party lines, inviting input and laying the
groundwork for success, Kautter said. Acknowledging that he is
more optimistic than others, Kautter said he thinks the two
lawmakers have a greater than 50 percent chance of success,
hampered largely by the partisan environment.  ‘Crisis Mode’  “It’s a long-term project with lots of steps and when you
get to the end, you get to the goal,” Camp said in an interview
yesterday. “It’s just different than crisis mode.”  Some of the most ardent advocates of simplifying the tax
code say the effort will have a tough time.  “We hope, perhaps,  tax reform  can be the sweet spot” that
propels Congress toward a bipartisan budget agreement, Senator
 Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat, said yesterday. “The prospect
of major progress is not encouraging.”  The House plans to include language for expedited
consideration of major tax changes in a bill next week that
would increase the $16.7 trillion debt limit, Camp said, citing
that step as an encouraging sign because it means that tax bills
won’t get “bogged down.”  Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican on Ways and
Means, said lawmakers are looking at which special provisions
might have a big enough economic impact to justify keeping them
as they look at the tradeoff between rate reduction and base
broadening. He said Camp hasn’t given committee members a
specific date for when they will vote on a bill.  ‘Steady Ship’  “At some point, we start turning the Rubik’s Cube until it
all fits together,” Brady said. “We hope to be a steady ship,
continuing plowing forward as the storms rage around us.”  Representative Kenny Marchant, a Texas Republican and Ways
and Means member, said the panel was “weeks away” from
developing a draft. Republicans have been briefed on what it
will take to reduce the corporate rate to 25 percent and change
international tax rules.  Committee members are engaged in “conceptual
discussions,” Camp said.  Marchant said the group is awaiting estimates from the
nonpartisan congressional scorekeeper, the Joint Committee on
Taxation, before going through the same process of determining
how it could reduce individual tax rates.  At that point, Marchant said, Ways and Means Republicans
will try to reach consensus on a plan and then sell it to their
party colleagues in the House.  “We’re hopeful that when we come out with a product,” he
said, grinning, “it’s such a good product it will sell
itself.”  Targeting Breaks  A plan that meets Camp’s criteria probably would require
lawmakers to support curtailing popular tax breaks and
potentially displeasing businesses and interest groups that
would lose tax advantages.  In the House, where Republicans have a 233-200 majority,
passing a tax bill requires satisfying 40 or 50 small-government
advocates who are often willing to vote against their leaders’
priorities, or writing the bill to attract Democratic votes.  The challenges are similar in the Senate. Baucus must cope
with leaders in his own party who want as much as $1 trillion in
additional revenue over the next decade from tax-policy changes,
while Republican leaders want zero.  His task, for now, is mustering a majority on his Senate
Finance Committee to support any particular approach. He says he
will bring a plan to the panel this year.  Camp’s Challenge  The first step for Camp will be demonstrating how the
arithmetic can work. Achieving 25 percent top rates for
corporations and individuals probably would require changes to
some of the biggest U.S. tax breaks, such as the mortgage
interest deduction and the exclusion of employer-provided health
insurance.  The panel also might need to alter the tax treatment of
items that aren’t technically considered breaks, including the
deduction of business interest and advertising expenses.  Camp and Baucus remain publicly optimistic.  Both men have resisted the Obama administration’s requests
to focus solely on business taxation, where there is more
possibility for agreement.  Because many businesses pay taxes through their owners’
individual returns, the two sides of the tax system are linked.
Cutting the corporate rate without touching individual rates
could cause economic distortions.  “We’ve got a lot of days left before game day,” said
Representative Jim Renacci, an  Ohio Republican  who is on the
Ways and Means panel.  Lobbying Help  Camp and Baucus, who promoted their work during a “Simpler
Taxes” tour that visited five states, have been bolstered by
business groups.  Camp met with dozens of business executives and lobbyists
yesterday in the Capitol. And two business coalitions -- one
supporting more uniform taxation of different types of
businesses and another focused on the statutory corporate rate -
- held a joint event yesterday urging Congress to act.  “It is drastically needed,” said Dan Danner, president of
the National Federation of  Independent Business , the lobbying
group for small companies. “The how, we don’t have a clear
path. It’s up to the chair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  