-- Deutsche Bank Drops on Report Jain Will Warn on Trading
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-09-20T17:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/deutsche-bank-drops-on-report-jain-will-warn-on-trading.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Europe’s biggest
investment bank by revenue, dropped in Frankfurt following a
report that one of its co-chief executive officers will warn
next week about a decline in the debt-trading business.  The stock fell 2.1 percent to 35.36 euros ($47.81), its
first decline this week. Co-CEO Anshu Jain may tell investors at
a Sept. 25 conference in  London  that third-quarter revenue from
fixed-income trading lags behind the same period in 2012, the
Financial Times reported, without citing anyone.  Global investment banks have seen a slowdown in debt
trading, a key portion of their revenue, amid uncertainty about
the  Federal Reserve ’s plans to reduce the pace of monthly bond-buying. Jain, 50, has previewed earnings at conferences before
and will probably do so again next week,  Dirk Becker , an analyst
with Kepler Cheuvreux, said in an interview today.  “I expect Jain to make a cautious statement on fixed
income in the third quarter,” said Becker, who is based in
Frankfurt and  recommends  buying Deutsche Bank stock. “It won’t
be a terrible quarter, but Deutsche Bank will probably see
revenue fall from last year’s quarter.”  Deutsche Bank spokesman  Michael Golden  declined to comment
when reached by phone in Frankfurt today. The company is
scheduled to report third-quarter earnings on Oct. 29.  Jefferies Plunge  Banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc have
indicated to investors that trading revenue for the period
probably will be down from a year earlier. Jefferies Group LLC,
whose third quarter ended in August, said this week that fixed-income trading revenue plunged 88 percent while equity trading
fell 28 percent.  Jain is scheduled to speak at a conference hosted by  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  at 2 p.m. in London on Sept. 25. He used two
similar occasions to give investors an indication of revenue in
the first and second quarters of this year.  Fed officials have been debating when to slow their $85
billion-a-month pace of bond buying, known as quantitative
easing, as the economy recovers and low  interest rates  prompt
investors to take more risk.  Most economists surveyed by Bloomberg now expect the
central bank to begin tapering asset purchases in December after
the Fed decided this week to maintain the pace.  Fed comments in mid-May led some investors to anticipate a
slowdown in the bond purchases, causing “a broad sell-off in
June across most asset classes” and making market conditions
“substantially more challenging,” Deutsche Bank Chief
Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said on a July 30 conference
call with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  