-- Disney Ends Film Deal With ‘Pirates’ Producer Bruckheimer
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-09-20T20:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/disney-to-end-film-deal-with-pirates-producer-bruckheimer.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  will end its
partnership with “Pirates of the Caribbean” producer Jerry Bruckheimer as the company looks to rein in film costs and focus
on movies from Pixar, Marvel and Lucasfilm Ltd.  The first-look deal with Bruckheimer, one of the best-known
action producers in Hollywood, won’t be renewed when it expires
in 2014, Burbank, California-based Disney said yesterday in a
statement. They will continue to work together on projects
including the fifth “Pirates of the Caribbean.”  The decision underscores the pressure on studio Chairman
Alan Horn to limit risk while placing huge bets on a handful of
big movies with blockbuster potential. While the first four
“Pirates” films generated $3.73 billion at the global box
office, Disney pulled the next one from its release schedule,
and Bruckheimer stumbled in July with “The Lone Ranger,” which
may lose $190 million for the company.  “We have had an incredibly successful collaboration over
the past two decades and he is a friend to many of us here,”
Horn said in the statement. “We will continue to work together
in the future.”  Bruckheimer, 67, spent 25 years with Disney, making 27
films ranging from “Armageddon” to “Pearl Harbor” to
“National Treasure: Book of Secrets.”  In 2003, he turned the buccaneer-themed attraction known to
legions of Disney park visitors into a movie starring Johnny Depp as a rowdy pirate channeling rocker Keith Richards. The
film generated more than $650 million at the global box office,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  ‘Lone Ranger’  While the “Pirates” sequels were successful, Bruckheimer
and Depp hit a pothole with “The Lone Ranger,” which cost $215
million to make, not counting marketing costs, and delivered
$244.7 million in worldwide ticket sales, according to Box
Office Mojo. Ticket revenue is generally split with theater
chains. The company said in August it expects to record a loss
of as much as $190 million this quarter on the film.  “We’ve also learned there needs to be a cap on tentpole
non-franchise movies,” Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo said
last week at a Bank of America investor conference. “We need to
cap those at a level that allows us to experience good economics
and doesn’t quite put as much at risk.”  Last week, Disney delayed production of Bruckheimer’s next
“Pirates” movie indefinitely, without an explanation. The film
was slated to reach theaters on July 10, 2015.  Disney also shuffled its Pixar slate, saying yesterday it
would delay 2014’s “The Good Dinosaur” by 18 months. That left
the company without an annual movie from the animation studio
that produced “Toy Story” for the first time since 2005.  Bruckheimer’s Plans  Disney fell 1.1 percent to $65.01 at the close in New York.
The stock has advanced 31 percent this year, compared with an 18
percent  return  for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average. (INDU)   With earnings growth at the company’s ESPN sports networks
projected to slow, Disney will need to rely on less predictable
businesses such as movies and consumer products, Benjamin Swinburne, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a report
published yesterday.  Hits including last year’s top-grossing “Marvel’s The
Avengers” haven’t added meaningfully to profit because of
rising film costs and soft home-video demand, said Swinburne,
who cut his rating on the stock to the equivalent of hold from
buy. Disney’s film studio has written off about $800 million of
movie investments since 2009, according to the report.  Studio Profit  Operating  profit  at the studio totaled $722 million in the
last fiscal year, down from $1.2 billion five years earlier.  Bruckheimer will look to produce more mature films outside
of the Disney brand, according to the statement. He said he
looked forward to making films like “Beverly Hills Cop” and
“Black Hawk Down,” which were done with other studios.  “We will continue working together on ‘Pirates of the
Caribbean,’ ‘National Treasure’ and other projects we have
developed together at the studio,” Bruckheimer said in the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  