-- Dividend Loans for Buyout Firms in Europe Double to $5.5 Billion
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p ,   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-09-20T11:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/dividend-loans-for-buyout-firms-in-europe-double-to-5-5-billion.html
Charterhouse  Capital Partners ,  KKR
& Co. (KKR)  and other private-equity companies are raising the most
loans to pay themselves dividends from their European corporate
investments in more than five years.  Companies owned by the buyout firms borrowed 4.1 billion
euros ($5.5 billion) for payouts this year, more than double the
1.8 billion euros raised in 2012 and higher than any year since
2008, according to data compiled by Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ
Leveraged Commentary and Data. Visma Group, a Norwegian software
maker majority-owned by KKR, increased its loans to 8.1 billion
kroner ($1.39 billion) to help fund a shareholder payment while
U.K. retailer Card Factory Ltd. is seeking a 165 million-pound
($265 million) term loan for a dividend to Charterhouse,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Private-equity companies are extracting income from the
businesses they own as borrowing costs from the U.S. to  Europe 
to  Japan  are held at record lows and their investments are
changing hands at the slowest rate since 2009. The firms have
sold $29 billion of European companies this year compared with
$57 billion in the whole of 2012 and $94 billion in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Banks are more willing to allow sponsors to take
dividends from the business,” Jonathan Guise, a London-based
partner at debt advisory firm Marlborough Partners, said in a
telephone interview. “This year has been characterized by a
subdued M&A market alongside buoyant conditions in debt
markets.”  Loan Pricing  Prices of leveraged loans in Europe have risen about 3
percent this year, according to Standard & Poor’s European
Leveraged Loan Index, which on Sept. 12 reached its highest
level since June 2011. Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover
Index of credit-default swaps linked to 50 companies with mostly
high-yield credit ratings cost 388 basis points at 12 p.m. in
London, Bloomberg data show.  “Investors will be wary about these types of transaction
given the higher default rates seen in dividend recap
transactions syndicated pre-crisis,” said David Milward,
London-based head of loans at Henderson Global Investors Ltd.
“I expect this trend to be on-going. The pricing and structures
look okay for the moment.”  Visma Group’s lenders agreed to the Oslo-based company
borrowing an additional 2 billion kroner to help fund a dividend
and for new investments, people with knowledge of the deal have
said. Card Factory’s 165 million-pound  term loan  C is offered to
lenders and may pay an interest margin of 500 to 525 basis
points, or 5 or 5.25 percentage points, more than benchmarks.  M7 Loan  M7 Group, a Luxembourg-based satellite broadcaster part-owned by Providence Equity Partners Inc., obtained 355 million
euros of loans this week to help make a payment to shareholders,
Bloomberg data show. The debt includes a 270 million-euro term
loan B paying a margin of 475 basis points, or 4.75 percentage
points.  “We are seeing situations where the sponsor is looking at
a recapitalization of the business alongside a potential sale,”
said Neel Sachdev, a London-based partner at law firm Kirkland &
Ellis LLP.  Scandlines, a Danish-German ferry operator owned by  3i
Group Plc (III)  and Allianz Capital Partners GmbH, is seeking to
refinance its loans, the private-equity firms said earlier this
month. The potential 800 million-euro deal follows an attempted
sale of the business earlier this year that attracted lower than
expected bids. 3i is offering to buy its private-equity
partner’s stake, they said in the statement.  PIK Debt  British mobile phone retailer Phones 4u Finance Plc
obtained 205 million pounds of bonds on Sept. 18 that can be
used to pay a dividend to owner BC Partners Ltd, Bloomberg data
show. The notes, issued by its Phosphorus Holdco Plc unit, are
payment-in-kind toggle securities, where the borrower can pay
interest using more debt.  “Sponsors are increasingly looking at using holdco PIK
debt to achieve the desired outcome due to strong demand for
high yielding PIK or PIK toggle securities,” Sachdev said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Miecamp in  London  at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  