-- Dollar Strengthens as Fed’s Bullard Says October Taper Possible
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-09-20T21:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/dollar-strengthens-as-fed-s-bullard-says-october-taper-possible.html
The dollar rose versus most of its
16 most-traded peers after Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President James Bullard said the choice not to slow bond buying
was a close call and “small” tapering is possible next month.  The U.S. currency erased a loss versus the 17-nation euro
after Bullard, a voter on policy this year who has backed record
stimulus, said the Fed’s decision to unexpectedly refrain from
reducing its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases was a
“borderline decision” after “weaker data came in,” in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . The euro traded at almost the strongest since
2009 versus the yen before  Germany ’s federal elections Sept. 22.  “Tapering is still coming, just not as early as the market
believed,” Sara Yates, a global-currency strategist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s JPMorgan Private Bank, said in a telephone
interview today. “We continue to think the dollar will
outperform against currencies, such as the yen and Swiss
franc.”  The dollar was little changed at $1.3524 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time. It touched $1.3569 yesterday, the lowest level
since Feb. 7. The greenback slipped 0.1 percent to 99.36 yen,
while the single currency fell 0.1 percent to 134.37 yen after
rising to 134.95 yesterday, the strongest since November 2009.  Market Swings  “Bullard is trying to put taper back on the table,” Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London ,
said in a phone interview. “We’re flip-flopping around trying
to figure out where we’re going to go.”  Norway’s krone tumbled the most in almost a month against
the euro amid speculation the central bank will take steps to
damp the currency’s appreciation while its Swedish counterpart
tolerates a stronger krona.  Norway’s krone dropped 1.7 percent to 8.0247 per euro and
declined 1.8 percent to 5.9333 per dollar.  The New Zealand dollar gained for a third week, extending
its advance since the Reserve Bank said on Sept. 12 that
interest-rate increases may be required next year from the all-time low of 2.5 percent as inflation picks up.  The kiwi slipped 0.1 percent to 83.68 U.S cents after
climbing to 84.36 yesterday, the strongest since May 9. It has
strengthened 2.9 percent this week.  Emerging Markets  India ’s rupee slid 0.8 percent to 62.2775 per dollar,
paring the week’s advance, after the central bank unexpectedly
raised its benchmark rate to damp inflation while scaling back
earlier measures meant to support the currency.  South Africa’s rand dropped the most in almost a month
following Bullard’s comments. The currency depreciated 1.9
percent to 9.8881 per dollar, paring its gain this week.  An index of household confidence in the euro zone improved
to minus 14.9, the highest level since July 2011, from minus
15.6 a month earlier, the European Commission in Brussels said
in a preliminary report. Economists had forecast an increase to
minus 14.5, according to the median of 23 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
reduced the low end of its profit forecast yesterday, partly
because of the strength of the euro, which has caused analysts
to cut profit estimates in recent weeks.  Germany will hold federal elections on Sunday. An INSA
opinion poll published yesterday showed both the opposition
Social Democrats and Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led
group will fall short of a majority with their preferred
coalition partners.  German Votes  “People in Europe are unwinding their positions ahead of
the German election,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
 Washington  at the currency brokerage Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., said in a telephone interview. “Investors are
taking profit after being long euro-dollar after the FOMC
decision.” A long position is a bet that an asset will increase
in value.  The euro may weaken if the anti-euro Alliance for Germany
party reaches the 5 percent threshold of the national vote
needed to win parliamentary seats, according to Thomas Kressin,
head of European foreign exchange at Pacific Investment
Management Co. in Munich.  The euro has risen 4.2 percent in the past six months, the
second-best performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen lost 4.5
percent, while the dollar fell 0.8 percent.  “This is in part a perception that the crisis is off the
boil,” said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “It’s also a reflection of the very
good current-account position of the euro zone.”  Draghi Talks  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi will address
the European Parliament on Sept. 23. He has refrained from
printing euros to buy bonds, contrasting with the Federal
Reserve, which decided to maintain monthly asset purchases at
$85 billion at a two-day meeting ended Sept. 18. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast the U.S. central bank to
reduce monthly Treasury purchases by $5 billion.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $18 billion, from $43 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $5.7 billion, the largest share of
trades at 33 percent. Options on the euro-pound rate totaled
$2.6 billion.  Dollar-yen options trading was 59 percent more than the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-pound options trading was
499 percent more than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in  New York  at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  