-- The Scourge of Online Gun Sales
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-20T14:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/the-scourge-of-online-gun-sales.html
It’s not difficult to grasp how a
man with  a history of  gun arrests and mental instability
obtained the necessary firepower to commit a massacre at the
Washington Navy Yard earlier this week. Buying a gun, or even an
arsenal, is exceptionally easy in the U.S.  Even so, there are some people who both fail to meet the
minimal requirements for purchasing a gun from a licensed dealer
and whose relevant personal details are known to the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation . Since 1998, the FBI’s National Instant
Criminal Background Check System has stopped more than 2 million
attempted gun purchases by felons, domestic abusers, drug
addicts, the mentally ill and other prohibited persons.  Those blocked from making legal purchases from gun dealers,
however, have an alternative marketplace -- online. As  a report 
released this week makes painfully clear, that marketplace is
growing in both size and danger.  Mayors Against Illegal Guns, cofounded by  New York  City
Mayor and Bloomberg LP founder  Michael Bloomberg , found 83,000
ads for guns on Armslist.com, a site devoted to firearm sales.
The number of criminals seeking guns on the site -- federal law
requires no background checks or questions of any kind for in-state, nondealer transactions -- would be astounding if it
weren’t so predictable.  So when Radcliffe Haughton was prohibited from buying
firearms, he naturally turned to Armslist, where he found a
willing seller while avoiding a background check or any other
kind of scrutiny. Haughton bought a .40-caliber semi-automatic
Glock handgun. The next day, he drove to his estranged wife’s
workplace and murdered her along with two co-workers. Four
others were injured before Haughton turned the gun on himself.  This is the “gun-show loophole” in action. Armslist is
precisely the kind of lawless marketplace that the National
Rifle Association champions and that the  U.S. Senate  this year
mobilized to protect by scuttling background-check legislation.
With the growth of online markets, there’s never a need to wait
for a gun show; tens of thousands of guns are on sale every hour
of every day.  In an effort to gauge the extent of criminal activity
online, Mayors Against Illegal Guns analyzed the contact
information supplied by prospective buyers in the “want-to-buy” ads posted on Armslist. According to the study, 1 of every
30 gun seekers in the want-to-buy section had a history that
would prohibit them from legally possessing a gun.  “Alarming as this snapshot is,” states the report, “it
badly understates the true scope of the problem. Only 5 percent
of the postings on Armslist are want-to-buy ads: the vast
majority of buyers -- prohibited and otherwise -- respond to
‘for-sale’ ads, and therefore remain completely anonymous.”  There are rumblings in  Washington  that background-check
legislation will be resuscitated on the Senate floor. If so, it
should be a meaningful exercise. So perhaps it’s best if
Americans first ask themselves a simple question: How easy
should it be for criminals and the mentally ill to buy guns? As
one massacre after another confirms, such people enjoy virtually
unfettered access to guns right now. The gun lobby will continue
to work to preserve that status quo. What are the rest of us
willing to do to change it?  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 