-- Medical Devices Must Have Unique Identifiers in U.S.
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-09-20T14:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/medical-devices-must-have-unique-identifiers-in-u-s-.html
Makers of heart stents, artificial
joints and other medical devices must begin adding unique
identification codes to their packaging by next year to help
U.S. regulators accurately track adverse health events.  The plan takes effect in about 90 days and will be phased
in over seven years with a focus on high-risk devices, the Food
and Drug Administration said today. The rules, which will cost
about $86 million a year to comply with domestically, make final
a proposal published last year.  The unique identifier will include a number and product
information such as lot number and expiration date, the FDA said
in a statement. The agency proposed the rule in 2012 and the
final version no longer requires implantable devices to carry
the identifier on the device as well as the label and package.
Only certain reusable devices must bear an identifier directly
on the product.  “It will allow FDA, health care providers, and industry to
more rapidly extract useful information from adverse event
reports, pinpoint the particular device at issue and thereby
gain a better understanding of the underlying problems, and take
appropriate, better-focused, corrective action,” the FDA said
in the rule.  The agency received 270 comments totaling 1,700 pages of
feedback from 225 manufacturers, consumer groups, doctors,
hospitals and others on the proposed rule, FDA said in the final
version.  “While we are still reviewing all the details of the final
rule, AdvaMed commends FDA for addressing many of the concerns
industry raised in the proposed rule,” said Janet Trunzo,
senior executive vice president of technology and regulatory
affairs for the Advanced Medical Technology Association, a lobby
group in  Washington  for device makers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  