-- Egnyte Seeks $25 Million in Venture Funds on Way to 2015 IPO
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-09-20T20:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/egnyte-seeks-25-million-in-venture-funding-on-way-to-2015-ipo.html
Egnyte Inc., the file-sharing
service provider backed by venture-capital investors including
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , is seeking about $25 million in a new round of
funding en route to a 2015 initial public offering.  The new cash will fund expansion in Europe and Asia, which
currently account for at least 15 percent of Mountain View,
California-based Egnyte’s business, co-founder and Chief
Executive Officer Vineet Jain said in an interview in New York.
A $25 million round would increase the total amount of capital
raised by Egnyte to $58 million, he said.  Egnyte, which helps companies store and share sensitive
files, is expanding services as it vies for customers with
larger competitors Dropbox Inc. and Box Inc. The company,
founded in 2007, may generate $35 million to $50 million in
revenue this year, according to Jain. Even as Egnyte offers new
enterprise-focused services to grow its base of 30,000
customers, its size pales in comparison to Dropbox, which had
175 million user accounts as of July.  “They have a distinctive solution with appealing
characteristics for an IT person,” said Frank Gillett, an
analyst at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Forrester Research
Inc. (FORR)  “Their challenge is simply getting noticed and attention
in a crowded, noisy space.”  In a Forrester survey of information-technology decision
makers in North America and Western Europe earlier this year, 44
percent of responding firms said they are using or expanding use
of file synchronization and sharing services, Gillett said.
Still, the percentage of information workers using free services
was more than four times the number using paid services, the
survey data showed.  U.K. Expansion  Plans for a U.K. office by the second quarter of 2014,
Egnyte’s first overseas, will be key to meeting a $100 million
sales target by the end of 2015, Jain said. An IPO by the end of
that year is a possibility, he said.  “Having people on the ground is crucial to building and
sustaining a business,” Jain said. “You need someone to go and
press the flesh.”  Egnyte employs more than 170 people and has customers
including guitarmaker Fender Musical Instruments Corp. and New
York-based wealth manager National Financial Partners Corp.,
Jain said. The company projects positive cash flow by the end of
next year, he said. Jain declined to provide details on the
company’s valuation.  Google Ventures, the venture-capital arm of the Mountain
View-based search-engine operator, led Egnyte’s previous round
of investment in 2012, which totaled about $16 million, Jain
said. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the Menlo Park,
California-based firm, led a $10 million round a year earlier,
he said.  Dropbox, also founded in 2007, is used in more than 2
million businesses and has more than 200 million users,
according to the San Francisco-based company’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  