-- El-Erian Says Fed-Induced Market Volatility Is Bad for Economy
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-20T15:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/el-erian-says-fed-induced-market-volatility-is-bad-for-economy.html
The Federal Reserve’s failure to
provide better guidance on the unwinding of monetary stimulus
has stoked volatility in debt markets that risks weakening the
U.S. economy, according to Pimco’s Mohamed El-Erian.  “The Fed surprised the markets and now they are surprised
by how the markets have reacted,” El-Erian, chief executive and
co-chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management
Co., said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with  Betty Liu . “And now we are told it was borderline
and now we are told maybe as early as October and we may have a
press conference. The result is the markets go on this roller
coaster and this volatility is not good for the economy.”  The Fed unexpectedly refrained from reducing the $85
billion pace of monthly bond buying at its policy meeting this
week, saying it needs more evidence of lasting improvement in
the economy and warning that an increase in interest rates
threatened to curb the expansion. The central bank, in a
statement, left unchanged its outlook that its target interest
rate will remain near zero “at least as long as” unemployment
exceeds 6.5 percent, so long as the outlook for inflation is no
higher than 2.5 percent.  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note fell 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 2.69 percent, after the
announce of the Fed’s decision on Sept. 18. The drop in yields
was the biggest in almost two years. The yield was little
changed today at 2.75 percent.  ‘Borderline Decision’  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard,
a voter on policy this year who has backed record stimulus, said
today in a separate Bloomberg Television interview that a small
tapering of bond buying is possible next month after the Fed
made a close call this week in deciding not to slow purchases.  “That was a borderline decision” after “weaker data came
in,” Bullard said today on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The committee came down on the
side of, ‘Let’s wait.’”  Markets shouldn’t have been surprised by the decision
because Federal Open Market Committee members have repeatedly
said the decision to slow, or taper, would be “data
dependent,” Bullard said.  Investors see a 43 percent chance that policy makers will
increase the federal funds rate target to 0.5 percent or more by
January 2015, based on data compiled by Bloomberg from futures
contracts. The odds were 68 percent two weeks ago.  “There is lots of uncertainly,” said El-Erian, head of
the world’s biggest manager of bond funds. At the Fed, “you are
having difficult decision making with a lot of uncertainty with
a change of leadership. It’s not just the chair, it is going to
be members of the FOMC” that will change next year.  Lawrence Summers withdrew from consideration this week to
replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke. Summers’s decision made Fed
Vice Chairman Janet Yellen the top candidate, a sign to Pimco
that the central bank will maintain its easy-money policies, El-Erian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  