-- Telfer to Pay $194,000 in Costs in Settlement With OSC
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-09-20T15:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/telfer-to-pay-c-200-000-fine-in-settlement-with-osc.html
Goldcorp Inc. (G)  Chairman Ian Telfer
agreed to pay C$200,000 ($194,000) in costs and will be banned
from arranging for people to buy shares in companies he promotes
for one year in a settlement over allegations that he violated
Canadian securities laws.  Telfer admitted his conduct fell below standards expected
from his position in capital markets, Cullen Price, a lawyer
representing Ontario Securities Commission staff, said at a
hearing today in Toronto. Telfer was reprimanded by the OSC as
part of the settlement and will make the payment to cover the
cost of the investigation, Price said.  “Senior capital market participants like Mr. Telfer have
the responsibility to protect the integrity of the capital
markets,” Price said at the hearing. “Mr. Telfer failed to
live up to the standard expected of him.”  The settlement is reasonable and appropriate, said Telfer’s
lawyer Kevin Richard.  The sanctions don’t include a prohibition on acting as a
director and officer of a public company, which was among the
potential penalties Telfer faced. The ban wasn’t necessary to
protect the public interest, “given the narrow nature of the
misconduct,” Price said.  Telfer, 67, was included in an OSC statement of allegations
in February 2012 regarding an alleged insider-trading scheme
involving at least eight people. The OSC alleged he acted
“contrary to the public interest.” Telfer, who is also
chairman of  Uranium One Inc. (UUU) , had previously denied any
wrongdoing.  Friends, Family  A large part of the OSC’s allegations against Telfer were
related to his practice of adding friends and family to private
stock placements for his startup companies. The so-called
president’s lists would often include acquaintances at brokerage
and investment banks and their relatives.  Telfer has agreed not to directly or indirectly trade or
arrange for trading by others in securities of companies that he
promotes for one year, according to a copy of the settlement
provided by the OSC. Telfer isn’t currently a promoter of any
public company in  Canada , it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  