-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline on India’s Rate Increase
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a ,   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-09-20T21:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/emerging-stocks-fall-with-currencies-as-india-sinks-on-repo-rate.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated
from a four-month high, trimming their weekly advance, as
 India ’s banks drove a slump in financial shares after the
nation’s central bank unexpectedly lifted  interest rates .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 0.9 percent to
1,013.17, paring a weekly rally to 2.7 percent. The S&P BSE
Bankex sank 4.2 percent, sending India’s benchmark equity index
down from a three-year high. Prague’s PX index dropped the most
among major developing-nation equity gauges, while the Borsa
Istanbul National 100 Index tumbled after entering a  bull market 
yesterday. South Africa’s rand led losses among 21 out of the 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Stocks fell after India’s central bank Governor  Raghuram Rajan  surprised economists by raising the benchmark rate in his
first policy review, seeking to rein in inflation. Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said a small
tapering of bond buying is possible next month after the Fed
made a close call this week in deciding not to slow purchases.
The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded fund 
dropped a second day after rallying 4.2 percent on Sept. 18.  “It’s a knee-jerk reaction by the market to say ‘oh they
are rising interest rates, it is bad for banks,’”  Christian Keller , the head of emerging-market research at Barclays Plc in
 London , said by phone. “A lot of people were rather betting on
easing of monetary policies in India.”  Financial shares led losses among the  10 industries  in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index, dropping 1.3 percent as a group.
The measure for developing markets extended this year’s decline
to 4 percent, trading at 10.7 times projected earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That trails the 14
 valuation  of the MSCI World Index.  Options Prices  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 8 percent to 23.55.  Stocks in developing nations capped a  third weekly  gain as
the Fed unexpectedly refrained from reducing its $85 billion in
monthly asset purchases, saying it needs to see more signs of
sustained labor market gains.  “The emerging markets overall seemed to rally on the idea
that there wasn’t going to be a giant sucking sound of liquidity
as a result of the Fed cutting back on its stimulus,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $221.2 billion as chief portfolio
strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee Falls,
 Wisconsin , said by phone.  Brazil, Russia  Brazil’s Ibovespa fell 1.8 percent as exporters including
iron-ore producer Vale SA tumbled with commodity prices. Banco
Bradesco SA led declines among banks.  Russia’s Micex Index trimmed its weekly gain to 2.5
percent. OAO Mechel, the nation’s biggest producer of coal for
steelmakers, slumped 1.7 percent. Prague’s PX index sank the
most in three months  New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the largest
coking-coal producer in the  Czech Republic , extended a two-day
plunge to 18 percent. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index sank
2 percent as  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  tumbled.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex slid 1.9 percent, paring the week’s
gain to 2.7 percent as  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the second-biggest
lender, tumbled. The rupee fell, paring the week’s advance to 2
percent, prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show.  Asian currencies rallied this week by the most in a year as
Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened 4 percent, the  Thai baht 
appreciated 2.9 percent and the Indonesian rupiah gained 0.5
percent. Global funds bought $494 million more stocks than they
sold in the first four days of the week in  Indonesia , the
 Philippines  and  Thailand .  South Africa’s rand dropped 1.9 percent, the most in a
month. The currency rose 0.4 percent for the week.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 314 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  