-- Emulex CFO Rockenbach Steps Down Amid Activists’ Pressure
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-09-20T20:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/emulex-cfo-rockenbach-steps-down-amid-activists-pressure.html
Emulex Corp. (ELX) , the target of
activist investors including Elliott Management Corp., said
Chief Financial Officer Michael J. Rockenbach will step down on
Dec. 31.  Emulex will interview both internal and external candidates
to replace him, according to a statement from the Costa Mesa,
California-based chipmaker today. Rockenbach, who has been CFO
since 1997, will continue in the role in the interim.  The company, whose biggest shareholders include Elliott
Management and Starboard Value LP, has hired Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to seek potential buyers, two people familiar with
knowledge of the situation said in July. Last week, Starboard
said Emulex needs new board members, a new strategy and
financial discipline, increasing the pressure on a company that
hasn’t reported an annual profit in three years.  The CFO was “at a minimum controversial among investors
and a lightning rod for some investors’ frustration,” Glenn Hanus, an analyst at Needham & Co.in New York, said in a note to
investors. He rates the shares hold.  Emulex didn’t provide a reason for Rockenbach’s departure.  “This is just another development in the company’s course
correction,” said Edward Park, an analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets, in a telephone interview. “Shareholders want them to
spend less money and generate more earnings,” said Park,  who
also has a hold rating on the stock.  A standstill agreement that was set to expire today, where
Elliott had pledged to refrain from further stock purchases, was
extended until October 20, according to a separate filing.  The shares rose 1.5 percent to $8.06 at the close in New
York. The stock has advanced 10 percent this year, trailing a 26
percent gain for the Russell 2000 Index.  The company, whose chips help computer servers and networks
transfer data, rejected an $11-a-share bid from  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) 
in 2009.  Elliott  held  about 9.8 percent of Emulex as of Aug. 9,
while Starboard had 7.7 percent as of Sept. 13, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niamh Ring in New York at 
 nring@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  