-- Merkel Ally Calls for End to Clean-Energy Priority on Power Grid
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2013-09-20T13:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/merkel-ally-calls-for-end-to-clean-energy-priority-on-power-grid.html
Germany  shouldn’t force  power-grid 
operators to prioritize the distribution and sale of clean
energy, according to an ally of Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  It’s no longer necessary to give new renewable-energy
plants preference because clean-power growth targets can be met
regardless, said Thuringia Premier Christine Lieberknecht, an
executive board member of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union .  Lieberknecht’s call is the most vocal yet within the CDU to
end incentives that have made Germany Europe’s biggest clean-energy market. It indicates that all aspects of the subsidy
system are up for review after Sept. 22 elections. Politicians
from all parties have urged action to bring down consumer power
bills following a boom in solar and wind generation.  “There can’t be an undamped priority grid access for
renewables anymore,” Lieberknecht said yesterday in an
interview in Erfurt. “We now have to create an incentive system
to make sure that renewables are integrated into the market.”  As recently as June, Merkel pledged to retain preferential
grid access for new renewable plants. The policy, known as the
Einspeisevorrang, requires grid companies to connect renewable-energy units to the network and buy and distribute their power
regardless of fluctuations in demand.  Merkel has already promised to reform legislation
underpinning the Energiewende, Germany’s 550 billion-euro ($743
billion) plan to wean the country off nuclear energy and more
than triple the share of renewables to account for 80 percent of
the power mix by 2050.  There must be a “national plan” for boosting renewables
to make sure projects in Germany’s 16 states are aligned with
grid expansion, Lieberknecht said.  Wind turbines , for example,
should be built only where sufficient  power lines  exist, instead
of forcing utilities to add them afterward, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  