-- Merkel Appeals for Strong Europe as Steinbrueck Attacks
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-09-21T12:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/merkel-evokes-postwar-peace-to-champion-eu-in-final-campaigning.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
closed her campaign evoking the benefits of European unity as
Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck  lambasted her as ineffectual
and “backward-looking.”  The candidates crisscrossed the nation in the days before
tomorrow’s vote, with all polls putting Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc ahead; none showed a clear majority for her
continued alliance with the Free Democrats, and some suggest the
anti-euro AfD party may win seats and further complicate the
post-election coalition-building.  “We want a strong  Europe , a successful Europe” and “in
the next four years we have to work so that this wonderful
continent continues to be successful,” Merkel told her
penultimate rally in Berlin today. She then wound up the
campaign in her Baltic Sea constituency of Stralsund.  Merkel, who has presided over a decline in  unemployment  to
the lowest in two decades and won overwhelming German backing
for her approach to the euro-area debt crisis, is struggling to
assert her favoured coalition option amid a reinvigorated
challenge by Steinbrueck’s SPD, a weakened FDP partner and the
wildcard of the AfD.  ‘Worst Managed’  Steinbrueck, speaking today at the final rally of his
campaign in Frankfurt, the financial capital, said Merkel’s
government has done nothing to address areas including nursing
care or pensions, while on energy it’s been in charge of the
“worst-managed policy that I’ve experienced in 20 years.”  He contrasted his proposals on rent controls, improving the
education system and investing in infrastructure to Merkel’s
“directionless” government. Steinbrueck, Merkel’s first-term
finance minister, defended his plans to raise the top rate of
income tax as necessary to address a gap between richer and
poorer in society that he said had widened as a result of
Merkel’s inactivity.  “Where is the direction? Where is the compass for this
country?” Steinbrueck told the crowd of about 7,000 in
 Frankfurt , the biggest city in Hesse, which also votes tomorrow
for regional offices. “Tomorrow night you can throw out the
most inactive, backwards-looking, most divided -- yet pompous --
government since German reunification.”  Merkel’s Lead  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc has 38-40 percent
support in the last five opinion polls published in the past two
days, while her Free Democratic coalition partner has 5-6
percent. The SPD is at 26-28 percent and its Green party allies
at 8-10 percent.  In Stralsund, she exhorted supporters to turn out tomorrow
as she seeks a third term, saying “every vote counts.”  The anti-capitalist Left Party, which Steinbrueck rejects
as a governing partner, has 8.5-9 percent and the AfD, or
Alternative for  Germany , 4-5 percent. While that is on the 5
percent threshold needed to win seats, CDU leaders including
Thuringia Prime Minister Christine Lieberknecht have ruled out
coalition talks with the AfD because of its anti-euro stance.  Germany, the biggest source of the 496 billion euros ($671
billion) of bailout commitments to five euro nations, must
continue providing support in exchange for their enacting
austerity policies to boost competitiveness, Merkel says.  “We have to continue on this course,” Merkel said today.
“Stabilization in Europe is in the fundamental interests of
Germans and secures German jobs.”  She again denounced proposals that have been supported by
the Social Democrats, such as a debt-redemption fund and jointly
issued euro bonds to overcome the  European debt crisis . “There
will be no pooling of debt with the CDU,” she said.  Euro Backing  Steinbrueck reiterated his support for the euro, saying
that its demise would “throw back European unification by 20 to
30 years” and result in currency appreciation that would
“destroy any business.”  At the same time, he sought to contrast his stance with
Merkel’s, saying that Germany under Social Democratic leadership
would return to being a “good neighbor” in Europe and citing
the post-World War II era, when Germany’s one-time victims
“didn’t have to fear us anymore, and they experienced a
trustworthy European partner.”  “There have been times when we have been helped -- back
then it was called the  Marshall Plan ,” he said. “There have
been times when these European countries stretched out their
hand for us to participate in European unification.”  Voting begins at 8 a.m. tomorrow and ends at 6 p.m., at
which time German television networks ARD and ZDF release exit
polls. Results based on partially counted ballots will be
broadcast from about 6:15 p.m. Unless the vote is close, the
winner is usually clear by about 7:30 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Frankfurt at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  