-- EU-Singapore Trade Text Released, Due to Apply Around End-2014
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-09-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/eu-singapore-trade-text-released-due-to-apply-around-end-2014.html
The European Union and  Singapore 
approved the legal text of their planned free-trade agreement,
keeping it on course to take effect around the end of 2014.  Trade representatives for both sides signed off on the
final 1,000-page accord under which the EU will eliminate
“virtually all” tariffs on imports from Singapore over five
years and the Asian nation will end duties on the few remaining
goods such as beer from the 28-nation bloc that aren't already 
duty-free. EU duties on petrochemicals and pharmaceuticals 
from Singapore are among the levies to be scrapped.  The deal, struck last December after almost three years of
talks, will also scale back technical barriers to trade and
anchor deregulation of services markets including banking and
insurance. The EU’s chief negotiator, Rupert Schlegelmilch, and
his Singapore counterpart, Keith Tan, released the document
today in Singapore, according to the European Commission, the
bloc’s executive arm.  This is “one of the most comprehensive free-trade
agreements ever negotiated,” the commission said today in a
statement in Brussels. In  Europe , the accord still needs the
approval of the EU’s national governments and the European
Parliament before it can take effect, a process that may take
another 15 months or so.  The EU is sidestepping stalled World Trade Organization
efforts to open markets by seeking commerce deals with
individual countries such as the U.S.,  Canada  and  Japan  or with
groups of nations. The EU and Singapore had trade in goods of 52
billion euros ($70 billion) in 2012 and in services of 28
billion euros in 2011, making Singapore “by far” the bloc’s
most important commercial partner in  Southeast Asia , according
to the  commission .  With the EU also negotiating free-trade agreements with
Malaysia, Vietnam and  Thailand , the accord with Singapore “has
the potential to lay the ground for the EU to engage with the
region as a whole,” said the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  