-- European Stocks Rise for Third Week on Fed Taper Surprise
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-09-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/european-stocks-rise-for-third-week-on-fed-taper-surprise.html
European stocks  climbed for a third
straight week after the Federal Reserve unexpectedly refrained
from reducing its monthly bond purchases and Lawrence H. Summers
withdrew from consideration as chairman of the central bank.  Glanbia Plc (GLB)  rallied the most in more than two years as food
and beverage shares gained. Hennes & Mauritz AB jumped 6.9
percent after reporting monthly sales that beat estimates.
Edenred SA rose 7.8 percent after Raymond James Financial Inc.
said margins may improve in 2014. Fresnillo Plc sank 14 percent
after missing out on inclusion in a gold-miners gauge.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.9 percent to 314.2
this past week. The equity gauge has surged 5.7 percent in
September, putting it on course for the biggest monthly gain in
almost two years. The measure has climbed 12 percent in 2013 as
the euro area emerged from recession and central banks pledged
to keep borrowing costs low to support the global economy.  “The lack of tapering was a real surprise,” Philip Dicken, head of European equities at  Threadneedle Asset
Management Ltd . in London, said by phone. His firm oversees
about $127 billion. “It signals that if the Fed is at all
worried about growth, they will not use tapering if it will
choke off that growth. It’s another net positive for European
equities, where life is getting incrementally better.”  The Stoxx 600 climbed to its highest level since June 2008
on Sept. 19, a day after the Fed said it needs to see more
evidence of lasting improvement in the U.S. economy before
slowing bond purchases. Some 44 of 64 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the decision had predicted that the central
bank would start tapering stimulus measures this month.  Summers Withdrawal  The Fed repeated guidance that its target interest rate
will remain low for at least as long as  unemployment  exceeds 6.5
percent, and the outlook for inflation remains no higher than
2.5 percent. Stocks worldwide also rallied this week after
Summers withdrew from the running to replace Ben S. Bernanke as
Fed chairman, paving the way for Janet Yellen, who investors say
will favor slower stimulus reduction.  European equities fell yesterday after Fed Bank of St.
Louis President James Bullard said a “small taper” in stimulus
is possible next month and as investors awaited Sunday’s
elections in Germany.  The Bank of England released this week the minutes from its
Sept. 4-5 meeting, which showed that officials unanimously
concluded there was no need for additional stimulus given the
improving outlook for the British economy.  Volatility Declines  The VStoxx Index, a measure of expected volatility in euro-area stocks, slid 8.8 percent to 16.76 this week, the lowest
level in a month. National benchmark indexes climbed in 16 of
the 18 western-European markets.  Germany ’s DAX added 2 percent,
 France ’s CAC 40 rose 2.2 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained
0.2 percent.  “Whereas before the news was always getting worse, now
it’s getting a little better,” Dicken said. “That sort of
turning point makes a critical difference to equities.”  Glanbia rallied 9.2 percent in Dublin for the biggest gain
in the Stoxx 600 this week. The Kilkenny, Ireland-based dairy
producer led a gauge of  food and beverage shares  in the Stoxx
600 higher by 2.3 percent. Nutreco NV, the world’s biggest maker
of fish feed, rose 6.2 percent in Amsterdam.  Banks also climbed. Banco de Sabadell SA surged 9.1 percent
for the second-biggest increase in the Stoxx 600. HSBC Holdings
Plc raised  Spain’s fifth-biggest lender  to neutral, or hold,
from underweight. Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA jumped 7.5
percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said capital-sensitivity
at Italian banks is decreasing.  H&M Sales  H&M gained 6.9 percent, the biggest rally in 15 months.
Europe’s second-largest clothing retailer said revenue at stores
open at least a year rose 4 percent in August compared with the
same month last year. The average estimate in a SME Direkt
survey was for a 2.5 percent increase.  Edenred climbed 7.8 percent for the biggest advance in 18
months. So-called organic-issue volume growth at the French
seller of meal and service vouchers may climb 10.5 percent in
the third quarter, Raymond James wrote in a report. The firm
rates Edenred shares as outperform, similar to a buy
recommendation.  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO)  jumped 6 percent, the most since January.
Chinese cognac shipments increased 20.5 percent in August,
rising for the first time since January, according to UBS AG,
citing from BNIC, a trade association of cognac makers.  Fresnillo tumbled 14 percent for the biggest decline since
June. The precious-metals producer wasn’t added to the  NYSE Arca
Gold Miners Index (GDX) , after the gauge’s methodology was changed to
include companies not listed in the U.S.  K+S AG, Europe’s biggest potash distributor, sank 8.9
percent. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., North America’s
largest fertilizer producer, said OAO Uralkali’s withdrawal from
a joint venture with Belarus has paralyzed global markets for
the crop nutrient.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  London  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  