-- Euro-Area Consumer Sentiment Improves Less Than Forecast
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-09-20T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/euro-area-consumer-sentiment-improves-less-than-forecast.html
Euro-area  consumer confidence 
increased less than economists forecast in September, as the 17-nation currency bloc struggled to overcome the legacy of a debt
crisis now in its fourth year.  An index of household confidence in the euro zone improved
to minus 14.9, the highest level since July 2011, from minus
15.6 a month earlier, the European Commission in Brussels said
in a preliminary report today. Economists had forecast an
increase to minus 14.5, according to the median of 23 estimates
in a  Bloomberg News survey .  The euro-area economy emerged from a  record-long recession 
in the second quarter amid the first sustained period of
financial-market calm since the start of the debt crisis. Yet
the bloc’s recovery remains fragile, with  record unemployment 
and declining  industrial production .  “What’s encouraging is that more positive news is coming
from most economies, suggesting that the diverging trends
between the euro zone’s core and the periphery could eventually
start to diminish,” Jean-Michel Six, chief European economist
at Standard & Poor’s, said in note on Sept. 18.  The European Central Bank on Sept. 5 kept its benchmark
interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent. ECB President
Mario Draghi has said that the Frankfurt-based central bank will
keep interest rates at the present level or lower for an
“extended period” based on a “subdued” inflation outlook.  The economic upswing has boosted companies including
Deutsche Lufthansa AG, which ordered 59 wide-body aircraft from
Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS as the German carrier phases out aging
long-distance planes. The purchase, Lufthansa’s biggest to date,
is for 34 Boeing 777-9X models and 25 Airbus A350-900s, the
airline said on Sept. 19.  In the Netherlands,  PostNL NV (PNL) ’s underlying cash operating
income for 2013 is forecast to be higher than the previously
stated range of 50 million euros to 90 million euros because of
a stamp increase and cost cuts, the company said on Sept. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  