-- Ex-Akamai Executive Settles SEC Suit Over Rajaratnam Tips
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-09-20T18:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/ex-akamai-executive-settles-sec-suit-over-rajaratnam-tips.html
A former  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) 
executive agreed to pay more than $145,000 to settle a
Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit accusing him of
trading on inside information and passing tips used by convicted
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  The SEC today sued Kieran Taylor, a former senior marketing
director at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Akamai, in federal
court in Manhattan. The agency accused Taylor, who hasn’t been
charged with a crime, of trading on secret information about
Akamai earnings and passing illegal tips that were shared with
others including Rajaratnam, who made $5.1 million in illegal
profit from them.  Taylor, without admitting or denying the allegations,
agreed to be barred from serving as an officer or director of a
public company for five years, the SEC said in a statement.  The SEC claims that in July 2008 Taylor told  Danielle Chiesi , a friend who was a New Castle Funds LLC analyst, that
the company was expecting less revenue in 2008 than it had
predicted publicly. Akamai helps customers deliver content over
the Internet faster.  Chiesi then passed the information to hedge fund managers,
including Rajaratnam, who used it to short  Akamai stock  and make
a total of $10 million in illicit profit. Taylor sold his own
shares, avoiding $20,000 in losses, according to the SEC.  Taylor ‘Played’  In a wiretapped phone call introduced in Rajaratnam’s 2011
criminal insider trading trial, Chiesi told Rajaratnam that she
played Taylor “like a finely tuned piano” to get the
information. Chiesi also passed the Akamai tip to Steven
Fortuna, the co-founder and former managing director at S2
Capital in  Boston , who used it to make $2.4 million, according
to the SEC complaint.  Jack Cinquegrana, a lawyer for Taylor, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the case.  Rajaratnam was convicted of directing the biggest hedge
fund insider trading scheme in U.S. history. He is serving an
11-year term at the Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayers,
 Massachusetts . Chiesi, who pleaded guilty to securities fraud,
was released in July after serving a 2 1/2-year sentence.
Fortuna cooperated with prosecutors and was sentenced to
probation.  The SEC previously sued Rajaratnam’s younger brother,
Rengan Rajaratnam, who the agency claims also traded on the
Akamai tip after getting it from his brother. Rengan Rajaratnam
also faces criminal insider trading charges. He has pleaded not
guilty.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Taylor,
13-cv-06670, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  