-- Ex-FEC Chairman McGahn Rejoins Patton: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/ex-fec-chairman-mcgahn-rejoins-patton-business-of-law.html
Donald F. McGahn, the former
chairman of the Federal Election Commission, will rejoin Patton
Boggs LLP as partner in the  political and election law group.  McGahn was at the FEC for five years. He was the agency’s
chairman during the 2008 election cycle and its vice chairman in
2013, the firm said. He previously was general counsel for the
National Republican Congressional Committee in Washington. He
was at Patton Boggs from 1995 until 1999.  “He is an extraordinarily talented attorney whose
experience as an FEC chairman and commissioner provide him with
a deep understanding of the evolving complexities of the laws
that govern our nation’s elections,” Edward J. Newberry,
managing partner of Patton Boggs, said in a statement.  At Patton Boggs, he joins Benjamin L. Ginsberg, who was
national counsel to President George W. Bush’s 2000 and 2004
election campaigns and  Mitt Romney ’s 2008 and 2012 campaigns,
and William J. McGinley, former counsel to the Republican
National Committee and the National Republican Senatorial
Committee.  “I am eager to put my years of experience at the FEC and
representing politicians and others political participants to
work on the cutting edge issues in election law today,” McGahn
said in a statement.  Baker Botts Partner Named Deputy Director of FTC Bureau  Stephen Weissman, an antitrust and competition practice
partner in Baker Botts LLP’s Washington office, was named deputy
director for the Federal Trade Commission’s bureau of
competition.  Weissman, who will start Oct. 7, will work with the bureau
director, Deborah Feinstein, FTC commissioners and others in
managing the antitrust review of mergers and acquisitions and in
investigating other business practices affecting U.S. consumers,
the firm said.  “This is an endorsement of the high-quality antitrust
lawyers we have at Baker Botts and a testament to the depth of
our antitrust team,” managing partner Andrew Baker said in a
statement.  Baker Botts has about 700 lawyers at 15 offices in the
U.S., Europe,  China  and the Middle East.  Amazon Senior Corporate Counsel Joins Goodwin Procter  Goodwin Procter LLP said Jared G. Jensen joined the firm’s
San Francisco office as a partner in its private-equity
practice. He was previously senior corporate counsel at
Amazon.com Inc.  At Goodwin, Jensen will represent private-equity firms,
companies and management teams in leveraged buyout, equity and
merger and acquisition transactions, the firm said.  “Jared’s private-equity market knowledge and insight,
coupled with his experience in taking technology companies
private, make him an exceptional addition to our team,” John LeClaire, chairman of Goodwin’s private-equity practice, said in
a statement.  Goodwin has lawyers at nine offices in the U.S., London and
Hong Kong.  Five Technology, Media and Telecom Lawyers Join Sutherland  Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP expanded its technology,
media and telecom practices with the hiring of five  Washington 
attorneys, including three partners from Dow Lohnes LLP.  William S. Dudzinsky Jr.,  Michael A. Hepburn and Paul R. Lang are joining as partners along with two other lawyers.  Dudzinsky concentrates his practice on corporate
transactions within the technology, media and telecommunications
industries. Hepburn counsels public and private companies,
nonprofit organizations and individuals on compensation,
employment and benefits issues. Lang handles matters relating to
the employment relationship focusing on employee benefits and
executive compensation.  “These lawyers enhance our tax and benefits services while
expanding our range of industry service across all facets of
transactional work, employment law and litigation,” W. Mark Smith, head of Sutherland’s employee benefits and executive
compensation practice, said in a statement.  Sutherland has lawyers at six U.S. offices and a  London 
site.  Anderson Kill Adds Four Partners to Philadelphia Office  Four partners and one associate from Deeb Blum Murphy
Frishberg & Markovich PC are joining Anderson Kill & Olick PC’s
Philadelphia office Oct. 1. The attorneys have experience in
litigation, transactional and estate and tax counsel.  Peter J. Deeb is a trial attorney representing clients in
commercial litigation, employment litigation and tort defense.
Deeb also counsels clients in the review and revision of
employment agreements, portfolio purchase agreements, program
agreements and master lease agreements.  Stephen H. Frishberg concentrates his practice on estate
planning and administration, corporate, real estate and tax
planning.  Inez M. Markovich focuses her practice in business
reorganization and bankruptcy, commercial finance transactions,
debt restructuring, creditors’ rights and financial services
regulation. She has also represented secured and unsecured
creditors in bankruptcy matters.  Frank G. Murphy represents businesses in transactional
matters as well as in commercial litigation. His transactional
practice includes the negotiation and documentation of loan
deals, leases and real estate matters. His municipal
representation covers land development as well as general
transactional and litigation matters.  Firm News  Shearman Announces ‘Best Friends’ Agreement with Italian Firm  Shearman & Sterling LLP and Italian firm Tremonti Vitali
Romagnoli Piccardi e Associati announced a cooperation agreement
to advise Italian and international clients on tax matters.  The Italian firm, founded by tax lawyer Giulio Tremonti,
has about 50 professionals in offices in Milan and  Rome ,
according to the firm website.  “This agreement originates from the numerous and high-profile transactions in which we worked side by side and from
the professional respect between Shearman & Sterling and
Tremonti Vitali Romagnoli Piccardi e Associati that arose as a
result of our close cooperation,” Domenico Fanuele, managing
partner of Shearman & Sterling in  Italy , said in a statement.  “Although both firms will retain their complete
independence, this alliance will form a platform to combine
Shearman & Sterling’s extensive legal expertise, in Italy and
internationally, with Tremonti Vitali Romagnoli Piccardi e
Associati’s top-notch Italian tax capabilities.”  The firm established its presence in Italy in 2002 with
the opening of the Rome office. In January 2010, the firm opened
a second office in Milan.  News  N.J. Judge’s Comedian Job No Laughing Matter, Court Rules  Vincenzo A. Sicari may get laughs on stage from self-deprecating jokes about his sex life and his Italian family, but
the  New Jersey Supreme Court  isn’t amused.  Sicari, a municipal judge in South Hackensack, can’t
continue with his part-time job as a comedian and reality show
star because the side gig demeans his judicial post, the seven-judge panel ruled yesterday, affirming a review board’s
decision.  His moonlighting career isn’t compatible with the code of
conduct for judges, even those who sit on the bench part-time,
the panel said.  “The focus of his comedy and his decision to participate
in a pseudo-reality television show in situations that demean,
ridicule, or embarrass others based on their race, religion,
gender, sexual orientation, marital status, or physical
characteristic are simply not consistent with the high standards
of conduct expected of a judge,” the court said.  Sicari, who performs under the name Vince August, was
appointed to the $13,000-a-year judicial post in January 2008,
11 years after he began his stand-up routine at a New York City
comedy club, according to court documents. Sicari told the
Bergen Record in a June 2007 interview that he refuses to make
fun of lawyers or the law, according to court records.  The Advisory Committee on Extrajudicial Activities didn’t
see the humor in jokes that focused mostly on his Italian-American heritage and sexual experiences. The committee
concluded in May 2010 that Sicari’s second career couldn’t be
entertained and neither could his appearance on the television
reality show “ What Would You Do? ”  The Supreme Court agreed, saying that the possibility
existed for people to associate Judge Sicari with Vince August.  “Once a person makes that association, the concern is
whether an ordinary member of the public can divorce the comedy
routine or the roles played by Vince August from Judge Sicari,”
the court said in its ruling.  Sicari didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment on the ruling.  The case is In the Matter of Advisory Letter No. 3-11 and
Opinion of No. 12-08 of the Supreme Court Advisory Committee on
Extrajudicial Activities (A-23-10/A-26-11)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 