-- Mexico Central Bank Split in Cutting Rate as Economy Stalled
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-09-20T17:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/mexico-central-bank-cut-rate-on-split-decision-as-economy-slowed.html
Mexican policy makers were split in
their decision to cut the interest rate this month to a record
low in a bid to boost the slowest economic growth in more than
three years.  The central bank’s board unexpectedly reduced its key rate
by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to a record-low
3.75 percent Sept. 6, saying the economy experienced a
significant and unexpected slowdown in the second quarter. Two
of five board members voted for keeping rates on hold, the
minutes of the meeting published today showed.  The two dissenters said they would rather wait until the
 Federal Reserve  clarified its strategy before changing the
monetary stance. Since then, the Fed decided against tapering
U.S. stimulus, which strengthened the peso and will increase
support in  Mexico ’s central bank for an additional rate cut,
according to Alonso Cervera, chief Mexico economist at  Credit
Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   “Given the Fed’s no-taper decision earlier this week, the
appreciation of the peso since the rate cut and the destruction
caused by hurricanes Ingrid and Manuel, I think that the central
scenario has to be that we will see another rate cut” Cervera
wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.  Slower Inflation  Annual  inflation  slowed in each of the past four months,
easing into the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target
range in July. Inflation was 3.46 percent in August.  “In coming months, it’s expected that inflation’s path
will be lower than previously anticipated due to estimates that
the large degree of slack in the economy will continue in the
second half of this year and next year,” the bank board’s
majority said in the minutes to their decision.  Yields on three-month  interest-rate swaps  increased two
basis points to 3.97 percent today, reducing the likelihood to
44 percent that Mexico’s central bank will lower benchmark
borrowing costs by 0.25 percentage point in the next three
months. Traders had assigned a 52 percent chance of further cuts
yesterday.  Yields on fixed-rate government peso bonds due in 2024 rose
two basis points to 5.83 percent, reversing an earlier decline.  Banxico’s rate cut this month came after the bank reduced
borrowing costs in March for the first time since 2009. The
March vote was the board’s first split decision since it began
publishing minutes in February 2011.  Split  The split decision reduces chances the central bank will
cut rates by more than another 25 basis points this year,
according to Delia Paredes, an economist at Grupo Financiero
Banorte SAB.  “The fact that there was a divided decision reduces the
probability that we’ll see more aggressive actions by the
central bank,” Paredes said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  The Fed unexpectedly announced this week that it will
continue its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases, leading the
peso to strengthen 1.2 percent to 12.7751 per dollar at 11:54
a.m. local time since Sept. 17. Economists had forecast it would
dial down monthly Treasury purchases by $5 billion, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  Banks predicting policy makers will cut  interest rates  by a
quarter point at their next meeting on Oct. 25 include Credit
Suisse and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , which correctly
forecast this month’s reduction.  Rafael de la Fuente, an economist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said he expects the central bank to cut rates 25
basis points in October. One of the two dissenting board members
could vote for a cut based on the Fed’s decision this week and
the subsequent peso strengthening, he said.  “When you see the arguments made by one the hawks, they’re
arguments that in recent days have gone away,” De la Fuente
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in  New York  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  