-- Mexico’s Peso Declines for Second Day on Fed Official’s Comment
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-09-20T15:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/mexico-s-peso-declines-for-second-day-on-fed-official-s-comment.html
Mexico’s peso dropped for a second
straight day as a U.S. central banker said the  Federal Reserve ’s
decision to maintain monetary stimulus was close and policy
makers may curtail the program next month.  The currency slipped 0.6 percent to 12.7728 per dollar at
10:04 a.m. in Mexico City, paring a weekly gain to 2.1 percent.
It rallied 2.1 percent on Sept. 18 after the Fed surprised
analysts in deciding to maintain the pace of its $85 billion in
monthly asset purchases that have helped boost demand for
higher-yielding  assets including Mexico’s securities.  The peso has declined in the past two days as investors
reconsidered the timing of a potential reduction in the Fed’s
quantitative easing program. A small tapering of bond buying is
possible next month after the Fed made a close call this week in
deciding not to slow purchases, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said today on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “People realize tapering is coming,”  Eduardo Suarez ,
Latin America currency strategist at Scotiabank, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Some of the larger players could
use the liquidity of a rally to unwind some of their positions
until they get to the levels of exposure they feel comfortable
with” in an environment without quantitative easing, he said.  Mexican policy makers were split in their decision to cut
the  interest rate  this month to a record low in a bid to boost
the slowest economic growth in more than three years.  Mexican Policy  The central bank’s board unexpectedly reduced borrowing
costs by 25 basis points to a record low 3.75 percent Sept. 6,
saying the economy experienced a significant and unexpected
slowdown in the second quarter. Two of five board members voted
against a rate cut this month, the minutes of the meeting
published today showed.  The Fed will now wait until December before taking the
first step in slowing its monthly bond purchases, according to
24 of 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg Sept. 18-19. The
median estimate in an Aug. 9-13 poll projected a paring at this
week’s meeting.  Yields on Mexican peso bonds maturing in 2024 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.83 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yields have tumbled
31 basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  