-- Fed Now Seen Starting to Taper Bond Buying in December
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2013-09-20T20:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/fed-now-seen-starting-to-taper-bond-buying-in-december.html
Most economists surveyed now say
the Federal Reserve will begin tapering asset purchases in
December after Chairman Ben S. Bernanke reset the central bank’s
timeline by maintaining the pace of bond-buying earlier this
week.  Twenty-four of 41 economists surveyed Sept. 18-19 said the
Fed will now wait until December before taking the first step in
slowing its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, according to
a Bloomberg survey. The median estimate in an Aug. 9-13 poll
projected the Fed would begin paring at this week’s meeting.  Instead, the Federal Open Market Committee opted to press
on with asset purchases, saying it was dissatisfied with
progress in the labor market. Policy makers’ surprising
extension of the program sent stocks to record highs and
triggered the biggest rally in Treasuries since 2011 as
investors repositioned for a more accommodative central bank.  “They cannot continue going full speed forever because the
larger the balance sheet, the more FOMC members will become
uncomfortable,” said Roberto Perli, a partner at Cornerstone
Macro LP in  Washington  and a former Fed economist. Perli said
the Fed’s meeting in December is the earliest it could revisit
the decision to press on.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard
in an interview today on Bloomberg Television held out the
chance that policy makers could decide as early as next month to
begin slowing the pace of bond purchases.  ‘Close Decision’  “This was a close decision here in September, so it’s
possible you could get some data that change the complexion of
the outlook and could make the committee be comfortable with a
small taper in October,” Bullard said. “It’s possible, but I’m
not saying it will happen. You have other meetings after that.”  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City President Esther George, who has consistently dissented against additional
stimulus, today said financial markets were prepared for a
reduction in bond purchases, so the central bank should have
followed through.  “Clearly the actions at this meeting, and the expectations
that had been set relative to how markets were thinking about
this, created confusion, created a disconnect,” George said in
a New York speech to the Shadow Open Market Committee, a group
of economists that critiques Fed policy.  Shares Fall  Stocks fell, sending benchmark indexes to their biggest
decline since August, as concerns grew about the timing of Fed
stimulus cuts and political wrangling over federal spending. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.7 percent, the most since
Aug. 27, to 1,709.92 at the close in New York.  While Fed policy makers held the line on monetary policy
this week,  India ’s central bank Governor Raghuram Rajan
surprised analysts by raising the benchmark interest rate in his
first policy review, seeking to rein in inflation that’s dimmed
economic prospects.  In Britain, the economic revival helped reduce the
country’s budget deficit last month as tax income climbed and
the government cut spending. Net borrowing excluding temporary
support for banks was 13.2 billion pounds ($21.2 billion)
compared with 14.4 billion pounds a year earlier, the Office for
National Statistics said today.  While the central bank meets on Oct. 29-30, policy makers
will have received just one new monthly jobs report from the
Labor Department.  Payroll Data  The latest payroll figures showed employers added 169,000
jobs in August, less than the median forecast of economists and
following gains in the prior two months that were revised down.
The Fed forecasts the economy will strengthen later this year,
and in 2014 projects growth of 2.9 percent to 3.1 percent,
according to estimates released at their meeting. Gross domestic
product has advanced an average 1.8 percent in the first half of
the year.  “We’ll be looking to see if the data confirm that basic
outlook,” Bernanke said in his press conference following the
conclusion of the Fed’s meeting. “If it does, we’ll take a
first step at some point, possibly later this year.”  The Fed’s third round of quantitative easing began in
September 2012 and central bankers pledged to continue purchases
until achieving “substantial improvement” in the labor market.
So far they’ve purchased $386.8 billion of Treasuries and $463
billion of mortgage bonds, for a total of $849.8 billion.  March Meeting  Three of the 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg project
the Fed will wait until March before deciding to shrink the
program. Four project central bankers will slow the pace of
purchases in October, while five said they will wait until the
meeting in January.  “Had we been looking at job growth of 200,000 or more and
growth closer to 2.5 percent or 3 percent” the central bank may
have tapered this week, said  Millan Mulraine , director of U.S.
rates research at TD Securities USA Inc. in New York. Unless
data show employment and the economy improving, the central bank
may not begin reducing purchases until March, he said.  “I don’t think we’re going to be in the environment in
December where we have a substantially improved economic
performance or economic outlook,” Mulraine said.  The delay in winding down the program will swell its total
size to encompass $763 billion in mortgages and $705 billion in
Treasuries for a total of $1.47 trillion, according to the
median of economist estimates. In a Sept. 6 survey, before
Bernanke’s press conference, economists projected the program
would conclude with $1.29 trillion in purchases.  Business Investment  One reason the expansion hasn’t gained momentum is that
business investment has cooled. Spending on  new equipment 
climbed 2.3 percent over the past four quarters, the smallest
year-over-year advance since the end of 2009 when the world’s
largest economy was beginning to emerge from the recession.  Kurt Kuehn, chief financial officer for Atlanta-based
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , said limited demand helps explain
why companies are slow to boost capital spending.  “We are reinvesting where we need it, but with muted
growth right now there is not a huge need for expansion,” Kuehn
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
Tom Keene and Sara Eisen.  Bullard, a voter on policy this year who has backed record
stimulus, said on the same program that the decision at the
Fed’s Sept. 17-18 meeting not to slow bond purchases was a close
call.  ‘Borderline Decision’  “That was a borderline decision” after “weaker data came
in. The committee came down on the side of, ‘Let’s wait.’”  Markets shouldn’t have been surprised by the decision
because FOMC members have repeatedly said the decision to taper
would be “data dependent,” Bullard said.  “I’m a little dismayed at those in markets that are saying
they’re surprised by this,” Bullard said. The Fed said that,
“if the economy was going to improve in the second half of the
year, and if we saw that improvement, we would taper.”  Economists have also pushed back their estimates for when
the Fed’s bond-buying program will conclude, with the median
estimate calling for it ending at the Fed’s September 2014
meeting. In the Sept. 6 survey, they saw the program ending in
June 2014. Bernanke himself had said in remarks at his June
press conference the program would likely end around mid-2014.  One Month  “It’s almost like Bernanke got up this week and said don’t
believe everything you’ve heard,” said Chris Low, chief
economist at FTN Financial Inc. in New York. “Can’t imagine
there’s anything that’s going to come in one month that changes
their minds.”  Even as he postponed reducing bond purchases, Bernanke
emphasized that the Fed would continue to provide stimulus
through its near-zero interest-rate policy.  “The first increases in short-term rates might not occur
until the  unemployment rate  is considerably below 6.5 percent,”
he told reporters.  The Fed has provided guidance on its interest-rate policy
by saying it would keep its target rate near zero at least as
long as unemployment is above 6.5 percent, so long as inflation
does not breach 2.5 percent.  “The view of the academic research suggests that forward
guidance is probably the most effective in supporting the
economy,” said Scott Brown, chief economist for Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in St. Petersburg,  Florida . “The asset
purchases are positive but less effective” so “by December,
tapering seems a bit more likely.”  -- With assistance from Aki Ito in San Francisco and Michael McKee, Sara Eisen and  Tom Keene  in New York. Editors: Vince Golle, Carlos Torres  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Catarina Saraiva in Washington at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  