-- Ferguson Says Rooney Back on Form, Telegraph Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-20T07:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/ferguson-says-rooney-back-on-form-telegraph-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Building Bridges  Former Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  said the
striker who sought to leave in the offseason is back to his best
form, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “He’s got his energy back and his determination to attack
players,” Ferguson told MUTV, according to the Telegraph. “It
was all very encouraging for me. Being a director I am delighted
to see that. He’s back to what we always remember him as.”  Mourinho’s Meeting  Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  demanded immediate
improvement from his players following back-to-back defeats
against Everton and Basel, the  Daily Mail reported .  Mourinho called his entire squad together at the club’s
training center yesterday and left some players in no doubt that
their places in the team are under threat, the Mail added.  Feeder Clubs  The Football Association will debate the possibility of
Premier League teams allying with lower-tier clubs to counter
the dearth of English players at the elite level, the  Guardian
reported .  The so-called B team concept, which is common elsewhere in
 Europe , would provide a chance for 17- to 21-year-olds to play
more competitive matches, the newspaper added.  U.S. Treatment  West Ham United is considering sending striker Andy Carroll
to the U.S. for treatment on his damaged heel after manager  Sam Allardyce  tracked down doctors used to dealing with similar
injuries in the  National Basketball Association , the  Daily
Express reported .  Allardyce said he may offer striker  Carlton Cole  a contract
if the 29-year-old can get fit again after failing a medical
exam earlier this month, the  Daily Star reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  