-- Five Disturbing Facts About U.S. Security Clearances
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-20T18:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/five-disturbing-facts-about-u-s-security-clearances.html
How does someone with three
arrests, a history of mental illness and a record of military
misconduct obtain a U.S. government security clearance? That is
one of the haunting questions following this week’s Washington
Navy Yard massacre of 12 people by Aaron Alexis, a former U.S.
Navy technician.  There are no simple answers and many missing details. Yet
what is known about the national-security vetting process is
disturbing enough that Congress should move quickly to overhaul
it.  Disturbing fact No. 1: As  Bloomberg News  first  reported ,
the same federal contractor that vetted Edward Snowden, who
leaked information about classified U.S. spying programs, also
performed the background check on Alexis. The contractor, USIS,
was paid $253 million last year to conduct investigations for
federal-agency security clearances. USIS does more than half of
the  Office of Personnel Management ’s background checks.  Disturbing fact No. 2: Based on what USIS found (or
didn’t), the Defense Department awarded Alexis a secret-level
clearance in 2008. It was good for 10 years without any
reinvestigation. That clearance enabled him to get onto the
base, even though he left the Navy in January 2011. He was also
able to keep that clearance after multiple arrests.  Disturbing fact No. 3: Serious shortcomings have been
uncovered in USIS’s vetting of Snowden, the former  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  employee who worked for the National
Security Agency. At a June hearing, Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill  of  Missouri  said USIS was under criminal
investigation. At least 10 background-check workers employed by
federal contractors have been convicted or pleaded guilty to
falsifying records since 2006. Eight of them worked for USIS.  Disturbing fact No. 4: As of last year, the number of
people with security clearances was almost 5 million. Government
investigators are overworked and underpaid, forcing the U.S. to
rely on outside contractors such as USIS.  Disturbing fact No. 5: USIS isn’t the only vetter with
problems. A Sept. 16  audit  by the Defense Department’s Office of
 Inspector General  of U.S. Navy screenings of private contractors
found many flaws, including that 52 people with felony
convictions were given unescorted access to Navy installations.
The Navy’s vetter, Eid Passport Inc., relied on public-record
databases that are out of date or incomplete, the audit said.  What to conclude from this sorry recitation? First, the
contractors conducting security checks aren’t being monitored
enough and, because there is little oversight, they may be
cutting corners. The companies doing the checks, however, aren’t
always at fault. Federal agencies and Congress need to tighten
the requirements, starting with an end to 10-year clearances
with no reinvestigation. And the Pentagon and other agencies
must do more due diligence on their own, including random checks
of the checkers’ work.  McCaskill is working on a proposal that would call for top-to-bottom reforms. She should look at whether privatization is
benefiting taxpayers -- or cheating them.  USIS, a unit of Altegrity Inc., which itself is owned by
Providence Equity Partners LLC, was once part of the Office of
Personnel Management. It was privatized in 1996 as part of then-Vice President  Al Gore ’s effort to reinvent government by
reducing the size of the civil service. Contracting out security
reviews was supposed to save the government money.  The security-clearance system costs taxpayers about $1
billion a year. As Congress considers how to overhaul the
process that determines who has access to the country’s most
sensitive secrets and military installations, it should also
step back and ask the larger question: Was the privatization of
the security-clearance system penny-wise and pound-foolish?  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 