-- Four Numbers Say Wind and Solar Can’t Save Climate
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r y c e
-- 2013-09-20T15:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/four-numbers-say-wind-and-solar-can-t-save-climate.html
This month, the  Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change  will begin releasing its fifth
assessment report. Like earlier reports, it will undoubtedly
lead to more calls to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide
worldwide.  As the discussion unfolds, I would urge everyone to keep
four numbers in mind: 32, 1, 30 and 1/2. These are the numbers
that explain why any transition away from our existing energy
systems will be protracted and costly. Let’s take them in
sequence.  First, 32: That’s the percentage growth in carbon dioxide
emissions that has occurred globally since 2002. In the past
decade, these emissions have  increased by about 8.4 billion
tons . And nearly all of that has happened in the developing
world. In Asia, emissions rose 86 percent; in the Middle East,
61 percent; and in  Africa , 35 percent.  In the U.S., meanwhile, carbon dioxide emissions were 8
percent lower in 2012 than they were in 2002, largely due to a
surge in shale gas production, which has reduced coal use. In
Europe, carbon dioxide emissions have been essentially flat for
a decade.  That 32 percent increase in global carbon dioxide emissions
reflects the central tension in any discussion about cutting the
use of coal, oil and natural gas: Developing countries -- in
particular, fast-growing economies such as Vietnam, China and
 India  -- simply cannot continue to grow if they limit the use of
hydrocarbons. Those countries’ refusal to enact carbon taxes or
other restrictions illustrates what Roger Pielke Jr., a
professor of environmental studies at the University of
 Colorado , calls the “ iron law of climate policy ”: Whenever
policies “focused on economic growth confront policies focused
on emissions reduction, it is economic growth that will win out
every time.”  Soaring Emissions  Over the past 10 years, despite great public concern,
carbon dioxide emissions have soared because some 2.6 billion
people still live in dire energy poverty.  More than 1.3 billion 
have no access to electricity at all.  Now to the second number: 1. That’s the  power density of
wind  in watts per square meter. Power density is a measure of
the energy flow that can be harnessed from a given area, volume
or mass. Six different analyses of wind (one of them is my own)
have all arrived at that same measurement.  Wind energy’s paltry power density means that enormous
tracts of land must be set aside to make it viable. And that has
spawned a backlash from rural and suburban landowners who don’t
want 500-foot wind turbines near their homes. To cite just one
recent example, in late July, some  2,000 protesters marched 
against the installation of more than 1,000 wind turbines in
Ireland’s Midlands Region.  Consider how much land it would take for wind energy to
replace the power the U.S. now gets from coal. In 2011, the U.S.
had more than  300 billion watts of coal-fired capacity .
Replacing that with wind would require placing turbines over
about 116,000 square miles, an area about the size of  Italy . And
because of the noise wind turbines make -- a problem that has
been experienced from  Australia  to Ontario -- no one could live
there.  There’s no question that wind energy is growing rapidly.
Last year, global production of electricity from wind totaled
521 terawatt-hours, a fivefold increase over 2005 output. That’s
more than five times the contribution made by solar, which
produced about 93 terawatt-hours of electricity last year. And
while the rapidly declining cost of solar panels that we’ve seen
over the past few years is encouraging, any major move toward
renewable energy would require installing a staggering number of
wind turbines -- on vast tracts of land.  Could wind turbines be moved offshore? Sure. But that’s
unlikely to make them less controversial -- look at the years-long fight against the Cape Wind project proposed for Nantucket
Sound, off the coast of  Massachusetts . Furthermore, offshore
wind turbines cost  about three times as much  as turbines on
land.  Saudi Arabias  Now let’s turn to the third number: 30. This represents the
massive scale of global energy use, which is about 250 million
barrels of oil equivalent per day, or the output of about 30
Saudi Arabias. (Since the 1970s, the Saudis have produced about
8.2 million barrels of oil per day.) Of that 30 Saudi Arabias of
daily energy consumption, we get 10 from oil, nine from coal,
seven from natural gas, two from hydro and 1 1/2 from nuclear.  That remaining 1/2 -- the final number -- represents the
amount of energy we get from all renewable sources, not counting
hydropower. In 2012, the contribution from all of those sources
amounted to about 4.8 million barrels of oil equivalent per day,
or roughly one-half of a Saudi Arabia. Put another way, we get
about 50 times as much energy from all other sources -- coal,
oil, natural gas, nuclear and hydropower -- as we do from wind,
solar, geothermal and biomass.  The essential truth about energy transitions is that they
occur over decades, even centuries. That can be seen by looking
at coal, the world’s fastest-growing source of energy. Yes, coal
use in the U.S. is declining. But it’s soaring in the developing
world. It’s also booming in Europe.  Germany  -- which has more
solar capacity than any other country -- is building  11,000
megawatts  of new coal-fired power plants.  Last year, global  coal use surged  by 2 million barrels of
oil equivalent per day -- three times as much as nonhydro
renewables grew. That increase in coal use, more than any other
factor, is what is driving the rise in carbon dioxide emissions.  Punch Lines  There are two punch lines here: First, climate scientists
can warn us about carbon dioxide emissions and their effect on
the atmosphere and global temperatures, but politicians cannot
ignore the basic physics and math of the world’s $5 trillion-a-year appetite for energy.  Second, if policy makers are committed to reducing global
carbon dioxide emissions, then they will have to get serious
about promoting sources of electricity production that can
compete with coal on price. Those sources must be scalable,
meaning they can be deployed all over the world fairly rapidly,
produce fewer carbon emissions than coal, and not take up too
much land.  Fortunately, we already have those energy sources. They are
natural gas and nuclear.  (Robert Bryce, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute,
is the author of “Power Hungry: The Myths of ‘Green’ Energy and
the Real Fuels of the Future.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Bryce at  robert@robertbryce.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 