-- Foxtons Gain in London Debut Marks U.K. Broker’s Turnaround
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-09-20T16:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/foxtons-gains-as-much-as-24-on-first-day-of-trading-in-london.html
Foxtons Group Plc gained 16 percent
on the first day of trading in  London , marking a turnaround for
the property broker three years after it was rescued by lenders
when the housing market collapsed.  The shares closed at 267 pence, giving Foxtons a market
value of 753 million pounds ($1.2 billion). The London-based
broker and its investors sold 390 million pounds of shares at
230 pence each, according to a statement today.  Foxtons, known for the fleet of  Mini Coopers  used by
employees to show homes to clients, is benefiting from London’s
booming property market, where the average price of a home
climbed 9.7 percent in July from a year earlier, according to
the U.K.’s Office for National Statistics.  BC Partners Ltd. ,
which bought Foxtons in 2007, also sold shares in the IPO.  “House prices are above pre-2007 levels,” said Anthony Codling, an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC. “In a market with
such strong fundamentals, people have got limited ways to access
the U.K. housing market recovery.”  Investors committed to buying all Foxtons shares on offer
on the first day that investors were allowed to buy into it,
people with knowledge of the matter said on Sept. 10.  Zoopla IPO?  Zoopla Ltd, which operates a  property website , is
considering an IPO that could value the company at more than 1
billion pounds, the Sunday Times reported earlier this month. It
would be “a logical move” for housing-market companies to
accelerate listing plans, Codling said.  BC Partners bought Foxtons, founded by Jon Hunt in 1981,
for about 390 million pounds before losing control in 2010 after
creditors reorganized the broker’s debt. Last year BC Partners
bought back a majority stake, the Daily Telegraph reported.  All but two of Foxtons’s 42 branches are in London. Most of
the homes it sells are priced at 200,000 pounds to 1.4 million
pounds, the company said on Aug. 27.  The share sale comprised a primary offering of 55 million
pounds and 335 million pounds of secondary sales by
shareholders, directors and employees.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Numis Securities Ltd. managed
the sale, along with Canaccord Genuity Ltd. Rothschild acted as
financial adviser.  Volumes of IPOs in Europe, the Middle East and  Africa  have
nearly tripled to about $15 billion this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank AG is ranked first in
managing the sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  