-- Francis Draws Praise for Drive to Overhaul Church Image
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i ,   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-09-20T13:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/francis-draws-praise-for-drive-to-overhaul-church-image.html
Pope Francis’s call for the Roman
Catholic Church to abandon what he called a fixation on sexual
morality drew praise as an appeal to the modern world.  Francis, 76, told the Jesuit publication La Civilta
Cattolica that the Catholic Church shouldn’t be “obsessed”
with preaching against abortion, gay marriage and contraception
and warned that its moral authority is at risk.  The interview went further than the already unprecedented
comments he made to reporters in July on a plane en route back
from World Youth Day in  Brazil  when he said it wasn’t up to him
to judge homosexuals who seek religion. They underscore the
efforts of the Argentinian pope to break with the style of his
more doctrinaire predecessor, Benedict XVI, and focus on issues
more pertinent to life in the 21st century.  “The Church is in decline in Europe, not because of
competition from other religions as is often incorrectly
claimed, but because of growing secularization,” said Franck
Fregosi, a professor of religious studies at the Sciences Po
campus in Aix-en-Provence,  France . “He understands that there
are changes in society and that the church can’t be a church of
just prohibitions.”  Elected in March after Benedict became the first pontiff to
abdicate in 600 years, Francis took over an institution
combatting falling membership in  Europe  and accusations that it
helped cover up sex abuse.  Some Catholics warned against reading too much into
Francis’s remarks because they don’t change church teaching.  “There is no change in the doctrine here and there won’t
be any,” said Jose Carlos Martin de la Hoz, a priest and
historian who is an official of the Spanish branch of the
Catholic organization Opus Dei. “Things will continue to be as
they’ve always been. What the pope is saying is that one has to
be close to those that are suffering and forgive them.”  Poverty  Francis has spoken out in favor of the world’s poor and
before Easter he carried out the traditional washing of feet in
a Roman prison, not the Vatican. He has telephoned women who
were victims of rape or were pressured into having abortions.  “He wants to stay close to people, to everyday life. He is
a pastor, not a theologian,” said Mauro Magatti, a sociology
professor at Milan’s Catholic University who writes editorials
about the church for Milan’s Corriere Della Sera newspaper and
has taught in Argentina and the U.S.  Francis also named a commission to oversee the Vatican
Bank’s operations after Moneyval, the Council of Europe’s
monitoring body for  money laundering  and terrorism financing,
called for its independent supervision.  ‘New Balance’  “We have to find a new balance; otherwise even the moral
edifice of the church is likely to fall like a house of cards,
losing the freshness and fragrance of the Gospel,” Francis said
in the interview. “It is not necessary to talk about these
issues all the time,” he said, referring to sexual moral
issues.  The church should be “the home of all,” Francis said in
the 12,000-word interview conducted in August.  The interview covers topics ranging from his political
sympathies to his desire for more consultative leadership. He
also discusses his human side, saying he loves the Federico
Fellini film, “La Strada,” a neo-realist drama about two
itinerant street performers in postwar  Italy .  “He wants to show a different side of Catholicism which
has been lost in the last few years amid all the scandals,”
said Magatti. “The church was on its knees six months ago.”  Strict Order  While Francis’s comments signal his papacy may have more in
common with the reforming zeal of John XXIII rather than those
of the more conservative  John Paul II  or Benedict XVI, they
still need to be taken in context, said Federico Niglia,
professor of international history at Luiss University in  Rome .  “Remember that Francis is part of a very strict order,”
he said. “His subordination to church authority and doctrine is
not in question. Jesuits don’t go against the church.”  For Gabriel Fysh, a 38-year old investment banker in
London, Francis’s comments go a lot further.  “As a Catholic, it becomes tedious to be identified only
by arguments about homosexuality, abortion, contraception and so
on, and it’s always those things that come up when people start
debating religion at 11 p.m. over a bottle of wine,” he said.
‘It’s time for that to change.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  