-- France Plans Carbon Tax, Atomic Cap in $27 Billion Energy Shift
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-09-20T14:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/france-plans-carbon-tax-atomic-cap-in-27-billion-energy-shift.html
France will introduce a carbon levy
and a law to cap nuclear-power capacity next year under plans to
boost renewable generation that will cost about 20 billion euros
($27 billion) a year, according to President  Francois Hollande .  “Everything will be done to lower production costs” for
wind and solar, Hollande told an environment conference. Tenders
for marine-energy projects will start in coming weeks, he said.  Hollande, who vowed during his election campaign to reduce
reliance on nuclear to half of total output by about 2025 while
also keeping down consumers’ bills, hasn’t yet said how he will
reconcile those aims. The country gets about three-quarters of
the power it produces from nuclear, more than any other nation.  The shift will be funded with a levy on “energy products”
applied progressively based on their  carbon emissions , Hollande
told the conference in Paris, without specifying the details.
The president said that  Europe  should also impose a carbon tax.  Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said last month that he
understands some people are “fed up” with taxes and promised
the government is shifting to spending cuts in its 2014 budget.
Full details of the budget plans will be published Sept. 25.  While seeking to curb energy bills and taxes on consumers,
the administration has two Green party ministers and needs its
help to get laws comfortably through parliament. Hollande sought
to lure voters concerned about the environment to the Socialists
during his election with his pledge to curb atomic generation.  Transfer Power  “Without closing more reactors, we don’t see how the
proportion of nuclear will be carried out,” Reseau Sortir du
Nucleaire, an anti-atomic power group, said in a statement.  Hollande didn’t say whether more nuclear plants will close,
beyond the planned shuttering of Fessenheim in eastern  France ,
and also failed to address Greens’ calls to raise diesel tax in
line with gasoline on grounds that it’s more harmful to health.  The proposed law will allow the government, along with
operator  Electricite de France SA  and the safety regulator, to
decide how long nuclear plants should run, Hollande said.  France will also seek to cut energy use in half by 2050 and
fossil fuel use 30 percent by 2030, he said. It will implement
incentives to spur energy-saving measures in homes and use of
electric cars by adding recharging stations. Improved efficiency
will pay for changes to the energy mix from 2030, Hollande said.  The new law will also define how renewables are financed.  The above-market guaranteed prices currently paid to green
energy producers “can lead to a waste of public funds, profit-taking and speculative behavior,” he said. “I want renewable
energy support methods to be revised so that every euro paid by
consumers is the most efficient possible and will favor the
creation of national industrial champions.”  The expected 20 billion-euro annual cost of the proposals
includes energy, construction and transportation, Hollande said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  