-- France Revives Push for Carbon Tax on Energy-Intensive Imports
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-09-20T16:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/france-revives-push-for-carbon-tax-on-energy-intensive-imports.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
said Europe should consider introducing a carbon tax on imported
goods from regions without climate protection policies, reviving
an idea mooted more than three years ago.  “We shouldn’t have to choose between the competitiveness
of European companies and the fight against global warming,”
Hollande said today in a speech at an environment conference in
Paris. “Urgency on the climate requires a shock reaction on an
international scale.”  Hollande separately unveiled today a new French tax on
energy products to take effect next year that will be calculated
according to emissions. The president didn’t provide details of
how a European tax would work except to say it would be a
“carbon inclusion mechanism” at its borders.  The EU is seeking to protect industry while cutting
emissions. It said in November it would freeze implementation of
greenhouse-gas curbs on flights into and out of the 28-nation
bloc, while countries negotiate a global pact to cut pollution.
Airbus SAS Chief Executive Officer Fabrice Bregier said last
year that  China  was withholding signature on 35 to 45 orders for
wide-body A330 planes as it awaited the halt.  Exporters in nations that fail to introduce climate-protection law may be subject to  import taxes  imposed by
countries with such policies, according to a report e-mailed
today by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  Hollande’s move to protect industry may be sound, Daniel Rossetto, managing director of Climate Mundial Ltd. in London,
said today by telephone.  “But as we’ve seen with aviation, it can get hostile and
lead to threats to export markets,” he said.  The proposal for a European carbon tax and emissions target
will be made at a conference on  energy policy  in March,
according to the French president.  France  has also pushed to
host the 2015 meeting for the United Nations Framework
Convention on  Climate Change .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  