-- German Bonds Fall as ECB Loan Repayment Climbs to Most Since May
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-09-20T16:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/german-bonds-set-for-weekly-gain-before-consumer-confidence-data.html
Germany ’s government bonds fell on
speculation euro-area banks will sell fixed-income assets after
the European Central Bank said lenders plan to accelerate
repayments of emergency loans next week to the most since May.  Benchmark 10-year yields pared a weekly decline along with
rates on French, Belgian and Dutch securities. Europe’s banks
will repay 7.91 billion euros ($10.7 billion) of three-year
loans next week, the Frankfurt-based ECB said today. Spanish
two-year yields dropped to the lowest since April 2010 after a
report showed  consumer confidence  in the region improved to a
two-year high this month. German Chancellor Angela Merkel faces
elections in two days.  “It’s an unexpectedly large repayment,” said Richard McGuire, senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “The concern is that, if we are seeing
an acceleration of payments then liquidity will fall to a point
where it is no longer bearing down on rates. That is having an
impact across the curve, because it’s a de facto tightening.
Bund yields are on a modest upward march.”  German 10-year yields rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.94 percent at 4:59 p.m. London time after
falling to 1.85 percent yesterday, the  lowest  since Aug. 30. The
yield dropped three basis points  this week . The 2 percent bund
maturing in August 2023 fell 0.19, or 1.90 euros per 1,000-euro
face amount, to 100.51.  French (GFRN10)  10-year yields rose three basis points to 2.45
percent, trimming this week’s decline to eight basis points. The
rate on similar-maturity Austrian bonds climbed two basis points
to 2.34 percent. Belgian 10-year rates also advanced three basis
points, to 2.73 percent.  Market Flooded  The bank repayments compare with 3.12 billion euros this
week and will be the highest since May 29. The central bank
flooded financial markets with two tranches of three-year loans
to avert a so-called credit crunch after banks stopped lending
in Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  German 10-year yields dropped to a three-week low yesterday
after the Federal Reserve on Sept. 18 refrained from reducing
the pace of its asset purchases. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
the Fed must determine its policies based on the U.S. economy
even if it surprises markets.  Bunds held their declines after Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis President James Bullard said the decision not to withdraw
stimulus this month was a “borderline decision.”  Money markets show investors are anticipating additional
stimulus from the European Central Bank, according to Barclays
Plc strategists led by Laurent Fransolet in  London .  ‘Rate Cut’  “Either the market is now pricing in the possibility of a
rate cut by the ECB, or it is pricing in the probability of the
ECB re-injecting some liquidity in the market,” the strategists
wrote in a note dated yesterday. “The Fed’s decision not to
taper, and more importantly to send very dovish signals, removes
some of the pressure on the ECB.”  Spanish two-year note yields slid 13 basis points to 1.45
after reaching 1.44 percent. Ten-year rates fell two basis
points to 4.30 percent. It dropped 19 basis points  this week .  Italy’s 10-year yield was little changed at 4.29 percent,
having declined 29 basis points this week, the  most  since the
period through April 5.  An index of household  confidence  in the euro zone improved
to minus 14.9, the highest level since July 2011, from minus
15.6 a month earlier, the European Commission in Brussels said
in a preliminary report today. Economists had forecast an
increase to minus 14.5, according to the median of 23 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  German Election  Merkel, who has governed Germany in an alliance with the
pro-business Free Democrats since 2009 may have to enter a
coalition with the Social Democrats, according to polls before
the Sept. 22 election.  “We expect the German election result to likely benefit
euro-area spread risk,” Societe Generale SA strategists
including Paris-based Ciaran O’Hagan, wrote in a note to
clients. “The re-election of the present government would
likely see more peripheral-friendly reforms in the coming
months.”  Volatility on Spanish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Belgium and  France ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  German securities lost 2.3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italy’s
returned 4.4 percent and Spain’s earned 8.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  