-- Glencore Selling Bonds in Europe Amid Best Returns in Ten Weeks
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-20T12:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/glencore-plans-bonds-in-europe-amid-biggest-returns-in-10-weeks.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  is marketing
euro-denominated bonds as investment-grade company debt in
Europe hands investors the best weekly returns since July.  The global commodity trader and metals producer run by
billionaire Ivan Glasenberg is issuing 750 million euros ($1
billion) of seven-year notes in its first debt sale in the
currency since November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. High-grade corporate bonds returned an average 0.4
percent this week, the most since the week ended July 12,
Bloomberg  index data  show.  Credit markets rallied after the  Federal Reserve 
unexpectedly refrained from slowing the pace of its monthly bond
purchases. The average yield investors demand to hold
investment-grade notes in euros dropped nine basis points this
week to a three-week low of 1.98 percent, while yields on  junk-rated  securities fell 16 basis points to 4.79 percent, the
lowest in a month, Bloomberg data show.  “As the Fed postponed the decision to taper, markets are
relieved and investors are more willing to add risk,” said
Sipke Moes, a portfolio manager at Kempen Capital Management in
Amsterdam. “This environment is generally positive for
companies to issue bonds and hence we’re seeing an increase in
sales.”  Glencore is selling its notes through its Glencore Finance
Europe SA unit to yield 165 basis points more than swaps,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The proceeds
will be used for general corporate purposes, the person said.  ‘Risk-On Environment’  The Baar, Switzerland-based company raised this month its
estimate of savings from the takeover of Xstrata Plc, which
completed in May, to at least four times the initial forecast.
Glencore has 850 million euros of 5.25 percent bonds maturing
next month, Bloomberg data show.  “The synergies between Glencore and Xstrata post-merger
look better than was expected,” said Leonardo Basile, a
portfolio manager at UBI Pramerica SGR SpA in Milan. “The new
issue premium on Glencore’s deal doesn’t seem very high but I
expect that in the current risk-on market environment this new
issue will perform decently.”  Today’s bond sale is “prudent financial management,” said
Charles Watenphul, a Baar-based spokesman for Glencore.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , is a non-executive director of Glencore Xstrata.  In the high-yield market,  Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s biggest
cement maker, is selling 750 million euros of seven-year bonds
to yield 305 basis points more than swaps, according to a person
familiar with the deal. It’s the first sale of notes in euros in
more than a year for the Paris-based company, which is rated Ba1
or one level below investment grade by Moody’s Investors
Service.  Hapag-Lloyd AG, a junk-rated German container shipping
line, has increased the size of its five-year bonds to 250
million euros from 200 million euros, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction. The securities, which may price
today, will yield 7.75 percent to 8 percent. It’s the Hamburg-based company’s first bond sale in three years, Bloomberg data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  