-- Global Equity Funds Record Biggest Inflows Since 2005
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-09-20T09:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/global-equity-funds-record-biggest-inflows-since-at-least-2005.html
Global  equity  funds attracted the
largest inflows since at least 2005 in the week ended Sept. 18
as investors piled into stocks before the Federal Reserve’s
decision to maintain monetary stimulus.  The funds lured a net $25.9 billion in the period, Wei Liang Chang, a foreign-exchange strategist at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said by phone from Singapore today,
citing data from EPFR Global. Developed markets posted $24.3
billion of inflows, while emerging-nation funds drew $1.6 
billion, according to Chang.  The MSCI All-Country World Index climbed to the highest
level since 2008 on Sept. 16 after Lawrence Summers withdrew his
bid to become the next Fed chairman, easing concerns that he
would curtail monetary stimulus. The gauge extended gains after
the U.S. central bank unexpectedly maintained its $85 billion 
monthly bond-purchase program two days later.  “People will find some space to breathe at this point,”
Wellian Wiranto, an investment strategist at the wealth-management unit of Barclays Plc, which oversees about $217
billion worldwide, said from  Singapore  today. “In the coming
week, we see further inflows given appetite has stabilized quite
significantly and tapering was postponed.”  Taper Timing  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke first signaled on May 22 that 
policy makers could reduce the bond purchases, triggering capital 
outflows from emerging markets and a month-long selloff in global 
equities. More than $50 billion left global funds investing in 
developing-nation bonds and stocks, according to EPFR Global.  Bernanke said Sept. 18 that a decision on slowing the
pace of asset purchases would depend on economic data, and that
the Fed has no set timetable.  “It’s hard to see the Fed start to taper at the next
meeting in October,” said Wiranto. “If they really want
confirmation of a recovery, one or two data points won’t do it
for them.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index slipped 0.1 percent to
389.77 at 4:58 p.m. Hong Kong time, paring a third straight
weekly gain to 2.6 percent. The measure has added 15 percent
this year and trades at about  14 times  projected 12-month
earnings, the highest level on a weekly basis since April 2010.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index also lost 0.1 percent,
trimming this week’s advance to 3.5 percent. The gauge has
declined 3.3 percent this year and is valued at 11 times
forecast profits, the highest level since March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  