-- Gold Traders Most Bullish in Three Weeks After Fed: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-09-20T16:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/gold-traders-most-bullish-in-three-weeks-after-fed-commodities.html
Gold analysts are the most bullish
in three weeks after the  Federal Reserve ’s surprise decision not
to taper stimulus increased demand for bullion as a hedge
against accelerating inflation and currency debasement.  Sixteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
rise next week, five were bearish and five neutral. Gold jumped
4.1 percent on Sept. 18, the most in 15 months, after the U.S.
central bank said it wants more evidence of an economic recovery
before slowing its $85 billion-a-month of bond buying.  Gold is set for the first annual drop in 13 years as some
investors lose faith in the metal as a store of value amid signs
economies are strengthening. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
surprised analysts who predicted a $5 billion cut, saying he was
concerned that market  interest rates , driven higher by his own
suggestion he would scale back stimulus, would curb growth. As
gold surged, the dollar slumped to a seven-month low.  “The Fed has realized that any attempt to reduce or
eliminate quantitative easing will lead to a surge in interest
rates,” said Jeff Sica, who helps oversee more than $1 billion
as the president of Sica Wealth Management in Morristown,  New
Jersey . “There will be ongoing  currency devaluation  both in the
U.S. and around the world. I anticipate significant fundamental
strength in the price of gold in the near term.”  Gold Rebounds  The metal fell 21 percent to $1,331.12 an ounce in  London 
this year after slipping into a  bear market  in April. Prices
rebounded as much as 6.5 percent since reaching a five-week low
on Sept. 18. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
fell 1.1 percent this year and the MSCI All-Country World Index
of equities gained 14 percent. The Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond
Index lost 3 percent.  Bullion rose 70 percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as
the U.S. central bank pumped more than $2 trillion into the
financial system by buying debt, increasing concern about
currency debasement. Bernanke said there is no fixed schedule
for tapering and a statement from the Fed signaled interest
rates will stay near zero as long as unemployment remains above
6.5 percent and inflation forecasts don’t exceed 2.5 percent.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, dropped 2.5 percent in the past two
weeks, reaching the lowest since Feb. 19. Gold moved in opposite
directions to the dollar in 11 of the previous 12 quarters.
Global equities reached the highest in five years yesterday.  Consumer Prices  Expectations for gains in U.S. consumer prices, as measured
by the  break-even  rate for 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, jumped to a five-week high. Gold slid 31 percent
from its September 2011 record of $1,921.15 partly as stimulus
failed to stoke inflation.  The latest Fed decision and a debate among U.S. lawmakers
about whether to raise the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling
means gold could gain further in the near term, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. wrote in a Sept. 18 report. The bank restated its
prediction that prices will resume a drop into 2014 as U.S.
economic growth gains and monetary policy is tightened. It
forecasts $1,050 at the end of next year.  This week’s rally is an opportunity to sell, Societe
Generale SA said in a report yesterday. The metal will average
$1,125 next year, the bank says. Credit Suisse Group AG expects
an average of $1,180. U.S. economic expansion will accelerate to
2.65 percent next year and 3 percent in 2015, from 1.6 percent
this year, according to as many as 81 economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  ETP Holdings  Investors sold 696.8 metric tons through gold-backed
exchange-traded products this year, erasing $59 billion from the
funds’ value and pushing holdings to the lowest in more than
three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  John Paulson , the
billionaire hedge fund manager and biggest investor in the SPDR
Gold Trust, the largest gold ETP, cut his  stake  in the product
by 53 percent last quarter, a government filing showed.  Gold advanced as much as 21 percent from a 34-month low in
June through late August as lower prices boosted demand for
jewelry, bars and coins. Sales during the main festival season
from August to November in  India , last year’s biggest buyer,
will be less than a year earlier as slowing economic growth and
a shortage caused by government curbs on bullion imports hurts
demand, said C. Vinod Hayagriv, managing director of C.
Krishniah Chetty & Sons Pvt., a Bangalore-based retailer.  Mint Sales  Physical demand is slowing elsewhere, with the  U.S. Mint 
selling 11,500 ounces of American Eagle gold coins in August,
the least in six years and down from as much as 209,500 ounces
in April. Sales totaled 9,000 ounces so far this month, data on
its website show. Sales of coins and bars from  Australia ’s Perth
Mint dropped 46 percent in August from July.  While  hedge funds  and other large speculators cut their
 net-long  position by 16 percent to 84,929 futures and options in
the week through Sept. 10, wagers on gains more than doubled
since the end of June, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. The position slumped 67 percent since August 2011.  Eight of 15 people surveyed expect raw sugar to drop next
week and six were bullish. The commodity slid 8.6 percent to
17.84 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  this year.  Twelve of 28 surveyed anticipate higher corn prices and 11
said the grain will fall, while 16 of 29 said soybeans will rise
and nine expect lower prices. Eleven predicted gains in wheat
and eight were bearish. Corn fell 35 percent to $4.515 a bushel
this year in  Chicago . Soybeans dropped 6.6 percent to $13.1625 a
bushel, as wheat slumped 17 percent to $6.455 a bushel.  Copper’s Decline  Ten traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to climb
next week, eight were bearish and eight neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, dropped 8.2 percent to $7,281 a ton this year.  The S&P gauge of raw materials rose 0.9 percent since
reaching a five-week low on Sept. 17. The Fed’s decision to hold
stimulus came at a time when economic data from  China  to  Brazil 
shows signs of improvement and helps countries most dependent on
foreign financing such as Brazil and India, according to Denise
Simon, an emerging-market fixed income manager in New York at
Lazard Asset Management, which oversees $147 billion of assets.  “Continued stimulus in the U.S. means support to U.S.
growth, with rippling effects in terms of general demand for
goods,” said Bjarne Schieldrop, the chief commodity analyst in
Oslo at SEB AB. “The Fed decision is positive for continued
capital flows to  emerging markets . More capital to emerging
markets means better growth prospects and means stronger
commodity demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  