-- Goldman Managing Director to Be Arraigned on Rape Charge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-09-20T16:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/goldman-managing-director-to-be-arraigned-on-rape-charge.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managing
director Jason Lee pleaded not guilty to charges he raped a
woman at his rental home in East Hampton,  New York , the wealthy
beach community on the east end of  Long Island .  Jason Lee, 37, wearing a dark suit and accompanied by his
wife, was arraigned today before Suffolk County Judge Barbara
Kahn in Riverhead, New York.  Lee, of  Manhattan , was arrested and charged with first-degree rape in August after police went to his Clover Leaf Lane
home and learned that a woman had been sexually assaulted inside
the residence, where several people had gathered, according to a
police statement.  A grand jury indicted Lee last month on one count of first-degree rape, which carries a maximum sentence of 25 years in
prison, and misdemeanor counts of assault and sexual misconduct,
according to court records. He was freed at the time on $20,000
cash bail. Bail was set today at $100,000 cash, with the $20,000
applied to that amount. Lee left the courthouse after posting
the additional bail. He was ordered to turn in his passport.  On Leave  Lee’s employer wasn’t identified in the police statement.
Lee is head of convertibles at Goldman Sachs and has been placed
on leave, according to a person familiar with the matter who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about a private personnel
matter and asked not to be named.  Lee, a graduate of the  University of Pennsylvania , has been
with Goldman Sachs since March 1998, according to the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  He led “many of the firm’s most complicated financing and
risk-management transactions for corporate clients” while
managing convertible and equity derivative origination for
financial, health-care and consumer companies, according to a
biography posted on the website of a 2009 Milken Institute
conference where he was a scheduled speaker.  “We have what is apparently a rush to arrest my client, a
rush to the grand jury and a rush to indict my client,” Edward
Burke Jr., Lee’s attorney, said after the hearing. “But what we
don’t have here is a rush to judgment.”  Detailed Investigation  Lee is “adamant that he did not do this, adamant that he
did not perform these serious allegations upon this complainant
at all,” Burke said.  Burke said a detailed investigation will clear Lee’s name.
Burke replied “yes it was” when asked by reporters after the
hearing if the sex between Lee and the woman was consensual.  “There’s not a bump, there’s not a bruise, there’s not a
scratch on my client at all,” Burke said.  Lee “has never been in trouble before,” Burke said.
“He’s very successful. He’s got the support of his family.
Everybody is behind him.”  Lee was arrested by  East Hampton  town police Aug. 20, his
37th birthday, after a 20-year-old woman told them she first met
Lee at a nightclub on Wainscott Stone Road and he bought her and
friends drinks, the Suffolk County District Attorney’s office
said in a statement.  Lee invited the woman and her friends to his house, and at
about 4 a.m., the woman said, Lee was naked when he tried to
follow her into a bathroom and he shoved the door with such
force that she fell to the floor, where he pinned her down,
according to the district attorney’s statement. She struggled
and during the attack kneed him in the groin, she told police,
according to the statement.  Hamptons Visit  Police had gone to the house to investigate an unrelated
incident and met the victim, who told them what had happened,
Suffolk County District Attorney Thomas Spota said today after
the hearing. They found Lee 45 minutes to an hour later in a
car, Spota said.  A description of a four-bedroom, three-bathroom 2,700-square-foot house on the street where Lee was arrested, posted
on the website of Douglas Elliman Real Estate, said it was
available from Aug. 1 until Labor Day, Sept. 2, for $33,000.  The woman has returned to her native Ireland and will be in
court for the trial, Spota said today. She was working in
another state and had come to the Hamptons to visit her brother,
who was working in the area for the summer, Spota said.  The alleged victim was taken to a hospital and examined by
a nurse trained in sexual assault cases, who determined that her
injuries -- which included bruises on her body -- were
consistent with her allegations, Spota said.  “These are very, very serious allegations against an
individual who is a prominent member of the community,” Spota
said. “If he were to be convicted in this case the potential
sentence is very serious.”  The case is New York v. Lee, 02053/2013, Suffolk County
Court, Criminal Term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in State  Supreme Court  in Riverhead, New York,
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  