-- Gold-Fund Inflows Jumped Most in 11 Months Before Fed
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-09-20T20:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/gold-fund-inflows-jumped-most-in-11-months-before-fed.html
EPFR Global, which tracks money
flows, said data showed investors poured $850 million into gold
funds, the most since October, before the Federal Reserve
surprised markets by maintaining the pace of U.S. stimulus.  In the week ended Sept. 18, the jump in gold investments
helped boost flows into commodity funds by $1.2 billion,  Cameron Brandt , the director of research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR, said today in a telephone interview. In the week
ended Sept. 11, gold inflows were $264 million. They were $1.16
billion in the week ended Oct. 10.  Speculation that the Fed would limit the pace of monthly
bond buying, along with signs of demand for jewelry, coins and
bars in Asia, probably boosted gold demand, Brandt said.
Yesterday, gold futures in New York jumped the most since March
2009, a day after the Fed said it wouldn’t trim debt purchases
yet, boosting demand for the metal as a store of value.  “A consensus had been starting to emerge that the Fed
probably wouldn’t do its worst on stimulus,” Brandt said.
“Investors have started to pick up on the appetite for physical
gold, especially from emerging Asia, and to extrapolate that the
price of gold may be due to go up.”  Gold on the Comex jumped 4.7 percent yesterday. Today, the
price fell the most in 11 weeks after a Fed policy maker said a
“small taper” in stimulus may occur in October. The Fed’s
decision this week was a “borderline” call, Fed Bank of St.
Louis President James Bullard said today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Gold futures for December delivery declined 2.7 percent to
settle at $1,332.50 an ounce in New York, the biggest drop for a
most-active since July 5.  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt
each month as part of its quantitative-easing program. Thirty-three of 64 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the
central bank would reduce purchases by $5 billion or less, while
31 forecast a cut of $10 billion or more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  