-- Gold Meeting Breaks Mold as More Investors Plan to Show
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/gold-meeting-breaks-mold-as-more-investors-plan-to-show.html
The Denver Gold Forum, the industry
gathering that usually sees attendance drop when gold prices
fall, is drawing a rising number of investors seeking value in
battered equities this year, organizers say.  Attendance at next week’s event probably will match or
exceed last year’s record even though gold is  down , said Tim
Wood, executive director of the Denver Gold Group, which
organizes the invitation-only conference. The event, which also
brings together mining executives, analysts and brokers, has
received increasing interest from value investors who
traditionally haven’t had exposure to gold equities, he said.  Miners including  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Newmont Mining
Corp. (NEM) , the two largest producers, have announced at least $26
billion of writedowns since July and are cutting spending plans
after the steepest price drop in three decades. That has weighed
on the 30-company Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver
Index, which has dropped 43 percent since Sept. 12, 2012, the
final day of last year’s gold forum.  “Obviously there are a lot of people that are hurting, but
at the same time it seems to have attracted this new segment in
the buy side, and we are getting bigger numbers there,” Wood
said in a Sept. 18 telephone interview. “They are picking up
the gold equities as being historically and comparably very
cheap.”  Attendance from private-equity groups has also increased,
while registration of equity sales and research staff from banks
and brokerages has declined, Wood said.  Sell Side  The  Denver Gold Forum , from Sept. 22-25, will be attended
by 166 mining and exploration companies, representing about 88
percent of global gold production, Wood said. Investors account
for 73 percent of non-industry registrations so far, up from 69
percent last year, while so-called sell-side delegates have
declined to 22 percent, from 27 percent a year earlier.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s largest gold producer by market
value, has been getting inquiries for information from more
potential first-time and “contrarian” investors, said  Jeff Wilhoit , a vice-president of  investor relations .  “It’s part of a broader move that we are seeing,” Wilhoit
said yesterday by phone. “We are definitely getting more
inbound interest, people learning more about the industry.”  Investors are looking at the gold sector because  equity
valuations  are lower compared with the rest of the market, said
Paolo Lostritto, a Toronto-based mining analyst at  National Bank
of Canada .  “We’re getting a lot of people who haven’t looked at the
space in a long time certainly sharpening their pencils, taking
notes,” Lostritto said by phone. “It’s not necessarily that
they’re going to pull the trigger anytime soon but they are
certainly doing their homework.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  