-- Google, Golden Balls, NFL, UMG: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-20T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/google-golden-balls-nfl-umg-intellectual-property.html
By Victoria Slind-Flor  Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Google Inc., creator of the world’s
most-used Internet search engine, has added to its database of
patents.  In a Sept. 19  blog posting  by engineering manager Jon
Orwant, the  Mountain View , California-based company said it
added patent documents from  China ,  Germany ,  Canada  and the World
 Intellectual Property  Organization to its database.  Last year, Google expanded its patent offerings to include
patents from the European Patent office and the Prior  Art
Finder , a search engine that seeks inventions that predate a
patent and potentially render it invalid.  The patents are available both in their original language
and in English through the use of Google Translate, and they can
be searched in any language, according to Orwant’s posting.  GE, DuPont Oppose Change to Business Method Patent Law  More than 100 organizations and businesses, including
General Electric Co. and DuPont Co., wrote Congress to oppose
the expansion of a new review process for business-method
patents.  In the Sept. 19 letter, sent to the House Committee on the
Judiciary, the companies said the change included in the 2011
patent law revisions may have dire effects. They object to new
post-grant review proceedings for patents covering business
methods related to a “financial product or service.”  Recently introduced legislation could expand this category
to cover data-processing patents used in “any enterprise,
product or service,” the companies said. As a result, they
said, any party sued or charged with infringement would always
be able to challenge patents that fell into this category, which
they claim is “extremely broad.”  Data processing affects such activities as the development
of cancer therapies and automobile safety systems, the companies
said. Subjecting patents that cover those areas to the new
process would create uncertainty and risk, discouraging
investment in those fields, according to the letter.  Expanding the category also may violate U.S. treaty
obligations to make patents available without discrimination
based on the field technology, they said in their letter.  Google Inc. and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  are among companies
supporting the extension of the category of covered business
method parents.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  U.K. Sportswear Company Wins Right to ‘Golden Balls’ Mark  A U.K. couple won its battle with the international
governing body of soccer over the phrase “Golden Balls,” the
London24 News Network’s Ham&High website  reported .  FIFA objected to Inez and Gus Bodur’s Golden Balls
sportswear company, claiming the name infringed its trademark
for the Ballon d’Or, an award given annually to the best pro
soccer player, according to Ham&High.  The Bodurs went to the  European Court  of Justice and
successfully appealed a ruling that gave some of the “golden
balls” rights to soccer organizers, Ham&High reported.  They have sold Golden Balls sportswear since 2001 and also
licensed it for use in a U.K. television game show “ Golden
Balls ,” according to Ham&High.  Oneida Nation Sets Up Radio Campaign Against Team’s Trademark  The  Oneida Nation , a federally recognized tribe of the
Oneida people, is running a series of radio ads to play on
stations in cities where  Washington ’s National Football League
team is scheduled to play this season.  The ads are part of the Oneida Nation’s campaign to change
the team’s name from Redskins, which they say is racist and
offensive.  The nation has also set up a website focused on the issue,
 www.changethemascot.org . In a statement, the nation called the
name “the R-word,” and a “hurtful epithet relegating
indigenous peoples to second-class status.”  Proceedings seeking the cancellation of the mark are
pending at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, according to
the patent office database.  Christine Brennan, a sportswriter for  USA Today ,  said Sept.
12  that she will no longer use the term when referring to the
team. She said it was a personal decision and it’s “no longer
right” to use the term. According to her story,  Peter King  of
 Sports Illustrated  also has said he will no longer use the name.  Daniel Snyder, owner of the team, said in May that he will
never change the name and that his decision is supported by the
fans.  A bill was introduced in the  U.S. Congress  that would amend
the Trademark Act of 1946 to bar registration of terms that
disparage Native Americans.  H.R. 1278 , which has been referred
to the House Committee on the Judiciary, lists “redskin” as a
term that is offensive.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Conan Doyle Estate Claims Characters’ Protection Continues  Holders of the rights to the literary estate of the author
of the  Sherlock Holmes  stories filed court papers claiming that
the tales’ characters are covered by copyright law, even though
some of the works are now in the public domain.  Arthur Conan Doyle’s estate made the argument in a case
brought by an author who sought a court declaration that his use
of the characters doesn’t infringe the copyright. Conan Doyle,
an Edinburgh-born physician, brought out the first Holmes story
in 1887. He died in 1930.  Leslie S. Klinger sued in federal court in  Chicago  in
February over a proposed collection of original stories by
contemporary authors who would use elements from the Holmes
books. Klinger, who is editing the collection, said he
anticipated being sued for copyright infringement.  Klinger argued that no permission or license should be
required for the book. He said the collection uses only
characters and story elements from the Holmes works that are in
the public domain.  Agents for the estate have threatened that, should the book
be published without a license, it won’t be sold by Amazon.com
Inc. or  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , according to court papers.  In its Sept. 10 response, the estate said the characters of
Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson continued to be developed in
later stories that are still protected by copyright. Klinger
“suggests the characters can be dismantled into partial
versions of themselves,” according to court papers.  “A complex literary character can be no more unraveled
than a human personality,” the estate argued.  The case is Klinger v. Conan Doyle Estate Ltd., 13-cv-01226, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  UMG Targets Domain Name Registrar in Fight Against Torrent Site  Universal Music Group Inc. is using a new tactic against
content pirates, the TorrentFreak file-sharing and copyright
news website  reported .  The music company’s German division got a court order
against a domain registrar, barring it from enabling the
distribution by means of the BitTorrent protocol of unauthorized
copies of Robin Thicke’s “Blurred Lines” album through the
H33t.eu website, according to TorrentFreak.  Key-Systems GmbH, the Cologne, Germany-based domain
registrar, told TorrentFreak the only way it could comply with
the court order was either to take down the name servers or
delete the Htt3.eu domain.  TorrentFreak reported that this case marks the first time
content owners have gone through a domain registrar to target a
site, and that Key-Systems has said it will fight the ruling.  For more copyright news, click here. 