-- Greeks Bearing Brunt of Merkel-Led Austerity Blame Own Leaders
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2013-09-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/greeks-bearing-brunt-of-merkel-led-austerity-blame-own-leaders.html
Vangelis Skourtis is hawking
perfume to shoppers on Ermou Street, within sight of the Greek
Parliament in central Athens. As Germans prepare to vote this
weekend, he’s trying to raise enough money for a boat ticket
back to his island of Rhodes.  “Merkel?” said Skourtis, 31, among the record 1.4 million
Greeks without a job. “She destroyed us, but she’s not to
blame. Who is? Walk up the street. You’ll find them up there.”  Victory for German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will mean a
third term governing  Europe ’s largest economy, and effectively a
second overseeing its weakest. One of her first tasks will be
deciding on increasing the financial rescue for Greece, whose
debt keeps the nation reliant on German hand-outs.  A new round of meetings will begin in Athens between Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras’s government and the inspectors from
the European Commission,  International Monetary Fund  and
 European Central Bank  tomorrow, the day of election. Quarterly
reports from that troika since May 2010 have wielded the power
to cut off funding should targets not be met, spending not be
cut and revenue not raised.  “Indifference is the main feeling,” said George
Tzogopoulos, a researcher at the  Hellenic Foundation for
European and Foreign Policy . “Ordinary Greeks don’t expect any
dramatic change in Berlin’s policy on Sept. 23.”  Indulgence  Germans have paid the bulk of the 240 billion euros ($319
billion) of rescue funds pledged to  Greece  since 2010.  Wage and pension cuts in return for the money that staved
off a financial collapse has led to six straight years of
recession and, at 28 percent, the euro area’s highest
unemployment rate. Merkel told supporters this week she will
continue to extract concessions from the region’s indebted
nations if she’s re-elected.  “I’m firmly convinced that we won’t make Europe stronger -
- Europe has to emerge stronger out of this crisis -- if we’re
too indulgent with one another, if we can’t rely on what we’ve
promised to do,” Merkel said.  In a poll published yesterday by Public Issue in Athens, 47
percent of Greeks believed the re-election of Merkel will have a
“somewhat negative” effect on Greece’s interests, while 34
percent expect neither positive nor negative impact. Eight in 10
people had a negative opinion of the chancellor. No margin of
error was given for the poll of 1,000 people.  Be Flexible  George Kapsis, 50, who runs a shoe store on Ermou Street,
said Merkel shouldn’t be elected because her vision of a strong
euro will “destroy all Europe.”  “It’s too hard, too expensive,” he said, leaning over to
show how a shoe is flexible, how the leather can move with the
foot. “It doesn’t do for the countries of southern Europe. It
needs to be more flexible, like the dollar.”  Merkel, 59, won her last German vote in September 2009, a
week before  George Papandreou  prevailed in Greek elections.
Taking over as prime minister, he proceeded to disclose to his
European Union partners that the country had a  budget deficit 
that was four times the limit allowed, triggering a debt crisis
that spread to other parts of the euro region.  As Merkel tells her electorate that her stewardship has
kept  Germany ’s unemployment near a record low -- at  6.8 percent 
last month, it was a quarter of Greece’s rate -- Irini Papadaki
recounts a story of her friend in Athens who has been hunting
for a job since finishing her economics degree.  Lucky Florist  Papadaki says she’s luckier than her friend who can’t find
any position, not even as a shop assistant, in a country where
nearly six in 10 Greeks aged 15 to 24 are out of work.  “I have a job, a family and my health,” said Papadaki,
23, who just opened a florist’s shop in central  Athens  with her
boyfriend, Michalis. “A lot of people can’t say the same.”  Greeks have had three changes of prime minister since
Papandreou’s Pasok party won on Oct. 4, 2009. It is 15 months
since current premier Samaras cobbled together a coalition
government, which ended a political stalemate that had led to
speculation the country could be forced out of the euro.  The hail of austerity measures since 2010 has taken its
toll on Greek faith in the political system and in the EU and
the euro. A Public Issue poll for Skai TV in Athens released on
Sept. 11 showed that support for the euro among Greeks fell to
51 percent from 67 percent a year earlier. A total of 76 percent
oppose bailout policies, the poll of 1,024 people showed. The
margin of error was 3.2 percentage points.  Scapegoat Merkel  A possible  budget surplus  this year before interest
payments, which Samaras hopes will open the way for more debt
relief, isn’t resonating with Greeks.  Unconvinced that Merkel’s recipe for economic health is the
right one, voters have kept anti-austerity party Syriza head to
head with Samaras’s New Democracy party in all polls since the
latest elections in June 2012. Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras has
consistently blamed Merkel for the failures.  “I read that Mrs. Merkel says she’s not to blame for the
problems of the south,” Tsipras said on Sept. 14. “If this was
a success she’d be rushing to receive international
congratulations. Instead of saying however, ‘congratulate me,’
she says: ‘I’m not to blame’.”  Tzogopoulos, the researcher at the European policy
foundation in Athens, said Merkel and Germany have been the
“best scapegoats for Greek politicians.”  “They’ve tried to transfer the responsibility to Merkel
and Germany of the economic stagnation without acknowledging
they only partly applied the bailout terms,” he said.  Greece has held two elections since the last ballot in
Germany and had two caretaker prime ministers. The first vote,
in May 2012, was a stalemate, with  New Democracy  scraping a win
six weeks later. Support for Papandreou’s Pasok party, which now
governs in coalition with its traditional rival New Democracy,
polled 12 percent in the June vote.  “We don’t even care about our own elections, much less the
German ones,” said Papadaki, the florist. “I don’t fear her.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  