-- Indian Stocks Swing Between Gains, Losses Before RBI Meeting
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-09-20T04:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/indian-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-before-rbi-meeting.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks swung between gains
and losses following the benchmark index’s surge to a three-year
high yesterday, and before the central bank meets to review
monetary policy.  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) ,  India ’s top drugmaker
by market value, advanced to a seven-week high.  State Bank of
India , the nation’s biggest lender, climbed for the third day.
Sesa Goa Ltd., an iron-ore miner, dropped 1.6 percent.  The S&P BSE Sensex fell 0.2 percent to 20,606.7 at 9:43
a.m. in Mumbai, after changing direction at least three times.
The gauge rallied 3.4 percent yesterday to its highest level
since Nov. 10, 2010, after the U.S. Federal Reserve maintained
stimulus. Thirty-day  volatility  on the index climbed to the
highest level in four years yesterday.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan may hold the
benchmark repurchase rate at 7.25 percent in his first meeting
in charge of the central bank, according to all 36 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. Wholesale-price index rose 6.1 percent in
August, the most in six months, according to the latest
government data. The RBI predicts inflation will be around 5.5
percent in the fiscal year through March 2014.  Given the inflation “it looks very difficult for an RBI
governor to be dovish and ease any of the interest rates,”
Sandeep Singal, co-head of institutional equities at Emkay
Global Financial Services Ltd., said in an interview to
Bloomberg TV India today. “We expect a status quo.”  Rajan inherited an economy that expanded 4.4 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the weakest pace since 2009, and a
weak currency. The RBI under former governor Duvvuri Subbarao
introduced a series of tightening measures, including raising
two  interest rates , to shore up the rupee, which slumped to an
all-time low on Aug. 28.  Overseas investors  bought a net $83.2 million of domestic
shares on Sept. 18, data from the regulator show. That took this
year’s net inflow to $12.6 billion, the second-highest among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg. They pulled $3.7 billion
from local shares in the three months ended August as capital
fled  emerging markets  amid concerns the Fed would pare stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  