-- India’s Rupee Heads for Third Weekly Gain on Fed; Bonds Advance
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-09-20T05:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/india-s-rupee-heads-for-third-weekly-gain-on-fed-bonds-advance.html
India’s rupee headed for a third
weekly advance, the longest winning streak since July, after the
 Federal Reserve  unexpectedly maintained stimulus that’s buoyed
emerging-market assets. Bonds advanced.  The Federal Open Market Committee said Sept. 18 it wants to
see more evidence of a recovery in the world’s largest economy
before tapering monthly bond purchases of $85 billion.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a reduction of $5
billion. The rupee, which touched a one-month high yesterday,
pared gains today amid speculation the  Reserve Bank  of India
will reverse some of the measures taken in the past two months
to support the currency at a policy meeting in Mumbai today.  The Indian currency strengthened 2.5 percent from a week
ago to 61.94 per dollar at 10:28 a.m. in Mumbai, prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg show. It declined 0.2 percent
today. The rupee rose as high as 61.6450 yesterday, the
strongest level since Aug. 16.  “The delay in withdrawal of U.S. asset purchases could
ease volatility and swing the vote towards a possible
recalibration of the liquidity-tightening measures” by the RBI,
DBS Bank Ltd. economists including Singapore-based Radhika Rao
wrote in a research report today. “On the repo rate, we still
lean towards a no-change stance. The policy commentary could
adopt a more dovish and growth-supportive stance.”  Raghuram Rajan , who took charge as the RBI’s governor on
Sept. 4, will leave the benchmark repurchase rate unchanged at
7.25 percent, according to all 36 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. The central bank, under the previous chief  Duvvuri
Subbarao , raised two other  interest rates  in July and capped
cash injections into the banking system, among a series of
measures aimed at supporting the rupee, which sank to a record
68.845 per dollar on Aug. 28.  Government Bonds  Ten-year government bonds rose for a second week, the
longest run of gains since May. The yield on the 7.16 percent
notes due May 2023 has slumped 29 basis points, or 0.29
percentage point, since Sept. 13 to 8.20 percent, according to
the central bank’s trading system.  “The RBI’s increased room for maneuver is clearly positive
for bonds,”  Igor Arsenin  and  Rohit Arora , Singapore-based
analysts at Barclays Plc, wrote in a research report yesterday.
“We recommend 10-year bonds for carry and yield compression.”  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
jumped 35 basis points from a week ago and 57 basis points today
to 18.30 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards appreciated 2.8 percent
this week to 63.35 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts rose 2.9 percent to 63.45.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  