-- Rajan’s India Inflation Battle Pressures Singh as Election Nears
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-09-20T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/india-unexpectedly-raises-rate-as-cash-curbs-eased-on-rupee-gain.html
Indian central bank chief Raghuram Rajan’s surprise move to raise the policy interest rate adds
pressure on Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to take politically
challenging steps to boost economic growth as elections near.  The Reserve Bank of India unexpectedly raised the benchmark
 repurchase rate  yesterday to contain price increases that have
hit roughly 825 million citizens who earn less than $2 per day.
In doing so, Rajan made it more urgent for Singh’s government to
allow greater foreign investment and reduce food and fuel
subsidies to bolster the economy.  “Removing some of the key structural impediments would be
the key to revive growth,”  Siddhartha Sanyal , chief India
economist at Barclays Plc in Mumbai, said in an e-mail. “Given
that elections are just six to eight months away, you really
can’t expect to see a lot.”  Rajan’s move two days after the Federal Reserve decided to
maintain stimulus signaled his intention to bolster the bank’s
 inflation -fighting credentials amid the weakest economic growth
since 2009. Stocks and bonds slid as the former International
Monetary Fund’s chief economist refocused investors on the
fundamental constraints facing Asia’s third-biggest economy.  “Macroeconomic imbalances such as high inflation and the
current-account deficit still remain, and they won’t go away
unless we address the structural issues,” said  Gaurav Kapur , a
senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Mumbai.
“The government has taken measures over the last year but a lot
remains to be done.”  Stocks Fall  The rupee, which has appreciated 5.5 percent this month,
weakened 0.8 percent to 62.2775 per dollar at the close in
Mumbai yesterday. It’s down about 12 percent this year. The
yield on the 7.16 percent government bond due May 2023 rose to
8.58 percent from 8.19 percent a day earlier. The S&P BSE Sensex
 index  slid 1.9 percent.  Rajan, who became central bank governor two weeks ago,
boosted the repurchase rate in his first policy review by a
quarter-point to 7.5 percent, the first increase since 2011, a
Reserve Bank of  India  statement showed yesterday. All 36
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey predicted no change.  At the same time, he relaxed liquidity curbs in the banking
system by cutting the  marginal standing facility rate  to 9.5
percent from 10.25 percent and lowering the daily balance
requirement for the cash reserve ratio to 95 percent from 99
percent, effective Sept. 21. The bank rate was reduced to 9.5
percent from 10.25 percent.  Inflation Fight  The steps start the process of a “cautious unwinding” of
exceptional measures taken since July to reduce exchange-rate
volatility, the central bank said. They also intend to address
inflation risks to mitigate pressure on the rupee and create
conditions for revitalizing expansion.  “We want to fight against inflation and we’ll bring
inflation down,” Rajan told reporters yesterday in Mumbai,
adding that the goal is to slow wholesale-price inflation to
below 5 percent. The gauge rose 6.1 percent in August from a
year earlier.  India’s record current-account deficit and consumer-price
inflation exceeding 9 percent left it vulnerable to the capital
flight from  emerging markets  triggered by earlier concern that
the U.S. would taper monetary  stimulus  as early as this month.
The rupee sank to a record low in August.  The Fed buoyed stocks and currencies from India to  Turkey 
by postponing the rollback of $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases that boosted the cash circulating in the global
economy.  Elections Coming  “If we are stabilized, we are better prepared for the
tapering whenever it happens,” Rajan said. “What we need to do
is put our house in order before it comes back.”  Singh, in power since 2004, faces elections by May. The
main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party is set to make gains in
state polls this year in one of the final tests for the parties
before the national vote, according to a survey released Sept.
18 by the Times Now television channel and C-voter, a polling
firm.  Singh’s government has been beset by graft scandals and
trade and budget imbalances that have put India’s investment-grade credit rating at risk. The odds of a downgrade are
“large,” Pacific Investment Management Co. said this week.  To improve the economic outlook, the government has moved
to speed up infrastructure projects, ease foreign-investment
curbs in industries such as aviation and retail, and increase
gold-import taxes to try and pare a record  current-account gap 
to about $70 billion in 2013-2014.  At the same time, key reforms such as a goods and services
tax to buoy revenue remain stalled. The slow pace in completing
infrastructure projects and starting new ones has contributed to
weak economic growth, the central bank said yesterday.  “Political uncertainty ahead of the state and general
elections adds further risks,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “The government needs to
address the long-term structural deficiencies to unlock the
long-term potential of the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  