-- Iran Welcomes Obama Offer of Nuclear Program Talks, Adviser Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-09-20T13:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/iran-welcomes-obama-offer-of-nuclear-program-talks-adviser-says.html
A letter from U.S. President  Barack Obama  to his Iranian counterpart offering to lift sanctions if
the Persian Gulf nation ends uncertainties over its nuclear
program, has been welcomed by top officials in Tehran, a
political analyst close to the Iranian leadership said.  “Obama asked for the removal of ambiguities and said
sanctions can be lifted as a result,” Amir Mohebian, who has
advised former Iranian presidents and has close relations to
President Hassan Rohani’s government, said in a phone interview
from the Iranian capital. Obama said “he’s keen for
negotiations to be held to resolve the nuclear issue.”  Mohebian said that while he hasn’t read the message from
Obama, he has been present at official “gatherings where the
letter has been discussed” and “has information about its
content.” Mohebian declined to specify who was present at these
meetings.  He said there was no specific mention of what measures may
be lifted by the U.S. administration in return for Iranian
clarifications regarding its nuclear intentions.  The letter’s content has been deemed by Iranian leaders as
“fairly positive,” Mohebian said. The letter was sent late
August, according to a Sept. 18 article on secretnews.ir, a
website Mohebian confirmed he oversees.  Since replacing Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as president, Rohani
has dropped the aggressive rhetoric of his predecessor in favor
of conciliatory statements and deeds. He has told U.S.
television audiences that  Iran  would never seek nuclear weapons,
named a diplomat known as a moderate as his foreign minister and
chief nuclear negotiator, and released some political prisoners.  While Rohani has reiterated Iran’s longstanding position
that its uranium enrichment and related programs are for
peaceful purposes, the U.S. and some members of the United
Nations Security Council, as well as  Israel , say there’s
evidence that the Islamic republic is covertly working to
develop the capability to produce nuclear weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  