-- Lithuania Asks EU for Early Euro-Adoption Approval
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-09-20T09:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/lithuania-asks-eu-for-early-euro-adoption-approval.html
Lithuania  is asking the European
Union to speed up approval for its adoption of the euro in
January 2015 to avoid complicating the process when the European
Parliament breaks for elections next April.  “We’ve consulted EU commissioners on this and queried
Eurostat, and now we’re awaiting their response,” Vice Minister
of Finance Algimantas Rimkunas said by phone yesterday in
Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital. “Waiting for the new European
Parliament to form would mean losing several months for work on
practical preparations for introducing the euro.”  Lithuania would be the last Baltic country to adopt the
euro after Estonia made the switch in 2011. Latvia got final
approval in July to become the 18th member of the euro area on
Jan. 1, 2014. Bank of Lithuania Governor Vitas Vasiliauskas said
this month that slowing inflation and a narrowing budget deficit
meant the country would probably meet all EU criteria for euro-adoption next year.  The European Commission usually reports in May or June on
applicant nations’ readiness to adopt the common currency based
on budget and economic statistics and forecasts that become
available in May. A positive recommendation then requires
approvals by euro-area governments and the EU parliament.  Assuming Lithuania meets criteria for inflation, deficit,
debt, long-term  interest rates  and currency stability in 2013,
it can provide supporting data to the Commission by the end of
March, Rimkunas said. Lithuania’s previous bid to join the euro
in 2007 failed because it exceeded an inflation target.  Maastricht Limits  Finance Minister Rimantas Sadzius said Vilnius’s main focus
would remain on meeting its economic commitments and the
specific date for applying for euro adoption was less vital.  “It’s much more important to behave like we’re behaving,
to create credibility for markets and also for European
institutions that we will remain on track and that economic
development will not be disturbed by any irresponsible
actions,” he said in an interview in  London  yesterday. “We
will try to keep all the economic indicators within the
Maastricht limits.”  The EU Parliament is due to hold its last full session
before elections in the week of April 14. The new assembly will
hold its first two sessions in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  