-- J.C. Penney Said in Talks to Raise More Money for Turnaround
-- B y   J o d i   X u ,   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-09-20T21:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/j-c-penney-said-in-talks-to-raise-more-money-for-turnaround-1-.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the retailer that
has borrowed more than $3 billion this year to fund a
turnaround, is in talks to potentially raise more cash, said
people with knowledge of the matter.  The chain doesn’t have immediate cash needs, and is
exploring fundraising amid shareholder pressure to take
advantage of cheap financing, said the people, who asked not to
be named as the deliberations are private.  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , which arranged a $2.25 billion loan for the retailer this
year, is advising J.C. Penney on funding options including
borrowing against its real estate, said one of the people.  Discussions with investors are at an early stage, said the
people. The cash would give J.C. Penney’s Chief Executive
Officer Mike Ullman more time to fix a business that hasn’t
turned a quarterly profit since mid-2011. He took back the helm
this year after his predecessor’s attempt to appeal to younger
and wealthier consumers failed, contributing to the retailer’s
worst net loss in more than a quarter-century last year.  “It suggests that the third quarter isn’t going that
great,”  Paul Swinand , an analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in
 Chicago , said in an interview. J.C. Penney should probably take
the opportunity to explore raising more money while it can, he
said.  Shares Fall  The  shares  sank 1.4 percent to $12.96 at the close in New
York, and dropped another 1.2 percent at 5:39 p.m. in extended
trading. The stock had declined by more than one-third this year
through today’s close. A spokesman for Goldman Sachs declined to
comment, while a representative for Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney didn’t respond to repeated requests for comment.  One option under consideration is for J.C. Penney to borrow
against the real estate that it hasn’t already pledged as
collateral on other debt, three people said. J.C. Penney values
its owned and ground-leased real estate at $4.08 billion,
according to a May investor presentation.  About a week after he took over at J.C. Penney in April,
Ullman drew $850 million from the retailer’s $1.85 billion
revolving credit facility, and the company obtained the $2.25
billion Goldman Sachs loan in May.  J.C. Penney Chief Financial Officer Ken Hannah said last
month when the chain reported second-quarter results that the
retailer wasn’t assuming it would need to raise more cash this
year. It expected to end the year with more than $1.5 billion in
liquidity, a forecast that didn’t include additional outside
financing.  Hedge funds Glenview Capital Management LLC and Hayman
Capital Management LP reported increased stakes in J.C. Penney
this month, betting on a revival. The retailer’s sales decline
slowed last quarter to 12 percent from 23 percent in the same
period a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  