-- Jackman’s Five-Star ‘Prisoners’; Gandolfini Goodbye: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/jackman-s-prisoners-gandolfini-s-farewell-film.html
“ Prisoners ,” the masterful
suspense thriller that will send Quebecois director Denis Villeneuve to Hollywood’s upper ranks, is proof positive that
genre filmmaking can tackle the unlikeliest, most unpalatable
subjects.  And that Hugh Jackman has been frittering away too much
time in Wolverine drag.  Jackman and co-star Jake Gyllenhaal lead a superb cast --
and score career bests -- in this provocative tale of abducted
children and parents pushed beyond limits.  Written by Aaron Guzikowski (“ Contraband ”) and gorgeously
photographed in leafless autumn shades by Roger Deakins,
“Prisoners” begins on a drizzly Thanksgiving in suburban
 Pennsylvania .  Two families are sharing the holiday when their youngest
kids -- six-year-old Anna and seven-year-old Joy -- wander
outside to look for a missing toy.  “Prisoners” wastes little time in the set-up: The
families (and the audience) grasp the gravity immediately,
educated all too well in the depressingly familiar routines that
follow this particular headline.  Candlelight vigils arrive on cue.  But what begins as a well-observed look from inside the
nightmare takes a strange, singular turn when distraught father
Keller Dover (Jackman) becomes convinced -- for good reason --
that a young, mentally challenged neighbor (Paul Dano) is the
kidnapper.  The investigating detective (Gyllenhaal, soulful and
obsessed) can’t gather enough evidence to hold him.  Aware that each passing day lessens the likelihood of
finding the girls alive, Dover kidnaps and tortures the
suspected kidnapper.  Assisting the father are the other grieving parents,
beautifully played by Terrence Howard and, especially, Viola Davis. (The race issue -- one family is white, the other black -
- is addressed only by the absence of discussion). Tellingly,
Dover is a deer-hunting, food-hoarding survivalist, his basement
fortified for every tragedy but the one that strikes.  Rounding out the impeccable cast is Maria Bello, whose
Grace Dover upends our expectations of a mother’s ferocity, and
Melissa Leo, as the bedraggled, protective aunt who raised the
suspect.  To reveal much more would rob “Prisoners” of its power,
but the squeamish should be warned that Dover’s desperate
brutality is as graphically portrayed as anything in “ Zero Dark
Thirty .”  In mood, tone and pacing, though, the two-and-a-half-hour
“Prisoners” more closely recalls David Fincher’s dark, under-appreciated serial killer epic “ Zodiac .” That one also starred
Gyllenhaal and was, along with “ Brokeback Mountain ,” the
actor’s high-water mark. Until now.  “Prisoners,” from Warner Bros. Pictures, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ***** (Evans)  ‘Rush’ Razzle  Though it sputters in its final laps, Ron Howard’s race car
drama “ Rush ” taps state-of-the-art digital razzle dazzle and
the director’s crowd-pleasing know-how.  Based on the 1970s rivalry between Formula 1 champs James
Hunt and Niki Lauda, the film stars Chris Hemsworth (“ The
Avengers ”) as Hunt, the British playboy with a rock star’s
shaggy mane and live-fast lifestyle.  He introduces himself to awestruck women with a Bond-like
“Hunt. James Hunt.”  Daniel Bruhl is Lauda, an Austrian with blue blood, a
Freddie Mercury overbite and the personality of a dipstick.  The film’s women, Olivia Wilde and Alexandra Maria Lara,
are on hand mostly to adore, fret and chastise.  With “The Queen” and “Frost/Nixon” on his resume,
screenwriter Peter Morgan knows how to render recent history
with pathos and a light comic touch.  And Howard -- who began his directing career with the fast-car drive-in classic “ Grand Theft Auto ” -- has an aficionado’s
ear for revved engines and whooshing chassis.  Despite vivid performances, the drivers themselves remain
little more than mouthpieces for their lifestyle philosophies.  “Rush,” from Universal Studios, is playing in select
theaters, and opens across the U.S. September 27. Rating: ***1/2
(Evans)  ‘Enough Said’  Middle-aged dating is the kind of squirm-inducing subject
that was made for Nicole Holofcener, a writer-director whose
satirical comedies (“ Friends With Money ” and the very funny
“ Please Give ” among them) are, typically, gentle eviscerations
of affluent liberals.  In “ Enough Said ,” Julia Louis-Dreyfus and James Gandolfini play Eva and Albert, divorced parents on the verge of
becoming empty nesters (and bereft about it) who hit it off at a
party.  At the same party, Eva, who’s a masseuse, meets a swanning
poet named Marianne (Holofcener’s go-to neurotic, Catherine Keener, playing a wildly different kind of role this time). She
soon becomes a client and a confidante. Only after a while does
Eva figure out that Marianne is Albert’s ex-wife.  This sitcom setup mars an otherwise sly and lovely film.
The situation could easily be resolved with a word or two, but
like all such theatrical contrivances, it’s painfully extended
in order to provide maximum humiliation when the truth emerges.  Still, Louis-Dreyfus is endearingly funny as a mess of
insecurities, and the late, great Gandolfini was never more
supremely tender. Eva asks herself how she can be falling in
love with this fat, lummoxy slob. Nobody in the audience will
wonder why.  “Enough Said,” from Fox Searchlight Pictures, is playing
in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: ***1/2 (Seligman)  ‘After Tiller’  Chronicling the embattled lives of America’s four remaining
late-term abortion providers, the documentary “ After Tiller ”
is an antidote to right-wing rhetoric and media demonization.  Directed by Martha Shane and Lana Wilson, “After Tiller”
makes no show of abortion-debate balance. (The title refers to
Dr. George Tiller, the third-trimester abortion provider
murdered at his Kansas church in 2009).  The four physicians, all of whom participated with the
filmmakers, are presented as the last hope of women in extreme
circumstances.  Often (though certainly not always) the pregnant women have
just received diagnoses of harrowing birth defects.  “After Tiller” occasionally overplays its hand, with
mawkish music and tearful hugs, but its unflinching portrayal of
what can only be called battle fatigue is indelible.  “After Tiller,” from Oscilloscope Laboratories, is
playing in New York. Rating: *** (Evans)  (Greg Evans and Craig Seligman are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com  and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 