-- JPMorgan to Pay $920 Million, Ex-SAC Analyst: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/jpmorgan-to-pay-920-million-ex-sac-analyst-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , seeking to
end probes of a $6.2 billion trading debacle, admitted to
violating federal securities laws and agreed to pay about $920
million for failing to implement adequate controls and providing
incomplete information to regulators and its board.  Senior management knew in April 2012 that the bank’s chief
investment office in  London , which was responsible for the loss,
was using aggressive valuations that hid $750 million in losses,
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday in a
statement. Some executives “expressed reservations” at signing
off on JPMorgan’s first-quarter earnings filings last year as
required under the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act , the SEC said.  The settlement resolves claims by the SEC, the U.S. Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency,  Federal Reserve  and the U.K.
Financial Conduct Authority.  The company was fined 137.6 million pounds ($221.2 million)
by U.K. regulators as part of a probe into last year’s record
trading loss, the Financial Conduct Authority said on its
website.  The Justice Department and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission are among agencies still investigating the trading
loss at the CIO, a unit of the New York-based bank that was
supposed to help reduce risk and manage excess deposits.
JPMorgan said yesterday that it was notified by the CFTC that
its staff intends to recommend enforcement action.  The more than $6.2 billion in losses led to the indictment
of two former traders this week, the departure of at least four
senior managers and a blow to the reputation of Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon , 57, whose pay was cut in half.  JPMorgan restated results and its market value fell by
almost $51 billion after disclosing errant bets made by Bruno
Iksil, a trader who became known as the London Whale because his
positions were so large.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Martin-Artajo, 13-cr-00707,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Martin-Artajo, 13-cv-05677, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Insurers Agree to Audit Workplace Pension Plans in OFT Deal  U.K. insurers agreed to audit some pension plans as part of
a settlement with regulators reviewing the 275 billion-pound
($442 billion) market for defined contribution workplace
pensions.  Fees for the pension plans are too high and not always
transparent to consumers, the  Office of Fair Trading  said in a
report yesterday. The  Association of British Insurers  agreed to
conduct an immediate audit of older and high-charging contract
and bundled-trust schemes, containing about 30 billion pounds of
savings, to ensure participants understand the plans.  The regulator began an investigation into defined
contribution workplace pension plans in January.  “We agree with the OFT that it is important to review
charges to ensure they represent good value for money for
today’s employers and savers,” Otto Thoresen, the ABI’s
director general, said in a statement. “Pension providers have
agreed to an audit of all legacy and higher charging schemes to
ensure any problems can be sorted out.”  The National Association of Pension Funds, which represents
U.K. workplace pension plans and their members, said the report
didn’t go far enough to give companies more choices of pension
plans to offer their employees.  Courts  BMC Software Loses Repatriation Case in U.S. Tax Court  BMC Software Inc. faces a $12.9 million tax bill after the
U.S. Tax Court upheld a finding by the  Internal Revenue Service 
that some earnings repatriated in the mid-2000s were ineligible
for a temporarily lower  tax rate .  BMC, based in Houston, contended that accounts receivable
on its books shouldn’t be counted as debt that would reduce the
amount of money it could bring to the U.S. from foreign
affiliates at the reduced tax rate.  Judge Diane Kroupa disagreed, ruling that the IRS’s
“treatment of the accounts receivable are consistent with the
dictionary definition” and “may constitute indebtedness” for
purposes of calculating how much in earnings could be taxed at
the lower rate in effect at the time.  Ann Duhon, a spokeswoman for BMC, said she hadn’t seen the
ruling and had no immediate comment. Christine Vaughn, of Vinson
& Elkins LLP, an attorney on the case for BMC, didn’t
immediately reply to a phone message requesting comment.  The 2004 repatriation program permitted U.S. corporations
to bring home income held outside the U.S. at an effective rate
of 5.25 percent instead of the top 35 percent corporate income
tax rate.  BMC claimed $709 million in earnings qualified for the tax
holiday. The IRS ruled that $43 million was ineligible for
taxation at the lower rate because it represented a foreign
unit’s debt to BMC created by accounts receivable, according to
court filings.  The  case  is BMC Software Inc. v. IRS, 15675-11, U.S. Tax
Court (Washington).  Ex-SAC Analyst Dennis Called Uncharged Co-Conspirator by U.S.  Ron Dennis, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP analyst, is an
uncharged co-conspirator in an  insider-trading  scheme involving
SAC portfolio manager Michael Steinberg, U.S. prosecutors said.  Steinberg, the long-serving portfolio manager at the
Stamford, Connecticut-based fund charged in the government’s
probe of insider trading, was indicted by a grand jury in
Manhattan, according to documents unsealed on March 29. He’s
scheduled to go on trial Nov. 18.  The U.S. alleges Steinberg engaged in insider trading in
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  based on illicit tips provided to him
by his analyst, Jon Horvath. The former analyst, who has pleaded
guilty and is cooperating with the U.S., is scheduled to be a
witness at Steinberg’s trial.  In a memo to Steinberg’s lawyers providing details on the
alleged conspiracy, prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said Horvath and Dennis were part of a
group of six analysts who obtained and passed nonpublic
information about stocks in at least 10 other technology
companies including  Volterra Semiconductor Corp. (VLTR)  and PMCS Sierra
Inc. Some of the tips were passed to former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC analyst Jesse Tortora, according to prosecutors.
Tortora has pleaded guilty to insider trading and is cooperating
with the U.S.  Steinberg faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on the government’s filing.  The case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Cisco Officials Accused of Role in Falun Gong Monitoring  Chinese and U.S. citizens accusing  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  of
conspiring with China’s government to monitor and torture
members of Falun Gong, a religious practice, have now said
officials at the company’s headquarters in San Jose, California,
were directly involved with human rights abuses.  Cisco’s main office helped design the surveillance and
internal security network known as “Golden Shield,” according
to an amended lawsuit filed Sept. 18 in federal court in San
Jose.  The revised complaint “more directly ties” Cisco and its
San Jose headquarters to human rights abuses against Falun Gong,
the plaintiffs said in a court filing.  In their suit against Cisco, the world’s biggest networking
equipment maker, unidentified Chinese and U.S. citizens alleged
that the company has collaborated with the Chinese Communist
Party to intercept communications of Falun Gong believers, who
were arrested, detained and tortured because of their religious
beliefs. The claim was originally filed in 2011.  “Cisco continues to believe the entire case is without
merit and will file a motion to dismiss the amended complaint,”
spokeswoman Kristin Carvell said Sept. 18 in an e-mailed
statement.  The plaintiffs have recycled previous allegations to try to
overcome a Supreme Court decision that the claims can’t be
brought in U.S. courts, Carvell said.  The case is Doe I v. Cisco Systems Inc., 11-cv-02449, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  Interviews  Underfunded CFTC Hasn’t Grown Much in 20 Years, Gensler Says  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is
underfunded and needs more money to be an effective regulator,
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said.  The agency is “only slightly larger” than it was 20 years
ago, he said. Gensler made the remarks at a conference yesterday
in London.  “We didn’t oversee swaps 20 years ago, we didn’t have
electronic trading,” Gensler said. “It’s critical for the
public’s confidence in a market that a regulator is well-funded.”  Comings and Goings  ASX Board Members Resign After SEC Action Against Hedge Fund  Shane Finemore and Russell Aboud resigned from the board of
 ASX Ltd. (ASX)  after their hedge fund, Manikay Partners LLC, agreed to
settle claims of improperly buying shares of companies they had
bet against.  Aboud said by phone yesterday that he told ASX Chairman
Rick Holliday Smith he would resign. New York-based Manikay
agreed to pay $2.6 million to settle the action.  The hedge fund was sanctioned by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission as part of an enforcement against 23 firms,
the agency said in a  statement  Sept. 17. Aboud, a member of the
ASX board, is chairman of the fund.  He said while he doesn’t believe there are governance
issues at ASX, “even a perception of an issue has the ability
to damage” the company. Therefore, resigning was the right
thing to do, he said. Aboud said the action stemmed from a
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  share sale in 2009.  ASX board member Finemore is the managing partner of
Manikay. Finemore didn’t respond to e-mailed requests for
comment. The company made no admission of guilt.  ASX confirmed the two resignations in a statement.  The firms cited in the cases allegedly bought shares from
an underwriter, broker or dealer participating in a share sale
after having sold short the same security during the restricted
period, according to the SEC statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  