-- Kremlin Aide Sees Belarus Releasing Uralkali CEO to Russia Soon
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-09-20T11:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/kremlin-aide-sees-belarus-releasing-uralkali-ceo-to-russia-soon.html
OAO Uralkali Chief Executive
Officer Vladislav Baumgertner probably will be handed over to
 Russia  soon, after almost a month in a Belarus KGB prison,
according to the Kremlin.  “Yesterday’s remarks by the Belarusian president allow us
to reckon that the issue will be settled in the very near
future,” Kremlin foreign-policy aide  Yuri Ushakov  told
reporters today in Moscow.  Baumgertner’s ordeal stems from his July decision to end a
a trading joint venture between Uralkali, the world’s biggest
potash producer, and Belarus’s Belaruskali, roiling the $20
billion market. Export volumes of the crop nutrient have been
“paralyzed,” according to Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
Chief Financial Officer Wayne Brownlee.  Belarus may hand Baumgertner over to Russian investigators,
state-owned Belta news agency said yesterday, citing Lukashenko
at a meeting with officials in the capital, Minsk.  The Uralkali CEO was detained at the Minsk airport on Aug.
26 after talks at Belarus Prime Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich’s
invitation. The executive has been held since then in a prison
nicknamed Amerikanka, or “the American,” on charges of abuse
of office as chairman of Belarusian Potash Co., the joint trader
that once controlled about 40 percent of global potash exports.  Prosecutors from the two former Soviet republics have
discussed options for Baumgertner’s release, Interfax said
yesterday, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
situation. One possibility is releasing him on $100 million
bail, the news service reported.  Baumgertner’s lawyers haven’t received any official
proposals from Belarus about changing the terms of his
detention, Alexey Basistov, Moscow-based attorney for CEO, said
by e-mail late yesterday.  Uralkali rose 0.8 percent to 180.78 rubles by 3:45 p.m. in
Moscow, after losing 1.8 percent yesterday.  For Related News and Information:
Kerimov Sellout From Uralkali Seen Failing to Boost Potash Price  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  