-- Natural Gas Futures Drop in Survey as U.S. Summer Demand Tapers
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-09-20T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/natural-gas-futures-drop-in-survey-as-u-s-summer-demand-tapers.html
Natural gas futures may fall next
week as mild weather reduces demand for the power-plant fuel.  Seven of 14 analysts, or 50 percent, predicted that futures
will decline on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through Sept.
27. Four, or 29 percent, said gas will advance and three
predicted prices will stay the same. Last week, 50 percent of
participants said gas would drop.  The East Coast will have seasonal temperatures next week
while the central U.S. is above normal, said Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . Gas inventories last week fell
below year-earlier levels for the first time since April after a
surge of heat.  “For the next three to four weeks inventories are going to
be relatively robust,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research
with IAF Advisors in Houston. “After that, you are going to see
injections drop off very, very quickly.”  Natural gas futures rose 4.3 cents, or 1.2 percent, to
$3.72 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the Nymex. The futures are up 11 percent
this year.  The high temperature in  Boston  on Sept. 24 may be 64
degrees Fahrenheit (18 Celsius), 6 below normal, and Washington
may be 2 lower than average at 74, said  AccuWeather Inc.  in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania . Readings from the East Coast to the
Midwest topped the 90s last week.  Power producers account for 32 percent of U.S. gas demand,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. inventories increased by 46 billion cubic feet to
3.299 trillion cubic feet in the week ended Sept. 13, the
 smallest gain  ever for that time of the year based on EIA
records going back to 1994.  Analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg predicted a gain of 55 billion. The supply increase a
year earlier was 61 billion and the five-year average increase
for the period was 74 billion.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  4      7      3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  