-- N.Z. Targets About NZ$2 Billion From Meridian in Record IPO
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-09-20T04:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/new-zealand-targets-about-nz-2-billion-from-meridian-share-sale.html
The New Zealand government will
seek to raise about NZ$2 billion ($1.7 billion) from the sale of
a 49 percent stake in Meridian Energy Ltd. by October, in the
country’s largest initial public offering.  The offer price for shares in New Zealand’s biggest power
company will be in a range of NZ$1.50 to NZ$1.80, according to a
prospectus published today in Wellington. Shares will be sold as
installment receipts, with NZ$1 to be paid upfront and the
balance paid 18 months later. New Zealand applicants will pay no
more than NZ$1.60 a share.  The IPO is the second in a government asset-sales program
that aims to raise about NZ$5 billion by the end of 2014. The
first of the companies sold this year, Mighty River Power Ltd.,
is trading below its IPO price on concern that a possible change
of government next year may trigger increased industry
regulation and that the possible closure of the nation’s only
aluminum smelter in 2017 may depress wholesale power prices.  “You can obtain a fair value for the company within that
range,” said Rickey Ward, an Auckland-based portfolio manager
at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd. “The same risks that
existed for Mighty River ironically still exist today for this
company.”  Mighty River shares rose 3 cents to NZ$2.23 at 3:15 p.m. in
Wellington. They were sold in May at NZ$2.50 apiece.  Sweeter Yield  The government has sweetened the Meridian float to increase
the initial yield and boost demand, and the price range
“reflects of course on some of the experience of the Mighty
River price,” Finance Minister Bill English told reporters
today. “The offer is structured to be attractive to retail
investors. We feel pretty confident about the demand for this
float.”  Meridian is forecasting a dividend of 10.5 cents a share in
the year ending June 30, 2014, and 11.5 cents a share the
following year, according to the prospectus.  The gross yield based on the NZ$1 initial payment is 13.4
percent over the first 12 months. The gross yield based on the
offer price range is 7.4 percent to 8.9 percent in 2013-14 and
8.2 percent to 9.8 percent a year later.  Gross proceeds from the first installment would be NZ$1.26
billion assuming the full 49 percent stake is sold, the
government said today. Second installment proceeds will be
determined by the final price set by institutional bidders and a
mix of funds and small investors. That would be about NZ$755
million, assuming a final price of NZ$1.60.  The final price will be announced Oct. 23 and Meridian is
scheduled to begin trading on the New Zealand and Australian
stock exchanges on Oct. 29.  ‘Solid Company’  Meridian isn’t an Apple Inc. or a Microsoft Corp., Meridian
Chief Executive Officer Mark Binns said in an interview before
the announcement. “No one should be perceiving this as a stock
that’s going to double or triple in value inside a couple of
years. But we’re a solid company performing well and generating
very solid cashflows, which we would foresee translating into
good dividend yields.”  Meridian owns seven hydro-electric dams and four windfarms
in New Zealand, generating about 30 percent of the country’s
electricity needs. It has a wind installation in  Australia  and
another under construction. It’s selling a solar plant in
 California .  With electricity supply in New Zealand outstripping demand,
“we’re not going out there trying to sell a growth story,”
said Binns, who is scheduling meetings with investors in New
Zealand and overseas to promote the IPO.  Two Risks  The company today forecast operating earnings of NZ$548.4
million for the year through June, down 6.2 percent from a year
earlier.  One of the two risks looming for New Zealand power
generators is the possible closure of the Rio Tinto Group and
 Sumitomo Corp (8053) .-owned Tiwai Point aluminum smelter, Meridian’s
biggest customer and the buyer of about 40 percent of its
electricity.  The owners’ commitment to the smelter expires in January
2017, and the government had to contribute NZ$30 million to
secure the recently renegotiated contract.  The loss of such a big customer would likely force some
less efficient generators out of the market, Binns said. Still,
Meridian owns Manapouri, “New Zealand’s most efficient power
station,” so “in relative terms we don’t imagine we’d be the
worst off,” he said.  Opposition Parties  The other risk is the prospect of revised market regulation
should the opposition Labour and the Green Parties win the next
election, slated for late 2014.  The opposition parties have said they would create a state
agency to buy wholesale electricity at a regulated price and
split the retail and generation units of existing utilities.  The current government is selling assets to generate cash
for investment in infrastructure and reduce debt. It has said it
will sell shares in Genesis Energy Ltd. in the first half of
next year, while the sale of shares in Air New Zealand Ltd. will
occur before the election.  Meridian’s share offer will be open from Sept. 30 and close
on Oct. 18.  The lead managers for the sale are Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Macquarie Group Ltd. and a partnership of Deutsche Bank AG
and Craigs Investment Partners. The government has also named
ASB Bank Ltd., ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. and Forsyth Barr to a
retail syndicate to help market Meridian shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  