-- New IPhone’s Fingerprint Privacy Questioned by Senator
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-09-20T18:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/new-iphone-s-fingerprint-privacy-questioned-by-senator.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s use of fingerprint
identification with the iPhone 5S that went on sale today raises
substantial privacy questions for the company and for phone
users, a U.S. senator said.  “If hackers get a hold of your thumbprint, they could use
it to identify and impersonate you for the rest of your life,”
Senator  Al Franken , a Minnesota Democrat, said in a letter
yesterday to Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook .  Apple’s decision to use the fingerprint reader, Touch ID,
will “surely pave the way for its peers and smaller competitors
to adopt biometric technology with varying protections for
privacy,” Franken said in the letter distributed by e-mail.  Teresa Brewer, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment. Last
week Brewer in an e-mail said fingerprint information is
encrypted and stored securely inside the iPhone and never
retained on Apple servers.  Franken is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s
Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law. In his letter
he asked more than a dozen questions including if it’s possible
to extract fingerprint data from an iPhone, and whether Apple
can assure users it will never share their fingerprint files
with any government, including the U.S.  National-Security Data  Franken asked Cook whether fingerprint data will be subject
to U.S. national-security data requests for “subscriber
information” or “electronic communication transactional
records.”  Introduction of the new iPhone model coincides with a rise
in cybercrime and revelations that the U.S. National Security
Agency has intercepted Internet communications and cracked
encryption codes on devices including the iPhone.  The NSA has received user data from companies including
Apple under a program known as Prism, according to documents
released by former government contractor Edward Snowden, who is
now in  Russia  under temporary asylum. Apple and other technology
companies in a July letter to President  Barack Obama  and
congressional leaders asked to be allowed to report statistics
about requests from intelligence agencies.  Long lines of consumers formed at Apple retail stores today
as the phones made their debut in the company’s biggest move
this year to stoke growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  