-- New York Fed to Test Fixed-Rate Reverse Repos as Tool for Exit
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-20T14:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/new-york-fed-to-test-fixed-rate-reverse-repos-as-tool-for-exit.html
The  Federal Reserve  Bank of New
York will begin testing an overnight fixed-rate reverse
repurchase facility as soon as next week as an additional tool
to aid policy makers when they eventually seek to raise interest
 rates  and tighten monetary policy.  “This exercise may be somewhat larger in size than past
operational exercises and will be ongoing for at least a period
of weeks to gain operational experience with larger
transactional flows and to provide additional information about
how such operations might improve  interest rate  control
regardless of the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet,”
the New York Fed said in a  statement  today.  The tests may begin as soon as Sept. 23 and may extend
through Jan. 29, the New York Fed said.  Fed staff members presented officials the possibility of
the tool at the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s meeting in July,
minutes from the gathering showed. Such a system would allow the
FOMC to offer an overnight, risk-free  instrument  to a “wide
range of market participants,” and possibly improve its ability
to keep short-term rates at desired levels, the minutes said.  Fed policy makers, while still buying  bonds  to support the
economy, have also over the last few years been developing
methods to eventually help withdraw their record monetary
accommodation. Along with raising the overnight bank lending
rate, Fed officials have said they may use tools including
reverse repos to withdraw or neutralize cash in the banking
system.  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to its counterparties.  The FOMC is still adding to its stimulus and said Sept. 18
it will continue buying bonds at a pace of $85 billion per
month. The Fed’s balance sheet has swelled to a record $3.72
trillion through three rounds of asset purchases.  To contact the reporters; on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  