-- Norway Drops ‘Moon Landing’ as Mongstad Carbon Capture Scrapped
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-09-20T14:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/norway-drops-moon-landing-as-mongstad-carbon-capture-scrapped.html
Norway  dropped plans for a full-scale carbon capture plant at its Mongstad refinery after cost
overruns and delays, ending a project that was dubbed as the
country’s “moon landing” by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg.  The full-scale project will be halted, Oil and Energy
Ministry Ola Borten Moe said today at a briefing in Oslo. The
government will increase spending on a carbon test center at the
plant by 400 million kroner ($68 million) and will seek to build
a full-scale plant in another location, he said.  “I fear that Mongstad would have been a project where we
demonstrated that we’re willing to spend a lot of money on one
project -- not that this is an example to follow for the rest of
the world,” he said.  Stoltenberg, who has likened the project to the U.S. effort
in the 1960s of putting a man on the moon, said in 2006 it would
create the world’s biggest venture for full-scale carbon capture
and spur technology that may become an important export for
Norway. The premier’s coalition was ousted in the Sept. 9
general election and he will resign next month.  “This is some of the worst form of incompetence I’ve seen
from the government,” Frederic Hauge, head of environmental
group Bellona, said in an interview. “This will stand as the
symbol of this government’s total failure on climate policy.”  The effort was criticized this week by the nation’s Auditor
General, which said the test center project was 1.7 billion
kroner over budget, according to a statement on Sept. 17. In
total, the government said it has spent about 7.2 billion kroner
on carbon capture, including 1.2 billion kroner on the full
scale project.  Complexity Underestimated  “The investigation shows that the complexity of
implementing CCS was underestimated in 2006,” the auditor said.
 “Among other things, it has proven very difficult to plan and
build capture facilities on a large scale near a refinery and
heat and power plant in operation. This has entailed high costs
and a longer implementation period.”  The center was part of a  Statoil ASA (STL)  project to build a
power plant at its Mongstad refinery, approved by the government
in 2006. The company was given permission to emit carbon dioxide
from the plant between 2010 and 2014, when a full-scale carbon
capture and storage system had to be in place.  Utilities and energy companies are seeking ways to extract
carbon dioxide from emissions and store it underground rather
than release it into the air. Norway, western Europe’s biggest
oil producer, has wanted to lead the way in such methods.  The project has been dogged by delays. Then Oil and Energy
Minister Terje Riis-Johansen also in 2010 fended off a vote of
no confidence as the country’s four opposition parties said the
government withheld information that the project was delayed
until after the September 2009 election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  