-- Novo Nordisk Hemophilia-A Treatment Wins EU Panel Backing
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-09-20T10:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/novo-nordisk-hemophilia-a-treatment-wins-eu-panel-backing.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  won backing from a
European Union advisory panel for a hemophilia A medicine, a
step forward in the Danish company’s plan to expand treatment
offerings for the blood-clotting disorder.  Turoctocog alfa was recommended by the  European Medicines
Agency’s  Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, Novo
Nordisk said in an e-mailed statement today. The European
Commission, the EU’s executive arm, usually follows the panel’s
recommendation. The treatment, to be sold under the brand name
NovoEight, is also under review in the U.S.  Novo, the world’s largest insulin maker, is seeking to
build up its hemophilia product offering, in a bid to diversify
from its main diabetes business. The Bagsvaerd-based company,
which already sells the hemophilia therapy NovoSeven and is
developing other drugs in the area, faced a setback earlier this
year when the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  rejected the
experimental insulin Tresiba.  Turoctocog alfa “won’t be a game changer for Novo,”
Philippe Lanone, an analyst at Natixis Securities in Paris, said
in a telephone interview today. “It’s on the diabetes front
that investors are awaiting the company.”  Diabetes treatments accounted for about 78 percent of
Novo’s first-half revenue. NovoSeven generated 11 percent.  Hemophilia is an inherited blood disorder caused by a low
levels or absence of a protein essential for blood-clotting.
Approximately one in every 5,000 men are born with hemophilia A,
 according to Novo Nordisk . That means they’re deficient in
producing factor VIII protein. Another disorder, Hemophilia B,
is less common. Turoctocog alfa, a recombinant factor VIII, may
garner 1.5 billion kroner ($272 million) in sales by 2023,
according to Lanone’s estimates.  Novo Nordisk  was unchanged  at 958.5 kroner as of 12:32 p.m.
in Copenhagen trading. The stock has gained 6.7 percent this
year, including reinvested dividends, lagging behind a 21
percent gain in the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  