-- NYC Private Schools Group Recommends Dropping Admissions Test
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-09-20T18:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/nyc-private-schools-group-recommends-dropping-admissions-test.html
New York City private schools are
considering doing away with a test they have used for years for
kids seeking admission to kindergarten and first grade.  The  Independent Schools Admissions Association of Greater
New York  is recommending eliminating the test, commonly known
as the ERB, because it is “not necessarily effective in making 
admissions decisions,” according to a Sept. 18 letter to its 
members.  The association expressed concern about the stress the test
has on children and their parents, and that many families buy
preparation materials and hire tutors. It cited research showing
high-stakes testing of young children offers a narrow assessment
of their cognitive ability and may not be predictive of future 
academic success. The recommendation mirrors a movement in 
higher education, where some colleges say standardized tests in 
admissions favor affluent families who can pay for test prep.  “It’s quite a significant step,” said Bob Schaeffer, a
spokesman for  FairTest , a Boston-based nonprofit group critical
of standardized testing. “There is a growing recognition among
selective private institutions that admission testing undermines
their mission by putting an emphasis on skills that can be
taught through test prep.”  While the majority of colleges in the U.S. require the SAT
or ACT college entrance exam, some schools don’t, including
Bowdoin College in  Maine , Wake Forest University in North
Carolina and Pitzer College in  California .  Not Effective  The 140 member schools in the association, known as
ISAAGNY, include Trinity School, Ethical Culture Fieldston
School, Dalton School and Friends Seminary, according to the
group’s  website . They have been using the Wechsler Preschool and
Primary Scale of Intelligence test as a tool in kindergarten and
first-grade admissions.  “While ISAAGNY believes that the WPPSI is extremely useful
for a variety of purposes, such as identifying children with
special needs, many within our community feel that the WPPSI is
not necessarily effective in making admissions decisions -- a
purpose for which it was not designed,” Patricia Hayot, leader
of the group’s board, wrote in the letter.  In a phone interview today, Hayot, who is also head of the
Chapin School, said the test created a lot of anxiety.  “We’re doing the right thing for children and their
families,” she said.  The test, developed by London-based education publishing
company  Pearson Plc (PSON) , is administered by the nonprofit
 Educational Records Bureau , or ERB, in New York.  Contract Expiring  The association’s contract with ERB expires in March and
Hayot said it won’t be renewed. The two groups have been
affiliated since  1966 , according to ERB’s website. In her
letter, Hayot said the recommendation doesn’t preclude
individual schools from working with the ERB should they wish to
continue using the test.  Elizabeth Mangas, ERB’s vice president of admission
testing, said the group is willing to work with the association
to select an instrument that best meets its needs.  “We’re test agnostic,” Mangas said in an interview. “The
complete elimination could create significant burden on the
schools and parents and children. We believe an objective
assessment is valuable, particularly at this age range.”  In the 2012-2103 admissions season, 3,173 students took the
test, according to ERB, down from 3,398 a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 