-- NYSE Wins Most Business Since ’09 as Markets Handle Volume Surge
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/nyse-wins-highest-market-share-since-2009-amid-index-changes.html
The New York Stock Exchange won its
biggest share of U.S. equity volume in almost four years amid
changes to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  as well as the expiration of derivatives.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s market captured 23 percent of volume
yesterday, the most since reaching 25 percent on Dec. 18, 2009,
and topping the peak of 22 percent set a year ago, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  While total U.S.  volume  of 9.1 billion shares was only the
highest in less than three months, the Big Board benefited
disproportionately from the quarterly reweighting of the  S&P
500 , three Dow membership changes, and the expiration of options
and futures. Mutual funds that mimic the S&P 500 and Dow tend to
shift orders to the NYSE during index changes to participate in
the exchange’s end-of-day auction, which sets closing prices for
some of the world’s biggest companies.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Visa Inc. (V)  and  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s
entrance to the Dow took effect after the close yesterday, the
biggest adjustment to the 30-company measure since 2004. The
NYSE is the listing venue for all three stocks.  No U.S. exchange operators reported technical problems
yesterday amid the increase in volume. Recent exchange
breakdowns, including Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s three-hour halt
last month and NYSE Euronext’s inability to run closing auctions
for some companies in November, have prompted regulators to
press markets to collaborate on improving their infrastructure.  ‘Non-Event’  Both NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX, which run the home
markets for most U.S. companies, had both set up conference call
lines yesterday for customers to discuss any potential issues.  “It was a big rebalance day; there was much made of that,
and it was telegraphed by the markets pretty well,”  Michael Cuggino , who manages $12 billion at Permanent Portfolio Family
of Funds Inc. in  San Francisco , said by phone yesterday. “Today
was a non-event.”  NYSE’s dominance over markets has dwindled in the past
decade as U.S. regulatory changes and improved technology
prompted American equity trading to fragment across more than 50
venues. Combined daily market share for its three U.S. exchanges
has averaged 23 percent in 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yesterday, the figure jumped to 32 percent, topping the
31.5 percent share of trading at dark pools and other off-exchange venues, the data show. It was the first time since
Sept. 21, 2012, that NYSE Euronext beat the off-exchange total.  Executives from NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX and Bats Global
Markets Inc. met in  Washington  earlier this year with lawmakers
and the SEC to discuss a rule that could divert more orders to
exchanges rather than trading in dark pools or within a broker’s
inventory. Dark pools, which don’t publish bids or offers on
shares, were set up to allow large investors to trade big blocks
without having news of their orders move the price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in Chicago at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  