-- O’Connor Is Suspended by Wallabies Following Incident at Airport
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-20T09:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/o-connor-is-stood-down-by-wallabies-after-incident-at-airport.html
Australia  winger  James O’Connor  was
suspended indefinitely from the national team for failing to
meet the behavioral standards of the Wallabies, the Australian
Rugby Union said.  “We won’t be forced into making any decisions around his
return until I’m satisfied that he can once again contribute
positively to what we are trying to achieve as a group,”
Australia coach Ewen McKenzie said in an e-mailed statement.  The ARU said it’s continuing to investigate an alleged
incident involving O’Connor at Perth International Airport on
Sept. 15. O’Connor, 23, was escorted out of a terminal by police
after being barred from a flight to Bali because he was
intoxicated, the Sydney Morning Herald said. O’Connor wasn’t
immediately available for comment, an ARU spokesman said.  O’Connor, who is in negotiations to re-sign with the ARU
and Western Force Super Rugby team after being released by the
Melbourne Rebels in July, will be replaced by Peter Betham in
Australia’s 28-man squad for its Rugby Championship games in
 South Africa  and  Argentina .  O’Connor told the ARU that he had been involved in a
dispute over seating arrangements at the gate, which led to him
and his girlfriend being taken back through customs to rebook on
a later flight, Sydney’s  Daily Telegraph  reported yesterday.  McKenzie said at a news conference today that O’Connor, who
made his Australia debut in 2008 at age 18 and has played 44
Tests, had “put his hand up” and said his behavior wasn’t
acceptable.  Previous Misdemeanors  The airport incident, which followed Australia’s win
against Argentina in Perth the previous day, came two weeks
after O’Connor pledged to improve his behavior following a
series of disciplinary issues.  In 2011, he was suspended for a Test match for sleeping
through a World Cup squad announcement and was reprimanded in
June after being photographed in a fast-food restaurant at 4
a.m. three days before the second Test against the British and
Irish Lions. A week later he missed the team bus for a training
session in the leadup to the final game against the Lions.  “We’re not not getting the right type of behavior from
him,” added McKenzie, who took over from Robbie Deans as
Wallabies coach July 9. “There’s no doubt since I met with him
prior to the start of the season he’s made incremental
improvements, but he let himself down on the weekend. From a
behavioral perspective it wasn’t acceptable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  