-- Obama Car Czar Back in Detroit Balancing Union, Corporate
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-09-20T16:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/obama-car-czar-back-in-detroit-balancing-union-corporate.html
Ron Bloom  is back in Detroit two
years after helping run President  Barack Obama ’s  auto-industry 
team. This time, he took one role defending the city’s workers
and another that puts him at odds with carmaker employees.  Bloom, now a  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  vice chairman, was hired by  Fiat
SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  to wrest
concessions from a union health care fund that will help finance
Chrysler’s takeover, according to people familiar with the
matter. At the same time, Bloom is advising Detroit retirees
fighting benefit cuts in the city’s $18 billion bankruptcy.  The unrelated jobs mean Bloom, 58, who helped save Chrysler
in 2009 by taking it to bankruptcy and turning it over to Fiat,
will reunite with an old corporate friend and renew his populist
stand for the underdog. He’s had experience in both arenas. The
banker with a  Harvard Business School  degree worked with
companies on hundreds of bankruptcies and also spent 13 years
advising the United Steelworkers union president.  “Bloom plays a unique role,” said  Harley Shaiken , a labor
professor at the  University of California , Berkeley. “You may
not like what he says, but you can count on it and he
understands the dynamics of both sides.”  As a boy, Bloom spent summers at Habonim camps, Jewish
youth programs modeled on Israel’s kibbutzes that stressed the
value of manual labor and social justice. As a teen he boycotted
green grapes in support of Cesar Chavez, the farmworkers’ union
leader.  ‘Worker Capitalism’  After Harvard Business School he landed on  Wall Street . He
helped industrialist  Wilbur Ross  create International Steel
Group Inc. Even in his earlier stint  at Lazard, Bloom embraced
“worker capitalism,” investment banker  Steven Rattner  said in
a 2010 interview. Rattner recruited Bloom to be his deputy as
Obama’s auto-bailout czar and Bloom succeeded him when he left.  Bloom will assist the Fiat CEO in trying to strike a deal
with the United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust, the
only other shareholder in Chrysler, according to people familiar
with the talks. Marchionne needs an agreement to complete his
takeover of the U.S. auto manufacturer.  “If he’s being paid by Sergio, he’s going to try to defend
his interests but I suspect he will do it in a way that
recognizes the need for the other side and in a way that is
candid and both sides can count on,” Shaiken said. “Those are
valuable assets in any negotiation.”  Industry Ties  Bloom’s new mandates reflect his longstanding ties to the
auto industry and place him on opposite sides of the table from
officials he worked with in an earlier era.  The Detroit bankruptcy role pits Bloom against Detroit
Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr, one of the lawyers for Chrysler and
Marchionne when Bloom helped lead the $80 billion bailout that
saved General Motors Co. and Chrysler in 2009. Andrew Yearley,
who negotiated opposite Bloom for the UAW during the Chrysler
bankruptcy, now will be his partner in Detroit.  Bloom and Yearley will provide financial advice to the
committee representing Detroit retirees in the bankruptcy case.  Judi Mackey, a Lazard spokesman, confirmed the Detroit
role. She declined to comment on the Fiat position.  At Fiat, Marchionne, 61, has spent the past four years
seeking to unify the companies so they can better compete with
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , GM and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  A fully integrated
automaker would feature the mass-market Fiat, Chrysler, Jeep and
Dodge brands, along with high-end Maserati and Ferrari cars.  Valuation Dispute  Marchionne first must reach a deal that resolves a
valuation dispute with the trust, known as a voluntary employee
beneficiary association. The U.S. carmaker may file initial
public offering documents this month with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission to list a 16.6 percent stake. The trust,
which owns 41.5 percent of Chrysler, has the legal right to
initiate the sale under the terms of its holding.  Bloom worked closely with Marchionne in 2009 when the Fiat
CEO negotiated with the U.S. Treasury to acquire a controlling
stake in Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler. A representative
at Turin, Italy-based Fiat declined to comment.  Bloom has been working with Marchionne for months and is
helping him understand the priorities of the UAW and the health-care trust, one of the people said. Because of his longstanding
ties to labor, Bloom has also served as a backdoor channel to
the UAW, the person said.  IPO Plan  Marchionne’s ultimate goal is to use the IPO process to set
a market value for the trust’s holding and force the labor group
back to the bargaining table, people familiar with the matter
said earlier this month. The trust has been holding out on
selling its Chrysler stake, seeking at least $1 billion more
than Fiat wants to pay. The two sides are in court over the
value of the initial shares that Fiat has options to buy.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. will be the lead underwriter of the
offering, said a person with knowledge of the plan. The person
asked not to be identified because the preparations are private.  Tasha Pelio, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to comment.  In Detroit, Bloom will need to argue against trimming
benefits. The pensioners have said the Michigan Constitution
protects the unfunded benefits from proposed cuts of as much as
90 percent in the $18 billion bankruptcy. Orr and his boss,
Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , have countered that under U.S.
bankruptcy law the police, fire and city retirees are unsecured
creditors, like bondholders, and aren’t exempt from potential
cuts.  Bill Nowling, a spokesman for Orr, had no comment.  Bloom rejoined Lazard in February 2012 after resigning in
August 2011 from a White House post advising Obama on
manufacturing policy. Orr, 55, who worked on the Chrysler
restructuring, left the  law firm  Jones Day in March to take the
job overseeing Snyder’s takeover of Detroit.  Growing Industry  The auto bailout that Bloom helped lead and Orr advised on
has produced a U.S. car industry with sales headed for a fourth
straight year of annual increases. Chrysler has reported 41
straight months of gains, and  GM (GM)  has said it expects a modest
improvement over its $6.19 billion in  earnings  in 2012 as it
heads for its fourth consecutive annual profit. Next year, U.S.
auto sales are projected to exceed 16 million for the first time
since 2007.  Bloom became Obama’s top manufacturing adviser after the
auto bailouts. Before joining the bailout team in 2009, Bloom
was an adviser to the United Steelworkers union and a
manufacturing specialist at Hamilton, Bermuda-based Lazard.  During the auto bailouts, Bloom argued that pensions for
UAW members deserved protection even as bondholders and banks
faced cuts because the workers were necessary to build cars and
trucks once the companies exited court protection. A bankruptcy
judge supported that position.  Detroit’s retired public workers will be represented by
nine people, including at least two union officials, on a panel
that may negotiate with the city, a U.S. trustee monitoring the
bankruptcy decided last month.  Detroit Retirees  Orr said in a July interview that a retiree committee is
needed because, unlike union members or bond investors, the
pensioners don’t have a strong organization backing them.  Detroit retirees joined with unions earlier this month in
claiming the bankruptcy law that lets municipalities seek court
protection from creditors violates the U.S. Constitution.  The groups, which want the bankruptcy case thrown out in a
hearing next month, also point to a line in the Michigan
Constitution that says public-worker pensions are a contractual
right that cannot be undone.  The retirees argue that Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code can’t trump a state constitution. The groups asked U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to find either that the
bankruptcy filing doesn’t meet the tests set out in Chapter 9 or
that Chapter 9 itself violates the U.S. Constitution because it
interferes with Michigan’s sovereignty.  Business Cases  In business cases, where Orr has more experience, federal
courts have routinely upheld the power of bankruptcy judges to
impair or cancel contractual rights, even those protected by
state laws.  Before joining  Jones Day , Orr held several U.S. government
jobs, including director of the Justice Department unit that
oversees bankruptcy cases and trustees, according to the law
firm.  As an adviser to the United Steelworkers for 13 years, and
before that as a manufacturing specialist at Lazard and his own
boutique investment firm, Bloom participated in more than 100
bankruptcies and restructurings, trying to balance the realities
of business with the need for jobs, he said in a 2010 interview.  Marchionne praised Bloom in a 2011 interview for working
around the clock to complete the deal on Chrysler in 2009,
saying he once had a conversation with the banker on the steps
of the U.S. Treasury building during a cigarette break.  “I asked him: what the hell are you doing here?”
Marchionne said at the time. Bloom “turned around and he said,
‘when I die, I want to be able to put on the tombstone: he made
the difference.’”  The Detroit case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  