-- Obama Seeing Rohani at UN Holds Promise Tinged With Risks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-09-21T00:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/obama-rohani-handshake-at-un-holds-promise-amid-danger.html
The official word at the White
House is there’s no telling whether President  Barack Obama  and
Iranian President Hassan Rohani might end up chatting in a
hallway or meeting room at next week’s  United Nations  gathering
in New York.  “I can’t predict every interaction that might take
place,”  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national security adviser,
told reporters on a conference call yesterday. “It’s possible
that there could be some interaction at different levels, but
there’s simply none planned at this moment.”  Even a handshake between Obama and Rohani during the
opening week of the UN General Assembly would be a symbolic step
beyond the hostility and distrust that have infused three
decades of U.S.- Iran  relations. It also would present risks and
rewards for both sides.  “For the first time I think in 33 years since the Iranian
revolution, my sense is that there are positive signs,” Haleh Esfandiari, director of the  Middle East  Program at the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars, said in an interview.
“But it is hard for me to believe that suddenly you have Rohani
and Obama sitting and having a cup of coffee in the cafeteria.”  It would be the first direct encounter between the two
nations’ leaders since relations ruptured during the 1979
Iranian revolution and U.S. embassy hostage crisis. A
breakthrough in the dispute over  Iran’s nuclear program  and
U.S.-backed economic sanctions is possible because of the new
Iranian leader’s campaign to make over Iran’s image, marked by
moves including the release of political prisoners and an
exchange of letters with Obama.  ‘Not Sufficient’  “There have been some positive developments,” Rhodes
said. “But those are clearly not sufficient to meet the
concerns of the international community with regards to the
nuclear program.”  Conciliatory signals continued to be sent from Tehran.
Rohani declared the end of “zero-sum” politics and “blood
feuds” in an opinion piece published Sept. 19 by the  Washington 
Post, as he urged world leaders “to seize the opportunity” of
his election.  While the White House has declined to make public Obama’s
letter to Rohani, it was portrayed yesterday by a prominent
political analyst in Tehran as showing the American president is
“keen for negotiations to be held to resolve the nuclear
issue.”  “Obama asked for the removal of ambiguities and said
sanctions can be lifted as a result,” Amir Mohebian said
yesterday in a phone interview, while acknowledging he hadn’t
read the letter himself.  ‘Extend a Hand’  An encounter at the UN would fulfill Obama’s promises in
his first presidential campaign and inaugural address to
“extend a hand” to foes who are willing to “unclench your
fist.” Aaron  David Miller , who was a Middle East adviser in
several U.S. administrations, said he sees no downside or
domestic political risk to Obama from simply greeting Rohani.  A handshake “is about gestures -- about making a point,
not about making a difference,” Miller, a vice president at the
Wilson Center in Washington, said in an interview. “It’s an
inevitable and necessary first step in a process of testing
intentions.”  Dennis Ross , Obama’s former chief adviser on Iran, said
Rohani’s willingness to abandon anti-U.S. rhetoric and engage a
country demonized by contemporary Iran’s revolutionary founders
as “the Great Satan” is compelling because he appears to have
the backing of Iran’s supreme leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei .  That’s a sign the economic price being imposed for Iran’s
nuclear activities “is real and the Iranian leadership knows it
must find a way reduce it” by negotiating a deal to lift
sanctions, Ross said in an interview.  Political Dangers  Negotiations beyond a handshake would hold political
dangers for both presidents.  For Rohani, who took office last month, the push for
moderation may be a limited-time experiment if it fails to
produce an easing of the sanctions that are crippling Iran’s
performance and is perceived as a failure by Khamenei and the
elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps that controls much of
Iran’s  economy .  “A handshake with the Great Satan’s president would be
reasonably popular on the streets, but I suspect many Iranian
political figures -- even beyond the hard-liners -- would wonder
what Rohani received in return,” said Suzanne Maloney, an Iran
specialist at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.  ‘Been Burned’  Previous Iranian leaders who sought to improve relations
with their U.S. counterparts came away with little to show for
their efforts, said Hooshang Amirahmadi, president of the
American Iranian Council, a Princeton, New Jersey-based group
that promotes better relations between the two countries.  “Iranian presidents who have reached out to the U.S. have
been burned,” Amirahmadi said. “Rohani has put his trust in
Obama doing the right thing by him, and if he cannot get the
sanctions lifted he’ll face a backlash at home.”  Obama is already being portrayed by Republican lawmakers as
vacillating on whether to strike  Syria  for using nerve gas on
civilians and as being upstaged by Russian President  Vladimir Putin  through Russia’s initiative for Bashar al-Assad to hand
over his chemical arsenal.  ‘Open-Ended’ Process  “The risk is we go into a process that is open-ended and
doesn’t produce results,” said Alireza Nader, a policy analyst
at the Rand Corp. who studies Iran. “Then I think the
administration is going to face increased pressure to consider
the military option if there’s not some movement in the next few
months. The next few months are very important.”  While Iran says its nuclear program is solely for civilian
use, the U.S. and allies say they suspect it’s covertly seeking
the capacity to produce nuclear weapons. Obama, who has backed
an array of economic sanctions to pressure Iran, hasn’t ruled
out using military force if that fails.  Talks with Iran that don’t succeed in curbing its nuclear
program would provoke criticism from U.S. allies in the Middle
East.  “There’s a sense that Obama is timorous, uncertain, inept,
indecisive,” said Robert Lieber, a professor of government and
international affairs at  Georgetown University  in Washington.
“If he doesn’t handle this well, this could reinforce that.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who is due to
speak at the UN on Sept. 30 and meet with Obama at the White
House that day, has already portrayed Rohani’s moderate tone as
cover to continue efforts to develop a nuclear bomb.  ‘Deceitful Words’  “We shouldn’t blindly accept the deceitful words of the
Iranian president,” Netanyahu’s office said Sept. 19 in a
statement. “The Iranians are using spin in the media in order
to continue to spin their centrifuges.”  The prospect of U.S.-Iran conciliation also is raising
alarms in  Saudi Arabia , another U.S. ally. Saudi Arabia is
engaged in a proxy conflict with Iran in Syria, where the
kingdom backs rebels seeking the ouster of the Iranian-backed
Assad.  “The Saudis feel sideswiped by the U.S.-Russian agreement
regarding Syria’s chemical weapons, and in addition they are
getting punched by the fact there may be direct bilateral talks
between Washington and Tehran,” said  Theodore Karasik , director
of research at the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis in Dubai.  Potential Payoff  If an ice-breaking meeting between Obama and Rohani were to
lay the ground for substantive follow-up talks between U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  and Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, or nuclear negotiators on both sides, the potential
payoff could be substantial.  For Obama, defusing the slow-motion crisis over Iran’s
nuclear program and ending the threat of a military
confrontation in a region that holds half of the world’s crude
oil reserves would deliver his biggest foreign policy victory.  For Rohani, even gradual relief from sanctions would start
to alleviate Iran’s downward economic spiral, the biggest
domestic challenge he faces.  Oil revenue had been reduced by half by sanctions targeting
Iran’s main source of revenue, Iran’s former Economy Minister
Shamseddin Hosseini said in December. Iran’s currency, the rial,
lost more than half its value in the year before Rohani’s June
14 election, due in part to sanctions denying Iran access to the
world financial system. Iran’s economy declined 5.4 percent in
the year ending in March, Rohani said in an interview on Iranian
state television.  Not Walking Out  Even if a full-fledged Obama-Rohani meeting at the UN is
unlikely, conciliation would be signaled simply if the U.S.
delegation stays in the hall during Rohani’s address to the UN,
rather than walking out as they did when former Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  delivered anti-Western and anti-Semitic diatribes.  Holding off on a presidential-level meeting may not be a
bad thing, said Ali Vaez, senior Iran analyst at the
 International Crisis Group  in Washington. An unplanned bilateral
meeting “could be a risky venture, prematurely squandering a
genuine opportunity for starting a new chapter in the two
countries’ relations,” he said.  Productive talks need proper planning and a fresh approach
“to break free of the failed policies of the past,” he said.
The better choice may be a simple “meet-and-greet in the UN’s
corridors that is more symbolic than substantive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  