-- Obama Set to Issue First Carbon Limits on Power Plants
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-20T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/obama-set-to-issue-first-carbon-limits-on-power-plants.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency is scheduled to unveil today its first limits on
greenhouse-gas emissions from new power plants, a signature
element of President  Barack Obama ’s plan to curb  climate change .  The rules will effectively require coal-fired plants to
capture and store a portion of the carbon dioxide they produce,
something the industry says is so costly it would preclude the
construction of new plants, according to people who have seen
drafts of the proposal and spoke on the condition they not be
identified before the announcement.  In an address on climate change in June, Obama gave the EPA
until today to release the rules for new plants. Regulations
governing emissions from existing plants will be proposed in
June 2014, the agency has said. While restrictions on emissions
of sulfur dioxide and other pollutants have been in place for
years, these will be the first for gases blamed for global
warming.  “The most important thing about the new plant rule is that
it’s crossing the  Rubicon  to say that we are going to put limits
on carbon pollution,” David Goldston, director of government
affairs at the  Natural Resources Defense Council , said before
the rule was released. “It’s important as a precursor” for
existing-plant rules, he said.  EPA administrator  Gina McCarthy  is scheduled to address
climate change during a speech this morning at the  National
Press Club  in  Washington . Even before the rules were announced,
McCarthy had to defend the plan to skeptical lawmakers.  ‘Path Forward’  “We need to provide certainty for how you will construct
power plants in the future, which will allow investments in that
sector,” McCarthy told a Republican-led panel of the House
Energy and Commerce committee Sept. 18. By establishing these
rules, it will help coal by providing “a path forward in a
future that will be carbon constrained,” she said.  The EPA’s move sets the stage for the more far-reaching set
of final rules governing emissions from existing  power plants ,
due by June 2014. With low-cost natural gas displacing coal in
many power facilities, rules on existing plants will take on
heightened importance.  The administration agreed in June to revise last year’s
draft of rules on greenhouse-gas emissions from power plants
after legal experts questioned its methodology in setting one
standard for coal and another for natural-gas plants. Coal emits
about twice the carbon dioxide as natural gas when burned to
make power.  Megawatt Hour  The EPA’s new proposal would set the limit at 1,100 tons of
pounds of carbon-dioxide per megawatt hour for coal plants and
1,000 pounds for most natural gas plants, according to a person
who saw the draft that was sent to the White House for review.  To meet the new limit, coal plants would have to capture
and store 20 to 40 percent of the carbon they produce, the
Washington Post reported, citing an interview with McCarthy. The
average U.S. coal plant emits 1,768 pounds per megawatt-hour,
the newspaper said. Natural gas plants would not be required to
capture their emissions.  A coal plant without  carbon capture  emits at least 1,600
pounds, and power producers had urged the EPA to set the
standard at 1,800 pounds or higher.  Once issued, the proposed rules will be open for public
comment before becoming final.  Carbon-dioxide emissions since the Industrial Revolution
have led to a warming of the Earth’s temperature in the past 50
years, worsening forest fires, drought and coastal flooding,
according to the  U.S. Global Change Research Program .  40 Percent  To deal with the threat of global warming, Obama directed
the EPA to cap carbon pollution from power plants, which account
for 40 percent of U.S. emissions.  The would rules set a limit on carbon-dioxide emissions
from coal plants that can only be met with technology to capture
that gas, and then inject it underground for storage. That
technology, called CCS, isn’t yet being used on a commercial
scale as the first large-scale plant is under construction by
 Southern Co. (SO)  in  Mississippi . That plant, which received $270
million in aid from the federal government, is facing local
opposition and $1 billion in cost overruns.  “Simply because EPA may set a carbon standard that
requires CCS technology is insufficient to overcome the
technical, legal, regulatory and financial hurdles facing CCS
technology,”  Scott Segal , a lobbyist at Bracewell & Giuliani
LLP, which represents electric utilities such as Southern and
coal producers such as  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , said in an e-mail before
the EPA announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  