-- Lockheed Martin Girds for Combat Jet Choices as Dutch Back JSF
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-20T15:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/lockheed-martin-girds-for-combat-jet-choices-as-dutch-back-jsf.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  is setting
its sights on  Denmark  as the next prospective European buyer of
the F-35 Joint Strike Fighters as the world’s largest defense
company seeks to replicate the sales success of its F-16.  Denmark, which participated in the F-35’s development
phase, will initiate a fighter competition toward the year’s
end, and a decision is likely in 2014, Steve O’Bryan, the
company’s program vice president said in a telephone interview.  The Netherlands committed this week to buying the F-35, the
world’s most expensive weapons program, joining Norway in
recreating a group of European states that jointly bought F-16s
in the 1970s. Denmark and Belgium rounded out the partnership.  “This is a huge win for the program and another statement
of support,” O’Bryan said. “The F-35 is well on its way to
becoming the next NATO fighter just like the F-16.”  In Denmark,  Boeing Co. (BA)  is looking to offer the F/A-18,  Saab
AB (SAABB)  its Gripen fighter, and the Eurofighter Typhoon consortium
that includes  BAE Systems (BA/)  and European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. Denmark is expected to buy about 30 jets.  Development issues and Pentagon concerns over cost of the
jet slowed international commitments to the Lockheed Martin
plane built in conjunction with  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and BAE
Systems Plc. As costs have come down, opposition in countries
such as the Netherlands to buying the jet has eased.  Falling Costs  The Dutch commitment, which came after the country bought
two test planes, is not without its setbacks. The country
trimmed its purchase to 37 planes from an initial plan to
procure 85. The government said it may order additional aircraft
in future, “financial parameters” permitting.  “Costs are coming down rapidly” below government
estimates, O’Bryan said.  The first operational Dutch F-35s are due in 2019. The
country, whose purchase still needs to be ratified by
parliament, joins  Norway  and  Italy  among European states
committed to buying the aircraft, with Israel and  Japan  among
other foreign buyers.  The U.K., which has already bought test planes, will make a
decision on buying the first 12 to 14 operational fighters this
year, Philip Dunne, the country’s defense equipment minister
said last week. Costs of the plane have come down faster than
expected, he said.  The U.K., which will deploy the aircraft on its new
aircraft carriers from about 2020, has not said how many JSFs it
plans to buy overall beyond an initial commitment of 48
fighters.  Norway and the U.K. have agreed to cooperate on their
maintenance and use. The Norwegian government said Sept. 17 it
would seek to extend that cooperation to the Netherlands.  Those relationships should help lower usage costs across
 Europe , which would be further aided by U.S. F-35s jets deployed
in the region, O’Bryan said. It would clear the way for a
sharing of parts and experience.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  