-- Lone Star Said to Increase Real Estate Fund Target by 10%
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-09-20T20:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/lone-star-said-to-increase-real-estate-fund-target-by-10-.html
Lone Star  Funds, the world’s
biggest buyer of delinquent mortgages, increased the target on
its newest fund by 10 percent to $6.6 billion in response to
investor demand, said two people with knowledge of the move.  Lone Star, founded by Chairman  John Grayken , expects to
complete the first round of capital pledges for the new fund --
which focuses on commercial real estate debt and equity -- as
early as next week, said one of the people, who asked not to be
named because the fundraising is private. The $6.6 billion is a
hard cap, or maximum that the firm will accept.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Dallas-based Lone Star at
public-relations firm Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher,
declined to comment on the fundraising.  Lone Star’s new fund is the biggest being raised for real
estate private equity, according to Preqin, a London-based
research firm for alternative assets. Grayken’s firm has
produced returns exceeding 20 percent over two decades and has
never had a losing fund, attracting repeat investments from
investors, or limited partners, such as pension funds.  The fundraising environment for real estate private-equity
funds in general remains tough, particularly for first-time
managers, said Forena Akthar, manager of real estate at Preqin.  “LPs are now placing more importance on previous track
records than ever before,” Akthar said.  Carlyle, TPG  Lone Star joins firms including  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , TPG
Capital and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in seeking more money for real estate and
capitalizing on investors’ search for higher returns than those
offered by benchmark fixed-income assets.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
last year collected $13.3 billion of pledges for the biggest-ever real estate opportunity fund.  In July,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest bank,
agreed to sell its Eurohypo U.K. real estate lending unit to
Lone Star and  Wells Fargo & Co . to comply with European Union
state-aid rules following its bailout. Lone Star will buy about
1.3 billion pounds ($2.1 billion) of non-performing loans, which
were sold for about 3.5 percent less than book value.  Lone Star’s new investment pool is called Lone Star Real
Estate Fund III. The firm in May finished raising a residential-focused fund, Lone Star Fund VIII, with $5.1 billion. Much of
that money is being used to buy soured residential loans from
Europe’s banking crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in  Seattle  at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  