-- Onion Shortage Seen Worsening in India as Rain Delays Crop
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-09-20T06:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/onion-shortage-seen-worsening-in-india-as-rain-delays-crop-1-.html
Onion prices in  India  may extend a
record rally as heavy monsoon rains delay harvests and worsen a
shortage, potentially accelerating  food inflation  in  Asia ’s
third-largest economy.  Retail prices of the vegetable used in everything from
soups to curries soared to 70 rupees ($1.13) a kilogram (2.2
pounds) in  New Delhi  this week from 20 rupees three months
earlier, according to the Consumer Affairs Ministry. Prices may
increase further as farmers are unable to pick the crop due to
monsoon rains, said C.B. Holkar, a director at the National
Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd.  Surging onion prices may fuel inflation and limit the
 Reserve Bank of India ’s room to ease  interest rates  to revive
the weakest economic growth in a decade. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  needs to curb food prices and stem a decline in the rupee
to boost the prospects of his Congress party in state polls
later this year and the general elections due by May. The
central bank today unexpectedly raised the repurchase rate to
7.5 percent from 7.25 percent to damp inflation.  “Rise in onion prices has always been a very sensitive
issue,” said P.N. Vasanti, director of New Delhi-based Centre
for Media Studies. “It has affected the poorest of the poor the
most. It has become an electoral issue earlier.”  Food prices climbed 18.2 percent in August from a year
earlier, with onion costs surging 245 percent, official data
showed Sept. 16. The economy expanded at the slowest pace since
2003 in the year ended March as investment fell and  consumer
spending  moderated. HSBC Holdings Plc and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. cut growth estimates for India to 4 percent in 2013-2014.  Import Bids  Singh’s government last month asked state-run trading
company PEC Ltd. and Nafed to import onions to control prices.
PEC has yet to float a tender after asking suppliers to register
with it, said Ravi Kumar, a company director. Nafed canceled a
tender to import as there was a lone bidder, said S. Biswas, a
general manager at the New Delhi-based company.  “The government is very serious about the impact of rising
imports on the current-account deficit,” said  Arun Singh , an
economist at Dun & Bradstreet Information Services India Pvt. in
Mumbai. “That probably is the reason it’s delaying decision on
onion imports.”  Singh’s government has raised taxes on gold imports and
eased curbs on investment from abroad to bolster the economy. It
is seeking to cap current-account  deficit  to about $70 billion
in the fiscal year ending March 2014 from a record $87.8 billion
in the previous 12-month period.  Political Factor  Political parties have lost elections in India over the
 cost  of onion, the key ingredient used to make spicy masala that
goes into dishes from curries to biriyani. Former Prime Minister
Indira Gandhi swept back into power after a gap of three years
in 1980 by turning the price of onions into a populist rallying
cry. The  Bharatiya Janata Party  lost the state election in Delhi
in 1998 as the government could not control onion prices.  “We have reduced the consumption of onion as it is the
only option with such high prices,” said Subhashish Ghosh, a
31-year-old marketing executive living in New Delhi since 2001.
“If vegetables are beyond our reach, how can we think of eating
proteins or making it available to our children. I am not
satisfied with the government policy to control prices.”  India’s  wholesale-price index  rose 6.1 percent in August,
the most in six months, according to the latest government data.
The RBI predicts inflation will be around 5.5 percent in the
fiscal year through March 2014. There is no room for complacency
on inflation and “the  Reserve Bank  will closely and
continuously monitor the evolving growth-inflation dynamics with
a readiness to act pre-emptively, as necessary,” the central
bank said today.  Source of Nutrition  The Congress may be defeated in elections to  Madhya
Pradesh , Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh states later this year,
while it may struggle to retain power in New Delhi, according to
an opinion poll released by Times Now television channel and C-Voter polling agency Sept. 18.  The bulbous flavonoid-rich root may be the only source of
nutrition for the poor who use it as a raw side dish with
flattened bread in many of the northern states from Rajasthan to
Bihar. Of the 1.2 billion people in the country, about two-thirds live on less than $2 a day, according to the  World Bank .  “Onion prices may go up further as stockpiles in
Maharashtra are fast depleting,” Holkar said in a phone
interview today. “Even some quantities imported from
 Afghanistan  have not been able to lower prices.”  Export Curbs  The government yesterday raised the minimum export price of
onions to $900 a ton from $650 to boost domestic supplies.
Arrivals may increase from the third week of October as rains in
producing areas are hindering arrivals, Agriculture Minister
 Sharad Pawar  said yesterday.  Unusually heavy monsoon rainfall this month has delayed
harvest in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka states,
which account for about 50 percent of the nation’s production,
Holkar said. Prices may begin to ease from middle of next month
with the arrival of fresh crops, he said.  India is the world’s second-largest producer of onions
after  China . Yet, it has the third-lowest yield per hectare
among the 20 biggest producers, according to the Bangalore-based
Institute of Social and Economic Change. The report says that
collusion among traders and the poor state of India’s
infrastructure act to push up prices.  Production was 16.65 million tons in 2012-2013, down 4.8
percent, from 17.5 million tons a year earlier, according to
data from the  Agriculture Ministry .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  