-- Oracle Team USA Avoids Elimination in America’s Cup With Victory
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-09-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/oracle-team-usa-avoids-elimination-in-america-s-cup-with-win-1-.html
Oracle Team USA extended the
America’s Cup sailing competition into at least today by
defeating Emirates Team New Zealand by 31 seconds on  San
Francisco Bay  to stave off elimination.  The victory yesterday leaves the defending champions,
backed by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Chief Executive  Larry Ellison , behind 8-2
and needing to win seven more races to take the 162-year-old
regatta. The Kiwis need just one. Two more races are scheduled
today.  Oracle helmsman Jimmy Spithill said his team’s designers
and engineers have erased a speed advantage New Zealand enjoyed
at the beginning of the regatta and the crew believes it could
come back.  “Yes, we can win seven more races,” Spithill told
reporters. “We’re in quite a different situation now where
we’re clearly confident in our boat and we believe we can do it
and we’ve almost got nothing to lose.”  Oracle outmaneuvered New Zealand on the starting line
yesterday, led at the first turn and extended that advantage to
11 seconds by the end of the second leg.  Headed back upwind toward the Golden Gate Bridge, Oracle
repeatedly forced the Kiwis in directions that caused
disadvantages with the wind and current, extending the lead as
the two 72-foot (22-meter) catamarans headed back toward the
finish line.  Spithill said the victory was the result of a good start
and mistake-free sailing by tacticians Ben Ainslie and Tom
Slingsby.  “We were able to get a nice jump off the line and from
there Benny and Tom sailed a very nice race,” Spithill said.
“If you get behind in a race, it’s very difficult to find a
passing lane unless someone makes a mistake and between Benny
and Tom, they didn’t allow any passing lanes.”  Not Over  Dean Barker,  New Zealand ’s skipper, said his team wasn’t
taking its seven-race edge for granted.  “We don’t believe this is over until we win one more
race,” he said. “It’s a battle. You have to fight incredibly
hard for every point. There are no gimmes out here.”  The day’s second race was postponed when winds topped a 20
knot (23 mile per hour, 37 kilometer per hour) safety limit. It
was the second consecutive day that had a race postponement.  Spithill said New Zealand rebuffed Oracle’s proposal to
increase the wind limit for the regatta. Barker said his team
was opposed to changing the rule mid-series.  In advance of today’s heats, Spithill said Oracle would
continue to work on improving the boat while the crew stayed
focused on winning one race at a time.  “The thing that gives us confidence is we’ve all faced big
comebacks before and been able to pull them off,” he said.
“But I think the thing that really has given the team a lot of
energy and momentum lately is the boat. From where we started
this regatta to where we are now, you can clearly see all the
guys on board the boat believe they’ve got the tool now that can
get it done.”  NI SAILING
NI CA
NI SPORTBIZ
NI BSP  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  San Francisco  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  