-- Orlando Bloom’s Biker Romeo Stuns Juliet: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/orland-bloom-goes-hog-wild-in-tame-romeo-jeremy-gerard.html
Swaggering Romeo toodles in on a
custom-built motorcycle, wearing red leather boots; girlish
Juliet soars on a schoolyard swing.  Such is the odd hormonal balance on display in David Leveaux’s staging of “Romeo and Juliet” marking the Broadway
debut of Orlando Bloom.  There’s fire aplenty in Jesse Poleshuck’s visually striking
design, but none ignited by the lovers, more ill-matched than
star crossed.  The scene begins with a rocking crash from the brilliant
composer David Van Tieghem, whose percussion and cello
soundscape enlivens the 2 1/2-hour Shakespeare drama.  A white dove flies in from the wings and alights. Columns
of flame rise dramatically from the stage, signaling the drama
to come.  Romeo noisily arrives in the middle of a street rumble
between the Montague and Capulet partisans, semi-heartsick over
the breakup with his latest girlfriend. Bloom, 36, seems a bit
old to be hanging out with the gang, let alone to be this
callow. I was watching a good actor laboring against a
director’s two-dimensional construct: Bloom couldn’t possibly
have chosen to be so flat and uninflected.  The disconnect grows when Romeo locks eyes with Juliet at
her folks’ house party. Older brother? Perhaps. Uncle? Maybe.
Thunderstruck lover? Creepy.  Rope Swing  Yet Leveaux seems intent on underscoring the difference not
only in their ages but in their levels of maturity. Condola
Rashad, 26, an actress who has been nothing less than hypnotic
in other roles (most recently in “The Trip to Bountiful”) is
sentenced to wide-eyed innocence, most jarringly in the post-marriage scene that begins the second act. That’s when she’s
swinging on that rope, like a seven year old.  There are some pleasures in the production, notably in
three key secondary roles: Christian Camargo’s stinging
Mercutio; Jayne Houdyshell’s conspiratorial, seen-it-all Nurse
and Brent Carver’s appealingly foolish Friar Laurence.  “O for a muse of fire that would ascend the brightest
heaven of invention,” Shakespeare wrote. Not here.  At the Richard Rodgers Theatre, 226 W. 46th St.
Information: +1-800-745-3000;  http://www.ticketmaster.com .
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  New York   Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 