-- Motorola Seen Undermining Network Fixing 9/11 Radio Flaws
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-09-20T20:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/motorola-undermines-efforts-on-emergency-network-senator.html
Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  was accused
by a Senate leader of undermining a U.S. radio network being
built to avoid repeating the communications failures that
plagued emergency workers during the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  The company that sells radios to police and fire
departments is “financing a public relations and lobbying
campaign to erode support for FirstNet’s work and mission,”
Senator  Jay Rockefeller , chairman of the Senate Commerce,
Science and Transportation Committee, said in a letter yesterday
to Motorola, citing press reports.  The U.S. is planning to build the network, known as
FirstNet, to supplant today’s patchwork of municipal emergency
radio systems that impedes communication between agencies and
was cited by the  9/11 Commission .  Motorola, which makes most of its money from public-safety
agencies, supports the new network,  Nicholas Sweers , a spokesman
for the Schaumburg, Illinois-based company, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Our objective is to help make FirstNet a success,”
Sweers said.  Motorola has a “significant share” and as much as 80
percent of the U.S. public-safety market, where handsets that
use proprietary technology can cost $5,000 compared with
consumer devices that sell for a few hundred dollars, the
Federal Communications Commission told Congress in 2010.  Billion-Dollar Network  FirstNet would create a single network using standards open
to multiple device vendors. The U.S. government has dedicated $7
billion to its construction, and the total expenditure has been
estimated at $18 billion to $40 billion, with those figures not
including the cost of radios, according to a report last year by
the  Congressional Research Service .  Motorola  reported  $6 billion in net sales to governments in
2012, when it had sales of $8.7 billion. About 40 percent of
revenue was generated by customers outside the U.S., the company
said in a filing.  Motorola shares rose 70 cents to $60.39 at 4:03 p.m.  New
York  time.  Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat, has identified
FirstNet’s success as a priority.  The system is designed to end shortfalls that left police
and firefighters at the Pentagon and the World Trade Center
unable to speak to one another on Sept. 11, 2001. Fixing those
shortcomings was a recommendation in the 9/11 Commission Report
from the panel that investigated the attacks.  “I urge you to immediately cease your campaign and to work
constructively with the FirstNet board,” Rockefeller, a West
Virginia Democrat, said in his letter to Motorola Chief
Executive Officer  Greg Brown .  FirstNet Authority  Motorola asked police and firefighters to criticize the
First Responder Network Authority that oversees the new network,
according to a  June report  in Politico.  Asked about that report Sweers, the Motorola spokesman, in
an interview said, “Are we working outside FirstNet? I would
argue we’re working directly with FirstNet.”  The  authority  is reviewing complaints raised by a member,
Sheriff Paul Fitzgerald of Story County,  Iowa , who in April said
a lack of openness was “killing our credibility,” according to
a version of Fitzgerald’s remarks to the authority board that
was distributed by e-mail.  Heather Phillips, a spokeswoman for the authority that is
housed in the Commerce Department, declined to comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  