-- Payrolls Rose in 29 U.S. States in August, Led by New York
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-09-20T14:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/payrolls-rose-in-29-u-s-states-in-august-led-by-new-york.html
Payrolls increased in 29 U.S.
states in August, and the unemployment rate rose in 18, a sign
progress in the labor market remains uneven.  New York  led the nation with a 30,400 gain in employment,
followed by California with 29,100 more jobs, figures from the
Labor Department showed today in Washington.  Bigger gains in employment and wages would help to spur
 consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy. Federal Reserve policy makers this week refrained from
reducing the $85 billion pace of monthly bond buying, saying
they needed more evidence of improvement in the expansion.  “The job market is likely going to improve in fits and
starts,”  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania, said before the report.
“Identifying the spark that jumpstarts hiring in the next few
months is difficult.”  Unemployment increased the most in Arizona, rising to 8.3
percent last month from 8 percent in July. Jobless rates rose by
0.2 percentage point in six states, including California,
Michigan and Pennsylvania.  Nevada  was the state with the highest jobless rate in the
country, at 9.5 percent. Illinois was second, with a rate of 9.2
percent.  North Dakota  had the lowest unemployment in the nation,
holding at 3 percent last month.  Declining Payrolls  States showing the biggest declines in employment included
Georgia, where payrolls dropped by 16,100, and Ohio, with a
decrease of 8,200.  While New York led gains in hiring, the state’s
 unemployment rate  climbed to 7.6 percent in August from 7.5
percent the prior month.  New Jersey’s jobless rate fell to 8.5 percent last month,
the lowest level since March 2009, according to state figures
issued yesterday.  The economy added 169,000 workers in August, fewer than
projected, nationwide figures showed on Sept. 6. The  U.S.
unemployment (USURTOT)  rate dropped to 7.3 percent, the lowest since
December 2008, as Americans left the  labor force .  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, thus making the national figures more reliable,
according to the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Fed policy makers this week said they decided to await more
evidence that progress will be sustained before trimming the
pace of monthly bond buying. “The tightening of financial
conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow
the pace of improvement,” they said in a statement on Sept. 18
after a two-day meeting.  “Some indicators of labor market conditions have shown
further improvement in recent months, but the unemployment rate
remains elevated,” the Fed officials also said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  