-- Postal Service Makes Deals to Rescue New Deal-Era Murals
-- B y   D e v i n   L e o n a r d
-- 2013-09-20T21:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/postal-service-makes-deals-to-rescue-new-deal-era-murals.html
Walking into New York’s stately
General Post Office in the Bronx, the first thing you notice are
the murals.  In 1938, President  Franklin Delano Roosevelt ’s
administration commissioned artist Ben Shahn to paint the walls
of the cavernous lobby with 13 larger-than-life frescoes
celebrating the American worker.  The social-realist scenes, entitled Resources of America,
depict dignified women and broad-backed men toiling on the farm
and muscular factory employees operating looms and machinery.  The murals are among almost 1,200 New Deal artworks that
Shahn, Milton Avery, and scores of other artists created for
post offices around the country under the Treasury’s Depression-era Section of Fine Arts program, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its Sept. 23 issue.  Many are masterpieces that are worth more than the
buildings they occupy. That makes them a peculiar problem as the
distressed U.S.  Postal Service  prepares to shut down and sell
off the Bronx post office and others decorated with historic
murals that belong to the public.  It’s up to Dallan Wordekemper to protect the works from
potential buyers who might knock them down or paint over them
when they renovate the buildings into restaurants, condominiums,
and retail stores.  A USPS real estate specialist who oversees the nation’s New
Deal post offices, Wordekemper doesn’t pretend to be an art
connoisseur.  Missing Artworks  “I figure every artist in the program is as important as
the next,” he says. Since taking the job in 2003, he has kept
watch over the collection and tracked down several works he
discovered had gone missing.  Two years ago, Wordekemper retrieved a painting by Gustaf
Dalstrom, George Rogers Clark Conferring With Indians Near
Herrin, that had been thrown away when the post office in
Herrin,  Illinois , was renovated in 1968. A postal worker had
found it and taken it home.  “His son had it hanging in his dorm room,” says Elizabeth
Kendall, director of Parma Conservation, a Chicago company that
restored the reclaimed painting.  The Postal Service is trying to find buyers who are willing
to agree to unusual terms: The USPS sells the building but
maintains ownership of the artwork.  Lending Agreement  It then lends the art to the purchaser for 25 years at no
charge. In exchange, the new owner must allow the public into
the former post office to view the paintings. Ideally,
Wordekemper also gets the buyer to cover the cost of restoring
murals that have dulled over the years.  The Postal Service struck just such an agreement with movie
producer Joel Silver, who paid $7 million in 2011 for the Venice
Post Office in  Los Angeles , which he converted into his
company’s headquarters.  As part of the deal, Silver is spending $100,000 to restore
Story of Venice by Edward Biberman. Wordekemper says Silver
promised to provide public access to the painting six days a
year.  “The community is very unhappy with it,” says Linda
Lucks, president of the Venice Neighborhood Council, who argues
the painting is public property and shouldn’t be hidden away
most of the time.  She says she’ll lobby Silver to offer more frequent
viewings.  Six days is “the minimum,” Wordekemper says. “I think
Joel Silver is going to offer it a lot more than six days.”
Silver declined to comment.  Suitable Buyer  The government is having a more difficult time finding a
suitable buyer in the Bronx.  Laura Katzman , an art history
professor at James Madison University and a specialist in New
Deal art, says Shahn’s murals, painted with his wife, Bernarda
Bryson Shahn, are “among the best” from the period.  Yet they are scratched and dirty and in need of costly
refurbishment. No one has yet come forward to save them.  The USPS might attempt to sell the building and lease back
the lobby so it can keep possession of the paintings,
Wordekemper says. Determined to preserve the artwork, he’s also
looked into moving the murals to another location.  That would be a massive undertaking, since the scenes are
painted in egg tempera directly on the plaster walls.  “We’d have to demolish a lot of the building in order to
make it work,” he says. “It’s not out of the question. It’s
just that the cost would be huge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Leonard in  New York  at 
 dleonard12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  