-- Prosensa Sinks as Muscular Dystrophy Drug Fails in Trial
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-09-20T20:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/prosensa-sinks-as-muscular-dystrophy-drug-fails-in-trial.html
Prosensa Holding NV (RNA)  plunged 70
percent after the Dutch company’s experimental muscular
dystrophy drug failed to help patients walk better in a clinical
trial.  Sarepta Therapeutics Inc. (SRPT) , the maker of another
experimental medicine for the disease, soared.  Prosensa dropped to $7.14 at the close in  New York , with
trading volume 87 times the three-month daily average. The
Leiden, Netherlands-based company’s shares are listed on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. Sarepta, based in Bothell,  Washington ,
jumped 18 percent to $43.30 for the biggest gain in more than 10
months.  Prosensa is developing the treatment, drisapersen, with
London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)  In a late-stage study dubbed
Demand III, drisapersen failed to help patients more than a
placebo in a test of six-minute walking distance, the companies
said today in a statement. The results call into question the
future of the drug, as the partners said they will conduct a
full evaluation of the benefit-to-risk profile across all
studies that will be completed by the end of 2013.  “While we are disappointed that this study did not meet
its primary endpoint, we remain committed to the overall program
and will continue to work closely with GSK,” Prosensa Chief
Executive Officer Hans Schikan said in the statement. “Research
and development of possible treatment options is of critical
importance” for patients because of a lack of long-term
treatments for the illness.  Estimated Revenue  Before today’s announcement, analysts predicted sales of
$350 million for the drug in 2020, according to the average of
three estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Results from a separate late-stage study are expected late
next year, and successful results combined with positive data
from a mid-stage data could outweigh the results released today,
Joseph Schwartz, a Boston-based analyst at Leerink Swann & Co.,
said in a report to investors.  “The Demand III safety data do not seem significant enough
to bar drisapersen from obtaining regulatory approval,”
Schwartz said.  Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a neuromuscular disease with
no known cure that affects one in 3,500 newborn boys.  Sarepta, which is working on a drug called eteplirsen, may
see some benefits from drisapersen’s failure, Robyn Karnauskas,
an analyst with Deutsche Bank, said.  “Drisapersen failure leaves eteplirsen alone in the
market, which could lead to higher market share upon approval,”
Karnauskas wrote today in a research report, noting also that
the “failure highlights it is difficult to design a clinical
trial in this patient segment.”  Prosensa sold shares in June in an  initial public offering 
at $13 each. The company had a market value of $840.1 million
based on yesterday’s closing share price of $24. Glaxo rose less
than 1 percent to 1,577 pence in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  