-- Prudential Financial Got Systemic Risk Label in 7-2 Vote
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-09-20T19:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/prudential-financial-got-u-s-systemic-risk-label-in-7-2-vote.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, was designated systemically
important in a 7-to-2 vote by a council of regulators charged
with preventing another crisis.  Edward DeMarco, acting director of the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , and Roy Woodall, a former Kentucky insurance
regulator, opposed the designation, the U.S. Financial Stability
Oversight Council said today in a  document  explaining the vote.
The council, led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, initially
proposed Prudential’s designation in June by the same margin.
The insurer challenged the decision, prompting this week’s
affirmation.  “While exposures to Prudential may be small relative to
the capital of its individual counterparties, aggregate
exposures are significant enough that they could amplify the
risk of contagion among other financial institutions if
Prudential were to experience material financial distress,” the
council said. Under FSOC rules, at least seven votes were needed
to sustain the ruling.  Prudential was the first company to challenge an FSOC
designation and joins  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and
General Electric Co.’s finance unit in being labeled a non-bank
systemically important financial institution. Neither AIG nor GE
contested the decision. Prudential yesterday disclosed that it
lost its appeal, without stating the vote tally.  Cordray’s Role  The council also voted 9-0 to ratify actions related to
Prudential while council member Richard Cordray was a recess
appointee as Consumer Financial Protection Bureau director.
Regulators on the council have discussed whether Cordray’s
actions as a recess appointee could be challenged by companies
designated systemically important and subjected to scrutiny by
the Federal Reserve.  “The council is confident in the validity of its previous
actions, and took this action out of an abundance of caution, in
response to a challenge Prudential made to the validity of
certain council actions,” Treasury spokeswoman Suzanne Elio
said in an e-mailed statement today.  President  Barack Obama  made Cordray a recess appointment,
bypassing Senate confirmation, in January 2012. Cordray was
confirmed by the Senate in July of this year and released a
“notice of ratification” on Aug. 27 saying he thinks the
actions he took as a recess appointee “were legally authorized
and entirely proper.”  Leverage, Liquidity  The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the council to designate
companies that it determines could pose a threat to stability if
they were to fail, subjecting them to increased oversight. The
Fed can impose tighter capital, leverage and liquidity rules,
and demand measures including stress-testing and wind-down
plans. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is also on the FSOC.  “No large financial institution has more than a de minimus
amount of its equity capital exposed to Prudential,” DeMarco
said in his dissent. The FSOC’s analysis of the  Newark , New
Jersey-based insurer’s balance sheet “does not fully take
account of the stability of Prudential’s liabilities, the
quality of its assets, or the strength of its equity capital.”  Woodall, the council’s independent member with insurance
expertise, said the FSOC didn’t sufficiently support the
conclusion that distress at Prudential could pose a threat to
financial stability.  Prudential said yesterday it has 30 days to appeal the
designation in federal court. “We are currently reviewing the
rationale for the determination and our options,” the insurer
said in a statement.  ‘Fundamental Gaps’  Jim Donelon, president of the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners and Louisiana insurance commissioner,
said he was “deeply troubled by the implications” of the
council’s decision on Prudential and that it “shows fundamental
gaps in FSOC’s understanding of the business of insurance or the
regulatory regime that governs it.”  MetLife Inc., the largest U.S. life insurer, has said it’s
been moved to the last stage of review to be designated
systemically important.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  