-- Qatar Says It Can Still Host 2022 Soccer World Cup in the Summer
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-09-20T17:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/qatar-says-it-can-still-host-2022-soccer-world-cup-in-the-summer.html
Qatar  said it can still host the
2022  World Cup  in the Gulf summer despite  FIFA ’s push for a
winter switch to avoid exposing players and fans to intense
heat.  The middle Eastern country is perfecting cooling techniques
to ensure stadiums, training facilities and public areas offer
the “optimal temperature for players and fans to enjoy the
games,” the Qatar 2022 Supreme Committee said today in an e-mailed statement.  FIFA, soccer’s global governing body, meets in Zurich Oct.
3 and 4 to discuss rescheduling the event because of concern
that Qatar’s temperatures, as high as 50 degrees Celsius (122
degrees Fahrenheit) in June and July, when the World Cup is
normally held, may endanger players and fans. President  Sepp
Blatter  told Inside World Football in an interview published
Sept. 9 that FIFA may have “made a mistake” in awarding a
summer World Cup to such a hot country.  UEFA , European soccer’s ruling body, voted yesterday to
back the winter move despite reservations from the continent’s
top clubs and leagues. England’s  Premier League  said altering
league schedules would be “nigh on impossible.”  Opposition  Australia also opposes the move.  Frank Lowy , chairman of
 Football Federation Australia , this week said FIFA should
compensate any nations whose leagues are affected if the switch
is ratified.  FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  told reporters in
 Buenos Aires  on Sept. 10 that the governing body won’t pay
compensation. Valcke said that any decision made at next month’s
FIFA meeting would be “in principle” only, and that a
consultation process will begin once that decision is made.  FIFA also faces opposition from Fox Sports, which agreed to
pay a record $425 million for U.S. broadcast rights to the 2018
and 2022 World Cups.  FIFA Decision  Since Qatar, a Gulf emirate smaller than  Connecticut , in
2010 became the surprise choice to host sport’s most-watched
event, FIFA has faced questions about the selection. The
governing body’s executive board chose Qatar ahead of offers
from the U.S.,  Australia  and Korea and Japan even though FIFA’s
inspection team said the choice would be high risk.  Qatar’s organizing committee said it can move the
tournament if asked, but remains focused on its summer plan.  “We bid for the 2022 FIFA World Cup in summer and are
fully committed and working hard to deliver on these promises,”
the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  