-- Qatari Sheikh Must Pay $419,400 in Unpaid Fees to U.K. Law Firm
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-09-20T10:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/qatari-sheikh-must-pay-419-400-in-unpaid-fees-to-u-k-law-firm.html
A member of the Qatari royal family
must pay a London-based  law firm  261,279 pounds ($419,400) in
unpaid fees for advice given when his assets were frozen after
he failed to pay auction houses for bids he won.  Sheikh Saud Bin Mohammed Bin Ali Al-Thani was ordered to
pay the amount because he never responded to the lawsuit by SJ
Berwin LLP, according to the default judgment given at London’s
High Court in April and made public this week.  Al-Thani was sued for 4.1 million pounds in the U.K. by
London auction house Bonhams 1793 Ltd. and for $22 million in
the U.S. by rare coin specialists A.H. Baldwin & Sons Ltd.
because he didn’t pay for items, SJ Berwin said in court
documents filed Feb. 20.  A  London  judge froze Al-Thani’s global assets on Oct. 2, SJ
Berwin said in the court documents, without saying how much the
freezing order was for.  Al-Thani successfully bid on coins last year including a
$3.25 million single gold piece from the Ancient Greek city of
Pantikapaion that bears the head of a bearded satyr, according
to the Oct. 9 lawsuit filed in  Washington  by A.H. Baldwin, M&M
Numismatics LLC of Washington and Dmitry Markov Coins and Medals
of New York.  Charlotte  Ward, a spokeswoman for SJ Berwin in London,
declined to comment on the ruling. A London number for Al-Thani
was disconnected and the spokeswoman for the law firm named on
court documents as representing Al-Thani said they weren’t
involved.  Al-Thani was head of Qatar’s National Council for Culture,
Arts and Heritage and is a “significant collector of valuable
antiques and fine art,” SJ Berwin said.  Al-Thani pledged the world’s most expensive watch and other
collectibles valued at almost $83 million to Sotheby’s in
November to cover debts owed to the auction house, according to
court documents filed at the  New York  Department of State in
October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  