-- Rajan Says India Needs to Put House in Order Before Fed Tapering
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-09-20T09:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/rajan-says-india-needs-to-put-house-in-order-before-fed-tapering.html
Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Raghuram Rajan comments on the central bank’s interest-rate
decisions and the postponement of tapering in U.S. Federal
Reserve monetary stimulus. Rajan spoke to reporters in Mumbai
today.  On the Fed’s decision:  “I do think, short term, it has in a sense postponed some
of the concerns. My sense is that the markets were quite
prepared for a moderate tapering. And, what this has done is, in
a sense, it has again created the possibility of uncertainty
down the line.  ‘‘We need that stabilization regardless of what the Fed
does. Because, if we are stabilized, we are better prepared for
the tapering whenever it happens.  ‘‘What we need to do is put our house in order before it
comes back.  ‘‘The postponement of tapering is only that, a
postponement. We must use this time to create a bullet-proof
national balance sheet and growth agenda, which creates
confidence in citizens and investors alike.’’  On his RBI interest-rate decision:  ‘‘We believe that easing the exceptional liquidity measures
was warranted given that the external environment has improved
and given that the government and the RBI have used the time
since the measures were put in place to narrow the current-account deficit and to ease its financing.  ‘‘The calibrated withdrawal will provide a boost to growth,
reduce the financing distortions that are emerging in the
market, and reduce the strain on corporate and bank balance
sheets. We remain vigilant about external market conditions and
will do what is necessary if they deteriorate once again.  ‘‘We have also announced an intention to return to normal
monetary operations where the repo rate will return to being the
effective policy rate and liquidity conditions need not be as
tight as they currently are.  ‘‘Let me emphasize that the difference between the MSF and
repo rate will be brought down to 100 basis points. At the same
time, recognizing that inflationary pressures are mounting and
determined to establish a nominal anchor, which will allow us to
preserve the internal value of the rupee, we have raised the
repo rate by 25 basis points.  ‘‘On net, these measures will reduce the cost of bank
financing substantially while allowing us to take an
appropriately precautionary stance on inflation.’’  On inflation:  ‘‘You always have to balance the state of the economy with
your fight against inflation. What I would like to see is that
we achieve, certainly, the RBI’s target of trying to bring WPI
inflation below 5 percent.  ‘‘We want to fight against inflation and we’ll bring
inflation down.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  