-- Rates Favored Over Credit in Structured Notes as Swaps Rise
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-09-20T08:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/rates-favored-over-credit-in-structured-notes-as-swaps-rise.html
Sales of structured notes tied to
interest rate moves are surpassing those linked to credit risk
for the first time in 18 months as investors seek to profit from
higher borrowing costs.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and DZ Bank AG led sales
of $4.7 billion of rate-tied notes in the third quarter through
Sept. 20, exceeding $4.4 billion of credit-linked note issuance,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the first three-month period since the fourth quarter of 2011 where investors
have favored rates.  Interest rate swaps, a key pricing component for certain
structured notes, jumped since May when Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  signaled record stimulus will be unwound,
allowing certain securities to be sold with higher coupons. The
Fed said Sept. 18 it will refrain from reducing the $85 billion
pace of its monthly securities buying on concern higher
borrowing costs will curb growth.  “Clients are definitely becoming more interested in rate-linked products,” said Nathalie Naffi, who heads BNP Paribas
SA’s dollar rates structuring and derivatives platform business
in  London . “While we don’t see an aggressive shift out of
credit for rates yet, the tapering discussion has pushed up
rates, boosting yields on notes and making them more
attractive.”  Swap Rate  The 10-year dollar swap rate, which measures the cost of
exchanging floating- and fixed-rate payments, reached a two-year
high of 3.19 on Sept. 5 after falling to 1.8 percent in May,
Bloomberg data show. The contracts were at 2.91 percent
yesterday.  Three-month options on 10-year euro swaps, which can be
used to gauge volatility in the market, are 74.83 basis points,
compared with the average for this year of 66.39 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  Greater interest rate volatility has boosted sales of
products such as range accruals that can offer higher potential
returns when price swings are greater, said Naffi.  Citigroup sold $70 million of notes tied to moves in the
three-month dollar interbank offered rate this month, Bloomberg
data show. The third-largest  U.S. bank  by assets issued $50
million of 15-year callable notes on Sept. 9 that pay 6.8
percent for days Libor is between zero and 5.5 percent. The rate
was set at 0.25 percent yesterday.  Popular securities in the third quarter also include those
where the coupon increases with time, according to Bloomberg
data.  Sales Slow  Sales of credit-linked notes slowed since $12.8 billion of
issuance in the first quarter, Bloomberg data show. The $4.42
billion of issuance so far in the July-September period would be
the least since the second quarter of 2004.  The cost of derivatives is a key pricing component for
credit-linked notes and typically result in smaller coupons when
prices fall. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default
swaps on 125 investment-grade companies dropped 16.7 basis
points this month through yesterday to 89 basis points, the
lowest since May 22, Bloomberg data show.  The narrower default-swap spreads, especially on financial
companies “make conditions for credit-linked notes less
attractive to investors,” said Sharif Nahas, vice president of
structured product sales at ING Groep NV in  Frankfurt . “Rate-linked notes are also easier to explain for advisers and that
could also lead to higher relative sales.”  Credit-linked notes can have higher yields and tailored
maturities that may not be available in the  bond market . Buyers
of the securities, which include private banks and wealthy
individuals, typically suffer losses if the issuing bank or the
linked entity defaults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  