-- Treasuries Post Biggest Weekly Gain Since July as Fed Bets Pared
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-09-20T21:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/treasuries-head-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-two-months-after-fed.html
Treasuries are posting the biggest
weekly gains since July as traders pare bets for early interest-rate increases after the Federal Reserve this week unexpectedly
refrained from reducing debt purchases.  U.S. government securities briefly fell today after Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard said a
“small” tapering of the central bank’s $85 billion of monthly
bond buying is possible in October. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said Sept. 18 the job market is still far from what he would
like after the central bank kept monthly bond buying at $85
billion.  “Bernanke wanted to leave the present situation in place
until the data gets better,” said Dan Mulholland, head of
Treasury trading at BNY Mellon Capital Markets in New York.
“We’ll be looking at Fed speakers and watching the data.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.73 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York after
falling as much as four basis points, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 2.5 percent note due in August 2023 rose
5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face value, to 97 31/32.  The yield dropped 15 basis points this week, the most since
the five days ended July 12.  The rally this week was exacerbated as traders in the week
ending Sept. 17 increased bets that the prices of Treasuries
would drop amid expectations the Fed would cut stimulus.  Futures Bets  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
net short positions in  five-year futures  to 139,477 contracts in
the week ending Sept. 17, the most bearish since January 2008,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. A
short is a bet the price of a security will drop.  Twenty-four of 41 economists surveyed Sept. 18-19 said the
Fed will now wait until December before taking the first step in
slowing its monthly bond purchases, according to a Bloomberg
survey. The median estimate in an Aug. 9-13 poll projected the
Fed would begin paring at this week’s meeting.  Investors see a 43 percent chance that policy makers will
increase the federal funds rate target to 0.5 percent or more by
January 2015, based on data compiled by Bloomberg from futures
contracts. The odds were 68 percent two weeks ago.  Kansas City Fed President Esther George, who dissented for
the sixth FOMC meeting in a row this week, said today in New
York the markets were prepared for an adjustment in government-bond purchases and the Fed’s decision not to taper was
disappointing.  ‘Let’s Wait’  “Clearly the actions at this meeting, and the expectations
that had been set relative to how markets were thinking about
this, created confusion, created a disconnect,” George said in
a New York speech to the Shadow Open Market Committee, a group
of economists that critiques Fed policy.  “Weaker data came in,” Bullard said today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and
Michael McKee. “That was a borderline decision,” and “the
committee came down on the side of, ‘Let’s wait.’”  “Inflation is low,” Bullard said. “We can afford to be
patient.”  Markets shouldn’t have been surprised by the decision
because Federal Open Market Committee members have repeatedly
said the decision to slow, or taper, would be “data
dependent,” Bullard said.  “Everybody’s nerves are frayed,” said David Robin, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at Newedge USA LLC, an
institutional-brokerage firm. “The market is still trying to
figure out what the yield-curve shape is supposed to look like
and sort out positions” since the FOMC.  Pimco’s View  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Bernanke said at a Sept. 18
press conference in  Washington  after the central bank’s two-day
meeting. “The committee has concern that rapid tightening of
financial conditions in recent months would have the effect of
slowing growth.”  The Fed’s failure to provide better guidance on the
unwinding of monetary stimulus has stoked volatility in debt
markets that risks weakening the U.S. economy, according to
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “The Fed surprised the markets and now they are surprised
by how the markets have reacted,” El-Erian said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “The
result is the markets go on this roller coaster and this
volatility is not good for the economy.”  The federal funds  rate target  will be 2 percent at the end
of 2016, according to the median of estimates by five governors
on the Fed’s board and 12 reserve bank presidents. That rate
compares with their median estimate of 4 percent for where the
rate should be at a time of full employment and stable prices.
The average rate over the past 20 years is 3.12 percent.  Treasury Auctions  The U.S. today purchased $1.47 billion of Treasuries
maturing between February 2036 and February 2043.  The Treasury will sell $33 billion in two-year notes on
Sept. 24, a drop of $1 billion from the sale of the securities
last month, the department announced yesterday. It will also
sell the next day $35 billion in five-year securities that will
be considered an additional issue of the outstanding seven-year
notes issued Sept. 30, 2011. The U.S. will sell $29 billion in
seven-year debt on Sept. 26.  Yields on 10-year notes, the  benchmark  rate on everything
from mortgages to corporate bonds, climbed as high as 3.01
percent Sept. 6 from 1.93 percent on May 21, the day before
Bernanke said the central bank could slow the pace of asset
purchases in the next few policy meetings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  