-- Red Sox, Dodgers Are First MLB Teams to Clinch Postseason Berths
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-20T04:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/red-sox-dodgers-are-first-mlb-teams-to-clinch-postseason-berths.html
The Boston Red Sox and Los Angeles
Dodgers clinched Major League Baseball postseason spots for the
first time since 2009, and the  New York  Yankees lost ground in
the chase for a wild-card playoff spot.  The Red Sox (93-61), who defeated the Baltimore Orioles 3-1
last night, clinched at least a wild-card spot and lead the
American League East division by nine games. The Dodgers (88-65),
who topped the  Arizona  Diamondbacks 7-6, captured the National
League West title.  In the AL wild-card race, the Texas Rangers and Tampa Bay
Rays (both 83-69) hold the two berths awarded to non-division-leading teams. The Cleveland Indians (83-70) are a half-game
back, followed by the Orioles (81-71), Kansas City Royals (80-72)
and Yankees (80-73).  The Rangers defeated the Rays 8-2 yesterday, while the
Indians edged the Houston Astros 2-1 in 11 innings. The Royals
were off and the Yankees lost 6-2 to the Toronto Blue Jays.  At Rogers Centre in Toronto, Adam Lind hit a three-run
homer in the seventh off reliever Joba Chamberlain as the Blue
Jays took two out of the three games in the series.  The Yankees, who lost for the fifth time in six games, risk
missing the playoffs for the second time in 19 seasons. Their
regular-season schedule concludes with a six-game homestand
against the San Francisco Giants and Tampa Bay Rays, followed by
a three-game series at the Astros, who at 51-102 are the worst
team in the major leagues.  Boston Wins  At Fenway Park, Stephen Drew hit a two-run homer and Dustin Pedroia followed with a run-scoring single to give Boston a 3-0
lead in the second inning.  John Lackey (10-12) had a no-hitter through six innings
before Baltimore’s Adam Jones blasted a home run in the seventh
inning with one out. Lackey allowed one run on two hits while
striking out eight batters as he pitched his first complete game
since 2009.  Chris Tillman (16-7) gave up three runs on seven hits and
struck out eight in seven innings for the Orioles.  The Red Sox win prevented the Orioles from sweeping the
three-game series.  “Who cares about getting two out of three,” Jones told
reporters. “At this point and time, winning the series means
nothing. We need wins is all. Good job getting the series if
this was June, but it’s September. We need wins.”  Missed Chance  Orioles manager Buck Showalter said his team isn’t
satisfied with taking two of three games.  “There’s a small margin of error,” Showalter said.
“Mathematically, over a long season it bodes well, but we’re in
a different spot. Every game is either a gained opportunity or a
missed one.”  At Chase Field in Phoenix, Hanley Ramirez hit his second
home run to tie the game 6-6 in the seventh and A.J. Ellis added
a home run in the eighth to give Los Angeles the win.  Ramirez hit a three-run homer in the third inning for the
Dodgers, only to have the Diamondbacks respond with six runs in
the bottom of the inning.  The Dodgers’ Scott Van Slyke hit a run-scoring double and
then scored on Michael Young’s sacrifice fly in the sixth inning
as Los Angeles pulled within 6-5.  The Dodgers began the season with a 30-42 record that put
them last in the division, 9 1/2 games behind the Diamondbacks.
Since June 22, they have gone 58-23, including a 42-8 run since
outfielder Yasiel Puig was called up to the major leagues.  “We put a great team together and a big payroll with huge
expectations,” said manager Don Mattingly. “A lot of time that
falls apart and it had a chance to fall apart during the season,
I thought. The players came together, we got healthy, and then
we just rolled.”  In the NL wild-card standings, the Pittsburgh Pirates (88-65) and Cincinnati Reds (87-66) hold the two spots, followed by
the Washington Nationals (82-71) and the Diamondbacks (77-75).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  