-- Russian War Games on Baltic Border Spark Security Fears
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-09-20T14:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/russian-war-games-on-baltic-border-spark-security-fears.html
Baltic officials said regional
security had been weakened as  Russia  led military exercises on
their doorstep involving almost 12,000 troops.  A week of land and sea maneuvers dubbed “Zapad 2013,” or
“West 2013,” began today as part of biennial exercises with
Belarus, Russia’s  Defense Ministry  said on its  website . Troops
in both nations tested coordination in destroying “illegal
armed formations,” it said.  Estonia,  Latvia  and Lithuania, which regained independence
in 1991 after half a century of Soviet rule, joined the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization in 2004 amid Russian opposition.
NATO has held exercises in the Baltic region since 2010, while
Russia has opened new military bases and deployed more troops on
its western border in recent years, according to the defense
ministers of Estonia and Latvia.  While Russia calls today’s maneuvers an anti-terrorism
exercise, they suggest an escalation “into a conflict with NATO
member countries,” Estonian Defense Minister Urmas Reinsalu
said yesterday. “An exercise of this nature is certainly
negatively affecting the security environment in the region.”  Russia, whose Kaliningrad exclave borders  Lithuania , has
boosted its presence on the Baltic region’s borders to almost
100,000 troops from 16,000 in 2009, Reinsalu told journalists.  Jet Fighters  It’s also put a landing strip for jet fighters in Belarus,
near Lithuania’s border, and a helicopter base in Ostrov, near
the Latvian border, the Latvijas Avize newspaper cited Latvian
Defense Minister Artis Pabriks as saying today. Recent activity
is worsening the “strategic and tactical” balance, he was
cited as saying.  Lithuanian Defense Minster Juozas Olekas said today that
Russia should provide its neighbors with more information on
drills of this kind, as NATO does about its own operations, the
BNS news service reported.  “Calling this an anti-terror operation sounds a bit
strange, as they’re using tanks and heavy aviation,” he said,
according to BNS. “We’re closely watching what’s going on.”  A Russian exercise this year simulating an air attack on
 Sweden  was a “wakeup call” for the whole Baltic Sea area,
Sweden’s Svenska Dagbladet newspaper cited Estonian President
Toomas Ilves as saying Sept. 16.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said yesterday that NATO
had broken promises to ex-Soviet leader Mihkail Gorbachev not to
expand beyond the eastern border of the former  West Germany .
Other former communist nations that are  members  of the alliance
include  Poland , the Czech Republic and Slovakia.  “There sure was talk of it -- Gorbachev was directly
promised it, although it was never documented anywhere,” he
said at the annual Valdai forum. “And where is NATO now? Where
is its border? We were fooled, that was it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Moscow at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  