-- Ryanair Retools Website in Digital Revamp to Combat EasyJet
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-09-20T09:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/ryanair-updates-website-adds-twitter-to-counter-easyjet-appeal.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  will overhaul
its website, introduce a Twitter page and offer a free mobile
phone app as Europe’s biggest low-cost carrier updates digital
marketing technology that Chief Executive Officer Michael O’Leary says has fallen behind discount rival  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ)   From Oct. 30, Ryanair will drop Recaptcha security software
that’s become a barrier to ticket sales, it said in a statement
today. The function, which requires people to type words seen in
distorted text images, will remain for high-volume bookers, the
Dublin-based company told shareholders at their annual meeting.  A mobile phone app will be downloadable free of charge from
Oct. 1 having previously cost 3 euros, and a booking flow
redesign will go live in December. Ryanair will also introduce a
passenger registration service next summer that will cut the
time taken to make bookings, it said at the AGM.  “Our primary focus this winter will be to significantly
invest in, and improve, the Ryanair.com website, our mobile
platform and our interaction with passengers using social
media,” O’Leary said. The Recaptcha feature will remain “to
deter larger travel agents, screenscrapers and others who flood
our website seeking fare quotes,” he said.  Marketing Rethink  The booking system redesign will make it easier to navigate
and quicker to locate price quotes, the CEO said, adding that
the carrier will also divert more of its marketing budget away
from “old media” and into mobile and social media platforms.  Ryanair is under pressure to review prices and operations
after saying Sept. 4 that annual profit may miss targets. The
carrier’s web portal fails to lock in ticket sales early enough
in the procedure and compares poorly to EasyJet’s, O’Leary said
in a Sept. 16 interview.  Discount operators may face a tougher winter, with intra-Europe capacity forecast to increase as much as 7 percent after
two years of flat or negative growth, Deutsche Bank analysts
including Geof Collyer and Anand Date said in Sept. 18 note.  O’Leary has said he’s also prepared to sell tickets via
agents rather than solely through Ryanair’s own mechanisms,
targeting another area where EasyJet has made the running by
linking with corporate buyers to add business fliers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  