-- Ryanair Chief Pledges Gentler Touch as ‘Macho’ Culture Backfires
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-09-20T13:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/ryanair-chief-pledges-gentler-touch-as-macho-culture-backfires.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  head  Michael O’Leary  said  Europe ’s biggest discount carrier must boost
service standards to help lure travelers put off by the Irish
company’s notoriously abrasive approach to its own clientele.  “I’m conscious that we need to eliminate a lot of minor
things that irritate,” O’Leary told investors at their annual
meeting in Dublin today. “We do need to soften the image when
things go wrong. We need to be quicker and more responsive.”  O’Leary said he’ll tone down a purist stance on low-cost
flying that, while attracting 9 million passengers a month, has
made Ryanair a no-go zone for some potential customers, with the
carrier the lowest scoring brand out of 100 in a customer survey
by consumer magazine Which? published this month.  The 52-year-old chief executive officer, who has cultivated
a take-no-prisoners outspokenness, said he may need to moderate
his own comments to help win over more middle-class flyers in
Britain and  Germany  who view his company as too down-market.  “I’m happy to take the blame if we have an overly macho
culture,” he said. “There is a large slug of potential
customers who we need to attract to try Ryanair.”  O’Leary, who said he’s still the right person to run
Ryanair, said a more considerate approach could help avoid the
kind of negative publicity attracted this week in U.K. media
after the airline charged a man 188 euros ($254) to switch
flights after his wife and children burned to death in a U.K.
house fire. O’Leary said his company regrets the decision and
wants to “respond sensitively.”  EasyJet Challenge  The CEO made the comments after announcing an overhaul of
its  website  that’s also aimed at becoming more customer-friendly
and closing the gap to what he says is a superior booking
process at  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ)   The carrier will also introduce a Twitter page and drop a
charge for its mobile phone app, while a redesign of the
website’s booking system due to go live in December aims to make
it easier to navigate and quicker to locate price quotes.  As part of the same strategy, Ryanair will introduce a
passenger registration service next summer that will cut the
time taken for bookings, and the carrier said it plans to divert
more of its marketing budget away from “old media” and into
mobile and social media platforms.  O’Leary says he’s also prepared to sell tickets via agents
rather than solely through Ryanair’s own mechanisms, targeting
another area where EasyJet has made the running by linking with
corporate buyers to add business fliers.  The CEO, who said the rehash of the carrier’s digital
marketing strategy will be the “primary focus” this winter, is
under pressure to review prices and operations after saying
Sept. 4 that annual profit may miss targets.  O’Leary may also need to consider how the image is
affecting  shareholder value , Dublin-based investor Owen O’Reilly
said in an interview after the AGM.  “He’s a fantastic CEO,” O’Reilly said, “But why does
EasyJet portray itself as ‘not Ryanair?’ I have seen people
crying at check-in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  