-- Republicans Link One-Year Debt-Cap Suspension With Cuts
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-09-21T11:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/ryan-says-republicans-pairing-debt-cap-suspension-with-cuts-1-.html
House Republicans  will consider a
measure in the coming week that would suspend the U.S.  borrowing
limit  for one year instead of raising it by a specific amount,
said Representative  Paul Ryan , the chairman of the Budget
Committee.  Republican leaders will seek to attach several provisions
to the measure that would reduce the  U.S. budget deficit  in the
long run, Ryan said. If Congress passes the Republican plan, the
government would continue borrowing.  The measure will look “at debt over the long term, and
that is what matters the most,” Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican,
told reporters in Washington yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  has urged Congress to increase U.S.
borrowing authority without conditions, and said he won’t
negotiate on the issue.  The House Republican plan would suspend the debt cap until
Dec. 31, 2014, according to a proposal distributed by party
leaders to Republican members and obtained by  Bloomberg News .
House Republicans said it is a plan that would save at least
$256 billion from budget revisions and changes to entitlement
programs.  Republicans plan to add to the measure a one-year delay of
Obama’s health-care law, instructions for revamping the U.S. tax
code, an authorization to build the Keystone XL pipeline and
reductions in government regulations.  Medicaid, Medicare  Republicans will seek to increase means-testing for
Medicare, reduce the Medicaid provider tax, revise medical
malpractice law and eliminate a public-health fund as part of
the 2010 Affordable Care Act.  They want to eliminate social services block grants and
require a Social Security number in order to receive a  child tax
credit , according to the proposal.  Also being considered is a proposal to eliminate a
provision in the Dodd-Frank Act that would end regulators’
authority to seize and dismantle financial firms if their
failure could damage the stability of the U.S. financial system.  Another proposal would gut mandatory spending for the
Consumer Financial Protection Board and revise the federal
employees retirement system.  Republicans plan to include what they describe as economic
growth measures such as encouraging offshore energy production,
energy production on federal lands and blocking Environmental
Protection Agency greenhouse-gas and coal-ash regulations.  Obama-Boehner Call  Obama called House Speaker  John Boehner  yesterday to tell
him he wouldn’t negotiate on the debt ceiling, the White House
and the speaker’s office said in separate statements. The
president urged Congress against a “self-inflicted wound,”
according to the White House, while Boehner was “disappointed”
by Obama’s stance against negotiation, the  Ohio Republican ’s
office said.  Many proposals added to the debt-limit bill had passed the
House previously and weren’t taken up by the Democratic-led
Senate.  Ryan emphasized means-testing for entitlement programs such
as Medicare as one of the changes that Republicans are
considering adding to a debt-limit bill.  “Some things like means-testing may not save you a lot
upfront but saves you a lot of money in the long run and does
the most to help reduce the debt than, say, cutting
discretionary spending,” said Ryan, his party’s 2012 vice
presidential candidate.  The measure won’t specify by how much the cap will be
increased, rather that it will allow the government to borrow
for a specified length of time, said Representative Tom Cole, an
Oklahoma Republican.  “It’s hard for us to know what the amount is because we
don’t get the numbers in real time from the Treasury
Department,” Cole said in an interview. “You don’t eliminate
the debt ceiling, you just give the government the ability to
borrow for a specified period.”  Leaders are still working on a final plan to include a
number of lawmaker requests as part of the measure, said Florida
Republican Richard Nugent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  