-- S. African Coal Producers Raise Wage Offer to as Much as 11%
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-09-20T08:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/s-african-coal-producers-raise-wage-offer-to-as-much-as-11-.html
South African coal producers
including  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  increased their wage offers to
workers to as much as 11 percent, which labor unions will
present to their members.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s thermal coal and  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXXAY) 
operations offered up to a 9.5 percent increase for some worker
categories, while companies including Optimum Coal Holdings
proposed a raise of 7.5 percent, according to a copy of the
proposal e-mailed by the Solidarity union. Glencore offered as
much as 11 percent.  “Given the specific circumstances at those companies,
hopefully our members will accept,” Solidarity’s General
Secretary Gideon du Plessis, said in a phone interview. The
lower offer at some of the smaller companies is “a slight
challenge,” he said.  Anglo American and Exxaro had offered 9 percent increases
to entry-level workers and 8 percent for other categories, Du
Plessis said Sept. 9. Gold companies this month reached a wage
accord with all  labor organizations  except for the Association
of Mineworkers and Construction Union.  “There is an improved offer,” Frans Baleni, secretary
general of the  National Union of Mineworkers , the largest union
in the coal industry, said in a text message. “We’re taking it
to members.”  There are seven companies with a total of 19,000 workers
covered by negotiations through the Chamber of Mines. The NUM,
UASA and Solidarity are representing miners at the talks.  The unions declared a dispute over wages on Aug. 12,
prompting the impasse to be referred to the Commission for
Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration. The parties agreed to
continue discussions after the 30-day mediation process ended
Sept. 12.  If the commission’s intervention fails to lead to an
agreement, unions can request a certificate of non-resolution,
clearing the way for them to issue a notice to companies of an
authorized strike where workers are protected from dismissal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  