-- Scene Last Night: Ross, Falcone, Blavatnik Eye Ballet
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/scene-last-night-ross-falcone-blavatnik-eye-ballet.html
Five years and four days after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers, the  New York  City Ballet Fall Gala
was a glittering jumble of celebrity (Drew Barrymore, 50 Cent),
finery (Chanel, Jar), and economic commentary (Wilbur Ross et
alia).  “People are ready to spend money -- they certainly spent a
lot at Barneys,” said hedge-fund manager Richard Perry,
chairman of Barneys New York, who stood with 850 other guests
Thursday night under red and blue hot-air balloons filled with
helium and anchored by ropes on the promenade of the David H.
Koch Theater. The baskets were filled with red roses.  “I think most people here are pretty well insulated from
the economy,” said Wilbur Ross, founder of WL Ross & Co.  Nearby were Emily Blavatnik, whose husband,  Len Blavatnik ,
increased his estimated net worth by $32.6 million Thursday,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaire Index, and Bob Diamond,
the former  Barclays PLC (BARC)  chief executive officer who left after
the company admitted to manipulating the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, and agreed to pay record fines.  Philip Falcone , whose bankrupt company LightSquared Inc.
faces a fight over how to sell its assets, sat with his wife,
Lisa Maria Falcone, a board member of the New York City Ballet,
and diva Anna Netrebko, who on Monday performed a private
concert at the home of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  CEO  Steve Schwarzman .  Upon Reflection  “My home is more beautiful; it’s simple,” Netrebko said,
seated at her mirror-topped gala table, all the better for
reflection. Among the 10 dishes served family-style were shaved
black kale, artichoke farrotto, late-summer cavatelli, Arctic
char and roast chicken breast.  “The economy will stumble along, probably a little better
with the continuation of bond buying,” Ross said. “But in the
longer term, I think that’s creating a gigantic problem.”  The New York City Ballet did OK, raising $2.4 million.
“Definitely when the 2008 crash happened, everybody saw a dip,
and it does seem to be coming back,” said Kathy Brown, the
company’s executive director. She attributed the gala’s success
to its chairmen. They included Ronald N. Beck, a managing
director at Oaktree Capital Management LP, and Darren Walker,
president of the Ford Foundation.  “The parties are fine because there’s a whole new group of
people who ended up making money out of the crash,” said
Alexandra Lebenthal, who said that she’d seen former secretaries
of the U.S. Treasury  Tim Geithner  and  Hank Paulson  dining at the
Loews Regency temporary power-breakfast spot at Park Avenue
Summer on Tuesday, where an omelet costs $25 and steel cut
oatmeal is $14 (the Loews Regency, under renovation, will re-open Jan. 16, 2014).  Good Ticker  “See this ticker,” said Benjamin Millepied, the incoming
director of the Paris Opera Ballet, showing a screen on his
mobile phone. “I did well on this one today. Don’t write it
down!”  Millepied said he likes trading: “I’m intrigued by the
psychology, the way people react to the market. There’s a rhythm
to it, as with music. I have a friend who is a composer who used
to run a currency hedge fund.”  Millepied choreographed “Neverwhere,” with costumes by
Iris Van Herpen made of pieces of black acrylic sheet. The
material, in petal-like skirts and leg warmer/boots on the
women, shimmered. As the dancers moved, the audience could hear
the costumes ruffling under Nico Muhly’s music for viola and
piano.  Harsh Cage  Olivier Theyskens designed white muslin dresses with
different red marks on the back for Angelin Preljocaj’s
“Spectral Evidence.” The music by John Cage was harsh, as were
the movements. The ballet had a story line of the Salem witch
trial.  “I thought the stagecraft was brilliant,” Ross said,
“simulating the burning at the stake and then putting them in
the coffin, that was spectacular.”  “It was so cool and creepy,” said novelist Jill Kargman.  The third world premiere was “Capricious Maneuvers,”
choreographed by Justin Peck with costumes by Prabal Gurung,
including harnesses for the men.  Sarah Jessica Parker, a New York City Ballet board member,
came up with the idea to bring in fashion designers to
collaborate with choreographers for the gala, starting last
year. She wore a Gurung bustier and Theyskens skirt.  “Fashion elevates the energy,” said Lizzie Tisch.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s podcast,  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater  To contact the writers on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  and on Twitter at
@amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 