-- Scotiabank Sells Note Tied to Raymond James Picks
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-09-23T21:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/scotiabank-sells-its-largest-note-tied-to-raymond-james-picks.html
(Corrects distributor in second paragraph of story
published Sept. 20.)  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotiabank
unit sold $131.8 million of structured notes tied to an index of
securities picked by  Raymond James  Financial Inc., the bank’s
largest offering this year.  The three-year securities, issued Sept. 18, yield the gains
and losses of the Raymond James Analyst Current Favorites Total
Return Index with all capital at risk, according to a prospectus
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The
index needs to rise at least 4 percent for the notes to become
profitable. Raymond James distributed the securities for a 2.5
percent fee. Scotiabank may charge 1.05 percent in additional
index and structuring fees until maturity.  The latest picks include insurer Allstate Corp., technology
company Qualcomm Inc., timber harvester Rayonier Inc. and
restaurant chain operator Red Robin Gourmet Burgers Inc.,
according to a Sept. 16 publication of analyst favorites. These
companies would be included in the index, Jana Strange, a
spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail.  Joe Konecny, a spokesman for  Scotiabank (BNS) , didn’t return a
voicemail seeking comment on the securities.  Bank of Montreal  has previously issued notes tied to the
 St. Petersburg , Florida-based firm’s stock picks, Bloomberg data
show. The Toronto-based bank sold a total of $191 million of
notes in December and January that yield the gains of the stocks
or American depositary shares chosen as “best picks,”
according to prospectuses filed with the SEC.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  