-- SEC Sues N.Y. Advisory Firm Owner and Friend for Insider Trading
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-09-20T16:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/sec-sues-n-y-advisory-firm-owner-and-friend-for-insider-trading.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued a  New York  investment adviser over claims he
made illegal trades ahead of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s planned acquisition
of King Pharmaceuticals.  Tibor Klein made more than $300,000 for himself and his
clients after learning confidential information about the
planned merger in 2010, the SEC said in a complaint filed at
U.S. District Court in  Florida  today. The agency also sued
Michael Shechtman, a Florida-based stockbroker, who was
allegedly tipped by Klein and reaped more than $100,000 in
illicit gains.  Klein learned the non-public information about the
impending merger in August 2010 from one of his clients -- an
attorney who worked on matters for King Pharmaceuticals, the SEC
said. He began purchasing large amounts of the company’s stock
the next day the markets were open, according to the complaint.  That same day, Klein made six phone calls to Shechtman, who
opened an options trading account, the SEC said. Two days later,
Shechtman, who had never before traded in options, purchased
2,500 shares of King Pharmaceuticals stock and 300 call options
in his personal account, as well as 2,400 shares in his wife’s
retirement account, according to the agency.  When the acquisition plans were announced in October 2010,
King Pharmaceuticals stock rose about 39 percent.  “As securities industry professionals, Klein and Shechtman
clearly know the difference between legal and illegal trading,”
Eric Bustillo, director of the SEC’s regional office in Miami,
said in a statement. “Instead of playing by the rules, they
chose to exploit non-public information for an easy payday, but
they didn’t plan on getting caught by the SEC.”  The SEC is seeking disgorgement of illegal profits and a
financial penalty.  Phone calls to attorneys for Klein and Shechtman were not
immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  