-- Somalia Names Abrar as Its First Female Central Bank Governor
-- B y   M o h a m e d   S h e i k h   N o r
-- 2013-09-20T12:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/somalia-names-abrar-as-its-first-female-central-bank-governor.html
Somalia named Yussur Abrar as the
country’s first female central bank governor, replacing Abdusalam
Omer, who resigned after a United Nations monitoring group
accused him of mismanaging the government’s money.  Abrar has spent the past 30 years working for international
banks and insurance companies, Shador Hajji, a press officer in
the presidency in the capital, Mogadishu, said by phone today.
She will formally assume the role after a handover, the date of
which has yet to be confirmed, he said.  Omer, who held the job for seven months, said he presented
his letter of resignation “after the president told me that he
was going to reshuffle all the government institutions, so
before that I decided to quit,” he said in a phone interview.  Somalia’s government said on Sept. 6 that an investigation
into a UN monitoring group report published in July showed its
“condemnation of the Somali Central Bank Governor Abdusalam
Omer’s stewardship of the bank was entirely unwarranted.”  An allegation by the UN monitors that $12 million had gone
missing from a $16.9 million transfer to the central bank was
incorrect, and all the money “is fully accounted for,” the
government said in a press statement.  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN) , based
in  Florida , and a group of U.S.-based lawyers conducted the
investigation, it said.  The Horn of African nation is rebuilding its economy from
scratch after taking control of rebel-held territory over the
past two years, bringing a measure of stability to the country.  Somalia has been wracked by civil war since the fall of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991. Government forces and
African Union peacekeepers have been battling Al-Qaeda-linked
militants in the country for at least the past seven years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohamed Sheikh Nor in Mogadishu at 
 msheikhnor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  