-- Sony Expects Sales of 5 Million PlayStation 4s This Year
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-09-20T00:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/sony-expects-sales-of-5-million-playstation-4s-this-year.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  expects the PlayStation
4’s lower price and wider variety of entertainment services to
drive its forecast to sell 5 million units of the game console
by the end of March.  The projection for its new generation machine, set to be
introduced at $399 in November, compares with 3.55 million units
sold in a similar period for the PS3 which was offered in some
regions at $599, Andrew House, the head of Sony’s game
operation, said in an interview yesterday. The previous console
was released in November 2006.  Sony’s PS4 will be on U.S. shelves a week before Microsoft
Corp. starts selling its Xbox One for $499 as both seek to
reignite growth in the console business as casual players switch
to games on smartphones and tablet computers. Sony is staggering
the release of its machine in an effort to avoid shortages that
hurt sales of its predecessor, and is positioning the PS4 as a
portal for games, films and music.  “The advantage of PS4 is that we already have a network
and community in place,” House said at the  Tokyo  Game Show.
“More importantly we have services from the launch of the
device rather than have them appearing gradually as at the time
we did with PS3.”  At least 20 games will be available as it competes with the
Xbox One as Sony works with about 620 software developers to
produce content.  The machine will be released in North America on Nov. 15
with 32 markets to be reached by the end of this year while
Japan sales will start Feb. 22. The PS4 will be introduced in
Asia in December, including sales in Hong Kong,  Singapore ,
 Korea ,  Malaysia  and  Taiwan .  ‘Clear Positive’  “This will be well ahead of the Xbox One,” Damian Thong,
an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Tokyo, said in an e-mailed
report. The timing is “a clear positive since Asia is a big
opportunity,” he wrote.  Sony  rose  0.2 percent to 2,131 yen as of 9:05 a.m. in
Tokyo. The stock has more than doubled this year, compared with
a 42 percent gain in the Topix index.  The PS4 is a central element of Chief Executive Officer
Kazuo Hirai’s plan to revive Sony with games and mobile devices,
and he has set a target of being No. 1 in the U.S. market, the
biggest chunk of the $63 billion global market as estimated by
DFC Intelligence. The top position currently is held by the Xbox
360.  “It’s become an old concept that consoles are just for
games,” House said at the game convention in Makuhari, near
Tokyo. “PS4 will not only meet the expectations of core gamers
but possibilities of the console are way beyond that.”  Surging Smartphones  The new consoles will be offered in Sony’s home market for
39,980 yen ($402), the company said this month. Orders have
already topped 1 million, House said Aug. 21.  The PS4 and Xbox One are each projected to sell 3 million
units worldwide this year, the estimate of Michael Olson, an
analyst with Piper Jaffray in  Minneapolis . By comparison,
smartphone shipments in the second quarter alone totaled 229.6
million, according to researcher Strategy Analytics.  In the last round of consoles, Sony placed third in the
U.S., according to NPD Group data through 2010. Microsoft
overtook  Nintendo Co. (7974) ’s Wii two-and-a-half years ago and has led
since.  The unveiling of the PS4 in June impressed game enthusiasts
and industry analysts with its price and policies that included
unrestricted swapping and trade-ins of used games.  Currency Impact  The PS4, with a combined processor and memory architecture
from Sunnyvale, California-based  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,
features a PC-like design that Sony executives say will make
developing games easier.  Sony’s game unit  posted  an operating loss of 14.8 billion
yen in the quarter ended June 30, the company said last month.  The weakening yen against the dollar is negative for Sony’s
game business as it pays for components in the U.S. currency,
House said. Still, the weakening Japanese currency against the
euro boosts sales in Europe when repatriated in the yen, he
said.  “Currencies are obviously extremely difficult to
predict,” said House. “As we see sort of some balance between
those two movements most recently, I think, the effect overall
is rather neutral.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  