-- Sotheby’s to Sell Moet & Chandon Champagne From WWI Era
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-09-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/sotheby-s-to-sell-moet-chandon-champagne-back-to-1914.html
Moet & Chandon Champagne from the
914 vintage harvested at the start of World War I goes on sale
at a  Sotheby’s (BID)  auction in  London  in November, with bottles
spanning nine decades marking the winery’s 270-year history.  The wines have been stored since bottling in Moet &
Chandon’s cellars in Epernay,  France , and the sale will comprise
270 bottles of white and rose Champagne as well as 174 magnums
and three jeroboams, according to a Sotheby’s emailed statement.  The sale on Nov. 13 comes amid signs of stronger demand for
regions such as Champagne, the Rhone and  Italy  compared with
more muted buyer appetite for top Bordeaux, which comprises the
bulk of the wine investment market. The Liv-ex Fine Wine 50
Index of top Bordeaux edged higher in August after four months
of declines, leaving the benchmark up 4 percent this year.  “Champagne has proven to be a solid investment for buyers
during periods of market instability,” Liv-ex said in its
Cellar Watch monthly report, noting demand for diversification.
“Buyers have moved beyond the traditional choices of Krug,
Cristal and Dom Perignon.”  Six bottles of the 1914 Moet & Chandon Grand Vintage
Collection are priced to fetch as much as 6,000 pounds ($9,600)
per two-bottle lot, with another seven bottles from 1921
estimated at 5,200 pounds, also per two-bottle lot. Three
bottles of the 1928 are priced to fetch 2,400 pounds each and a
single lot of six bottles from the 1952 vintage is estimated at
as much as 7,000 pounds, according to the Sotheby’s statement.  Champagne Magnums  The vintage “1914 will be particularly evocative,” Benoit
Gouez, Moet & Chandon’s cellar director, was cited by Sotheby’s
as saying. “The harvest was brought forward due to the war, and
the wine took a long time to develop, but today it is truly
remarkable.”  Moet & Chandon is owned by Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest luxury-goods maker run by
founder and Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault , which also
controls Sauternes dessert wine estate Chateau d’Yquem and
Saint-Emilion wine producer Chateau Cheval Blanc.  Here is a list of global wine auctions scheduled so far
this year. Dates may be subject to revision, and links are to
auction house sale catalogs and websites.  Muse highlights include  New York  and London  weekend guides ;
 Lewis Lapham  on history;  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater; and  Greg
Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guy Collins in London on 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  