-- Starboard Says It Can’t Build Alternative Smithfield Bid
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-09-20T13:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/starboard-says-it-can-t-build-alternative-smithfield-bid.html
Starboard Value LP, the activist
investor that has advocated a breakup of  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) ,
said it is unable to offer an alternative to the pork producer’s
$4.7 billion agreement to be bought by China’s Shuanghui
International Holdings Ltd.  “In light of the restrictions imposed by the merger
agreement between the issuer and Shuanghui, and the requirement
of structuring a cash bid from a single entity, it proved
challenging for the bidder group to formalize and deliver an
alternative proposal prior to the special meeting,” Starboard
said today in a filing.  Investors are scheduled to vote Sept. 24 on Hong Kong-based
Shuanghui’s $34-a-share proposed acquisition of Smithfield, the
world’s largest hog and pork producer. Starboard reiterated
today that it had got non-binding written indications of
interest from parties, which it didn’t identify, for all of
Smithfield’s assets and the total was above the $34 per share
offer from Shuanghui.  Starboard said today unless another proposal emerges, it
plans to vote in favor of Smithfield’s deal with Shuanghui. The
investor had tried to compel Smithfield to delay the meeting
because, under the terms of the Shuanghui merger agreement, the
board can’t consider alternative bids after the Chinese deal is
approved by shareholders.  May Agreement  Shuanghui agreed in May to buy the Smithfield, Virginia-based meat processor in what would be the largest Chinese
purchase of a U.S. company. Smithfield and Shuanghui said on
Sept. 6 the deal received clearance from the Committee on
Foreign Investment in the U.S.  Former shareholder Continental Grain Co. had asked
Smithfield to consider breaking up before the agreement with
Shuanghui was announced. Continental said in June it was
satisfied with Shuanghui’s bid and sold its stake in the pork
processor.  Smithfield said in a July filing that its board evaluated
breaking up the company and concluded that it wasn’t “in the
best interests” of the company or its shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  