-- Stenson Leads PGA Tour Championship as Woods Stumbles to Finish
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-09-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/stenson-leads-tour-championship-as-woods-stumbles-to-finish-1-.html
Henrik Stenson holds a four-shot
lead at 10 under par entering today’s third round of the Tour
Championship, the final event of the U.S. PGA Tour’s playoffs.  The winner of the 30-player, season-ending tournament at
Atlanta’s East Lake Golf Club receives $1.4 million. A victory
for any player in the top five of the FedEx Cup standings would
secure a $10 million bonus.  Stenson, who is second in the standings behind Tiger Woods,
had five birdies and a bogey for a second-round 66. His two-round 130 total ties his career low for 36 holes. Stenson is
four shots ahead of Adam Scott, the Masters Tournament winner
from  Australia . Scott shot 1-under 69 yesterday after beginning
the second round one shot behind Stenson.  “The way I look at it, if I’m ahead they have more work to
do than I do to catch up,” Stenson told reporters. “Four shots
during two rounds is not enough. I’m just going to try to
do the best I can for the next two days and hopefully that’s
good enough.”  Stenson played yesterday’s round with 13 clubs, one below
the maximum allowed, after noticing a crack in the face of his
4-wood before teeing off.  “It worked out fine without it,” Stenson told reporters
after the round.  If Stenson had left the broken club in his bag, it would
have been at least a two-stroke penalty for carrying a “non-conforming” club. If he had used it to hit a shot, he would
have been disqualified.  Stenson said he was questioned by rules officials following
the round after a television viewer called in to ask if Stenson
had kept the club in his bag.  Tired Woods  Tiger Woods, a two-time winner of the points competition,
played his final five holes yesterday in 6 over par after being
5 under through his first 13. He’s 4 over for the tournament.  “I’m tired,” Woods told reporters before slowly walking
to his car in the players’ parking lot. “It’s just been a long
grind.”  Woods ended his round with a double bogey on the 14th hole,
a bogey on the 16th and a triple bogey on the 17th, where he hit
his tee shot into water on the left side of the fairway.  “My legs were just tired,” he said of that shot. “I
didn’t rotate through the ball and I turned it over.”  Woods’s 3-over-par 73 in the first round was the first time
he failed to make a birdie in a professional round since the
start of the 2010 U.S. Open and only the seventh time in his
professional career. He birdied the third hole yesterday to end
the streak at 21 holes.  “It was nice to finally make a birdie,” he said.  Last Place  Woods, the points leader coming into the event, is three
shots out of last place in a tournament he has won twice and
finished as runner-up four times.  Scott, who won the playoff-opening Barclays event in New
Jersey last month, is third in the points standings, followed by
BMW Championship winner Zach Johnson and Matt Kuchar, both
Americans.  Scott is one shot ahead of Jordan Spieth after rounds of 65
and 69, and two in front of U.S. Open winner Justin Rose, Dustin Johnson and Billy Horschel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  