-- Swipe-Fee Judge Leaves Rules in Place Pending Appeal
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-09-20T13:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/swipe-fee-judge-leaves-rules-in-place-pending-appeal.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve’s rules
for debit-card transaction fees and processing will remain in
place while the central bank appeals a decision throwing out the
regulations, a judge said.  Both the Fed and retailers had asked the federal judge in
 Washington  to keep the current rules in place pending the
appeal.  “Upon consideration of those pleadings, oral arguments and
the entire record, I conclude that the stay should remain in
place while our Circuit Court reviews my decision,” U.S.
District Judge Richard Leon wrote in the ruling entered today.  Merchants “vastly prefer the status quo” to the
“unregulated ‘free for all’ which would likely subject
merchants to interchange fees well in excess of the Fed’s
current standard,” lawyers for retail interests said in court
filings Aug. 28.  The merchants’ filing was in support of the Fed’s Aug. 26
request that the rules be left in place pending the central
bank’s appeal.  The Fed is seeking to reverse Leon’s ruling that it wrongly
set the cap on debit-card transaction fees, known as swipe fees,
at about 21 cents for each transaction, and neglected to bolster
competition among payment networks.  Leon’s decision, unless overturned on appeal, will force
regulators to revisit rules that bankers said would cost them
45 percent of their swipe-fee revenue. Lenders collected about
$16 billion annually from those fees before the Fed’s regulation
and responded by cutting back on perks such as rewards programs
and free checking to soften the blow to their profits.  The case is NACS v. Board of Governors of the  Federal
Reserve System , 11-cv-02075, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  