-- U.K. Independence Party Plans to Contest Every Seat in 2015 Vote
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-20T10:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/u-k-independence-party-plans-to-contest-every-seat-in-2015-vote.html
The U.K. Independence Party, which
wants Britain to leave the European Union, plans to put up a
candidate for every parliamentary seat in the 2015 election in a
bid to maximize support, its leader, Nigel Farage, said.  The party, which is holding its annual conference in  London 
today and tomorrow, has grown in membership and popularity since
the last election in 2010, drawing support from Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s Conservatives. Amid growing anti-EU sentiment,
Cameron has promised a referendum on leaving the bloc in 2017,
if he retains power after the next election.  The commitment by UKIP leader Nigel Farage, in an  interview
with the Daily Telegraph newspaper , means a rejection of
suggestions from individual euro-skeptic Tory lawmakers who’d
hoped to persuade UKIP not to run against them. A  YouGov Plc (YOU) 
poll published today put the party on 11 percent, the same as
the Liberal Democrats, currently the junior partners in
Cameron’s coalition government.  “We will fight every single seat,” Farage told the
Telegraph. “Who knows? What if UKIP held the balance of power -
- there would be a referendum then.”  UKIP candidates ran in 572 seats out of the 650 in the
House of Commons in 2010. Farage, who is addressing the
conference today, said UKIP would also contest the 18 districts
in  Northern Ireland  that are not fought by the main British
parties.  Today’s YouGov poll for the Sun newspaper put the
opposition  Labour Party  at 35 percent support, one percentage
point ahead of the Conservatives. YouGov questioned 1,878 people
on Sept. 18 and yesterday for the survey, for which no margin of
error was specified.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  