-- U.K. August Budget Deficit Narrows Amid Recovery Signs
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-09-20T09:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/u-k-budget-deficit-narrows-in-august-as-spending-cuts-bite.html
Britain’s  budget deficit  narrowed
in August as tax income rose and the government cut spending,
providing further evidence that the recovery is taking hold.  Net borrowing  excluding temporary support for banks was
13.2 billion pounds compared with a deficit of 14.4 billion
pounds a year earlier, the Office for National Statistics said
today in  London . The shortfall was in line with the 13.3
billion-pound median  forecast  in a Bloomberg survey of 19
economists. Tax receipts rose 1.4 percent and spending fell 2.2
percent.  Britain’s economic revival has gathered pace recently,
putting Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne on course to
meet his fiscal targets this year. The improvement has boosted
support for his Conservative Party and undercut the Labour
opposition’s argument that spending cuts are stifling  growth .  “With activity data suggesting that the U.K. economy is
gaining some momentum, and with employment continuing to rise,
the government looks on course to achieve its forecast,” said
 James Knightley , an economist at ING Bank NV in London. “Tax
revenues are rising now and we are starting to see falls coming
through from government departmental spending, which hadn’t been
the case for a while.”  The  pound  was little changed after the data and was trading
at $1.6039 as of 10 a.m. in London. The benchmark 10-year gilt
yield was also barely changed at 2.91 percent.  Revenue rose across the board in August, with the exception
of income and capital-gains tax, which declined 5.8 percent on
the year because of changes in the timing of payments.
Corporation-tax revenue climbed 3.7 percent. Spending by
government departments fell 4.8 percent, with changes in the
profile of payments to local authorities accounting for part of
the drop. Welfare costs were unchanged from a year earlier.  Gaining Pace  Gross domestic product  expanded 0.7 percent in the second
quarter, and the recovery has picked up pace in the current
quarter with house prices rising and builders, manufacturers and
services firms all reporting the strongest growth for years.  In the first five months of the fiscal year, the underlying
deficit narrowed to 46.8 billion pounds from 50.5 billion
pounds, with revenue boosted by payments of stamp duty, the ONS
said. Receipts and spending both rose by almost 3 percent.  The figures exclude coupon payments from the Bank of
England’s  Asset Purchase Facility (UKAPTARG)  and the 28 billion-pound
transfer of Royal Mail Group Ltd. pension assets in April 2012.  In August, the BOE transferred 3.9 billion pounds of coupon
income, although none of it counted toward net borrowing as the
12.3 billion-pound ceiling permitted under European Union rules
for the current fiscal year had already been reached in July.  Cash Boost  Cash measures of the public finances continue to receive
the full benefit. There was a public-sector cash surplus of 3
billion pounds in August. Central government, which excludes
state-owned banks, posted a deficit of 9.1 billion pounds. Net
debt was 1.19 trillion pounds, or 74.6 percent of GDP. That’s up
from 71.5 percent a year ago.  Osborne has reduced the deficit from a postwar high of 11
percent of GDP when he took office in 2010 to 7.4 percent, or
116 billion pounds, in the year through March. The  Office for
Budget Responsibility  is predicting a similar shortfall in the
current fiscal year. Austerity is projected to continue until
2018, three years later than first planned, after weaker-than-expected growth hit tax receipts and pushed up welfare costs.  While Britain’s economy has “turned a corner,” Osborne
said in a speech in London this week, “it would be a mistake to
think we can ease up in repainting our economy and fixing what
went wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Jennifer Ryan} in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  