-- U.S. Stocks Climb for 3rd Week as Fed Avoids Stimulus Cut
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-09-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/u-s-stocks-climb-for-3rd-week-as-fed-avoids-stimulus-cut.html
U.S.  stocks  rose for a third
straight week, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index touching a
record, after the  Federal Reserve  surprised investors by
deciding not to slow monetary stimulus.  Benchmark indexes retreated on the last trading day amid
concern that fiscal and monetary policies may hamper growth in
the world’s largest economy. All 10 main  industries  in the  S&P
500  advanced for the week. Utilities jumped as investors snapped
up high dividend-yielding equities.  FedEx Corp. (FDX)   soared  8.9
percent as quarterly profit beat estimates. UnitedHealth Group
Inc. slipped 5.3 percent amid political wrangling over funding
of the new health-care law.  The S&P 500  advanced  1.3 percent to 1,709.91 over the five
days. The benchmark index has advanced 4.7 percent in September,
rebounding from the biggest monthly drop since May 2012. The Dow
Jones Industrial Average increased 75.03 points, or 0.5 percent,
to 15,451.09. Both gauges on Sept. 18 surpassed their previous
record highs set on Aug. 2.  “This week was good news for the people who wanted to keep
the spigot open,”  Tim Hartzell , who helps manage about $425
million as chief investment officer at Sequent Asset Management,
said via phone from Houston. “The underlying data is not as
robust as what many thought and may turn weaker despite five
years of easy money, and stocks are dependent on this monetary
stimulus.”  Stocks rallied as  the Fed  unexpectedly refrained from
reducing its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases, saying it
wants more evidence of an economic recovery. The decision
emboldened bulls who have enjoyed a 153 percent rally in the S&P
500 since stimulus began five years ago.  First Step  Twenty-four of 41 economists surveyed Sept. 18-19 said the
Fed will now wait until December before taking the first step to
cut monthly bond purchases, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
median estimate in an Aug. 9-13 poll projected the Fed would
begin paring at the meeting that concluded Sept. 18.  “The decision was certainly a surprise and it shows that
the Fed’s assessment of the economic recovery is weaker than
they had previously let on,”  Stephen Wood , the New York-based
chief market strategist who helps oversee about $237 billion at
Russell Investments, said by phone on Sept. 18. “In the near
term, risk assets are going to like this.”  Equities slumped the most since August on the final day of
the week as Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said a
small tapering of bond buying is possible next month, and
concern grew about political brinkmanship over federal spending.
Government funding expires Oct. 1 and the Treasury is expected
to exhaust its ability to borrow funds in mid-October, when it
will hit the statutory debt limit.  ‘Signifying Nothing’  “To steal a line from Shakespeare: Full of sound and fury,
signifying nothing,” Tom Mangan, who helps oversee about $4.4
billion as a  money manager  at James Investment Research Inc. in
Xenia,  Ohio , said by phone. “There’ll be a lot of yelling and
screaming, but I would be very surprised if they actually shut
down the government. The market impact will be limited.”  Among economic reports during the week, the Conference
Board’s  index (TRAN)  of leading economic indicators increased 0.7
percent in August. Industrial production rose last month by the
most in six months and sales of previously owned homes
unexpectedly climbed to the highest level in more than six
years. Reports in the coming week on data from gross domestic
product to  consumer confidence  and new home sales may help
investors gauge the prospects for growth.  GDP Growth  The  U.S. economy  will expand 1.6 percent this year, the
slowest pace since the recession ended in 2009, and grow by 2.7
percent in 2014, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stocks also rose early in the week after  Lawrence Summers 
withdrew his bid to be Fed chairman and tensions over dealings
with  Syria ’s chemical weapons eased. Summers would tighten
policy more than  Janet Yellen , who was his main rival to replace
 Ben S. Bernanke , according to a Bloomberg Global Poll of
investors, analysts and traders.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , the
gauge of S&P 500 options prices known as the VIX, fell 7.3
percent to 13.12, the lowest since Aug. 14. The measure has
declined 27 percent this year.  The Dow Jones Transportation Index jumped 2.6 percent,
reaching an all-time high on Sept. 19. The Morgan Stanley
Cyclical Index, which tracks shares in companies whose earnings
are closely tied to economic growth, advanced 1.8 percent, also
touching a record during the week.  Industrials, Utilities  Industrials, utility stocks and financial companies rose
the most in the S&P 500, gaining at least 1.5 percent.  Boeing Co., the world’s largest planemaker, surged 4.8
percent to $116.63. Travelers Cos., the only property insurer in
the  Dow (INDU) , climbed 3 percent to $86.06. American Express Co., the
biggest U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases, rose 2.7 percent
to $77.32.  Mining companies advanced with gold. Barrick Gold Corp.
rose 5 percent to $18.61. Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
added 2.5 percent to $33.87. Gold futures gained 1.8 percent for
the week, despite a plunge of 2.7 percent on the final day.  FedEx  soared  8.9 percent to $116.83, the highest level
since July 2007. The company, regarded as an economic bellwether
because of the variety of goods it ships globally, deepened cuts
in air capacity to  Asia  and moved more packages to cheaper
shipping modes, combating a customer shift away from expensive
delivery options and boosting quarterly profit.  An S&P index of 11  homebuilding stocks  rallied 3.5 percent.
D.R. Horton Inc. climbed 5.5 percent to $20.20. KB Home
increased 3.9 percent to $17.63.  Dividend Yields  Utilities rallied 1.8 percent as Treasury yields sank the
most since the five days ended July 12 and investors increased
purchases of high dividend-yielding shares. Utility stocks pay
4.1 percent in dividends for the second-biggest payout among S&P
500 groups.  Apple Inc. rose 0.5 percent to $467.41. The company
attracted long lines of shoppers at its retail stores for the
global debut of its latest iPhones, in the company’s biggest
move this year to stoke new growth. The stock slumped 6.7
percent last week after analysts criticized the new phone for
lacking enough new features.  WellPoint Inc. tumbled 7.6 percent to $82.33 for the
biggest retreat in the S&P 500. JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
Justin Lake said it is among companies that would be most
affected by any delay in the start of open enrollment in new
health-care exchanges mandated by the Affordable Care Act.  The U.S. House voted on the last day of the week to finance
the federal government through mid-December and choke off
funding for President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, setting up
a showdown with the Senate and the White House.  UnitedHealth Group, the largest U.S. health insurer, lost
5.3 percent to $70.57 for the biggest decline in the Dow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  