-- Huawei Targets Nigeria Smartphone Boom for Market Share
-- B y   Y i n k a   I b u k u n
-- 2013-09-20T12:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/huawei-targets-nigeria-smartphone-boom-for-market-share.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest networking-equipment manufacturer, plans to double
smartphone sales in  Nigeria  this year as it seeks to boost its
global market share, company officials said.  Huawei, which released its Ascend P6 smartphone, said to be
the “world’s slimmest phone” in Lagos, the commercial capital
of  Africa ’s biggest phone market, on Sept. 6, forecasts it will
sell 200,000 smartphones in the country by year-end, Tony Liang,
managing director of the company’s consumer business group for
West Africa, said in a Sept. 10 interview in the city. That’s
twice the number it sold last year.  “With Nigeria developing economically, smartphone use will
boom over the next five years,” he said. More than 90 percent
of the phones used in the country now are “feature phones,”
used only for voice calls and  text messages , leaving room for
smartphone growth, he said.  The Shenzhen-based company seeks to become one of the top
three smartphone vendors globally by 2018. Nigeria had 117
million mobile-phone subscribers as of June 2013, according to
the Nigerian Communications Commission, for a population of more
than 160 million. With many subscribers acquiring more than one
line, the numbers will grow to more than 200 million
subscriptions in 2017, London-based research company Informa
Telecoms & Media estimates.  Late Entrant  While Huawei is relatively a late entrant in the Nigerian
smartphone market, it has the advantage of being a network
provider to most phone companies, said Yolanda Zhang, marketing
director of the consumer business in West Africa.  “We already partner with them for their networks,” Zhang
said. “That makes it easier for us than for the others to
partner with them” for the smartphone segment as well, she
said.  Its competitors include Ontario, Canada-based BlackBerry
Ltd, which remains a popular brand in Nigeria, Espoo, Finland-based  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,  Taiwan ’s  HTC Corp. (2498) , Hong Kong’s Tecno Telecom
Ltd., which produces exclusively for Africa, as well as Samsung
Electrics Co. and Apple Inc.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ’s Nigerian unit, Nigeria’s Globacom Ltd.,
New Delhi-based Bharti Airtel and Abu Dhabi-based  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , known as Etisalat, all offer
subsidized or free smartphones and data plans.  Cheaper Data  Huawei is helping deploy a fiber backbone to connect
government departments in Abuja by mid-2014 in collaboration
with Nigerian company Galaxy Backbone and is in talks to extend
it across the country to enable cheaper data services, said
Kevin Li, the public relations manager for West Africa.  Smartphone shipments are expected to reach one billion
globally this year and their growth could outpace that of mobile
data, according to  Deloitte’s Technology, Media and
Telecommunications Predictions 2013 report .  The target of 200,000 phones set by Huawei for Nigeria this
year is small for a market estimated to have five million
smartphones, said Yomi Adegboye, managing editor of mobility.ng,
a Nigerian online magazine on mobile technology. “Right now
Huawei is not very visible on the smartphone front,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yinka Ibukun in Lagos at 
 yibukun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  