-- UEM Sees Ringgit Drop, Singapore Curbs Aiding Property Sales
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-09-20T09:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/uem-sees-ringgit-drop-singapore-curbs-boosting-property-sales.html
UEM Sunrise Bhd. (UEMS) , Malaysia’s
second-biggest developer by market value, is betting the slide
in the local currency and measures to curb property prices in
neighboring Singapore will boost sales at its largest projects.  UEM may surpass its new  sales  target of 3 billion ringgit
($948 million) for the year, Chief Executive Officer Wan
Abdullah Wan Ibrahim said. UEM is the biggest landowner in the
Iskandar region in Malaysia, an economic development zone almost
three times the size of  New York  City in the southern state of
Johor that borders Singapore.  Iskandar “is more attractive and so cheap in comparison to
Singapore,” Abdullah said in an interview in Singapore
yesterday.  The ringgit has dropped 5.2 percent against the  Singapore 
dollar over the past four months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The city-state across the Straits of Johor has been
implementing curbs to cool an overheated property market,
prompting Singaporeans to look for cheaper property across the
border.  Singaporeans account for 74 percent of overseas buyers,
making them the largest foreign and second-largest group of
purchasers of UEM’s properties after Malaysians, Abdullah said.  UEM, based in Kuala Lumpur, is taking advantage of the
closer ties being fostered by the two Southeast Asian countries
after decades of arguments over issues, including land
ownership, have been resolved.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak and his Singapore
counterpart Lee Hsien Loong have announced plans for a high-speed rail link by 2020 that would cut the 300-kilometer (186-mile) journey from the island-city to Kuala Lumpur to 90
minutes, with Lee saying the two capitals could be seen as twin
cities like London and Paris.  Home Prices  UEM , 65 percent owned by Khazanah Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state-investment company, plans to start selling 6.29 billion
ringgit worth of new projects in Iskandar by the end of the
year, Abdullah said. UEM has planned developments for 5,442
acres of land in the area, in addition to 1,239 acres outside
Nusajaya, one of the five zones in Iskandar, the developer said.  Home prices for UEM properties are expected to rise 5
percent each year for the next couple of years, Abdullah said.  “Other developers may be opportunistic and may raise
selling prices more but we are here for the long term,” he
said.  Selling prices per square foot for new condominiums
developed by UEM in Nusajaya have risen to 775 ringgit in 2013
from 539 ringgit in 2011 , Abdullah said, citing past sales.  UEM  shares  rose 0.4 percent to 2.72 ringgit at the close in
Kuala Lumpur trading. The shares have declined 13 percent in the
past three months, making them the worst performers on the
 benchmark   FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index. (FBMKLCI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  