-- Unitech Can Claim Deutsche Bank Libor Dishonesty, Judge Rules
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-09-20T11:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/unitech-can-claim-deutsche-bank-libor-dishonesty-judge-rules.html
Unitech Ltd. (UT) , an Indian property
firm, won permission from a London judge to argue that  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  dishonestly fixed  interest rates  in a U.K. trial over a
derivative contract.  While Unitech can’t use rigging allegations to annul the
disputed interest-rate swap, it can file a counter-claim for
damages caused by the German lender’s alleged attempts to
influence the London interbank offered rate, Judge Nigel Teare
said today.  Both the swap dispute and any claim linked to Libor must be
decided at a trial, he said in a written ruling.  U.K. judges have taken differing approaches on lawsuits
related to Libor-fixing allegations, which led to criminal and
regulatory probes across the globe and fines totaling about $2.5
billion for investment banks that tried to manipulate the
interest-rate benchmark for profit.  Unitech lost its first attempt in February to add Libor
allegations to its U.K. lawsuit. Another judge granted a U.K.
care home operator’s request to sue  Barclays Plc (BARC)  for fraud
related to the benchmark in a separate swap case. Both decisions
were appealed and will be decided in a joint appeal-court
hearing scheduled for October.  “This is a long-standing case of a loan that was made and
never paid back,” said Kathryn Hanes, a London spokeswoman for
Deutsche Bank. Unitech’s “unfounded allegations about Libor are
an attempt to delay payment and divert attention from its
remaining unpaid debt on a swap agreement tied to the loan.”  Judge Teare said Unitech couldn’t try to rescind the $150
million loan owed to Deutsche Bank and other lenders, and must
repay the money. Deutsche Bank sued the Indian company last year
saying it was owed $11 million under the swap.  Unitech’s lawyer, Richard Gwynne, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. In May, the New Delhi-based real estate developer missed analysts’ fourth quarter
estimates with profits of 303 million rupees ($4.9 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  