-- Murdoch Said to Chafe at AllThingsD Terms After Takeover
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/murdoch-said-to-object-to-allthingsd-terms-after-2007-takeover.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , which is severing ties
with AllThingsD founders Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher at the
end of the year, objected to the terms of the journalists’
contract soon after the media company took over the operation in
2007, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Mossberg and Swisher together take slightly more than 50
percent of AllThingsD’s conference revenue, including ticket
sales and sponsorships, according to people familiar with the
business, who asked not to be identified because the terms are
private. The contract was originally negotiated years before
News Corp.’s Rupert Murdoch acquired AllThingsD as part of his
Dow Jones purchase, and he and other executives bristled at the
arrangement, people with knowledge of their thinking said.  The AllThingsD website was begun a few years after the
conference business started in 2003 and became a top source of
news on startups, media and the technology industry. Even though
executives didn’t view the contract terms as ideal, the
arrangement was profitable for News Corp. and the company
extended the partnership for three additional years in 2010,
according to the people. Still, management didn’t expect the
agreement to continue beyond 2013, they said.  Swisher disagreed with that characterization yesterday,
saying in an interview, “I have no idea if Rupert was unhappy
or not with the previous contract, but News Corp. negotiated a
new one that they happily signed in 2010.”  NBCUniversal, Hearst  The split leaves News Corp. without two of its highest-profile business journalists, while sending Mossberg and Swisher
in search of new partners and investors. The pair  said this week 
that they would have a new website and conference business
starting Jan. 1 under a different corporate structure. Mossberg
and Swisher have been in talks with two potential backers:
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal and magazine publisher Hearst
Corp., according to people with knowledge of the negotiations.  The talks with NBCUniversal included the possibility of
creating a new technology show for CNBC that would be based on
the same kind of coverage found in AllThingsD.com, two people
said. The financial cable network has recently looked at ways to
increase its coverage of Silicon Valley startups and businesses,
according to people with direct knowledge of those discussions.  Mossberg and Swisher also are working out plans to bring
along all of the current AllThingsD editorial and administrative
staff and would give them an equity stake in the new venture,
three of the people said.  Ashley Huston , a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment on the company’s contracts with Mossberg and Swisher.
CNBC’s Brian Steel also declined to comment, while Hearst’s
Alexandra Carlin didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Details Coming  “While we can’t give any details yet -- and there are
details -- you can assume that this new independent business
will be laser-focused on continuing and extending Web journalism
and conference journalism with the highest standards,” Swisher
and Mossberg said in a statement on the AllThingsD site. “Plus,
we will finally be able to have added resources, so we can grow
in new and exciting ways, including hiring more journalists and
doing much more video.”  News Corp.’s Dow Jones announced this week that Mossberg
and Swisher wouldn’t be renewing their contracts when they
expire at the end of this year. In their absence, Dow Jones said
it will expand its technology coverage and conference business.
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with News
Corp. in providing financial news and hosting conferences.  Weekly Columnist  In addition to his AllThingsD duties, Mossberg had served
for two decades as a weekly technology columnist for Dow Jones’s
Wall Street Journal. His column was a first-read for consumers
deciding whether to buy the latest iPhone or upgrade their
computer software.  The AllThingsD conference has been lucrative for the past
 decade , consistently selling out its limited 500-seat event
every year with guests such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Steve Jobs,
Microsoft Corp.’s Bill Gates and Murdoch himself. While Mossberg
and Swisher claimed a large chunk of the business, they managed
all of its aspects, including wrangling speakers, hiring staff
and editing the website, the people said.  Mossberg and Swisher have approached other media companies,
including the New York Times, about a joint venture to create a
similar conference under a new brand, according to three
executives familiar with the matter.  Conference Tickets  Tickets to AllThingsD’s most recent conference, at the end
of May, cost $5,500 each, for a total of $2.75 million. The
event also takes  sponsors  -- such as  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and Sony Corp.
-- which pay as much as $400,000 each, adding up to more revenue
than ticket sales generate, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the business.  The website only brings in about $3 million to $4 million
in annual ad revenue, most of it tied to deals that also run
across Dow Jones’s other sites, such as wsj.com, one of the
people said. As a stand-alone entity, AllThingsD.com would
generate about $1 million a year, the person said.  Dow Jones owns the AllThingsD brand, and the company
declined to say what would happen to it. AllThingsD recently
added two new events -- one focused on media and another on the
mobile industry -- in an effort to expand the franchise.  Dow Jones Editor-in-Chief Gerard Baker said the publisher
plans to expand the Wall Street Journal’s technology coverage
and will extend its conference business to include an
international event. He praised Mossberg’s contributions to the
publication.  “I want to offer heartfelt thanks for more than 20 years
of Personal Technology columns as well as his very fine
reporting on national and international affairs in the years
before he turned his attention to technology coverage,” Baker
said in the statement.  News Corp. split off from Murdoch’s entertainment business,
now called 21st Century Fox Inc., earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  