-- Turkey Lira Trims Biggest Weekly Gain in 20 Months as Bonds Drop
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-09-20T13:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/turkey-lira-trims-biggest-weekly-gain-in-20-months-as-bonds-drop.html
Turkey ’s lira weakened the most in
a week, paring the biggest weekly gain since January 2012, as
the nation’s two-year bonds fell amid declines in emerging-market assets.  The lira depreciated 1 percent to 1.9788 per dollar at 3:55
p.m. in Istanbul, trimming the five-day advance to 2.3 percent.
The currency was the worst performer after South  Africa ’s rand
among 10 emerging-market currencies in Europe, Middle East and
Africa monitored by Bloomberg. The yield on  benchmark  two-year
notes rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 7.89
percent, after tumbling 83 basis points yesterday.  “Normally what should be a medium-term movement happened
in a single day,” Bora Tamer Yilmaz, an Istanbul-based
economist at Ziraat Investment, a unit of Turkey’s biggest
state-owned lender TC Ziraat Bankasi AS, said in e-mailed
comments. “Still, this looks like a healthy correction to me.”  The lira strengthened as much as 2.8 percent on Sept. 18,
after the U.S. Federal Reserve decided to keep its bond-buying
program intact, surprising economists surveyed by Bloomberg who
had forecast a reduction. The Fed’s move boosted appetite for
riskier developing-nation assets, pushing the Borsa Istanbul
National 100 Index into a bull market and sending two-year bonds
up the most since June.  The Fed-induced respite doesn’t change the underlying
picture for the lira, which is “vulnerable due to current-account dynamics, social unrest and  Syria ,” according to Hans Gustafson, an emerging-markets strategist at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in
 Stockholm .  The current-account gap will widen to 6.9 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 6 percent in 2012, according to
the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Turkey
witnessed some anti-government rallies earlier this month after
nationwide protests in June.  “The lira could weaken past 2 per dollar again,”
Gustafson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  