-- Eleven Die in Veracruz as Mexico Storms Kill at Least 97
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-09-21T00:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/hurricane-manuel-goes-ashore-in-mexico-with-more-rain.html
Twin hurricanes that battered
 Mexico  on both coasts left more than 100 people dead after 11
were reported killed in a landslide in Veracruz yesterday,
causing the president to suspend his trip to the United Nations
General Assembly opening.  Dozens are still missing in the coffee-growing village of
La Pintada after a mountain collapsed on their homes in the
southern state of Guerrero, which was hardest hit by the rain.
Manuel weakened from a hurricane to a tropical depression
yesterday after going onshore on Mexico’s Pacific coast, the
latest in a series of storms that authorities say caused record
rainfall that extended across the country.  The Army is struggling to evacuate villagers from remote
outposts where mountains have collapsed or are at risk of
toppling, Interior Minister Miguel Osorio Chong said. Hurricane
Ingrid on the east coast and Hurricane Manuel’s first blow as a
tropical storm on the Pacific drove more than 50,000 people from
their homes and stranded 40,000 more in the resort city of
 Acapulco , which is also in Guerrero.  Veracruz has emitted “special alerts for remote towns,”
the state’s civil protection minister Noemi Guzman said in a
press conference broadcast on Milenio TV yesterday. “There’ve
been 121 landslides” across the state.  At least 68 people were missing after the landslide in
Guerrero, Osorio Chong said Sept. 19. A Black Hawk helicopter
from the Mexican Federal Police disappeared amid rescue efforts.  Warnings Lifted  Manuel weakened after making landfall west of Culiacan in
the state of Sinaloa yesterday and storm warnings have since
been lifted. The rains killed three people and affected 100,000
more in Sinaloa, Radio Formula said yesterday.  “Rains registered in the past days are historically the
most intense due to their extension,” President Enrique Pena Nieto said in Acapulco yesterday. He suspended his  New York  trip
next week to provide his “full attention and follow-through on
all actions to help the nation.”  U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, on a previously scheduled
trip to Mexico City to meet with Pena Nieto, said the U.S.
stands willing to aid Mexico in storm recovery and that the U.S.
government is providing $250,000 to help communities hardest hit
by the storms.  Mexico’s six refineries are operating normally, a press
official at state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos said yesterday. In
addition, the highway from Acapulco to Mexico City reopened
after mudslides were cleared from the road, according to the
Communications and Transportation Ministry.  It was the second direct hit by the storm, which struck the
country farther south over the weekend.  Scarcity   Ricardo Sala, a 45-year-old Mexico City resident who spent
last weekend’s long Independence Day weekend in Acapulco, was
stuck in his timeshare property after the highway back to the
capital closed. He and his wife and daughter struggled to find
clean running water amid a scarcity of fresh fruit and
vegetables at the grocery store near the hotel in the resort
city, Sala said.  Mexico’s two largest airlines, Grupo Aeromexico SAB and
Interjet, along with the army, have flown more than 15,000
stranded tourists for free to Mexico City from Acapulco after
heavy rain limited the airport’s services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  