-- US Producers Skip Brazil’s Biggest Oil Find as Chinese Compete
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-09-20T03:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/us-producers-skip-brazil-s-biggest-oil-find-as-chinese-compete.html
U.S.-based  oil companies  are
skipping the chance to bid for  Brazil ’s biggest crude discovery
while state-run producers from  China ,  India  and  Malaysia  prepare
to compete in an Oct. 21 auction.  China National Petroleum Corp., China’s biggest oil
company, and China National Offshore Oil Corp., its biggest
offshore producer, have registered for the Libra oilfield
licensing round, the country’s oil regulator said in a statement
yesterday. China Petrochemical Corp., known as Sinopec Group, is
participating in the auction through a Brazil-based joint
venture with Repsol SA.  The 11 registered companies also include  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , Total SA, Ecopetrol SA and  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) , four of
the nine largest oil companies by market value. Kuala Lumpur-based Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  Oil & Natural Gas (ONGC)  Corp.,
India’s biggest explorer, also plan to compete in Brazil’s first
licensing round, under new legislation that guarantees operating
control and a minimum 30 percent stake for Rio de Janeiro-based
Petrobras.  The “surprisingly small” turnout was caused by limited
amount of geological data, a lack of experience with the
production-sharing model and the potential size of investments,
Bank of America Corp. analyst Frank McGann said in a note to
clients dated yesterday.  “Lonely Libra,” McGann wrote. “This suggests that only
two to three consortiums are likely to be formed to bid.”  Spying Allegations  The number of participants was about a quarter of the more
than 40 companies expected by the regulator, Magda Chambriard,
the head of Brazil’s oil regulator, told reporters in Rio de
Janeiro yesterday. The absence of U.S. producers comes after
Chevron Corp. was sued by prosecutors for a 2011 offshore  oil
spill  and allegations this month by American journalist Glenn
Greenwald that the U.S. was spying on Petrobras.  If a consortium led by U.S. companies wins the bid round it
will face a “political firestorm,” political risk consultancy
Eurasia Group wrote in a Sept. 10 note to clients. The country’s
main oil union on Sept. 9 requested the bid be cancelled because
of the spying claims.  Brazil is auctioning Libra, estimated to hold as much as 12
billion barrels of recoverable crude, under a new profit-sharing
model where Petrobras and partners will give the government at
least 41.65 percent of production after deducting output to
cover costs. The government will choose the group that offers
the most oil.  Potential Opportunities  “Supermajors have a strong preference for operating
projects of this size, that’s an important reason why you would
see a company like Exxon not wanting to get involved,” T.J.
Conway, a research and advisory manager at New York-based Energy
Intelligence Group, said by telephone from  Washington  before the
announcement.  The auction is more attractive to “national oil companies
that are seeking big volumes and are comfortable with non-operated positions,” Conway said.  The 11 bidders will probably form into two separate groups
to bid for Libra, he said.  “After reviewing this opportunity, we decided not to
participate in the Libra bid round,” Patrick McGinn, an  Exxon
Mobil (XOM)  spokesman, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “We
continually look for new exploration and development
opportunities around the world where we can leverage our
experience and technology, and we look forward to evaluating
potential opportunities in Brazil.”  Signing Bonus  McGinn didn’t comment on whether spying allegations had an
influence on Exxon’s decision not to participate.  UBS AG (UBSN)  expected “low interest” in the auction, analysts
led by Lilyanna Yang said in a Sept. 4 note to clients. Crude
sales from Libra won’t begin until 2021, about two years longer
than ANP estimates, and higher-than-expected levels of natural
gas will increase extraction costs, the UBS analysts said.  A 15 billion reais ($6.8 billion) signing fee to be paid by
the winning bidders makes it “nearly impossible” for smaller
oil companies to compete, Energy Intelligence’s Conway said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  