-- Venezuela Orders National Guard to Oversee Toilet Paper Factory
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-09-20T21:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/venezuela-orders-national-guard-to-oversee-toilet-paper-factory.html
Venezuela’s government issued an
order to occupy toilet paper producer  Manufacturas de Papel C.A. 
as the South American country struggles to abate shortages of
 consumer goods .  National price regulator Sundecop will temporally take over
plants owned by Manpa, as the Caracas-based company is known, to
verify production processes and distribution before placing them
under the watch of the National Guard, the agency said today in
an e-mailed statement.  “The action taken at the producer of toilet paper,
sanitary napkins and disposable diapers corresponds to the
obligation of the state to guarantee the normal supply of
primary necessities,” Sundecop said in the statement.  Venezuelan President  Nicolas Maduro  has cut dollar supplies
for importers since winning election in April, creating
shortages of goods including toilet paper and butter and stoking
one of the world’s highest inflation rates. His predecessor and
mentor,  Hugo Chavez , nationalized more than 1,000 companies or
their assets before dying in March this year.  Annual inflation accelerated to 45.4 percent last month
from 42.6 percent in July, while the scarcity index measuring
the amount of goods out of stock on store shelves reached 20
percent, the central bank said Sept. 10.  The country devalued the official  exchange rate  to 6.3
bolivars per dollar from 4.3 bolivars in February. On the black
market, one dollar currently buys around 43.97 bolivars,
according to dolartoday.com, which tracks the exchange rate on
the border with Colombia.  A new complementary foreign exchange system being designed
in Venezuela will be “transparent but highly regulated and
supervised,” central bank director  Armando Leon  said on Sept.
18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  