-- West Africa Bourse Says Nine Companies May List Next Year
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-09-20T10:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/west-africa-bourse-says-nine-companies-may-list-next-year.html
West Africa’s regional  stock 
market, which switched to real-time trading this week to lure
more foreign investors, may see as many as nine new companies
selling shares on the exchange next year.  That will probably include three from Ivory Coast and three
from Senegal, Gabriel Fal, president of the stock market’s board
of governors, said in an interview Sept. 17 in Abidjan, the
Ivorian commercial capital where the bourse is based. Niger,
Burkina Faso and Mali may each have a listing, he said,
declining to name any of the companies. The last initial public
offering was Bank of Africa Burkina Faso, in December 2010.  The “mentality is changing,” said Fal, who’s based in
Dakar,  Senegal . “Companies are becoming more favorable” to the
idea of trading their shares on the market, he said.  Stock markets in  Ghana ,  Kenya ,  Zambia  and Nigeria are among
the world’s 15 best performers this year, rallying as the
International Monetary Fund said Africa’s growth, at 5.1
percent, will be the best in the world in 2013 after developing
Asia. The BRVM’s Composite  Index (JALSH)  advanced 21 percent, beating a
13 percent increase in the FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index in
Johannesburg. The gauge dropped 0.3 percent to 201.48 by 9:47
a.m. in Abidjan.  The companies that may list mostly operate in banking and
insurance, as well as in the telecommunications and commodities
industries, Fal said. A share sale by Bamako-based telecom
Sotelma, planned for mid-2012, was delayed after a coup in  Mali 
that year.  Sonatel Gains  Senegal’s Sonatel, which offers mobile-phone service in
four West African countries and is 42-percent  owned  by France
Telecom SA, is the biggest company on the BRVM by
capitalization. Its shares gained 24 percent this year and
traded unchanged at 18,000 CFA francs.  Most of the 37 companies on the exchange are Ivorian, which
has the biggest economy in the eight-member West African
Economic and Monetary Union. The best performer this year is
Abidjan-based Uniwax SA, a fabric printer owned by London-based
private-equity company Actis LLP. The stock has risen almost
fivefold this year.  The exchange switched to real-time trading on Sept. 16 and
extended its opening hours to 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. from a two-hour
trading day that ended at 10:30 a.m.  “Real-time trading is a necessary step” because some
international funds are only allowed to invest into real-time
market, Fal said. The longer hours will enable foreign buyers in
different time zones to invest more easily.  The West African bourse may start a market for mining
companies operating in the region in three to four years, Fal
said. It would allow companies that have mining permits to look
for funds or partners to develop their operations, he said.  The exchange may develop the use of Global Depository
Receipt certificates, negotiable documents held in the bank of
one country representing a specific number of shares of a stock
traded on an exchange in another country, he said. They may also
seek to have its products certified by the French regulator,
Autorite des Marches Financieres, he said.  “We aim to be a response to the current need of
diversification from foreign investors who seek opportunities in
 emerging markets ,” Fal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  