-- White House Renews Support for Energy-Panel Nominee Ron Binz
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-09-20T15:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/white-house-renews-support-for-energy-panel-nominee-ron-binz.html
The White House said it stands by
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to lead the U.S. Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, who is facing an uphill battle for
confirmation in the Senate.  The administration “absolutely” supports nominee Ron Binz,  Josh Earnest , deputy White House press secretary, told
reporters traveling with Obama to a speech in Missouri today.  Earnest called Binz, a former chairman of the  Colorado 
Public Utilities Commission, a “highly qualified nominee” and
said the White House will work with Congress to make sure he’s
confirmed.  Binz needs the support of both Senator Mary Landrieu, a
Louisiana Democrat, and Senator Tim Scott, a South Carolina
Republican, to win the backing of the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, where Democrats hold a two-vote majority.
Nine of the 10 Republicans on the panel and Senator Joe Manchin,
a West Virginia Democrat, have said they’ll vote against the
nominee.  A “no” vote from either Scott or Landrieu would make it
mathematically impossible for Binz to win the panel’s support,
since the 22-member committee can’t recommend a nominee to the
full Senate in the event of a tie.  Landrieu has not indicated how she will vote, Erin Donar, a
spokeswoman for the senator said yesterday. Scott hasn’t said
how he will vote.  Scott told a reporter for Politico yesterday that FERC
needs “neutral arbiters.” Binz “doesn’t [see] that as his
role,” Greg Blair, the senator’s spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Republican Opposition  Republicans lined up against Binz this week after his Sept.
17 confirmation hearing before the Senate committee. Senator
Lisa Murkowski of  Alaska , the panel’s top Republican, told Binz
at the hearing she was concerned he wasn’t forthcoming about the
extent of his support from lobbyists and public-relations
officials.  Others, including Rob Portman of  Ohio  and Dean Heller of
 Nevada , have said they’re concerned that he favors certain types
of electricity sources.  As Colorado’s top utility regulator from 2007 to 2011, Binz
helped implement former Governor Bill Ritter’s plan to reduce
air pollution in the state, which involved converting some  Xcel
Energy Inc. (XEL)  coal plants to natural gas. While clean-energy
advocates have supported Binz, 64, free-market and coal-industry
groups have said he favors renewable energy at consumers’
expense.  Even if the committee recommends his nomination, Binz faces
a challenge before the full Senate.  “His nomination is yet another threat to American energy
and jobs and I will work to defeat it,” Senate Republican
Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  said yesterday in a
statement.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has
said he strongly supports Binz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  