-- WTI Crude Falls to 1-Month Low as Libyan Output Rebounds
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-09-20T19:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/wti-crude-declines-a-second-day-as-libyan-rebound.html
West Texas Intermediate dropped to
a one-month low as  Libya ’s oil production rose and the threat of
military strikes against  Syria  receded, damping concern that
 Middle East  supplies may be cut.  Futures capped the biggest weekly drop in three months.
Libyan output yesterday was more than five times higher than
earlier this month and Iraqi capacity is rising, government
officials said. Syria disclosed an initial inventory of chemical
weapons as Iranian President Hassan Rohani said his country will
never seek nuclear arms. The fall accelerated on concern that
wrangling over spending may shut the U.S. government.  “The stars are aligning for a bearish market,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “Libyan and Iraqi production is
rising, which will lead to greater supply. The Syrian and
Iranian situations appear to be calming down, which is tapering
the geopolitical premium a little bit.”  WTI crude for October delivery, which expired today, fell
$1.72, or 1.6 percent, to $104.67 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since Aug. 21. Prices
slid 3.3 percent this week, the biggest five-day drop since
June. The more actively traded November contract slipped $1.11,
or 1 percent, to $104.75. The volume of all futures traded was
about 8.4 percent below the 100-day average at 3:18 p.m.  Brent Futures  Brent oil for November settlement rose 46 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the session at $109.22 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Futures fell 3.2 percent this
week. Volume was 24 percent lower than the 100-day average. The
European benchmark traded at a $4.47 premium to WTI, up from
$2.90 at yesterday’s close.  “WTI is expiring today,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil
market strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd., a research company in
 London . “A lot of positions were playing the October-November
time spreads.”  Libyan oil output is set to increase to 800,000 barrels a
day, Ibrahim Al Awami, director of measurement at the oil
ministry, said by phone from Tripoli yesterday. Supply fell as
low as 150,000 barrels earlier this month, compared with a 2013
high of 1.4 million in April, the  International Energy Agency 
said in a Sept. 12 report.  Iraqi crude production capacity will exceed 3.6 million
barrels a day by the end of the year, two officials from the oil
ministry said today. They asked not to be identified because
they aren’t authorized to speak on matter.  Syria Accord  Oil prices  will drop further next week after a U.S.-Russian
agreement reduced the risk of an American attack on Syria,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 34 analysts. The accord was
reached on Sept. 14 in Geneva and sets a timetable for President
Bashar al-Assad to declare, secure and then eliminate his entire
chemical arsenal. WTI reached a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid
concern that a U.S.-led assault would widen the Syrian conflict.  The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
has “received an initial disclosure from the Syrian government
of its chemical weapons program, which is now being examined by
the technical secretariat of the organization,” the
Netherlands-based group said in a statement.  “The market is falling on the easing of Middle East
geopolitical fears,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It looks like
Libya has sorted through a number of the problems that have cut
oil output and we should see a recovery. The Syria situation has
calmed down a great deal as well.”  Middle East  Syria borders Iraq and is near Iran, which together control
almost a fifth of oil-production capacity in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, Bloomberg estimates show. The
Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global oil output in the
first quarter of this year, according to the IEA.  Rohani said in an interview aired Sept. 18 on NBC that Iran
won’t develop nuclear weapons. He added that he had “full
authority” to resolve issues surrounding the atomic program.
Iran, the target of international sanctions over its nuclear
program, was OPEC’s second-largest crude producer as recently as
June 2012, trailing  Saudi Arabia . It’s now in sixth place.  “There’s obviously a lot of diplomatic activity occurring
between the U.S. and Iran,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “The possible improvement of relations between the two
countries will continue to be a major focus of the market.”  Shutdown Threat  Equities slipped and commodities extended losses after the
 House of Representatives  voted to finance the government through
mid-December and choke off funding for President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law, setting up a showdown with the Senate and the
White House.  House Republicans said they wouldn’t accept a plan by
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat, to remove the
health-care language from the bill and warned of a shutdown next
month.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.6 percent and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  decreased 0.8 percent. The S&P’s
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell as much 0.9 percent to
637.35. Only four of the 24 commodities gained.  Clive Capital LLP, the $1 billion commodity hedge-fund firm
founded by  Chris Levett , plans to close after posting more than
two years of investment losses, according to a letter to
clients. The London-based hedge fund will shut down at the end
of the month, according to the letter, whose contents were
provided to Bloomberg.  Clive Capital  “There is a big hedge fund shutting down, Clive Capital,
and a lot of the moves the last two days have probably been them
unwinding their positions,” Sen said.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 20.1 percent, up from 19.8 yesterday, data compiled
by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 510,140
contracts as of 3:18 p.m. It totaled 689,423 contracts
yesterday, 8.3 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.93 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  