-- Yellen Price Goal Shows Anti-Inflation Stance Belying Dove Image
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-09-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/yellen-price-goal-shows-anti-inflation-stance-belying-dove-image.html
Inflation expectations in the U.S.
are rising in financial markets, and hedge-fund manager Mark Spindel sees Janet Yellen’s candidacy to be the next Federal
Reserve chairman as a catalyst.  “If it is Janet, I think you have to price in some
tolerance for higher inflation,” said Spindel, head of Potomac
River Capital LLC, which manages $570 million, and former
manager of $15 billion at the World Bank’s private-sector
lending unit, the International Finance Corp.  She might prove him and other investors wrong. Her economic
framework and communications strategy show little tolerance for
higher prices. She led a subcommittee of the Federal Open Market
Committee that produced an explicit inflation target of 2
percent, a topic the panel debated for more than a decade. Her
policy approach uses models and rules that view stable prices as
a necessary condition to try to move the economy toward full
employment while holding interest rates near zero.  “The market does have it wrong if they think she is going
to be soft on inflation,” said Stephen Oliner, a resident
scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in  Washington  and
former senior adviser at the Federal Reserve Board. “She has
very little tolerance for inflation above the 2 percent
target.”  As the FOMC subcommittee put together a strategy document
published in January 2012, Yellen stood behind a phrase that
said anchoring the public’s views on inflation “enhances the
committee’s ability to promote maximum employment in the face of
significant economic disturbances.”  Dual Mandate  The panel debated in 2011 tying changes in the benchmark
lending rate to thresholds for employment and inflation, with
Yellen in favor of combining such a move with the publication of
an explicit inflation target.  “Janet was a force -- perhaps ‘the’ force -- behind the
FOMC’s decision to move to an even more accommodative policy
last December, when the committee signaled its inclination to
respond more aggressively to deviations from full employment,”
said Laurence Meyer, a Fed governor from 1996 to 2002.  Yellen “is a devout believer in defending the medium-term
inflation target, but she believes in defending it from below,
as well as from above, meaning that too much slack in the labor
market could eventually drive inflation too far below 2
percent,” Meyer said.  Regardless of whether her dovish reputation is overblown,
doubts about Yellen’s anti-inflation commitment are likely to
dog her in a confirmation hearing if President  Barack Obama 
nominates her to succeed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, said Mark Calabria, a former economist on the Senate Banking Committee’s
Republican staff. Bernanke’s term expires Jan. 31.  ‘Open Question’  “It is an open question,” said Calabria, director of
financial regulation studies in Washington at the Cato
Institute, a policy research group that espouses free markets.
“Can she be Paul Volcker if she needs to be?”  Volcker, the Fed chairman from 1979 to 1987, lifted the
short-term borrowing rate to 22 percent to strangle inflation,
snuffing out growth. The campaign drew a backlash from builders
and others upset about the loss of work.  “People don’t send you two-by-fours when you are washing
the system with liquidity,” Calabria said, referring to surplus
lumber sent to Volcker in protest. Under Bernanke and Yellen,
asset purchases have swelled the Fed’s  balance sheet  to a record
$3.72 trillion.  Inflation Defense  Yellen would do what is necessary to pre-empt an inflation
outbreak, said J. Alfred Broaddus Jr., the former president of
the Richmond Fed who discussed an inflation target with Yellen
when she was a Fed governor in the 1990s. “I have good reason
to think she would. She needs to communicate that now,” he
said.  Inflation expectations have been rising ever since former
Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers removed himself Sept. 15
from contention for the chairmanship. Yellen, whom Obama
mentioned in July as a possible choice, is the leading
candidate, according to people familiar with White House
discussions.  Annual expected inflation starting five years from now rose
to as high as 2.53 percent yesterday, according to bond prices
tracked by Barclays Plc, up from 2.33 percent in the trading
session before Summers withdrew.  In Spindel’s view, Yellen wouldn’t let  inflation  run away.
He said she would welcome a little more inflation because of the
costs of too-low inflation are high.  Below Target  The personal consumption expenditures price index, on which
the Fed bases its 2 percent inflation target, has been at least
a half percentage point below that goal on an annual basis every
month since November.  Inflation expectations may also be moving higher because
U.S. central bankers decided Sept. 18 to press on with their $85
billion in monthly bond purchases at a time when investors
expected stimulus to wane.  Fed officials’ median estimate for the benchmark lending
rate is just 2 percent at the end of 2016, a year when policy
makers expect growth as fast as 3.3 percent, inflation of 1.7
percent to 2 percent, and the unemployment rate at 5.4 percent
to 5.9 percent, according to their central tendency estimates
released this week. That’s near the level they define as full
employment.  Added together, the forecasts mean the Fed expects real
short-term borrowing costs to be around zero at a time when wage
pressures might begin to build.  Long-Term Concern  “It projects them as overly accommodative,” said Bret Barker, a portfolio manager in Los Angeles with TCW Group Inc.,
which manages $84.5 billion in U.S. bond investments. “It puts
the employment mandate above inflation. Long term, it is
definitely a concern. We are defensive and are staying defensive
on long-term rates.”  Part of the perception about Yellen’s inflation views stems
from her speeches and research on stabilization policy. In her
view, monetary policy can stimulate demand and lower
unemployment.  “We will employ our policy tools, as appropriate, to raise
aggregate demand and employment in the context of continued
price stability,” Yellen said at a speech sponsored by the AFL-CIO in February. “That’s good news for workers, because I
believe that these steps will increase demand, and more demand
means more jobs.”  “People’s views on her being dovish stem from her views on
the cyclical softness in labor markets,” said Michael Gapen,
senior U.S. economist at Barclays. “She is probably more
practical and even handed.”  Solid Record  If nominated and confirmed by the Senate, Yellen, 67, would
take over a central bank that has a solid record on inflation.
Over the past 20 years, the PCE index, the measure the Fed uses
for its 2 percent target, has averaged 2 percent.  That heritage, won by Volcker at a high cost of a recession
and unemployment of almost 11 percent in 1982, and advanced
further by former Chairman Alan Greenspan, can’t be easily
dismissed, said Meyer, now a senior managing director at
forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in Washington.  “You don’t want to be the chairman who loses” price
stability, Meyer said. “I think when you walk through that
entrance to the Federal Reserve Board on C Street, you feel that
burden.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  