-- Zloty Drops on Bets Rally Spurred by Fed Overdone: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-09-20T12:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/zloty-drops-on-bets-rally-spurred-by-fed-overdone-warsaw-mover.html
Poland’s zloty, the best performing
emerging-market currency this quarter, weakened for the second
day on bets gains sparked by the  Federal Reserve ’s surprise
decision to maintain monetary stimulus weren’t justified.  The currency dropped 0.6 percent to 4.2256 against the euro
at 1:15 p.m. in Warsaw, adding to a 0.8 percent loss yesterday.
The two-day plunge wiped out the zloty’s 1.2 percent increase to
a four-month high on Sept. 18, the day U.S. policy makers said
they wanted more evidence of an economic recovery before paring
their $85 billion-a-month stimulus program.  “The rally after the Fed was overdone,” Christian Lawrence, a London-based FX strategist at Rabobank
International, said by e-mail today. “Tapering has not been
canceled, merely delayed.” Lawrence expects the zloty to weaken
to 4.25 against the euro over the coming month, implying a 0.6
depreciation from the current price.  The Fed’s decision sparked a 0.7 percent rally yesterday in
a group of 20 of the most-traded  emerging-market currencies ,
taking the 14-day  relative strength index  to 73. That’s three
points above the threshold which signals to some analysts a
security is overbought and poised to decline. The group of
currencies fell 0.5 percent today, with the RSI dropping to 66.  Bearish Trend  The zloty has appreciated 2.3 percent this quarter, the
most among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Yields on  Poland ’s 10-year government bonds rose from a five-week low today, increasing three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.33 percent.  The drop in yields after the Fed’s decision “has proved
only temporary,” Pawel Radwanski, a fixed income analyst at
Raiffeisen Polbank SA in Warsaw, said in a weekly note. With
tapering still ahead, “long-term investors may be unwilling to
buy Polish debt, which has probably started a mild, long-term
bearish trend,” he said.  Voters in  Germany , Poland’s main trading partner, are
preparing to choose a government to lead  Europe ’s largest
economy at a federal election on Sept. 22. The outcome of the
election is a “fulcrum point” for the euro for the next two
years, according to Justin Urquhart Stewart, who helps oversee
about $6.8 billion at Seven Investment Management in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  