-- A Grid That Could Outsmart Sandy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-31T23:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/a-grid-that-could-outsmart-sandy.html
The more than 8 million people
without power this week may not be reassured to hear it, but
power failures in the wake of superstorm Sandy could have been
much more widespread.  For a sense of scale, consider that in 2003 the failure to
detect a tree branch falling on a high-voltage line in  Ohio  led
to a megablackout that turned off the lights for 55 million
people over a wide swath of the Northeast, the Midwest and into
 Canada . Sandy, though one of the worst storms to hit the East
Coast in a century, was far more limited in its disruption of
power supplies, reflecting the undeniable progress that has been
made over the past decade in bringing the nation’s creaking
power grid into the 21st century.  U.S. power companies, with federal help, have begun laying
the groundwork to make the U.S. electrical supply more
resilient. The havoc caused by Sandy, a storm big enough, by one
 estimate , to cut U.S. output by $25 billion in the fourth
quarter and slow the pace of growth, should be the catalyst to
redouble this effort.  In particular, the Obama administration, using funds in the
2009 stimulus package, has made an $11 billion down payment on a
more efficient grid. This included $4.5 billion in grants to
private companies to develop a so-called smart grid, which
applies the speed and power of the Internet to the generation,
transmission and distribution of electricity.  Smarter Grids  Among other things, smart-grid technology enables utilities
to pinpoint disruptions on their lines from a central monitoring
post. Rather than shut down power along an entire transmission
line, an outage can be isolated and power can be rerouted. More
than 400 of these monitoring posts have been installed across
the U.S, and more than 1,000 are expected to be in operation by
the end of 2013. During Sandy,  Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM) , the utility
serving  Washington  and parts of  Maryland , was able to rely on
feedback from some of the 425,000  smart meters  in customers’
homes to respond far more quickly and effectively to power
failures.  The program, which is being led by the power companies, has
the added benefit of lowering costs for consumers in the long
term. The smart grid also marks the creation of microgrids,
smaller systems -- in some cases reliant on wind and solar power
-- that operate independently and continue to generate energy
even when the broader network experiences difficulties.  This effort has been driven by the recognition that
critical elements of the present grid’s equipment and technology
are nearing the end of their lifespan. About 70 percent of power
lines and transformers are more than 25 years old, and 60
percent of circuit breakers are more than 30 years old, a study
by the  American Society of Civil Engineers  has found. By 2020,
the study projects, about $673 billion will need to be invested
to avert severe breakdowns.  Last month, the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  began
preparing for the new grid by enforcing Order 1000, which will
require grid operators to collaborate on regional planning and
allow independent developers to compete with traditional
utilities in building new power lines.  Severe storms such as Sandy -- and worse -- are expected to
occur with increasing frequency. Yet federal funds for smart-
grid development included in the Recovery Act -- credits, loans
and matching funds -- will soon be depleted. Making the U.S.
electricity supply more reliable is within our grasp. The next
president and Congress should extend the life of this valuable
public-private partnership.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Susan Antilla on the  hustler who bilked
investors  in a Broadway show; Caroline Baum on  what women really
want from a president ; Michael Kinsley on why  Stuart Taylor is
wrong about affirmative action ; Virginia Postrel on how new
findings will  revolutionize cancer drugs ; part four of A. Gary
Shilling’s series on how  low interest rates are creating a
buildup of risk and leverage ; Alex Marshall on the  future of
publishing .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 