-- A Harvard Man’s Critique of Affirmative Action
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-10-31T22:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/a-harvard-man-s-critique-of-affirmative-action.html
Stuart Taylor Jr. was in my law
school class. Or, more accurately, I was in his law school
class, since he graduated at the top of the class and I
graduated.  Now a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution , Taylor
has co-written, with Richard H. Sander, a professor of law at
UCLA,  an influential book  highly critical of affirmative action.
I am hesitant to write about it, first, because he is a friend
(who I’d like to keep), and second, because the book is
intimidating, both in its statistics and in its evident good
will. But the book  has gotten  nothing but  positive reviews . So I
proceed in the commercial hope of stirring controversy and
thereby increasing sales.  The book is called “Mismatch: How Affirmative Action Hurts
Students It’s Intended to Help, and Why Universities Won’t Admit
It.” The thesis (and I hope this summary is fair) is not totally
unfamiliar: Affirmative action results in blacks (and, to a
lesser extent, Latinos) being admitted to colleges and graduate
schools where most of the students are better qualified. The
teachers aim their teaching at the median student, leaving the
less-qualified students behind. Students resent the widespread
assumption that they only got in because of their race, even
though they share it.  Cascade Effect  All these effects feed on one another until the student
drops out, flunks out or switches to an easier major. Finally, a
“cascade effect” makes things even worse: Top schools accept
minority students who really belong at “less competitive but
still quite good schools,” leaving those lesser schools to poach
from the pool of candidates for places at schools one more step
down, and so on.  “The student who would flourish at, say, Wake Forest or the
 University of Richmond  instead finds herself at Duke, where the
professors are not teaching at a pace designed for her.” In sum:
“There is no serious dispute that large preferences greatly
undermine paths to success for blacks” in high-intellect fields
like science, technology and law.  You won’t catch Sander and Taylor making the usual giveaway
mistakes of people who insist that they oppose affirmative
action out of concern for the minorities who benefit (or seem
to) rather than the whites who lose out. They concede that this
same mismatch dynamic probably applies to favoritism for alumni
children and athletes, but say there isn’t enough data to prove
it. They declare point-blank that racial differences in innate
cognitive ability don’t exist, or at least aren’t supported by
the data. They blame a variety of factors, mainly to do with
home life in very early childhood, for the shortage of good
minority candidates.  So are they right? I can’t prove them wrong, but I also
can’t help doubting. Sander and Taylor have a model of higher
education in their heads in which (to oversimplify, but not
much) everybody in the U.S. can be ranked, from Stuart Taylor at
No. 1 to my Aunt Sally with  Alzheimer’s disease  at No. 311
million, in terms of their qualifications for admission to
 Harvard Law School . And every law school can be ranked from
Harvard or Stanford or Yale at the top to Johnny’s All-Nite Law
School, Laundromat & Brew Pub at the bottom.  Both defenders and opponents of reverse discrimination
imagine a similar model -- the opponents saying that it’s unfair
for No. 883 to get into Harvard Law School over No. 537 because
853 is African-American, and the defenders saying that if it
weren’t for centuries of slavery and discrimination, No. 883
would be ahead of No. 537. You start to ask yourself why anyone
“deserves” any place in the hierarchy -- brains, money,
connections: It’s all just luck, really.  Then along come Sander and Taylor to argue that No. 883
really belongs at Law School No. 35, will be happier there, more
likely to graduate, and actually knows this in his heart.  Happier Elsewhere  Unlike prison, marriage or a cell-phone contract, a top
college or law school is harder to get into than to get out of.
Even if massive numbers of minority students who wouldn’t
otherwise make the cut are getting into Duke, that doesn’t mean
they won’t be able to hack it there, or would be happier at Wake
Forest or the University of Richmond. All of Sander and Taylor’s
data can’t capture the myriad reasons students apply to one
place or another, find happiness or not, do their homework or
not, drop out or go on to engineering school.  The idea that a minority student who can get into Harvard,
by favoritism or otherwise, would actually be well-advised to
turn it down in favor of, say, Ohio State -- not because he
thinks Ohio State is just as good or better but precisely
because he thinks Ohio State is a lesser school -- strains
credulity. But that is the advice Sander and Taylor are giving
him. Check with me before you take it, please.  Sander and Taylor are right that the current Supreme Court
jurisprudence on affirmative action is  a mess . The Court  ruled
in 2003  that explicit racial quotas are unconstitutional at
public universities, but race may still be considered in
admissions as part of a more “holistic” consideration of a
variety of factors. What is the difference, ethically or
practically, between a 10 percent quota and a “holistic” process
that can be counted on to produce the same result as a 10
percent quota? Sander and Taylor show how, when California
banned any use of race in admissions, the  University of
California  managed to achieve almost the same result through
creative use of holistic-type factors.  Yet Sander and Taylor very much favor affirmative action
using social and economic status rather than race. This would
end the absurdity of students from prosperous black families
getting preference over those from poor and working-class white
families. It would also be a social engineering nightmare. Who
is “working class”? Does the number of siblings count? Is urban
poverty worse than rural, or vice-versa? Every attempt to make a
distinction would be lobbied and litigated. In the end, it would
probably hurt the very people it is intended to help.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  power grid in a perilous
world ;  Susan Antilla  on the  hustler who bilked investors  in a 
Broadway show;  Caroline Baum  on  what women really want from a 
president ;  Virginia Postrel  on how new findings will  revolutionize
cancer drugs ; part four of A. Gary Shilling’s series on how  low
interest rates are creating a buildup of risk and leverage ;  Alex
Marshall  on the  future of publishing .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or @michaelkinsley on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 