-- La Vara Triumphs With Bacon Sandwiches, Jewish Tarts
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/la-vara-triumphs-with-bacon-sandwiches-jewish-tarts.html
La Vara in  Brooklyn  serves bacon
sandwiches. And not just any bacon sandwich, but a pile of
pimenton-stewed pork belly on a roll for $8.  One could rationalize that the abundance of smoked paprika
almost qualifies it as a vegetable -- though if you’re ordering
pork belly on bread, you probably stopped making excuses a long
time ago.  It’s supremely delicious. But you expected no less, because
the chef is Alex Raij, the woman who served chorizo sandwiches
and other fine Basque fare at Txikito, as well as those mind-
blowing sea urchin panini at El Quinto Pino.  La Vara is Raij’s first Brooklyn venture. It’s a fatty,
offal-filled exploration of Spanish food, with a strong hat tip
given to the Moorish and Sephardic experience in Iberia.  Such a description might seem surprising given the amount
of alcohol (haram!), shellfish (traif!) and pork (really?)
served here. But there’s a reason for such apostasy. La Vara is
less about adhering to dietary restrictions, and more about how
 Spain ’s Islamic and Jewish populations influenced the
peninsula’s culinary tradition.  Spicy Meatballs  North African flavors abound. Half a chicken is roasted
over sweet onions and rubbed with cumin and coriander. If the
Berbers decided to make mole, I suppose it would taste like
this. Sephardic-style lamb meatballs ($12), infused with mint,
aren’t the pillowy Italian variety; they’re dense, chewy and
fragrant.  Roasted lamb breast ($18), looking like a fat chocolate
brownie, shows off cumin in all its gorgeous puckerishness,
while a squirt of espelette pepper paste does its best
impression of Sriracha (the former is smokier and not as spicy).  Like escabeche? The Arabs brought the technique to Spain
and La Vara does it right, poaching the kidneys, liver, legs and
loin of rabbit in a saffron and vinegar sauce, somewhat taming
the strong flavors ($18). Raij then tosses in some stewed fruit
and olives to finish the salty-sweet masterpiece.  Small, Loud  All of these dishes might arrive within minutes of one
another. La Vara is a small, loud restaurant where the food
comes out fast. Reservations aren’t accepted for parties of
three or less, sometimes resulting in long waits.  The upside is that, unlike many other Brooklyn joints, you
can use your American Express card here.  La Vara’s best cocktail is rum and Coke ($10). Tastes like
any other, nothing wrong with that. The mix of booze and
carbonic acid cleanses the palate after the musky assault of
grilled chicken livers, seared lamb liver or lamb kidneys.  But Sherry gets the job done too. Sip a nutty Amontillado
($8) with the acorn aromas of Iberico ham, or a pale, yeasty
fino ($7) to accommodate a delicious broth. The latter dish
mixes pork-skin noodles, squid noodles and wild Ecuadorian
shrimp for a heretical, anti-chicken soup.  Clam Up  Coastal Spain comes into brilliant focus here, with
Valencian noodle paella ($16) meant for dousing in garlickly
aioli ($16), and gnocchi-like Murcian pasta sprinkled with
ground goat ($15). Andalusian skate, pulled apart by its ropy
strands, is a ringer for New England fried-clam strips, minus
the rubbery texture. With this, you drink beer.  There are misses: Greasy packets of fried swiss chard and
kale ($9) and salt-baked fish with too little white flesh. And
even the most robust palates can tire from the kitchen’s use of
smoked paprika over just about everything.  But all is well when you finish with a tart so almond-
infused it could be marzipan, a redolent homage to the pastries
beloved by Spanish Jewry.  La Vara, alongside Tertulia, Mercat, Aldea and Casa Mono,
is proof that  New York  is entering a golden age of Iberian
cuisine.  Rating: **1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Nearly every dish under $20.  Sound Level: Loud when full, often over 80.  Date Place: If Cobble Hill isn’t romantic, nothing is.  Special Feature: Excellent sherry selection.  Inside Tip: Skip the hard-to-peel quail eggs.  Back on My Own Dime: You bet.  La Vara is at 268 Clinton St, Brooklyn. Information: +1-
718-422-0065 or  http://www.lavarany.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include D.C.  Scene  and  Jeremy Gerard  on
theater.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 