-- Adoboli Says UBS Machine Scared Potential Witnesses Away
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-10-31T18:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/adoboli-says-ubs-didn-t-question-trades-until-he-lost-money-1-.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS (UBSN)  AG
trader on trial over a $2.3 billion loss, said he hasn’t been
able to find any current or former UBS employees to testify on
his behalf because they fear the bank.  “People have been in touch and said we’d like to help you
but we can’t,” Adoboli told a court on his fourth day of
testimony. “Across the industry, there is no one who’s been
willing to stand up to the machine.”  Adoboli, 32, pointed to the area in the London courtroom
next to prosecutors that has been reserved for UBS officials.
Nine lawyers and two public relations officials were present
today on behalf of the bank. Some have passed notes to the
prosecutors during the trial, he said.  “You see the machine that is amassed against me,” Adoboli
said, pointing at them. “All of these people, along with the
police, along with the Crown Prosecution Service.”  The former trader is charged with falsifying records on
exchange-traded-fund transactions and other documents as early
as October 2008 and keeping a slush fund of profits from
unbooked trades that he used to cover the desk’s costs. Adoboli
has pleaded not guilty to two counts of fraud and four counts of
false accounting.  Prosecutor Sasha Wass told Adoboli today that he is just
like Jerome Kerviel, the former Societe Generale trader
convicted of causing a 4.9 billion-euro ($6.35 billion) trading
loss in 2008. Kerviel and Adoboli worked on the same type of
desk doing proprietary trading, traded the same products and
were both booking fake hedges to hide their risk, she said.  Ignoring Warnings  “I experienced the same thing” as Kerviel, Adoboli said.
“Not because I’m a rogue trader, not because I’m a fraudster,
not because I’m a criminal, but because I went in pursuit of the
goals set by the organization and the only way we could reach
those goals was by ignoring” warnings from management such as
the e-mails the bank sent after Kerviel’s loss was discovered.  Adoboli said he followed the case closely and his “deep
belief” is that Societe Generale pushed Kerviel too hard and it
ended in “catastrophe.” He said it’s “impossible” the French
bank wasn’t aware of Kerviel’s trades.  Adoboli said that no one at UBS questioned the ETF desk’s
trading mechanisms until they were losing money. He admitted
lying to at least eight co-workers shortly before he confessed
to causing the losses in September of last year. He did so
because he wanted to “buy time” and have a chance to recoup
the losses.  “It is a long list of people who only asked questions after
our trading methodologies were loss-making,” Adoboli said.  Pushing Boundaries  He testified today his intentions were never dishonest and
that senior management at UBS’s investment bank were telling
traders to “push the boundaries” to generate more profits.  “In pursuit of the profits that our leadership were asking
us to pursue, we had to increase our risk,” Adoboli said. “The
risk exposure was naked, or unhedged, and the point behind it
was to make a profit from the likely market move. Now it may
have been unhedged, it doesn’t mean it was unresearched.”  Wass said Adoboli treated UBS as his own personal bank,
ignored the rules, and gambled recklessly with the bank’s money.
She said it was “absolutely nonsense” the Swiss lender would
instruct traders to exceed risk limits.  “You played God with the bank,” Wass said. “Your
motivation, Mr. Adoboli, was all about you, your reputation,
your ego, your desire to be a star trader.’  Adoboli said he was taking larger and larger positions in
the summer of 2011 as a result of burnout and the stress of
changing his stance from bearish to bullish under pressure from
management. He said others knew about his transactions,
including John Hughes, the senior trader on the desk.  “My trading activity itself characterizes the state of my
mind in that period,” he said. “I believe doubling down is a
mischaracterization of what we were doing. We were buying the
dip -- it was what was encouraged by John Hughes -- it was
encouraged by traders all across the trading floor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  