-- Ads Target Democratic States as Republicans Expand Map
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-10-31T17:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/ads-target-democratic-states-as-republicans-expand-map.html
President  Barack Obama , Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  and their allies have expanded their
television advertising battle into states that have
traditionally voted Democratic in White House elections, as some
surveys show tightening races in those areas.  Both campaigns have aired ads in Minnesota and are planning
spots in Pennsylvania, joining outside groups already on the air
in those states. Obama also will air ads in Michigan to counter
Republican groups there.  Michigan and Pennsylvania last supported a Republican for
president in 1988, while every Democratic White House candidate
has carried Minnesota since 1976. While the stepped-up ad
activity underscores how Republicans are trying to expand the
election’s battleground states from the nine where Romney and
Obama have spent most of their time and money, the campaigns
offer differing explanations for what the buys say about the
state of their race.  Republicans say the Obama campaign’s decision to run ads in
the states show that his re-election bid is flagging and that he
is laboring to win states that voted solidly for him four years
ago.  “While the Obama campaign would like to wish it is 2008,
the reality is that they are now forced to ‘play defense’” in
states vital to the president getting the 270 electoral votes
needed for victory, Rich Beeson, Romney’s political director,
said in a memorandum yesterday.  ‘Throwing Money’  Obama’s campaign portrays Romney and Republicans as acting
out of desperation, pointing to a narrower path for the former
Massachusetts governor to the 270-vote mark.  “We have the map and they have the myths,” Obama campaign
manager Jim Messina said on a conference call with reporters
today.  Romney is “throwing money at states where he never built
an organization,” Messina said.  Obama led Romney by three percentage points in Michigan,
according to a Detroit News poll conducted Oct. 27-29. The
president led Romney by four percentage points in Pennsylvania,
according to a Franklin & Marshall College poll conducted Oct.
23-28. Obama carried Michigan by 16 points and Pennsylvania by
10 points in the 2008 election.  In Minnesota, which Obama won by 10 points four years ago,
the president led Romney by three points in a Star-Tribune
survey conducted Oct. 23-25 and by eight points in a State Cloud
State University poll conducted Oct. 15-21.  Full-Fledged Contests  Each side has ample resources to wage full-fledged
campaigns across multiple fronts. Obama had $94 million in
leftover funds on Oct. 17 compared to $53 million for Romney,
Federal Election Commission reports show. Outside groups
including super-PACs and non-profit organizations have helped
Romney close the fundraising gap and have the money to help fuel
the expanded ad war.  Romney’s campaign will air an ad in Pennsylvania that
attacks Obama on energy policy, its first spot in the state
since he effectively clinched the Republican nomination in
April. Pennsylvania has 20 electoral votes.  Romney’s late Pennsylvania effort is aided by outside
groups including Restore Our Future, a pro-Romney super-PAC that
said yesterday it would spend $2.1 million on ads in the state
before the Nov. 6 election. Restore Our Future last ran
Pennsylvania ads in late August, according to New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Economic Issue  Americans for Job Security, a non-profit group with
Republican ties, began running an ad Oct. 27 in Pennsylvania
attacking Obama’s management of the economy.  Obama’s campaign is airing ads in Pennsylvania beginning
today for the first time since late July, according to CMAG and
filings with the Federal Communications Commission.  The pro-Obama Patriot Majority PAC began airing ads Oct. 25
in Pittsburgh attacking Romney for his ties to Bain Capital LLC,
the Boston-based private-equity company he co-founded.  In Michigan, which has 16 electoral votes, Obama’s campaign
will air ads defending his administration’s rescue of the
automobile industry. The ads are meant to combat advertising by
Restore Our Future, which said yesterday that it would spend
$2.2 million more on anti-Obama ads in Michigan during the last
days of the campaign.  Americans for Prosperity, a non-profit group founded and
funded by billionaire industrialists Charles and  David Koch ,
said today that it would begin a $3 million ad campaign in
Pennsylvania and Michigan beginning tomorrow.  Longest Streak  In Minnesota, where the streak of voting Democratic for
president is the nation’s longest, the Romney and Obama
campaigns bought ads on stations in St. Paul and Minneapolis
that also reach viewers in western Wisconsin, one of the swing
states where the campaigns have been fully engaged for months.
Both sides also have been airing ads for weeks in Rochester,
Minnesota, where stations reach northeastern parts of Iowa,
another of the swing states -- those with a recent history of
supporting either major party’s presidential candidate.  Former President Bill Clinton stumped for Obama yesterday
in Minneapolis and Duluth, Minnesota.  Restore Our Future said today that it is spending $1.1
million in Minnesota and $700,000 in New Mexico, another state
that leans Democratic in presidential elections.  A late ad skirmish also has broken out over one electoral
vote, with Republicans targeting Maine’s 2nd congressional
district. Maine and Nebraska award some of their electoral votes
by congressional district, eschewing the winner-take-all format
used by the other 48 states.  Restore Our Future began advertising Oct. 25 in the Bangor
and Presque Isle markets in northern Maine.  Both campaigns have been advertising in Omaha, Nebraska,
the biggest city in the state’s 2nd congressional district, the
least Republican-leaning of the state’s three districts. Obama
has run ads in Omaha since May, while Romney began ads there in
late September, mainly to reach the residents of western Iowa
who vote in a swing state.  Obama’s narrow win in the Omaha district in 2008 gave him
one of Nebraska’s five electoral votes, though surveys suggest
it will be tougher for the president to replicate the task next
week. Romney led Obama by 49 percent to 44 percent in Nebraska’s
2nd district, according to an Omaha World-Herald poll conducted
Oct. 23-25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  