-- Carrefour Agrees to Sell Malaysia Retail Business to Aeon
-- B y   C e l e s t e   P e r r i   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-11-01T06:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/aeon-said-to-near-deal-on-carrefour-s-malaysia-retail-unit.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , France’s biggest
grocer, agreed to sell its Malaysian operations to  Aeon Co. (8267) ,
Japan’s largest retailer, for 250 million euros ($324 million).  The sale was effective immediately, Boulogne-Billancourt,
France-based Carrefour said in a Business Wire statement.
Carrefour is the fourth-biggest retailer in Malaysia, where it
had 26 stores and 400 million euros in sales in the 12 months
through June 30, it said.  Carrefour is cutting jobs and exiting overseas markets it
doesn’t dominate to generate cash and cut debt as part of a
three-year turnaround plan formulated by Chief Executive Officer
Georges Plassat. Aeon is expanding overseas amid a shrinking
population in its home market.  Malaysia will become Aeon’s Southeast Asian headquarters,
the company said in a statement today. The Japanese retailer
plans to have 100 stores in Malaysia by 2020 as it ramps up
expansion across the region.  “Asia is one of the very few areas where we can expect to
see greater development as far as potential economic growth is
concern,” Nagahisa Oyama, chief executive officer of Aeon’s
ASEAN business told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. More
acquisitions are possible in  Southeast Asia , he said.  Carrefour Deals  Carrefour has agreed to sell its Colombian stores to
Chilean retailer  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD)  and plans to exit Singapore by the
end of the year.  The French retailer may follow with more deals. CT Corp. is
seeking $750 million of financing to buy the 60 percent of
Carrefour’s Indonesian business that it doesn’t already own,
people familiar with the matter said Oct. 29. Carrefour has also
put its Polish and Turkish units under review and is considering
a combination of the latter with competitor  Migros Ticaret AS (MGROS) ,
according to people familiar with the situation.  Carrefour is preparing a $4.9 billion initial public
offering of its Atacadao cash-and-carry unit, Veja magazine
reported Oct. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  