-- Afghan Called Ill-Prepared to Maintain Bases on Their Own
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-31T21:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/afghan-called-ill-prepared-to-maintain-bases-on-their-own.html
The Afghan government probably will
prove incapable of operating and maintaining U.S.-funded army
and police facilities when coalition combat troops leave in
2014, a U.S. government watchdog said.  The Special Inspector General for  Afghanistan 
Reconstruction also found that the U.S. contractor currently
keeping up the properties,  ITT Exelis Inc. (XLS) , is likely to run out
of funding for one of its two contracts in March 2014, 16 months
before it is set to expire.  The inspector general’s report issued yesterday adds to
evidence of the difficulties that may confront Afghanistan’s
government, which is struggling to fight the Taliban and is
plagued by corruption, when most of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s forces depart.  “The Afghan government continues to face challenges that
will likely prevent it from fully sustaining ANSF facilities
after the 2014 transition,” wrote John Sopko, the special
inspector general, referring to the Afghan National Security
Forces.  The U.S. has spent $52.15 billion since fiscal 2002 to
equip and train Afghan forces, including $11.7 billion for
construction of facilities from military bases and hospitals to
police stations, the report said.  The Afghan government may not be able to sustain those
installations on its own, “thus risking that U.S. investment
will not be sustained after an expected significant decrease in
international support after 2014,” the report said.  Lacking Skills  The Afghan government filled less than 40 percent of
authorized operations and maintenance positions, mostly because
of “salary discrepancies” between those and private-sector
jobs, the report said.  The Afghan security forces lack “personnel with the
technical skills required to operate and maintain critical
facilities, such as water supply, waste water treatment, and
power generation,” the report said.  Since 2010, that work has been handled by ITT Exelis, which
was awarded two multi-year contracts, covering the north and
south of the country. The agreements are valued at a combined
$800 million and may cover more than 800 facilities, according
to the report.  While the McLean, Virginia-based company has met the terms
of its contract, “Exelis had difficulty mobilizing during the
initial phase of the contract, slowing contract
implementation,” the report found.  Beyond Control  Much of the initial slow pace was due to matters beyond the
contractor’s control, such as harassment of personnel, poor
construction quality and irregular fuel delivers, the report
said.  David Albritton, an ITT Exelis spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed message requesting comment.  The inspector general recommended that the Army Corps of
Engineers adopt standardized procedures for overseeing the
contracts and direct ITT Exelis to fully implement its quality-
control program in the southern part of the country, where the
report said oversight is lacking.  The Army Corps, in written comments accompanying the
report, said it agreed with the recommendations and is taking
steps to address them. The service will have to award a new
contract when funding on the existing one for the northern part
of the country runs out, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  