-- Air France-KLM Earnings Beat Estimates With Lufthansa
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-10-31T15:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/air-france-third-quarter-profit-jumps-27-on-job-cuts-traffic.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF)  and  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  posted earnings gains that beat analyst estimates
as  Europe ’s two biggest airlines began to reap the benefits of
moves to eliminate thousands of jobs. Their shares surged.  Third-quarter operating  profit  jumped 27 percent to 506
million euros ($656 million) at Air France-KLM, where analysts
had predicted 434 million euros, and 6.2 percent to 648 million
euros at Lufthansa, exceeding a 522 million-euro forecast.  Air France-KLM said today it will seek 1,300 job cuts at
its Dutch unit in addition to 5,000 already being eliminated at
the larger French business. Lufthansa, which is cutting 3,500
administrative posts and as many as 1,000 in catering, said it’s
“making progress” but that margins remain inadequate.  “We didn’t expect such a rapid recovery,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo Securities in Paris who recommends
buying Air France-KLM stock. The French company’s earnings jump
may be “a result of the first measures implemented, even before
the job-cuts plan, with more flexibility and a wage freeze.”  Air France shares rose as much as 9.3 percent to 6.50 euros
for the biggest gain since July 30 and were trading at that
level as of 4:39 p.m. in Paris, where the airline is based. The
stock has advanced 63 percent this year, valuing the company at
1.95 billion euros.  Shares Advance  Germany ’s Lufthansa added 7.9 percent, the biggest jump
since Aug. 5, 2009, before trading up 6.6 percent at 11.71 euros
in  Frankfurt . That takes 2012’s gains to 27 percent and gives
the business a market value of 5.38 billion euros.  British Airways parent International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA, which reports third-quarter results on Nov. 9, rose as
much as 4.4 percent and is up 9.4 percent this year.  Air France-KLM Chief Executive Officer Jean-Cyril Spinetta
is also merging the finance arms of its main brands and adding
no-frills flights to counter competitors such as  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ) 
The French job cuts, part of the Transform 2015 plan aimed at
paring debt by 2 billion euros, amount to 10 percent of the unit
payroll, a reduction he says is necessary to guarantee survival.  Air France-KLM cut 2,900 posts through the first quarter,
while third-quarter sales increased 5.8 percent to 7.18 billion
euros, led by a 7.9 percent gain in passenger revenue. The
company said it “enjoyed a good summer season,” with traffic
up 0.9 percent and seat occupancy running at 86 percent.  ‘Good Summer’  The hurricane that hit the U.S. this week, closing major
airports, had an impact of 5 million euros to 10 million euros,
Chief Financial OfficerPhilippe Calavia said on a conference
call with analysts, adding that the carrier aims “to catch up”
with part of that figure over coming days as flights resume.  At European No. 2 Lufthansa, sales rose 6.1 percent to 8.31
billion euros, with profit jumping 15 percent at the passenger
business on a revamp of the Austrian Airlines arm, a weaker euro
that benefitted bookings outside the region, and capacity
constraint that helped boost yields, a measure of fares. Profit
also rose 43 percent at catering unit LSG Sky Chefs, which in
August agreed to run Finnair OYJ’s food and drink operations.  While CEO Christoph Franz reiterated that full-year
operating profit will be in the “mid-three-digit million-euro
range,” minus restructuring costs of 100 million euros, he said
the figure will fall short of last year’s 820 million euros and
that operating conditions are generally getting more demanding.  “The numbers are very good, but the outlook is still
cautious,” said Frankfurt-based Bankhaus Metzler analyst
 Juergen Pieper , who recommends buying Lufthansa shares.  Headcount Impact  Cologne-based Lufthansa plans to save 1.5 billion euros by
2015 through its Score reorganization plan, which in addition to
job cuts includes the folding of short-haul operations outside
Frankfurt and Munich into the Germanwings low-cost unit. The
company has also scrapped some routes, frozen capacity this year
and delayed an upgrade of the inter-continental plane fleet.  Third-quarter headcount was 1.7 percent lower than a year
ago at 118,088, according to today’s statement, with 12-month
savings likely to top 380 million euros. Lufthansa will cut
winter capacity by 3 percent as it pursues its longer-term
savings target and also bundle finance, human resources and
procurement functions into a unit incorporating 2,500 of 4,900
global admin jobs, paralleling developments at Air France-KLM.  Regional Threat  Air France’s Spinetta reiterated a forecast for reduced net
debt and a second-half operating profit above 2011’s 195 million
euros. Still, airline earnings will drop by more than half this
year, crimped by a sluggish economy and persistently high  oil
prices , the International Air Transport Association trade group
reckons, and Air France-KLM remains set for a fourth straight
annual net loss, according to analyst estimates.  CFO Calavia told Bloomberg Television that the company is
targeting a full-year profit in 2013, though “that will depend
on the economic environment.” Options available for refinancing
debt due in 2014 including tapping bond markets, he said.  Air France’s regional flights, which are being merged and
partly recast as low-cost operations, face two new competitors
posing “a further challenge that we’re well aware of,” he said.  Fuel expenses jumped 15 percent or 254 million euros in the
quarter and cargo traffic fell 6.5 percent, hurt by the economy
and industry overcapacity, according to Calavia, who said
there’ll be no discernible pre-Christmas freight peak this year.  IAG, SAS  At Lufthansa, fuel costs also rose and cargo traffic was
barely changed, with the carrier seeing no sign of a turnaround
in that market. As part of the short-haul reorganization the
expanded Germanwings unit will operate a fleet limited to Airbus
SAS A320-series and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  CRJ 900 planes by 2015, CEO
Franz said. The operations currently have  Boeing Co. (BA)  737 models.  Other European airlines are also cutting costs. SAS Group,
the biggest Nordic airline, said yesterday it plans to sell
assets worth 3 billion kronor ($450 million) and shave the same
amount from costs. That’s on top of steps including 300 job cuts
aimed at reducing expenses by 5 percent and boosting earnings by
5 billion kronor in 2012 and 2013 at a company which hasn’t
posted an annual profit since 2007.  IAG (IAG)  meanwhile plans to scrap jobs at Spanish arm Iberia arm
after saying that shortfalls at the Madrid-based unit are likely
to push it to a “small operating loss” for the full year.  Air Berlin Links  Air France secured on Oct. 8 a code-sharing agreement with
 Etihad Airways , bringing the third-biggest Gulf carrier closer
to its SkyTeam global alliance. The deal allows the companies to
sell tickets on each other’s flights beyond their hubs in Paris,
Amsterdam and  Abu Dhabi  and is intended to be the initial phase
of a “much larger strategic partnership,” according to Etihad.  Calavia said today that the deal is “a first step,” with
negotiations ongoing on to improve the deal. That might include
stronger links with German discount operator  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , in
which Etihad is an investor, he said.  Air France-KLM is still discussing a possible order for
Airbus A350 wide-body planes that’s been held up as the company
seeks to secure rights to service the model’s engines from
manufacturer  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , the CFO said.  “It’s not over, because major stakes are on the table,” he
said, adding that engine-makers are trying to impose constraints
as they expand high-margin maintenance activities. “We can’t
accept that because for us this is a source of profit,” he said.  Air France is meanwhile negotiating with Airbus over
compensation for technical glitches and fixes for wing cracks on
A380 aircraft, spokesman Jean-Charles Trehan said separately
while declining to comment on the amount being sought.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  