-- Asian Data Signal Slowdown Easing From Korea to Taiwan: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m ,   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-10-31T07:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/taiwan-economy-recovers-as-exports-improve-on-chinese-demand.html
The worst of the declines in Asia-
Pacific economies may be moderating, as  Taiwan  resumed growth
last quarter, South Korean production climbed for the first time
in four months and Singapore’s jobless rate fell.  Gross domestic product  in Taiwan grew 1.02 percent from a
year earlier, after a 0.18 percent decline the previous quarter,
a report showed today. South Korea’s industrial output rose 0.8
percent last month from August on stronger car and electronics
sales, while Singapore’s unemployment rate eased to 1.9 percent,
the lowest since the first quarter of 2011.  China ’s economy has shown signs of rebounding this quarter,
boosting the outlook for the region’s exports. While Asian
stocks rose today, the recovery in growth may be constrained by
 Japan ’s persistent slump and limited expansions in the U.S. and
Europe, sustaining pressure for policy stimulus in some Asia-
Pacific countries.  “We may be seeing a bottoming in Asia but there won’t be a
strong recovery in the short term, given the global
environment,” said Edward Lee, a Singapore-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc. “There are still a lot of potholes in
the world economy which will clearly have an impact on Asia. In
some places, we are still calling for more monetary policy
easing,” including South Korea and Thailand, he said.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  added 0.6 percent at 12:06 p.m.
Tokyo time, trimming a monthly loss. South Korea’s won touched a
13-month high while the Australian and New Zealand dollars rose
after data showed better-than-expected building approvals in
September for both countries. The Taiwan dollar gained 0.2
percent against the U.S. currency as of 11:21 a.m. in Taipei.  Australian Homes  Australian home-building  approvals  surged for a second
straight month in September, a sign housing demand is
accelerating after the central bank cut interest rates. The
number of permits granted to build or renovate houses and
apartments gained 7.8 percent from August, a report showed today.
New Zealand home-building approvals rose last month to the
highest level in more than four years.  Elsewhere in Asia, Japanese wages were unchanged for a
second month in September, a report showed today.  Thailand ’s
current-account  surplus  was $1.77 billion in September, the
largest since July 2011, a central bank statement showed today.  Euro-area unemployment may have climbed to a record 11.5
percent in September, according to the median estimate of a
 survey  of 24 economists ahead of a release today. Italy and the
euro region will announce October inflation data. U.S. mortgage
applications for the week through Oct. 26 will be released,
while  Canada  reports August gross domestic product data.  ‘Bottomed Out’  South Korea’s growth momentum is weakening, the Bank of
Korea said in a financial stability report to parliament
released today. Weak consumer and investor confidence may delay
a recovery, while household and corporate-sector credit risk may
increase due to rising home debt and a slowing economy, it said.  Thailand’s central bank cited an uncertain global economic
outlook and the threat to regional economies from a worldwide
slowdown in minutes released today of its Oct. 17 meeting, when
it unexpectedly cut its benchmark  interest rate .  Taiwan’s expansion in the third quarter was less than the
1.5 percent median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Elevated food prices and the highest  jobless
rate  in almost a year have damped domestic demand, prompting
officials today to cut growth forecasts for this year and next.  “The economy has improved on a quarter-on-quarter basis so
it’s fair to say it has bottomed out,” said Ma Tieying, an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . “The
disappointment is from private consumption. For meaningful
improvement we will need to see a substantial rise in exports.”  Inflation Concern  Taiwan’s currency has gained 2.5 percent in the past three
months, one of the best performers among the 11 most-widely
traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The benchmark
Taiex Index slipped 0.4 percent at 11:27 a.m.  Taiwan cut its 2012 growth estimate to 1.05 percent from
1.66 percent, and said the economy may expand 3.09 percent in
2013, less than a previous prediction of 3.67 percent. Exports
will contract 2.5 percent this year, more than an earlier
forecast of 1.72 percent, the statistics bureau said.  “The economy seems to have troughed,” Raymond Yeung, a
Hong Kong-based senior economist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., said before the release. “Both exports and
industrial production surprised on the upside in September and
tourism from the mainland continued to grow strongly.”  Some Asian officials have restrained their stimulus efforts
as global expansion slowed, with some refraining from interest-
rate cuts to preserve firepower should  Europe ’s debt crisis
worsen, and others including Singapore and Hong Kong taking
measures to prevent asset-price bubbles.  Improving Demand  Taiwan’s monetary policy is “adequately loose,” Governor
Perng Fai-Nan said last month after holding the  benchmark rate 
for a fifth meeting to damp inflation.  Shipments to China, the island’s largest trading partner,
rose 11.9 percent in September from a year earlier. Export
orders, an indicator of sales in the next one to three months,
climbed for the first time in seven months.  Chimei Innolux Corp., the largest liquid-crystal display
maker, this week reported a narrower-than-expected third-quarter
loss and forecast improving demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  