-- Take-Two Jumps on Spring Debut for ‘Grand Theft Auto V’
-- B y   C e c i l e   D a u r a t   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-10-31T17:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/take-two-cuts-outlook-before-grand-theft-auto-v-release.html
Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) 
rose after saying the next installment of its blockbuster
“Grand Theft Auto” video game will be released in spring and
boost revenue and earnings growth next year.  The shares  gained  3.5 percent to $11.08 at 12:52 p.m.  New
York  time in the first day of trading after  Hurricane Sandy 
forced the markets to shut down this week. Earlier the stock
advanced 7.8 percent, the biggest intraday jump since Oct. 2.  “Grand Theft Auto V” will generate “substantial”
revenue and earnings growth in fiscal 2014 starting in April,
Chief Executive Officer Strauss Zelnick said today in a
statement. The title is coming to  Microsoft Corp.’s (MSFT)  Xbox 360 and
 Sony Corp.’s (SNE)  PlayStation 3 in the spring, the game publisher
said yesterday, without providing a more precise date.  After lowering its guidance for the current fiscal year,
the “Grand Theft Auto” announcement suggests the game will not
ship until after the company’s fiscal year ends in March,
Michael Olson, an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co. in
 Minneapolis , wrote today in a note.  “The primary wildcard for the remainder of the year is the
success or failure of ‘BioShock Infinite,’ which will ship on
Feb. 26,” wrote Olson, who has a neutral rating on the shares.  The net loss shrank to $12.5 million, or 15 cents a share,
in the second quarter ended Sept. 30, from a loss of $47.4
million, or 57 cents, a year earlier, New York-based Take-Two
said. Net revenue more than doubled to $273.1 million from $107
million, propelled by the success of “Borderlands 2” and
catalog sales led by “Grand Theft Auto IV” and “Red Dead
Redemption.”  Earnings excluding items such as stock-based compensation
costs will be no higher than 20 cents a share in fiscal 2013,
Take-Two said, down from a previous  outlook  of $1.75 to $2.
Analysts predicted $1.93, the average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The company is cutting its fiscal 2013 guidance “to
reflect its revised assumed release schedule,” according to
today’s statement.  Take-Two’s stock had dropped 21 percent this year through
Oct. 26. Game publishers  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  and  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  declined 42 percent and 12 percent respectively in
that period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  