-- Allot to Ceragon Widen Premium After Storm: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-10-31T15:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/allot-to-ceragon-widen-premium-after-storm-israel-overnight.html
Two days without trading have left
 Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  and  Ceragon Networks Ltd. (CRNT) ’s New York
shares at the biggest premium to their Tel Aviv stock in at
least a month after disappointing third-quarter earnings pushed
the Israel-traded equities lower.  Allot, the developer of technology that helps wireless
carriers manage traffic, sank to a five-month low yesterday in
Tel Aviv, increasing the New York share premium by the most
since Sept. 28. Ceragon, which sells its gear to
telecommunication operators and  Internet service providers ,
extended its three-day decline in  Israel  to 20 percent, widening
the gap by the most since July 2011. U.S. bourses are scheduled
to open today after trading was halted for two days because of
 Hurricane Sandy .  Ceragon, based in  Tel Aviv , reported guidance that trailed
estimates. The second half of 2012 has been “slower than
everyone originally expected,” Chief Executive Officer Ira Palti said in an Oct. 29 investor conference call. Hod Hasharon,
Israel-based Allot reported third-quarter revenue of $27.77
million, short of the $27.87 million average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The spreads should come back to historic norms,” John Gualy, a partner at Eagle Global Advisors LLC in Houston and
portfolio manager for the Timothy Plan Israel Common Values
Fund, which manages about $9 million, said by phone. “Ceragon
has been struggling for a while and has taken a big plunge since
July. Allot has sold off some from its highs but the longer-term
opportunities are still there.”  Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  rose 0.4 percent to 1,214.22 at 10:24
a.m. in Tel Aviv. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the
largest New-York traded Israeli companies closed on Oct. 26 at
83.09 after falling for a third consecutive week.  Book-to-Bill  The  New York Stock Exchange (NYX)  expects to open as usual after
its facilities were closed for two days as Hurricane Sandy
blasted Lower  Manhattan  with floods and 90-mile-per-hour winds.
U.S. exchanges reopened a day after Sandy barreled up the East
Coast forcing hundreds of thousands of evacuations in New York
City and the surrounding region.  Allot’s shares fell 0.5 percent to 85.89 shekels yesterday
in Tel Aviv, or the equivalent of $22.10, after executives said
a measurement of future revenue known as book-to-bill was below
one, the normal level, according to Gualy. Allot’s New York-
traded stock closed on Oct. 26 at $22.78. Allot said 44 percent
of its third-quarter sales came from the Americas compared to 38
percent in the second quarter.  Ceragon Outlook  “Their book-to-bill was below one, which was negative,”
Catharine Trebnick, an analyst at Northland Securities Inc.,
said by phone from Minneapolis yesterday about Allot. “But
they’ve been trying to break into  North America  for three years,
so the good news is that they’re getting traction in the U.S.”  Ceragon fell 1.5 percent in Tel Aviv to 17.24 shekels, or
the equivalent of $4.44 compared to the company’s New York
shares which closed on Oct. 26 at $5.25. The New York shares
have lost 32 percent this year.  The company said on Oct. 29 that third-quarter revenue rose
2 percent to $118 million, below the $121.1 million mean
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue for
the “next several quarters will be flat off a base of $104
million to $110 million” in the fourth quarter, Palti said.  The lower-than-expected guidance comes at a time when
telecommunications equipment providers Nokia Siemens Networks
Ltd. and French competitor  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  are cutting jobs
and costs as the slowing global economy crimps spending on
infrastructure for mobile networks.  Kamada Sale  Kamada Ltd. (KMDA) , a maker of treatments for hereditary lung
diseases, soared to the highest level in almost 18 months in Tel
Aviv yesterday as a newspaper reported the company is in talks
with underwriters for a share sale in the U.S.  The Nes Ziona, Israel-based company’s shares gained 0.5
percent to 30.96 shekels, or $7.96. Kamada may raise “tens of
millions of dollars” in the sale, the Globes business daily
reported without citing its source for the information.  “We don’t comment on rumors,” Chief Executive Officer
David Tsur said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The
company has been approached by investment bankers numerous times
in the past and once a decision is made we will update the
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  