-- Allstate Profit Quadruples as Storm Claims Costs Decline
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-10-31T21:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/allstate-profit-quadruples-as-storm-claims-costs-decline.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly
traded U.S. home and auto insurer, said third-quarter profit
quadrupled on reduced disaster claims in the period before
Hurricane Sandy lashed the East Coast.  Net income rose to $723 million, or $1.48 a share, from
$175 million, or 34 cents, a year earlier, the Northbrook,
Illinois-based insurer said today in a statement. Operating
income, which excludes some investment results, was $1.46 a
share, beating the $1.13  average estimate  of 26 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Allstate joins Chubb Corp. and  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  in posting
better third-quarter results a year after the industry faced
record natural-disaster claims. Chief Executive Officer Tom Wilson, 55, has scaled back sales in  Florida , bought reinsurance
and raised prices for homeowners’ coverage. Tornadoes and
 Hurricane Irene  contributed to $3.8 billion in catastrophe
claims at the company last year.  “Fundamentally, it was a benign weather quarter,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said of the three
months ended Sept. 30 in an interview before today’s release.  Allstate climbed 2.5 percent to $40.98 at 4:21 p.m. in
extended trading in New York. The insurer had gained 46 percent
this year before the announcement, leading the 24-company  KBW
Insurance Index. (KIX)   Catastrophe Costs  Book value , a measure of assets minus liabilities, advanced
to $42.64 a share from $39.73 at the end of June. Wilson has
reshaped Allstate’s investment portfolio since 2008, when
writedowns contributed to an annual loss of $1.68 billion. The
insurer reduced portfolio risk in the quarter by selling some
structured securities, according to the statement.  Catastrophe costs in the third quarter fell 81 percent to
$206 million from a year earlier. The insurer made 9.8 cents for
every premium dollar in its property and liability coverage
unit. That compares with an expense of $1.05 per premium dollar
a year earlier.  “We improved underlying margins in both auto and
homeowners insurance and benefited from lower catastrophe
losses,” Wilson said in the statement.  Insurers are assessing damage from  Hurricane Sandy , which
will affect results in the current period. The storm killed at
least 50 people and caused flooding and billions of dollars in
damage along the East Coast after making landfall Oct. 29 in  New
Jersey . It halted travel, shut U.S. financial markets and
stopped the U.S. presidential campaigns.  Selling Online  Insured losses may be between $7 billion and $15 billion
industrywide in the U.S., catastrophe risk modeler AIR Worldwide
said yesterday in a statement. Allstate is among the largest
writers of primary property coverage in the states affected by
the storm, Morgan Stanley analysts said in an Oct. 28 note. The
company hasn’t yet released a loss estimate for the storm.  “It’s way to early to tell” what effect Sandy may have on
fourth-quarter earnings, Wilson said today in an interview on
CNBC. “I would say based on the size of this storm, it’ll be
significant but not material.”  The company acquired online auto-insurance seller Esurance
last year. Allstate has been losing customers for its namesake
brand of coverage as younger drivers shunned buying from agents
and chose to shop on the Web. Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Geico
unit and Progressive Corp., which sell directly to consumers
through the Internet, have expanded in recent years.  Wilson hired Ally Financial Inc.’s Sanjay Gupta in August
to lead Allstate’s marketing efforts. Geico led U.S. property-
casualty insurers with $993.8 million in advertising spending
last year, according to data compiled by  SNL Financial . State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. was No. 2, at $813.5
million. Allstate spent $745.3 million, while Progressive’s cost
was $536.1 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  