-- AMR’s American Airlines Settles Litigation With Sabre
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-31T20:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/american-airlines-settles-claims-in-lawsuit-against-sabre.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines 
settled litigation with Sabre Holdings Inc., the flight data and
reservation business that American spun off in 2000 and later
accused of trying to crush competition from its former parent.  The companies renewed their current distribution agreement
for multiple years, according to a jointly issued statement
today. The airline will also receive an unspecified sum of money
from Sabre.  The settlement comes one week into the Fort Worth,  Texas ,
state court jury trial of a lawsuit in which American claimed
Sabre units doubled fees for displaying the airline’s data on
its system, suppressed that data and organized a boycott to
punish the carrier for trying to develop a new data and
reservation system. The agreement also resolves federal claims
between the companies, according to Nancy St. Pierre, a Sabre
spokeswoman.  “Peace was obligatory,” said Richard Clarke, a founding
director of the U.K.-based industry consultant  Travel Technology
Research . Citing the companies’ interdependency, in a phone
interview he said, “the money spent on the trial may not have
been worthwhile for either party.”  Created by American in 1960 and spun off in 2000,
Southlake, Texas-based Sabre operates the world’s most extensive
flight data and reservations network, linking more than 350,000
travel agents to more than 400 airlines through its  global
distribution system , or GDS, according to its website. It also
runs the online bookings site Travelocity.  Travel Agents  Travel agent sales of American plane tickets through
Sabre’s system comprised the carrier’s largest non-direct source
of bookings, accounting for more than $7.7 billion in revenue in
2010, according to a January 2012 court filing by the airline.  “This is a story of how a very powerful company, in a
secret way, set out to crush new competition,” Paul Yetter, an
attorney for the airline, told jurors in his Oct. 24 opening
statement. He said his client sustained $993 million in damages.  Closely held Sabre countersued, accusing the carrier of
antitrust violations.  “This is a commercial contract dispute,” a Sabre lawyer,
Chris Lind, said in his own opening comments. “We’ll be asking
you to reject American’s claims.”  Clarke said the dispute may have been driven in part by
American’s frustration with being able to lead the technology
wing of the civil aviation industry as it once did when Sabre
was an in-house unit.  New Systems  He also cited the rise of global distribution systems such
as  Amadeus , which he said was created by a group of European
carriers including  Germany ’s  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Spain ’s
 Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA  and  Air France. (AF)   Airlines will continue to seek more efficient means of data
distribution and global distribution systems will pursue better
revenues, Clarke said.  “The win-win opportunity is for the GDSs to build better
software and services,” Clarke said.  American and Fort Worth-based AMR filed for bankruptcy last
year. The settlement requires approval from the judge overseeing
that case, according to today’s statement.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Sabre Inc., 067-
249214-10, Tarrant County, Texas, District Court for the 67th
Judicial District.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  