-- Tanker Outlook Cut at Wells Fargo as U.S. Oil Imports Slide
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-10-31T17:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/tanker-outlook-cut-at-wells-fargo-as-u-s-oil-imports-slide-1-.html
Crude-oil tankers will earn less
than previously anticipated next year as Chinese demand fails to
replace declining U.S. imports, according to  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC .  Rates for very large crude carriers will average $23,000 a
day in 2013, down from last quarter’s estimate of $28,375,
 Michael Webber , an analyst at Wells Fargo in  New York , said in
an e-mailed report today. He also reduced forecasted earnings
for Suezmax tankers hauling 1 million-barrel cargoes by 6.9
percent to $20,125 a day.  Imports may supply 42 percent of U.S. oil consumption this
year, down from 60 percent in 2005, Webber said. The world’s
largest crude buyer probably won’t return to 2007-08 levels,
making tankers increasingly dependent on Asian demand, he said.
While an increase in Chinese consumption is needed to improve
the market, shipments to the nation are down 14 percent year-to-
date, according to the report.  “The tanker market is clearly still moving along its
trough, begging the question, when should we expect a meaningful
improvement?” Webber said in the report. “The answer
unfortunately seems to be ‘not soon.’”  VLCCs are  losing  $1,772 daily on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan
benchmark voyage, compared with the prior session’s loss of
$2,009, according to the London-based Baltic Exchange today. Its
assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed at curbing use of
ship fuel, or bunkers, the industry’s biggest expense. Returns
were positive in only four sessions so far in the second half.  Charter Costs  Charter costs for VLCCs hauling 2 million barrel cargoes of
Middle East crude to  Asia  slipped 0.3 percent to 36.34 industry-
standard Worldscale points, data from the bourse showed. That’s
the lowest since Oct. 19.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 36.34 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, gained
0.3 percent to 674, the first increase after four consecutive
declines, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  