-- ArcelorMittal South Africa at Eight-Year Low: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-10-31T15:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/arcelormittal-south-africa-at-eight-year-low-johannesburg-mover.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , the
continent’s largest steelmaker, declined to the lowest in more
than eight years in Johannesburg after reporting a third-quarter
loss that it expects to widen in the following three months.  The Vanderbijlpark-based company fell 3.5 percent to close
at 33.40 rand, the lowest level since February 2004. The South
African unit of the world’s biggest steel producer said its
quarterly loss, narrowing to 148 million rand ($17 million) from
462 million rand a year earlier, is poised to expand again.  “The earnings loss for the fourth quarter is expected to
be substantially more than quarter three due to the seasonal
slowdown in domestic demand during December,” it said in a
statement. “A steady deterioration in global economic growth
led to weak steel demand across all regions. Domestic trading
conditions have been very challenging for steel producers.”  Benchmark prices for  hot-rolled coil  have fallen 14 percent
in the last year, according to a price tracker compiled by
London-based market researcher Steel Business Briefing. Africa’s
largest economy, which exports cars and machinery using steel,
will grow by 2.5 percent this year, Lungisa Fuzile, director-
general of  South Africa ’s National Treasury, said on Oct. 25.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  reduced output at the Saldanha steel works as
Kumba  Iron Ore  Ltd. declared force majeure, though the supplier
did ship ore from stockpiles, Chief Executive Officer
Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita told investors on a call.  The company closed some electric furnaces and plans to
complete further shutdowns in the current quarter, she said.  Capital Expenditure  ArcelorMittal South Africa expects to spend 380 million to
400 million rand on capital expenditure during the quarter,
Chief Financial Officer Rudolph Torlage said on the call.  The steelmaker said the average prices it received climbed
1 percent while long-steel prices dropped 3 percent. Cash costs
of hot-rolled coil per unit decreased by 6 percent.  ArcelorMittal South Africa on Aug. 23 said Kumba, majority-
owned by  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , will keep supplying 1.5 million
metric tons of iron ore at below-market prices until Dec. 31.
Kumba in March 2010 canceled a 2001 deal to supply 6.25 million
tons of ore a year from its Sishen mine in the Northern Cape.  South African Trade and Industry Minister  Rob Davies  has
appointed a mediator to try to resolve the dispute, Kumba and
ArcelorMittal said on Oct. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  