-- ArcelorMittal Profit Drops, Cuts Dividend on Steel Demand
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-10-31T17:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/arcelormittal-profit-falls-as-economic-crisis-curbs-steel-prices.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, reported the lowest quarterly profit in almost three
years and cut its 2013 dividend to save $1 billion as slowing
Asian demand sinks prices and the company attempts to cut debt.  Next year’s payout will drop to 20 cents a share from the
75 cents planned for 2012, the Luxembourg-based company said in
a statement. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization declined by 44 percent to $1.34 billion, in line
with estimates by 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ArcelorMittal is seeking to reduce its $23.2 billion in net
debt amid lower prices for steel and the iron ore it mines.  Standard & Poor’s cut its rating on ArcelorMittal’s debt to
junk on Aug. 2, citing a weakening industry and lack of clarity
over company plans to curb borrowings. Moody’s Investors Service
said it would follow suit unless ArcelorMittal reduced debt by
about $5 billion before the end of the year.  “While the dividend cut today is positive in terms of
addressing gearing concerns, there still remains risk that
ArcelorMittal takes further actions which could be negative for
equity shareholders to reduce gearing into year end,” Bank of
America Corp. said in a note to clients.  ArcelorMittal fell 6.4 percent, the biggest drop in more
than two months, to 11.43 euros by the close in Amsterdam.  Excluding proceeds from any further asset sales, net debt
will be about $22 billion at the year-end, ArcelorMittal said.  Investment Grade  Reducing the figure is a priority and it continues to seek
an investment-grade credit rating. ArcelorMittal is selling
assets, moving output to cheaper sites and idling plants.  The company said in July it was selling 48 percent of
engineering company Paul Wurth Group to SMS GmbH for 300 million
euros ($389 million) and in May agreed to sell Skyline Steel LLC
to  Nucor Corp. (NUE)  for about $605 million. It’s also considering
divesting a stake of about 30 percent in its Canadian iron-ore
unit, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  While the company isn’t planning to offload mining assets,
Chief Financial Officer Aditya Mittal didn’t rule out selling
stakes. “I do not see ourselves selling these core assets, but
clearly to strengthen our core business we may bring in captive
customers,” he told a call today. “Our strategy in our mining
business remains to grow our production capability.”  Annual Ebitda will be about $7 billion, ArcelorMittal said.  Lakshmi Mittal  “The already fragile global economy was further impacted
in the third quarter of 2012 by the slowdown in  China ,” Chief
Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  said in the statement. “This
resulted in very challenging operating conditions for
ArcelorMittal, which are expected to continue in the fourth
quarter.”  Steel-industry earnings have slumped as  Europe ’s economic
crisis saps demand and slower Chinese growth weighs on commodity
prices.  Posco (005490) , Asia’s third-biggest steelmaker by output, cut
its 2012 sales forecast for the third time this year on Oct. 23.
Profit at ArcelorMittal, which also mines iron ore from  Canada 
to Kazakhstan, is the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2009.  Prices for  hot-rolled steel coil , a benchmark product used
in vehicles and buildings, averaged about $624 a ton in the
third quarter, down from $764 a ton a year earlier, according to
Steel Business Briefing’s global price index. Prices for iron
ore, used to make the metal, fell 30 percent in the period.  Third-quarter sales fell 19 percent to $19.7 billion as the
company sold less steel at lower prices. Shipments dropped 8.3
percent to 19.9 million tons from the prior three months, while
per-ton Ebitda tumbled 41 percent to $67. The company, which
projects about $4.5 billion of capital expenditure this year,
said 2013 spending will be “meaningfully lower.”  “With net debt moving in the wrong direction, the dividend
being cut and ArcelorMittal guiding slightly lower for the
fourth quarter, we see these as a disappointing set of
results,” Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  