-- Arizona Nonprofit Told It May Need to Reveal Donors
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-10-31T21:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/arizona-nonprofit-told-it-may-need-to-reveal-donors.html
A nonprofit group that contributed
$11 million to help defeat a  California  ballot measure aimed at
raising taxes must disclose documents so that state election
officials can probe where the money came from, a judge said in a
tentative ruling.  In a preliminary finding before a hearing today, state
court Judge Shelleyanne W.L. Chang in Sacramento, California,
sided with California election officials who said “a review of
the documents is needed” before the Nov. 6 general election, or
“the people of the state of California will suffer irreparable
harm.” The judge didn’t indicate when she will rule before the
hearing ended.  The state’s  Fair Political Practices Commission  sued
Phoenix-based Americans for Responsible Leadership to identify
the secret source of the donation after the group refused to
comply with a commission audit to determine whether it violated
laws aimed at letting voters know who is bankrolling ballot
initiatives.  The donation, one of the single largest contributions made
in California this election, also supports a proposition to
prohibit unions from using payroll deductions for political
purposes. The funding is part of a wave of secret money flowing
through nonprofit groups that are increasingly being used to
protect the identities of donors in the aftermath of the U.S.
Supreme Court’s 2010 decision in a case called Citizens United
v.  Federal Election Commission  and other court rulings.  Out-of-state-groups spending money on California ballot
initiatives must disclose their donors before Election Day if
the donors intend for their contributions to be used to back or
oppose candidates or measures, Gary Winuk, chief of enforcement
at the commission, said in a petition seeking a court order
against Americans for Responsible Leadership.  California Voters  “Because the records sought by petitioner may be highly
relevant to the upcoming election, it is imperative that
respondent be ordered to produce the records immediately in
order to avoid irreparable harm to petitioner and the voters of
California,” Winuk said in a court filing.  The Phoenix group said in a filing that the  Citizens United 
ruling protects the constitutional rights of people who
“associate together in nonprofit corporations.” The ruling
gave corporations the same rights as individuals to spend money
independently to support candidates.  “What is worth noting here, in light of the political
atmosphere that has led to this case, is the undisputable notion
that non-profit corporations have constitutional rights,”
Alexander Vogel, a Washington attorney representing Americans
for Responsible Leadership, said in a court filing.  The group has never solicited “earmarked” donations aimed
at specific projects and the California disclosure rule wasn’t
triggered because its donors didn’t know the group would be
contributing money to the Small Business Action Committee PAC, a
California group that opposes Governor  Jerry Brown ’s Proposition
30, he said.  Sales Tax  The measure would temporarily boost the state  sales tax  to
7.5 percent from 7.25 percent and raise the levy on income
starting at $250,000 to avoid deep education spending cuts.  The committee also backs Proposition 32, a measure that
would restrict the use of union dues for political purposes.  Brown, speaking at a rally for Proposition 30 at  California
State University ,  Los Angeles , said the opposition is funded
largely by “financiers” trying to protect their interests. At
the same time, Brown said, more billionaires support Prop. 30
than oppose it.  “There’s $11 billion coming from a few people in
 Arizona ,” Brown said, misspeaking billion for million. “They
may be good people, they may be bad, but whoever they are
they’re ashamed of their identities. They don’t want to be
known.”  Sacramento Judge  Americans for Responsible Leadership seeks to educate the
public about “concepts that advance government accountability,
transparency, ethics and related public policy issues,”
according to its website. The group never made contributions in
California before Oct. 15, when it gave $11 million to the Small
Business Action Committee PAC, state officials said in a court
filing.  The case is Fair Political Practices Commission v,
Americans for Responsible Leadership, 34-2012-00131550,
California Superior Court,  Sacramento  County (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  