-- ARM Primed For Acquisitions With Stock Rise, Record Cash
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-10-31T20:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/arm-primed-for-buy-with-stock-rise-record-cash-real-m-a.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) ’s record cash and
stock price near a 12-year high are giving the chip designer
firepower for acquisitions to help keep a lead in smartphone
processors and expand in more technologies.  Shares of ARM, which posted the biggest gain in the MSCI
World Information Technology Index in the past five years,
surged this month to the highest since 2000 after the Cambridge,
England-based company posted record  quarterly revenue  and said
its order backlog had never been bigger. Cash and short-term
investments at ARM, which licenses technology that powers  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones, reached an all-time high of 442 million pounds
($710 million) as of Sept. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While a contract with  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  is
helping ARM secure a foothold in the market for semiconductors
used in computer servers, IC Insights Inc. said an acquisition
could help the $15 billion company accelerate the process.  Ceva
Inc. (CEVA) , a chip designer with expertise in wireless communications
technology, would help ARM bolster its position in mobile
phones, International Data Corp. says.  Cadence Design Systems
Inc. (CDNS)  and  Mentor Graphics (MENT)  Corp. also would make sense as targets,
according to Forward Concepts Co.  “When you have a lot of cash on hand, it opens up a lot of
opportunities,”  Jim McGregor , founder of Scottsdale, Arizona-
based Tirias Research, said in a telephone interview. With
computing technology in flux, ARM may seek to acquire companies
with specialized intellectual property, he said.  Charlene Marini, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for ARM, declined
to comment when asked whether the company is considering an
acquisition.  Chip Blueprints  ARM sells its chip blueprints to companies from  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM)  of  San Diego  to Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and receives royalties from shipments of semiconductors. Its
technology is used in smartphones, tablets and other devices
including Apple’s iPhone and iPad.  Shares of ARM surged 7.7 percent on Oct. 23 after the
company reported sales for the three months ended in September
that exceeded analysts’ estimates and said it started the
current quarter with a record backlog of orders. The stock,
which closed yesterday at 675.50 pence to match an almost 12-
year high set on Oct. 24, has gained more than fourfold during
the past five years.  Today, ARM shares fell 1.6 percent to 665 pence.  ARM’s  cash  and short-term investments stood at 442 million
pounds at the end of the third quarter, more than 36 percent
higher than a year earlier and a new high for the company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Server Technology  This week, the company introduced a new line of faster,
more energy-efficient processors for use in handsets and to
expand in the server market now dominated by competitor  Intel (INTC) 
Corp., which has a 95.5 percent share of that market, according
to Mercury Research. Intel rival AMD will start using ARM
technology in some of its products for servers in 2014.  With the company seeking to expand its market share in
applications used in everything from cars to digital cameras,
ARM may consider making an acquisition to aid in these efforts,
said Rob Lineback, a Fort Worth, Texas-based senior market
research analyst at IC Insights.  “ARM is expanding its core technology into a wide range of
various servers, computers and embedded processing applications,
from televisions to automotive,” Lineback said in a phone
interview. “It wouldn’t surprise me to see ARM making
acquisitions in specific applications.”  Ceva Synergies  Michael Palma, a San Mateo, California-based analyst with
IDC, said it would make sense for ARM to purchase Ceva, the
 Mountain View , California-based designer of communications chips
that allow cell phones and tablets to connect to the Internet
and make calls.  Ceva has a similar business model to ARM’s and works with
many of the same customers, Palma said. Its patents would let
ARM grab more licensing and royalty fees per mobile device
shipped, he said.  Ceva, with a market value of $342 million, is “already an
IP licensing model, so there are nice synergies,” Palma said.
For ARM, an acquisition of Ceva “would allow them to expand
their revenue per customer.”  Richard Kingston, a spokesman for Ceva, said in a phone
interview that “there are very good synergies” for ARM and
Ceva, “but there’s nothing to talk about right now.”  “In general, in semiconductor IP, there should be some
consolidation coming at some point,” he said.  Today, Ceva shares rose 0.2 percent to $15.15.  Design Services  ARM could expand the types of design services it provides
by purchasing Mentor Graphics or Cadence Design, said  Will
Strauss , president of chip consultant company Forward Concepts
in Mesa,  Arizona . The companies -- Mentor Graphics with a market
capitalization of $1.7 billion and Cadence Design valued at $3.6
billion -- provide software, technology and consulting services
to makers of components and electronic systems.  Nancy Szymanski, a spokeswoman for  San Jose , California-
based Cadence Design, and Suzanne Graham, a spokeswoman for
Wilsonville, Oregon-based Mentor Graphics, didn’t return phone
calls seeking comment.  Today, Cadence Design fell 1.2 percent to $12.65, while
Mentor Graphics rose 0.1 percent to $15.51.  MIPS Technologies Inc. (MIPS) , another chip designer and direct
competitor to ARM, also could be a target, said Gary Mobley, an
analyst at Benchmark Co. The Sunnyvale, California-based
company, with a market value of $390 million, hired Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. to identify and negotiate with possible
acquirers,  Bloomberg News  reported in April, citing people with
knowledge of the situation.  ‘Shopping Around’  “MIPS is shopping around its IP, and ARM wouldn’t want
that IP to end up with a patent troll,” Mobley said in a phone
interview. “For strategic reasons, it might make sense for ARM
to buy MIPS to protect itself.”  Jen Bernier-Santarini, a spokeswoman for MIPS, declined to
comment.  Today, MIPS fell 3.3 percent to $7.  Still, with its expansion into the server and PC markets
already underway, ARM may be more inclined to focus on the
 growth  it can achieve on its own, according to Aalok Shah, a
 Lake Oswego , Oregon-based analyst at D.A. Davidson & Co.  “They still have the wind at their back for a while,”
Shah said in a phone interview. “They’re entering new markets
such as servers so they don’t really need to do an
acquisition.”  It may make more sense for ARM to invest in a start-up
technology company, similar to its partial-ownership of closely
held Calxeda Inc., which designs chips that are increasingly
used in so-called cloud computing centers, said  Vijay Anand , a
London-based analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  ‘Organic Growth’  “You might see similar types of strategies being deployed
for other companies,” Anand said. “If you look at the business
model, it lends more to organic growth rather than growth led by
acquisitions.”  While ARM’s cash is at a record, its stockpile pales to
that of technology giants Intel and Qualcomm. Intel, the world’s
largest chipmaker, had $10.5 billion in cash and cash
equivalents at the end of the third quarter. Qualcomm, the
largest maker of chips for mobile phones, had $13.4 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, while ARM may not make any “game changer”
acquisitions, the company’s cash levels do position it to target
smaller services and software companies that could increase its
reach and capabilities, according to Chris La Jaunie, a New
York-based fund manager at Victory Capital Management Inc.,
which oversees about $21.5 billion, including shares of ARM.  “You can buy companies for the $50 million to $100 million
range that can enhance” the business, La Jaunie said in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rail at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  