-- Arrium Rejects Increased $1.25 Billion Takeover Offer
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-10-31T06:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/arrium-rejects-increased-1-25-billion-takeover-offer.html
Posco (005490)  and  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , leading
a consortium to buy Australian steelmaker  Arrium Ltd. (ARI) ,
terminated their A$1.2 billion ($1.25 billion) takeover offer
because the target’s board refused to engage.  The consortium, having raised its bid to 88 cents a share
from 75 cents, needed to access financial information about
Arrium to assess the capital required to improve the company’s
steel division. Arrium had net debt of A$2.14 billion as of June
30,  “Without due diligence we can’t value the proposal,”
Martin Debelle of Citadel PR, an external spokesman for the
consortium, said by phone. “We needed to do due diligence so we
could assess what capital was required to de-leverage the
business so we could assess what capital was required to improve
the steel division. They’re denying us due diligence and they’re
refusing to talk to us.”  Arrium earlier today rejected the improved offer from the
group, saying the 17 percent higher bid undervalued the company.  The 88 cents-a-share offer is “highly conditional” and
involved “significant transaction risk” as the group needs to
hold talks with Arrium’s lenders, the Sydney-based company,
previously known as OneSteel Ltd., said today in a statement.
The company rejected the initial 75 cents-a-share bid on Oct. 1.  Buying Arrium would have given Noble and Posco, Asia’s
third-biggest steelmaker by output, a potential 9 million metric
tons in annual supply of  iron ore  as well as access to as much
as 13 million tons a year of port capacity in  South Australia .  Arrium  shares  fell 1.9 percent to 78.5 cents at the close
of trading in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  