-- Maryland Pro Merson Wins $8.5 Million in World Series of Poker
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-31T14:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/maryland-pro-merson-wins-8-5-million-in-world-series-of-poker.html
Greg Merson, a 24-year-old poker
professional from  Maryland , lasted through a 12-hour final
session to capture the  World Series of Poker ’s main event and
its $8.5 million first prize.  The win, after 399 hands were dealt, also gave Merson
Player of the Year honors at the event in  Las Vegas , a 61-event
competition that concluded with the $10,000 buy-in No-Limit
Hold’em World Championship, otherwise known as the main event.  “I’ve played a lot of long cash games in my career, which
helps you prepare for something like this, but this whole stage
is something you can’t ever really prepare for,” Merson said,
placing the champion’s gold bracelet on his mother’s wrist. “I
couldn’t feel better for everyone who I’m sharing this victory
with.”  The main event was the fifth-largest live poker tournament
in history, with a starting field in July of 6,598 entrants.
They played down to nine contestants at the Rio All-Suite Hotel
& Casino on July 17 and restarted competition two days ago.  Merson, a Laurel, Maryland, native who attended the
 University of Maryland , was the chip leader heading into the
final day of competition, ahead of 26-year-old Jesse Sylvia and
21-year-old Jake Balsiger.  With only Merson and Sylvia remaining after Balsiger was
eliminated on the 382nd hand, Sylvia  committed all his chips 
while holding a suited queen-jack. Merson was holding a king in
his hand, which held up after the community cards were revealed:
two sixes, a three, a nine and a seven. Sylvia earned $5.3
million as runner-up.  Merson also won a $10,000 buy-in six-handed no-limit
hold’em event at this year’s event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  