-- Most Stocks Gain in Resumed U.S. Trading; Treasuries Gain
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-10-31T20:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/asian-stocks-advance-narrowing-monthly-loss-u-s-futures-gain.html
Most U.S.  stocks  gained as equity
markets resumed trading for the first time this week after
 Hurricane Sandy . Oil climbed and Treasuries rose a third day.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed less than 0.1
percent to close at 1,412.17 after gaining as much as 0.5
percent and losing 0.4 percent during the session. Trading of
 S&P 500  stocks was 6 percent above the 30-day average. Almost
three U.S. shares gained for every two that fell. Ten-year
Treasury yields lost three basis points to 1.69 percent. Oil in
 New York  added 0.7 percent and gasoline jumped 1.2 percent. The
euro rose for a second day versus the yen as governments pressed
 Greece  to make deeper spending cuts to keep aid flowing.  U.S. stock markets opened today after the biggest Atlantic
storm in history forced the first back-to-back closings of the
New York Stock Exchange for weather since 1888. Business
activity in the U.S. contracted in October for a second month,
according to a report today, following data yesterday that
showed  home prices  rose by the most in two years.  “There is some sigh of relief to see that the worst
scenario didn’t unfold,” Eric Teal, chief investment officer at
First Citizens Bancshares Inc., which manages $4.5 billion in
Raleigh,  North Carolina , said in a phone interview. “The
fundamentals are slowly improving in housing and that will
continue to show modest improvement in coming months.”  The S&P 500 lost 2 percent in October after four straight
monthly gains. Sandy may cut economic output by $25 billion in
the fourth quarter, according to Gregory Daco, a U.S. economist
at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . The fourth
quarter pace of growth may slow to between 1 percent and 1.5
percent, down from an estimate of 1.6 percent, he said.  Muted Response  “In terms of financial markets, we are pleased to see that
the initial response has been very muted,”  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of New York-based Marketfield Asset Management, which
oversees $3 billion, wrote today. “In general, we would advise
against ‘playing the storm’ unless it is on a very stock-
specific basis.”  The NYSE opened its market on time by running on backup
power from generators. Brokers on the NYSE floor experienced
limited Internet and mobile-phone connections while still being
able to trade from the exchange. Knight Capital Group Inc., one
of the largest U.S. market makers, shut down trading of equities
after backup power failed at its headquarters in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey .  ‘Very Smoothly’  Trading went “very smoothly, everything opened fairly
quickly,”  Duncan Niederauer , the chief executive officer of
NYSE Euronext, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
 Matt Miller . “Participation has been a lot more active than we
thought.”  Apple Inc. declined 1.4 percent after Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  embarked on a sweeping management overhaul at
the world’s most valuable company.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and Lowe’s
Cos. climbed more than 2 percent amid speculation the home-
improvement retailers would be helped by spending related to the
storm.  General Motors Co., the largest U.S. automaker, jumped 9.5
after third-quarter profit topped estimates. Profit has  exceeded
projections  at 72 percent of the companies that have released
third-quarter results so far, while sales trailed estimates at
60 percent of firms, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business
activity gauge increased to 49.9 this month from 49.7 in
September. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction. The median estimate of 54 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast it would rise to 51.  Oil Refineries  Oil advanced for a second day, gaining 0.7 percent to
$86.24 a barrel, as refiners resumed operations, paring the
biggest monthly decline since May. Futures climbed as much as
1.8 percent as Philadelphia Energy Solutions’ 355,000-barrel-a-
day Pennsylvania refinery restored operations. PBF Energy Inc.
said two plants on the East Coast operated at reduced rates.  The euro gained 0.2 percent to 103.35 yen. Norway’s krone
rose as the central bank kept it benchmark  interest rate  on hold
and said it won’t buy foreign currency.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell three basis points
to 4.96 percent, declining for a second day. Similar-maturity
Spanish debt yields slipped five basis points to 5.62 percent.  Treasuries have handed investors a 0.3 percent loss this
month as of Oct. 29, and the three-month decline is 0.8 percent,
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. The yield on the
10-year note traded in a four basis point range as government
debt was set to deliver a third month of losses, the longest
streak since the last quarter of 2010.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  increased 0.2 percent.
Russia’s Micex Index advanced 0.1 percent, Brazil’s Bovespa
index slipped 1 percent and the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added
0.3 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi index  jumped 0.7 percent as
industrial output climbed for the first time in four months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  