-- Asian Currencies Rise for Fifth Month on Recovery Optimism
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-10-31T08:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/asian-currencies-set-for-fifth-monthly-gain-on-recovery-optimism.html
Asian currencies strengthened for a
fifth month, led by South  Korea ’s won, as signs of a pickup in
 China’s economy  brightened the outlook for the region’s exports.  Gains in industrial output, retail sales and fixed-asset
investment gathered pace in September in the world’s second-
largest economy, reports showed this month. Taiwan, which has
 China  as its largest trading partner, released data today that
showed its economy returned to growth in the third quarter.
South Korea’s factory production increased for the first time in
four months, according to official figures published today.  “Some data, especially from China, improved risk
sentiment,” said  Tsutomu Soma , manager of the investment trust
and fixed-income business unit at Rakuten Securities Inc. in
 Tokyo . “Funds are flowing into  Asia , where the economy is
relatively solid compared with other regions.”  The won appreciated 1.9 percent this month to 1,090.70 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Philippine peso climbed 1.3 percent to 41.175, China’s  yuan  rose
0.8 percent to 6.2372 and Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.5
percent to 3.0470.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, gained 0.6
percent in October after the U.S., Europe and Japan stepped up
measures last quarter to spur their economies.  Emerging-market bond funds attracted $44.2 billion this
year through Oct. 24, compared with $15.9 billion in all of 2011,
according to U.S. data research firm EPFR Global.  Signs of Recovery  Taiwan ’s  exports  climbed for the first time in seven months
in September, rising 10.4 percent from a year earlier, figures
showed on Oct. 9. Thailand’s overseas  shipments  increased 0.2
percent, snapping a three-month decline, the Ministry of
Commerce said on Oct. 24.  A report due tomorrow will show China’s manufacturing
expanded in October for the first time in three months, based on
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The won rose to a 13-month high of 1,090 per dollar today
as official figures showed factory output expanded 0.8 percent
last month from August, when it dropped a revised 0.9 percent.  “There’s not really anywhere money can flow into apart
from Asian currencies, and there is an expectation that South
Korean exporters will sell dollars to convert overseas
earnings” before the month-end, said Kim Dong Young, a Seoul-
based currency dealer for  Industrial Bank of Korea. (024110)  “China’s
Purchasing Managers Index will show the country is headed for a
soft landing, not a hard one.”  Peso Rallies  The peso completed a second monthly advance after central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday the  Philippines ’
economic performance and  interest-rate  advantage are pulling in
capital from overseas.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas cut its benchmark interest rate
for the fourth time this year to a record-low 3.5 percent on Oct.
25, partly to slow exchange-rate appreciation and help protect
exporters. Tetangco said on Oct. 26 lower rates would discourage
capital inflows and curb gains in the currency.  The yuan tested the upper limit of its trading band in the
past week and is set for a third monthly gain on speculation
China’s growth is rebounding after a seven-quarter slowdown. The
Chinese Communist Party will hold a congress starting Nov. 8 for
a once-a-decade leadership transition, while the U.S. will elect
its president next week.  China Rebounding  “There have been strong bets that China’s economy is
rebounding and there could be more stimulus measures once the
congress is over,” said Bruce Yam, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “The
 U.S. presidential election  also fueled calls for yuan
appreciation.”  The currency touched 6.2371 per dollar on Oct. 29, the
strongest level since the government unified the official and
market exchange rates at the end of 1993. It has strengthened 2
percent since July.  India ’s rupee lost 1.9 percent this month, poised for the
biggest drop since May. The  Reserve Bank  of India cut its
projection for gains in gross domestic product in the year
through March 2013 yesterday to 5.8 percent from 6.5 percent. It
predicted the pace of increases in the benchmark wholesale-price
index will be 7.5 percent by March, compared with an earlier
call for 7 percent.  RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao reduced  reserve  requirements
for local banks by a quarter of a percentage point to a 36-year
low of 4.25 percent yesterday to free up funds for lending.  Elsewhere,  Thailand ’s baht strengthened 0.5 percent this
month to 30.66 versus the greenback, while Taiwan’s dollar
appreciated 0.3 percent to NT$29.26. Indonesia’s rupiah slid 0.3
percent to 9,618, falling for a ninth straight month in the
longest losing streak in at least two decades. Vietnam’s dong
rose 0.2 percent to 20,848.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  