-- MasterCard Profit Beats Estimates as Consumer Spending Rises
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-10-31T21:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/mastercard-profit-beats-estimates-as-consumer-spending-climbs.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest
U.S. payments network, posted a third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as U.S.  consumer spending  increased and the
firm’s  tax rate  fell.  Net income  climbed 7.7 percent to $772 million, or $6.17 a
share, from $717 million, or $5.63, a year earlier, the
Purchase, New York-based company said today in a statement. The
average estimate of 35 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $5.92.  Consumer spending in the U.S., where MasterCard gets about
40 percent of its revenue, rose more than forecast last month, a
sign that the biggest part of the economy was strengthening as
the quarter ended. MasterCard, led by Chief Executive Officer
Ajay Banga, also has been gaining share of the U.S. debit-card
market after new federal rules on transaction processing helped
erode the dominance of larger rival  Visa Inc. (V)   “In the U.S., we saw an improvement in  consumer
confidence , which resulted in an increase in consumer-spending
growth, although that growth is slower than 2011 or the numbers
we saw in the first half of 2012,” Banga, 52, said in a
conference call with analysts. “Housing-related categories of
retail spending continue to perform well, which I think points
to the underlying improvement in the housing market.”  MasterCard gained 1.8 percent to close at $460.93 in New
York. The stock has advanced 24 percent this year, outpacing a
12 percent gain for the 70-company  Standard & Poor’s 500
Information Technology Index. (S5INFT)   Operating Expenses  Net revenue increased 6 percent to $1.92 billion, short of
the $1.94 billion average estimate in the Bloomberg survey.
Operating expenses rose 5 percent to $854 million.  Global spending on MasterCard and Maestro cards, adjusted
for currency fluctuations, climbed 12 percent to $676 billion,
the company said. Processed transactions rose 24 percent to 8.7
billion.  Credit-card purchases rose 3.2 percent in the U.S. and 11
percent worldwide, while debit-card spending surged 13 percent
in the U.S. and 15 percent globally, the company said.  The effective tax rate fell to 27.6 percent from 30.5
percent a year earlier due to “export incentives” tied to
software that helps MasterCard authorize payments, the firm
said. The firm benefited from a U.S. law that allows income from
exported software to be taxed at a lower rate, according to
James Issokson, a company spokesman.  Analysts including Tien-tsin Huang of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and Robert W. Baird & Co.’s  David Koning  questioned the quality
of MasterCard’s results, saying the company beat estimates
because of the tax-rate change.  Share Repurchases  “We actually looked very critically in terms of how we do
our calculations” for the tax benefit, MasterCard Chief
Financial Officer Martina Hund-Mejean said in a phone interview.
“We did not take advantage of this regulation as much as we
should have.”  Rebates and incentives, which encourage banks to use
MasterCard’s products, climbed 20 percent to $677 million from a
year earlier, the company said in a  presentation . That exceeded
the estimate of Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst in New York with
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , who predicted $647 million.  Banga is repurchasing stock as MasterCard and Visa move
closer to resolving a seven-year legal battle with merchants
over credit-card “swipe” fees. MasterCard spent $216 million
to buy 500,000 of its shares in the quarter, the firm said. It
bought back an additional 255,000 shares this month through Oct.
25 for $119 million, and has $1.1 billion left to spend under a
$1.5 billion repurchase program, according to the statement.  China UnionPay  The settlement of the proposed class-action lawsuit against
banks, MasterCard and Visa probably is worthy of preliminary
approval, U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in  Brooklyn ,  New
York , said last week. MasterCard has said the settlement could
cost the company $790 million. Visa, based in  Foster City ,
 California , has said its share would be about $4.4 billion.  Visa, the world’s biggest payments network, is scheduled to
report fiscal fourth-quarter results after U.S. markets close
today.  MasterCard, ranked No. 2 globally by processed
transactions, risks losing its standing as the second-biggest
payments network in terms of total spending to Shanghai-based
 China  UnionPay Data Co.  UnionPay’s share of combined credit- and debit-card
purchase volume for the first half of 2012 rose to 25 percent
from 21 percent a year earlier, while MasterCard’s climbed to 22
percent from 21 percent, according to the Nilson Report, a
payments-industry newsletter.  Visa’s share declined to 46
percent from 49 percent, while fourth-ranked  American Express
Co. (AXP) ’s fell to 7.2 percent from 7.5 percent.  Visa, MasterCard and New York-based AmEx were among
companies to win partial support this year from World Trade
Organization judges in a U.S. claim that China unfairly
discriminates against foreign suppliers of electronic-payment
services by imposing requirements on them that aren’t applied to
domestic firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  