-- Astra Quarterly Profit Gains as Car Sales Beat Commodity Slump
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-10-31T10:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/astra-quarterly-profit-gains-as-car-sales-beat-commodity-slump.html
Net income at  PT Astra International (ASII) ,
Indonesia’s biggest automotive retailer, climbed 2.9 percent in
the third quarter as gains in vehicle sales outweighed declines
at its  palm oil  and heavy equipment units.  Net income in the three months ended Sept. 30 rose to 4.99
trillion rupiah ($519 million) from 4.85 trillion rupiah a year
earlier, according to calculations by  Bloomberg News . Nine-month
revenue at Astra, whose businesses include automotive,
finance, commodities and infrastructure, increased 20 percent
from a year earlier to 143.1 trillion rupiah, it said in an e-
mailed statement today. The Jakarta-based company sells  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  cars and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  motorcycles.  “Earnings were supported by Astra’s auto parts and four-
wheeler segments as sales have been amazingly resilient,”
Laurentia Amica Darmawan, who helps manage about $530 million in
assets at PT First State Investments Indonesia in Jakarta, said
by telephone today before the earnings were announced. “That’s
probably because purchasing power improved.”  Bank Indonesia  keeping its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low since February and faster economic growth are helping
companies such as Astra sell more cars and motorcycles. Astra is
betting on stronger auto sales as the global economic downturn
hampers growth at its commodity based units such as PT Astra
Agro Lestari. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw
materials has fallen 7.7 percent over the past year as Europe’s
debt crisis and slowing growth in  China  cut demand.  Bank Indonesia held its  interest rate  at 5.75 percent on
Oct. 11 while Southeast Asia’s biggest economy expanded 6.37
percent in the second quarter, accelerating from the previous
three months. Domestic vehicle sales rose 24 percent in the nine
months through September to 816,322 units, according to data
from the automotive industries group released by Astra Oct. 15.  “Even though our business prospect remains good and Astra
group is expected to achieve a satisfying business performance
this year, the fall in commodity prices may affect the company’s
performance going forward,” President Director Prijono Sugiarto
said in the statement today. “Lower demand in the heavy
equipment segment reflects a weakening coal price while a recent
drop in palm oil prices is also affecting the company’s profit
level.”  Nine-month net income at heavy equipment unit  PT United
Tractors (UNTR)  climbed to 4.47 trillion rupiah from 4.35 trillion
rupiah a year earlier, as gains in its mining contracting
business outweighed lower sales. Nine-month sales at Indonesia’s
biggest heavy equipment distributor fell 15 percent from a year
earlier to 5,455 units amid softening coal prices and tighter
competition, Astra said in the statement.  Net income at Astra Agro, a palm oil producer, slipped to
1.67 trillion rupiah in the nine months through September from
1.86 trillion rupiah a year earlier, it said Oct. 29. Palm oil
has tumbled into a  bear market  as stockpiles in  Malaysia , the
second-largest producer, gained to a record last month while
slower global economic growth cut demand. Futures on the
Malaysia Derivative Exchange, a global benchmark, ended at 2,501
ringgit ($819) a ton yesterday, 31 percent lower than the year’s
closing high on April 10.  Shares of Astra,  Indonesia ’s largest company by market
value, rose 8.8 percent this year, underperforming the benchmark
 Jakarta Composite index  gain of 14 percent. The stock climbed
0.6 percent to 8,050 rupiah at the close in Jakarta today.  Astra’s third-quarter earnings were derived by subtracting
first-half numbers from the nine-month earnings announced today.
Two calls to Astra’s office to confirm the third-quarter
earnings weren’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  