-- Atlantic City Casino Owners Risk Moody’s Downgrades After Sandy
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2012-10-31T22:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/atlantic-city-casino-owners-risk-moody-s-downgrades-after-sandy.html
An extended closing of Atlantic City
casinos because of Hurricane Sandy may lead to ratings cuts for
firms including  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  and Revel AC Inc.,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a note yesterday.  Revel and Borgata casino owner Marina District Finance Co.
are the most vulnerable since each has a single asset, its
Atlantic City casino, Moody’s said. Revel was downgraded to Caa2
from Caa1 in August with sales and earnings at the Revel Resort,
opened in May, already at a “significant” discount to what the
ratings firm “believed was necessary” to service its debt.  Marina District Finance, rated B2, may have to seek a
covenant amendment or waiver to avoid breaching a minimum cash
flow requirement in its bank-loan agreement, Moody’s said.  Caesars, whose $1.36 billion of annual casino wins
represents 43 percent of the Atlantic City total, gets 20
percent of its sales there. A temporarily loss of revenue from
the New Jersey gambling center could make it difficult for the
Caa1 rated company to improve its leverage and interest-coverage
metrics, Moody’s said.  “Right out of the box, it doesn’t impact Caesars,” Peggy Holloway, Moody’s senior credit officer said in a telephone
interview. “It would be more of another hit that they would
potentially have to absorb.”  Casinos in Atlantic City, the second-largest U.S. gaming
site behind Las Vegas, closed the night of Oct. 28, a day before
 Hurricane Sandy , the largest tropical storm system on record,
hit New Jersey. While the Casino Association of New Jersey said
damage to the casinos was minor and they could open as early as
tomorrow, regional destruction will affect customers’
discretionary spending and ability to travel, potentially
limiting revenue, according to Bloomberg Casino and Gaming
Analysts Tim Craighead and Brian Miller.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and BBB- at Standard & Poor’s. Issuers rated in the Caa
category by Moody’s “are subject to very high credit risk.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in  New York  at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  