-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Gain on Better-Than-Forecast Building Data
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-31T21:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/aussie-n-z-dollars-gain-on-better-than-forecast-building-data.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rose against their U.S. counterpart after data showed
better-than-forecast building approvals for both countries.  Australia ’s dollar gained against most of its major
counterparts before reports tomorrow that may show China’s
manufacturing strengthened, improving prospects for exports.
Both South Pacific currencies were supported as Asian stocks and
commodities increased.  “The Australian dollar is stronger, initially buoyed by
stronger domestic data including building approvals and private-
sector credit, and subsequently supported by broader  market
sentiment ,” Eric Theoret, a currency strategist in Toronto at
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit, wrote yesterday in a
note to clients.  Australia’s currency appreciated 0.1 percent to $1.0376
yesterday in  New York  after rising to $1.0400, its highest level
since Oct. 18. It rose 0.3 percent to 82.76 yen.  The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, increased 0.2
percent to 82.25 U.S. cents. The kiwi climbed 0.4 percent to
65.61 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  rose 0.7 percent. The Standard
& Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials rose 0.3 percent.  In Australia, the number of permits granted to build or
renovate houses and apartments gained 7.8 percent last month
from August, when they rose a revised 8.8 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney yesterday. That exceeded the median
 forecast  for a 1 percent increase in a separate poll.  Purchasing Managers  Building approvals in New Zealand increased 7.8 percent in
September from August, when they gained a revised 2.8 percent,
the statistics office said in Wellington yesterday. Economists
in a Bloomberg News survey had projected a 3 percent advance.  Figures due today may show a manufacturing gauge based on a
survey of  purchasing managers  in  China , the world’s second-
biggest economy, climbed to 50.2 this month from 49.8 in
September, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  New Zealand’s dollar has strengthened 4.1 percent this
year, the biggest gain among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The Aussie
has fallen 0.5 percent, and the greenback is down 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  