-- Aussie, Kiwi Remain Higher as Building Data, Shares Boost Demand
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-10-31T04:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/aussie-dollar-remains-higher-before-china-manufacturing-reports.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars remained higher after data showing better-than-expected
building approvals for both South Pacific countries.  Australia ’s currency gained against most of its major
counterparts before reports tomorrow that may show improvement
in China’s manufacturing, brightening prospects for exports. The
so-called Aussie and kiwi were also supported as gains in Asian
shares and U.S. stock-index futures boosted demand for higher-
yielding assets. Swaps traders reduced bets the Reserve Bank of
Australia will cut interest rates at its next meeting.  “The building approvals numbers from Australia and New
Zealand were much stronger than expected,” said Khoon Goh, a
senior currency strategist in  Singapore  at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  The data indicate that the “impact
of interest-rate cuts by the RBA over the last year or so is
finally starting to have some effect. That’s provided a slight
boost to the Aussie.”  The Australian dollar added 0.1 percent to $1.0375 as of
3:51 p.m. in Sydney from the close yesterday. The currency was
little changed from $1.0378 at the end of last month. The Aussie
rose 0.1 percent to 82.60 yen. New Zealand’s dollar bought 82.10
U.S. cents from 82.08, poised for a 1.1 percent decline in
October.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rallied 0.9 percent.
Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  expiring in December
added 0.1 percent. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
canceled equity trading for two days through yesterday as the
Atlantic storm Sandy caused flooding and blackouts in the
Northeast. The  New York  Stock Exchange said it plans to open
today.  Australian Bonds  Australian  bonds  were little changed, with the 10-year note
yielding 3.13 percent. Three-month implied volatility on the
Aussie dollar touched 8.32 percent, the lowest since July 26,
2007.  Building approvals in New Zealand increased 7.8 percent in
September from August, when they gained a revised 2.8 percent,
the statistics office said in Wellington today. Economists in a
Bloomberg News survey had projected a 3 percent advance.  In Australia, the number of permits granted to build or
renovate houses and apartments gained 7.8 percent last month
from August, when they rose a revised 8.8 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. That exceeded the median
 forecast  for a 1 percent increase in a separate poll.  Overnight index swaps data compiled by Bloomberg indicate
about a 60 percent chance of a 0.25 percentage point reduction
in the RBA’s key rate, currently held at 3.25 percent, at its
Nov. 6 meeting. That compared with 73 percent odds seen a week
ago. The probability has fallen since data last week showed a
faster-than-expected gain in Australia’s consumer prices.  Rate Prospects  “The paring back of rate-cut expectations is part of the
reason why we’re seeing the Aussie firmer,” said ANZ’s Goh, who
expects a rate reduction in December.  Figures due tomorrow may show a manufacturing gauge based
on a survey of  purchasing managers  in  China , the world’s second-
biggest economy, climbed to 50.2 this month from 49.8 in
September, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  A similar  measure  published by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics may have climbed to 49.1 this month from 47.9 last
month, according to a separate poll. That would confirm a
preliminary reading released Oct. 24. For both indexes, 50 is
the dividing line between contraction and expansion.  China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export market.  “Investors are expecting better figures from China,
lending some support to the Aussie,” said Junichi Ishikawa, an
analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  