-- Australia, N.Z. Building Permits Jump as Low Rates Spur Demand
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-31T03:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/australia-n-z-building-permits-jump-as-low-rates-spur-demand.html
Australian and New Zealand home-
building  approvals  surged in September as lower  interest rates 
motivated in part by sustained currency strength revive the
nations’ construction industries.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments in  Australia  surged 7.8 percent from August, when
they rose a revised 8.8 percent, government data showed in
Sydney today. Across the  Tasman Sea , approvals also increased
7.8 percent from August, when they gained a revised 2.8 percent,
New Zealand’s statistics agency said.  Reserve Bank of Australia Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  this
week addressed the connection between his nation’s elevated
currency and higher returns available relative to economies such
as the U.S. and  Europe  where rates are near zero. The so-called
Aussie’s sustained strength helped allow policy makers to reduce
the overnight cash rate target five times in the past year to
3.25 percent to boost construction and other industries that are
shedding workers.  “The strong exchange rate has contributed to looser
monetary settings than would have otherwise occurred if the
currency had been less resilient to the latest global
downturn,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics
in Sydney. “Accommodative monetary settings are supporting the
property market in Australia and New Zealand.”  Kiwi Strength  New Zealand’s central bank has kept the official cash rate
at a record-low 2.5 percent since March last year, and the
effective home lending rate in August was the lowest since
records began in 1998, according to central bank figures. The
 New Zealand dollar  has gained 5.8 percent against its U.S.
counterpart this year, the best-performing Group of 10 currency.  The U.S. Federal Reserve,  European Central Bank  and  Bank of
England  have expanded their balance sheets since 2008 to try to
resuscitate growth, and the  Bank of Japan (8301)  yesterday boosted its
asset-purchase program for the second time in two months.  The Australian dollar rose 56 percent in the past four
years, the strongest performer among 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, as investors sought exposure to the raw materials
powering  China ’s economic boom.  The Aussie maintained earlier gains, trading at $1.0385 at
1:52 p.m. in Sydney compared with $1.0367 before the release.
New Zealand’s currency was also higher, buying 82.23 U.S. cents
compared with 82.08 cents yesterday.  Australian and New Zealand policy makers have publicly
discussed options available to cope with currency strength.  Intervention Talk  Lowe said yesterday that while the RBA maintains the option
to intervene in  currency markets  to weaken the Australian
dollar, such a move would require evidence that it’s
fundamentally overvalued and is restraining the economy in a
significant way.  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler, in his
inaugural address last week, signaled he wants a weaker currency
without having to resort to unorthodox policy that may disrupt
efforts to contain inflation.  The RBA has reduced its  overnight cash-rate target  by 1.5
percentage points since November last year, and it remains among
the highest borrowing costs among major developed nations.
Traders are pricing in a 55 percent chance policy makers will
cut by a further quarter point at the RBA’s Nov. 6 meeting,
according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Lower-than-average interest rates are providing some
support to demand in the economy,” Lowe said in yesterday’s
speech in Sydney. “There is also some sign that they have led
to a slight improvement in the  property market , although there
has been little change in the appetite for debt.”  Credit Growth  Loans provided by Australian banks and finance companies
rose in September at the fastest pace in three months and
exceeded economists’ forecast, increasing 0.3 percent from a
month earlier, as loans for housing gained 0.4 percent, a report
from the RBA showed today.  Australian building approvals in September increased 12.4
percent from a year earlier, today’s statistics bureau report
showed. That compares with economists’ forecast for a 2.1
percent rise year-over-year.  The  construction industry  in Australia has lost about
70,000 jobs in the past year, according to government figures
compiled by Bloomberg.  In New Zealand, permits excluding those for apartments rose
5.6 percent from August, when they increased 5.2 percent,
today’s report showed.  Construction was  New Zealand ’s most optimistic industry in
October, with 46 percent of firms expecting better sales in the
next 12 months, according to an ANZ National Bank Ltd. business
confidence survey last week.  Apartments, Renovations  Approvals in Australia to build private houses rose 1.2
percent to 7,484 in September from the previous month, today’s
report showed. Approvals for apartments and renovations advanced
17.9 percent to 5,772.  Australian  home prices  climbed by the most in 30 months in
September, according to RP Data.  House and apartment prices across Australia’s eight state
and territory capitals rose 1.4 percent in September from the
previous month, the most since March 2010, the RP Data-Rismark
Home Value Index showed Oct. 2. They also rose 2 percent in the
three months ended Sept. 30 from the prior quarter, the
Brisbane-based researcher said.  “There has been some stabilization in the property market
since the RBA began cutting rates last year but it is still
weak,” Ell said. “We are cautiously optimistic the RBA’s
easing bias will dampen upward pressure on the  exchange rate  and
breathe life into the non-mining, export-facing sectors of the
economy struggling to achieve trend growth in coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  