-- Australian Stocks, Japan Futures Retreat; Panasonic ADRs Plummet
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2012-10-31T23:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/australian-stocks-japan-futures-retreat-panasonic-adrs-plummet.html
Australian  stocks  fell, led by
resources companies and banks, while Japanese stock futures
retreated ahead of economic releases and the presidential
election in the U.S.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company
retreated 0.9 percent in Sydney. American depository receipts of
Panasonic Corp. plunged 9.6 percent after the appliance maker
projected a loss that was about 30 times bigger than analysts
estimated. Sharp Corp.’s ADRS climbed 4.4 percent ahead of the
company’s results today.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  slipped 0.7 percent, heading
for its first decline in four days. Futures on the Nikkei 225
Stock Average were bid at 8,910 in Osaka from 8,930 yesterday.
China releases a purchasing manager’s index today and the
monthly jobs report is due in the U.S. tomorrow.  “There’s no reason to buy shares ahead of important
events,” said  Mitsushige Akino , Tokyo-based chief fund officer
at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co., which oversees about 30
billion yen ($376 million). “Lower corporate earnings forecasts
stemming from the sluggish global economy has been factored into
markets but the lingering slump in China and tensions between
Japan and China may cause companies to cut  forecast further.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 0.4 percent last month as
more than half the gauge’s companies that reported earnings
missed profit estimates. That pared to 12 percent an advance
from this year’s low on June 4 as global central banks added
stimulus to safeguard economic recoveries. Stocks on the
measure traded yesterday at an average of 12.9 times  estimated
earnings , compared with 13.5 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 12.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  After Sandy  Gauges tracking banks and mining companies were the biggest
drags on the S&P/ASX 200 today.  Most U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
reversing an earlier loss, as equity markets reopened after
 Hurricane Sandy  caused the longest weather-related shutdown
since 1888.  A Chicago area purchasing managers index showed a
contraction yesterday while economists had estimated it signal
expansion. Data on manufacturing and unemployment are due today
and tomorrow. The U.S. presidential election will be held next
Tuesday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Gentle in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  