-- Taylor Sees Case for Splitting U.K. Banks If Firewall Fails
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-31T12:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/taylor-sees-case-for-splitting-u-k-banks-if-firewall-fails-1-.html
Former Barclays Plc Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Taylor  said regulators should be given the power
to fully split banks along retail and investment lines if
proposed arrangements for a firewall fail.  Legislation making its way through Parliament to force
banks to erect firewalls represents a “superior solution,”
though a full split may be necessary if the industry proves
“unreformable,” Taylor told lawmakers investigating banking
standards in  London  today.  There “would be a case for going further” if the plans
are diluted, said Taylor, who was also a member of the
Independent Commission on Banking that proposed the firewall.
“If you give the regulators the powers that the draft bill
foresees, you would have some pretty strong defenses. But
defenses need keeping up.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  in June accepted
the overwhelming majority of the ICB report, while watering down
recommendations on how much capital lenders must hold. That
prompted criticism from  John Vickers , who led the commission,
and Taylor said today the decision “is simply a mistake.”  The Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards, which
was set up following the scandal over the manipulation of the
London Inter-Bank Offered Rate, today published written
testimony from  Alan Budd , a former Barclays executive and  Bank
of England  policy maker.  Solutions  “Breaking up the universal banks may make the clearing
retail side better (and increase the confidence of its
customers) but make the investment banking side worse,” Budd
said, according to the statement. “If problems are more likely
to arise on the investment banking side, that is where the
solutions have to be found.”  Former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  said the
successful ring-fencing of banks’ operations is very difficult
to maintain and financial institutions will seek to unwind the
separation over time.  Attending a hearing of the panel in London on Oct. 17,
Volcker said the recommendations of Britain’s banking commission
may be eroded by financial institutions looking to take
advantage of “exceptions” in the proposals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  