-- Baidu Slumps on Outlook as U.S. Trade Resumes: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-31T21:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/baidu-slumps-on-outlook-as-u-s-trading-resumes-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks fell in New York as
trading resumed after the two-day shutdown, with  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) 
driving declines after issuing a lower-than-estimated sales
forecast.  The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slipped 0.4 percent to 93.90,
reducing the gain in October to 2 percent. Internet company
Baidu sank 6.3 percent as Citigroup Inc. cut the stock to sell
while  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  traded at the biggest
discount to its Hong Kong shares since Oct. 19 after forecasting
that it will swing to a loss in 2012.  China ’s seven-quarter slowdown is taking its toll on
companies’ bottom lines, with the 16 firms on the China-US gauge
that have reported third-quarter earnings  missing analysts’
estimates  by an average 9 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Baidu, owner of China’s biggest online search engine and
the biggest Internet stock in the Bloomberg index,  forecast  on
Oct. 29 that sales will rise as much as 42 percent in the fourth
quarter, the slowest revenue growth in three years and below
analysts’ estimates.  “We are seeing slower guidance from Baidu as a result of
the macro” situation, Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis
Asset Management Inc., said in a phone interview from Lisle,
 Illinois  yesterday. “Baidu has created such high expectations
given the multiple years of super fast growth.”  Slower Revenue Growth  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 0.4 percent to
$36.79 yesterday, paring its second consecutive monthly advance
to 6.3 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little
changed at 1,412.16 as U.S. equity trading resumed after a
shutdown brought about by  Hurricane Sandy . The gauge fell 2
percent last month.  Baidu’s revenue will range from 6.16 billion  yuan  ($987
million) to 6.35 billion yuan in the fourth quarter, the company
said in an Oct. 29 statement. That compares with the 6.41
billion-yuan average of 13 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The top end of the forecast range implies the slowest pace
of revenue growth since the fourth quarter of 2009, when sales
gained 40 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup reduced Baidu from buy and lowered its price
target by 50 percent to $95.10, according to a report released
yesterday. “Baidu turns into a de-rating story” given
advertisers have been slow to embrace ads on the company’s
search pages for mobile phones, and a slowdown in search
revenue, analysts led by Ravi Sarathy, a Citigroup managing
director, wrote.  Sell Recommendation  Aluminum Corp., which is known as Chalco and is the largest
producer of the metal in China, declined 1.3 percent to a more-
than two-week low of $10.77 in New York. The Beijing-based
company’s ADRs traded 1.5 percent below its shares in  Hong Kong ,
the biggest discount since Oct. 19. Each ADR is equal to 25
ordinary shares.  Robin Tsui, an equity analyst at Bank of China Ltd.,
lowered his recommendation on the stock to sell from hold
yesterday. Chalco said on Oct. 30 that it will swing to a full-
year loss as overcapacity and slowing demand weigh on prices.
The producer posted a fourth consecutive unprofitable quarter in
the three months ended in September.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of Chinese domestic shares
advanced 0.3 percent to 2,068.88 yesterday, trimming its October
loss to 0.8 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong climbed 1.2 percent to
10,582.05 for a  monthly gain  of 7.6 percent, the most since
January.  ‘Reflect Green Shoots’  “I don’t think the ADRs have paid any attention to the
strong move in Hong Kong the last three nights,” Oberweis Asset
Management’s Papp said. “I would expect earnings would take a
few quarters before they reflect green shoots in the economy.”  The China-US index rose to the highest level since May 11
on Oct. 22 as industrial production rebounded last month from a
three-year low and retail sales climbed the most in six months.  Renren Inc. (RENN) , which runs a real-name social networking
website in China, sank 4.1 percent to $3.27, the lowest on
record.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the biggest online book
retailer in China, tumbled 5.7 percent to a record low of $3.78.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil explorer, slid 1.2
percent to $205.55. Its ADRs, each representing 100 underlying
shares in the company, traded 1.1 percent below the Hong Kong
stock, the widest discount since Oct. 19.  Cnooc’s parent, China National Offshore Oil Corp., will pay
 BG Group Plc (BG/)  $1.93 billion for a supply contract and an
additional stake in an Australian liquefied natural gas project
as China secures fuel sources to meet soaring consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  