-- U.S. Proposes Record Penalty for Barclays’ Energy Trades
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-10-31T22:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/barclays-says-ferc-probing-western-u-s-power-trading-business.html
The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission proposed that  Barclays Plc (BARC)  pay a record $435 million
civil penalty and give up $34.9 million in profit for allegedly
manipulating energy markets from late 2006 to 2008.  The agency issued the order today, giving the London-based
company 30 days to respond. The FERC also proposed an individual
penalty of $15 million for trader Scott Connelly and $1 million
each for three colleagues.  “We are disappointed by the action that FERC took today
and strongly disagree with the allegations made by FERC against
Barclays and its former traders,”  Mark Lane , a Barclays
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe that our
trading was legitimate and in compliance with applicable law.”  The federal agency is stepping up its drive to combat
manipulation in energy markets, where utilities and generators
buy and sell electricity. The agency, which also is probing
trading by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , in
February created a division in its enforcement office to police
the markets.  FERC staff in a  notice  issued April 5 said four Barclays
energy traders -- Connelly and Daniel Brin, Karen Levine and
Ryan Smith -- allegedly coordinated to manipulate electricity
markets in the western U.S. at various times from November 2006
through December 2008. The agency notified Barclays on Oct. 25
that it was proposing penalties, according to the company
statement.  $139 Million  The actions resulted in losses estimated at $139.3 million
for participants in the market trading electricity for
California and neighboring states, according to FERC.  “Barclays intends to vigorously defend this matter,” the
bank, the second-largest U.K. lender, said earlier today in a
statement.  The agency’s April notice suggests the investigation is
focusing on traders who allegedly made financial bets in energy
markets to benefit the bank’s financial position on the
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , Susan Court, a former director of
FERC’s enforcement office, said in a phone interview before the
order was released.  “The allegations here are similar to what FERC lodged”
against  Brian Hunter , a former Amaranth Advisors LLC energy
trader, said Court, a principal at SJC Energy Consultants LLC in
Arlington,  Virginia , who isn’t involved in the FERC probe.  Civil Penalty  The FERC in April 2011 issued a $30 million civil penalty
against Hunter, who the agency said manipulated the price of
contracts on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in 2006 while
boosting the value of financial derivatives. He has challenged
the FERC case in court.  While FERC has authority to levy fines as high as $1
million per day per violation, Court said.  “It really is going to depend on how many months are
involved,” she said.  Since January 2011, the FERC has announced more than 10
probes of alleged manipulation in electricity and natural-gas
markets, and agency chairman Jon Wellinghoff has vowed that
“senior management will be held accountable” for violations.
The agency this year reached a record $245 million settlement
with Constellation Energy Group Inc. over allegations of market
manipulation in the U.S. northeast.  The FERC this year said it was investigating J.P. Morgan
Ventures Energy Corp. for allegedly gaming energy markets in
 California  and the Midwest, resulting in at least $73 million in
improper payments to generators. The company on Oct. 18
apologized to regulators for making what it said were
inadvertent mistakes in responding to investigators as it seeks
to retain its energy-trading license.  Deutsche Bank  The FERC in December issued a preliminary determination
that Deutsche Bank’s energy trading unit manipulated the
California power market in 2010, which may result in a $1.5
million fine and the loss of $123,198 in profits. The company
has until Nov. 5 to respond to the agency’s allegations.  Regulators “have been cracking down on market manipulation
whereby companies essentially leverage one market to influence
the outcome of another,” Alan Isemonger, founder of Energy
Market Expertise LLC, a Sacramento, California-based consulting
firm, said in an e-mail.  In the Barclays case, “FERC appears to be certain of the
nature of the violation and is moving ahead with profit
disgorgement and fines and penalties,” said Isemonger, a former
market monitor for California’s power-grid operator.  In addition to the FERC investigation, Barclays said it is
is the subject of separate probes by the U.S. Justice Department
and Securities and Exchange Commission. The agencies are trying
to determine whether third parties who help the bank win
business comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In June,
U.K. and U.S. regulators fined Barclays for manipulating the
London interbank offered rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  