-- Barclays Pretax Profit Climbs 29% on Fixed-Income Revenue
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-10-31T16:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/barclays-pretax-profit-climbs-29-on-fixed-income-revenue.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the British bank fined
for rigging benchmark  interest rates , posted a 29 percent gain
in third-quarter pretax profit and said it was the target of two
more regulatory investigations.  Pretax profit, excluding provisions and accounting losses
from revaluing the bank’s own debt, rose to 1.73 billion pounds
($2.8 billion), the London-based bank said in a statement today,
meeting the 1.71 billion-pound median estimate of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The shares fell after revenue from fixed
income, commodities and currencies, known as FICC, missed
analysts’ estimates.  The results are the first since  Antony Jenkins  replaced
 Robert Diamond  as chief executive officer in August after
Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds for manipulating
Libor. The bank, which is struggling to put an end to a series
of regulatory missteps, said today it may be fined over its U.S.
power trading operation and said its compliance with the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act is being probed. It also said it’s
“cautious” about the outlook for its securities unit.  “The disappointment will be in the investment bank and the
outlook,” Henry Dixon, a  fund manager  at Matterley in London,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Mark Barton .
“Their cautious comment about  investment banking  and yet
another probe” will weigh on the shares, he said.  U.S. Probes  Barclays  fell  4.7 percent to 227.5 pence in London trading
after rising 3.5 percent yesterday. Before today, the bank’s
shares had gained 47 percent in the second half, the  second-best
performance  in the Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services
Index.  Barclays said the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  is
probing its western U.S. power trading business between 2006 and
2008 and could issue a notice of penalties as soon as today. The
regulator said in July that it was investigating JPMorgan Chase
& Co. over potential manipulation that inflated prices for
electricity.  Barclays also said the  Department of Justice  and the
Securities and Exchange Commission are probing whether its
relationships with third parties who help the bank win business
comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  That probe follows a U.K. inquiry by the  Serious Fraud
Office  into fees the bank paid in 2008 to Qatar’s sovereign
wealth fund as the lender sought money to avoid a government
bailout. The bank said it’s investigating and is co-operating
with U.S. authorities.  FICC Revenue  Barclays posted a net loss of 200 million pounds for the
first nine months, compared with a profit of 2.7 billion pounds
in the year-earlier period.  FICC revenue rose 10 percent to 1.58 billion pounds in the
third quarter, missing the 1.87 billion-pound median estimate.
The lender said trading in October “continues to be affected by
the challenging economic environment and subdued market
volumes,” and said it’s “cautious.”  “The investment bank is disappointing and that seems to be
principally fixed income and currencies,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage 17 billion pounds at London’s
Rathbone Brothers Plc, including Barclays shares. “The market
saw a good performance from Deutsche Bank yesterday, and
therefore compare-and-contrast is disappointing.”  Rival Banks  Deutsche Bank AG yesterday said third-quarter profit
climbed after a rally in bond and stock markets brought a surge
in trading income. Its revenue from trading bonds and other
products jumped an annual 67 percent in the third quarter to 2.5
billion euros ($3.25 billion).  Investment banks have benefited from a rebound in bond
markets triggered by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s July pledge to defend the euro with “whatever it
takes.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s FICC revenue climbed 28
percent from a year earlier and was up 1 percent from the second
quarter, according to figures released two weeks ago. JPMorgan’s
fixed-income trading revenue excluding accounting adjustments
rose 33 percent in the third quarter, while Citigroup Inc.’s
increased 63 percent.  Barclays said it reduced its holdings of Italian, Spanish,
Portuguese, Greek and Cypriot debt by 15 percent during the
quarter. Credit-impairment charges fell 7 percent over the nine-
month period.  Barclays paid a record fine after regulators found it tried
to manipulate the London interbank offered rate. The bank is
also being hobbled by compensation claims from Britons wrongly
sold so-called payment protection insurance and derivatives.  The bank said the compensation-to-income ratio, a measure
of how much is paid to its staff, fell to 39 percent from 46
percent for the first nine months. Jenkins said banker pay is
likely to continue to fall.  Banker Pay  “We’ve been clear that we are acknowledging the sentiment
of investors and broader society on compensation,” he said.
“We are striking a balance between reducing the compensation
ratio over time and protecting the franchise.”  The 2012 bonus pool has not yet been set, Barclays said.  Jenkins said more “appropriate action” will be taken on
clawing back compensation, though he wouldn’t comment on whether
that would apply to Diamond’s compensation. He also declined to
comment on the investigations or say how many people have been
fired or suspended following the bank’s  Libor probe , although
money has been clawed back from some employees.  Rich Ricci , who became the sole leader of the securities
unit in June, this month combined part of the fixed-income and
equities operations in his first reorganization since taking
sole control of investment banking in June. Ricci helped build
the investment bank as one of Diamond’s lieutenants.  “Our universal banking franchise remains strong and well-
positioned,” Jenkins said in today’s statement. “We continue
to have good momentum in our businesses despite the difficulties
we have faced.”  The lender is cutting just under 10 percent of staff in its
equities division in Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa  to reduce
costs amid a slump in trading volumes, people with knowledge of
the matter said on Oct. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  