-- BBVA Sees Slower Peru Loan Growth as Companies Tap Bond Market
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-10-31T16:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/bbva-sees-slower-peru-loan-growth-as-companies-tap-bond-market.html
Banco Continental (CONTINC1)  SA, the Peruvian
unit of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , expects loan growth
to slow in 2013 as corporate clients turn more to the  bond
market  and after policy makers took steps to stem credit demand.  The lender, the Andean nation’s second largest, sees total
bank lending in Peru expanding 14 percent this year and 12
percent next year after growing 17 percent in 2011, Chief
Executive Officer Eduardo Torres Llosa said in an interview in
Lima today.  Banco Continental’s lending business is slowing as demand
for Peruvian corporate bonds spurs customers to raise financing
overseas. The bank is focusing on personal loans amid a consumer
boom in Peru that’s fueling the fastest economic growth in  South
America . The bank’s consumer loan and credit card portfolio has
grown about 23 percent in the past year versus 18 percent for
the banking system as a whole, Torres-Llosa said.  “Peru is a very, very attractive market so it doesn’t make
sense for banks to lend $100 million to a big client when we can
connect our clients to the  capital markets ,” he said. Banco
Continental is seeking to take advantage of a wave of small
customers entering the banking system for the first time rather
than focus on increasing its market share of corporate loans, he
said.  Lenders will become more prudent next year as the ratio of
non-performing loans rises amid signs that some lower-earning
Peruvians are becoming over-indebted, Torres-Llosa said.  The central bank increased  reserve requirements  for a third
straight month yesterday to cool credit demand.  Interest rates 
on dollar loans will rise as new regulations require higher
provisions when banks lend in U.S. currency, Oscar Rivera, the
president of the country’s banking association, Asbanc, said in
an interview in Lima yesterday.  “Slowing the pace of credit doesn’t hurt anyone,” Torres-
Llosa said. “It’s better to grow at 15 percent for many years
rather than grow only two years and then suddenly stop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  