-- BBVA Quarterly Profit Slumps Amid Real Estate Cleanup
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-31T17:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/bbva-s-quarterly-profit-slumps-as-real-estate-purge-continues.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, said third-quarter profit fell 82
percent as it continued to purge soured real estate assets.  Net income  dropped to 146 million euros ($190 million) from
804 million euros in the year-earlier period, the Bilbao, Spain-
based bank said in a filing today. That missed the average 186.4
million-euro  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts.  BBVA said it has completed two-thirds of the provisioning
charges needed to comply with government orders to Spanish banks
to recognize losses on real estate that piled up on their
balance sheets after the property market crashed. Higher profit
from Mexico and South America helped to cushion a 532 million-
euro nine-month loss from Spain, which still accounts for about
60 percent of BBVA’s lending.  “I liked the results from Spain on an operational level
and if they’d been better from Mexico you could have said they
would have been very good earnings,” said Juan Pablo Lopez, an
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  Madrid .  BBVA closed 1.8 percent higher in Madrid trading at 6.44
euros, paring this year’s decline to 3.6 percent. That compares
with a 15 percent gain for the 38-member Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index. Larger Spanish rival  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) , which reported a 94 percent drop in quarterly
profit on Oct. 25, has declined 1.4 percent this year.  Dividend Policy  Greater clarity on the outlook for earnings as uncertainty
over its real estate loan book diminishes may allow the bank to
“take decisions” over the dividend in future, BBVA President
and Chief Operating Officer Angel Cano said on a webcast today.  He said the bank doesn’t have reason to change its dividend
policy, which involves a commitment to pay at least 42 cents per
share.  Bad loans as a percentage of total lending rose to 4.8
percent from 4 percent in June, BBVA said. Net loans newly
classified as in default rose to 1.76 billion euros in the
quarter from 1.63 billion euros in the preceding three months,
the lender said.  BBVA’s core capital ratio, a comparison between its core
equity capital and total risk-weighted assets, was 10.8 percent,
the same as in June, it said.  Third-quarter net interest income climbed 18 percent to
3.88 billion euros as lending rose 7 percent from a year ago,
BBVA said. Deposits increased 2.4 percent.  Unnim Integration  The bad-loans ratio at BBVA’s Spanish business jumped to
6.5 percent from 5.1 percent in June after the lender
incorporated Unnim, a bank acquired earlier this year. Excluding
Unnim, formed from a merger of Catalan savings banks, the bad-
loans ratio was 5.7 percent, BBVA said.  The default rate for developer loans hit 42 percent, up
14.1 percentage points from December, as the rate for company
loans jumped to 8.2 percent, up 2.5 points, Cano said.  Third-quarter earnings from  Mexico , where BBVA runs the
nation’s biggest bank, rose 7.4 percent to 423 million euros.
Profit from South America, where the bank runs lenders from
Colombia to  Chile , jumped 23 percent to 303 million euros, BBVA
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  