-- Berkshire Extends Housing Bet With Brookfield Venture
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-10-31T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/berkshire-extends-housing-bet-with-brookfield-venture.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  is extending its bet on the U.S. housing market by forming
a venture with  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  as low interest
rates, inventory and prices spur a real-estate rebound.  Berkshire’s HomeServices of America Inc. unit will be the
majority owner of the venture to manage a U.S. residential real-
estate affiliate network, according to a statement on the new
company’s  website . The firms plan to offer a new franchise
brand, Berkshire Hathaway Home Services, starting next year.
Brookfield’s network has operated under the Prudential Real
Estate and Real Living Real Estate brands.  Berkshire’s managers have been positioning the firm to
benefit as the U.S. home market recovers from its worst slump in
seven decades. The Omaha, Nebraska-based company has bought a
brickmaker, won the loan portfolio of bankrupt mortgage lender
Residential Capital LLC at auction and built its HomeServices
unit by agreeing to acquire real-estate brokerages in states
including Oregon and Connecticut.  “We have significant inventory shortage across the
country” and prices have fallen, HomeServices Chief Executive
Officer  Ron Peltier  said in a phone interview. “When you add
the pieces up together with low interest rates, we see a housing
market that will continue to improve.”  Berkshire Class A shares declined less than 1 percent in
New York trading on Oct. 26 to $129,725 and have gained 13
percent this year. Brookfield, based in Toronto, advanced 1.9
percent yesterday to C$34.90 and has surged  24 percent  since
Dec. 31.  Buffett’s Outlook  Buffett, 82, said in July that the U.S. home market was
beginning to improve. Berkshire’s billionaire chairman and CEO
tracks economic activity, in part, by studying the results of
the company’s more than 70 operating businesses including ones
that build manufactured homes, make paint and sell insulation.  “It was just a question of getting households in balance
with” the supply of homes, Buffett told Bloomberg Television’s
 Betty Liu  in a July 13 interview. “That happens in different
paces in different parts of the country, but you have seen a
much better balance developing here in recent months. And that’s
why you’re seeing some pickup in prices in places.”  Housing prices rose 2 percent in August from a year
earlier, the biggest gain since July 2010, according the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S. cities. The
number of homes for sale in the U.S. dropped 18 percent last
month from a year earlier, according the National Association of
Realtors website.  Borrowing Costs  Federal Reserve policy makers have said they will keep
borrowing costs near zero to help stimulate the economy. That’s
led to near record-low  interest rates  on home loans. The average
rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage was 3.63 percent, the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  said last week.  The new company, HSF Affiliates LLC, will have a combined
network of more than 53,000 agents operating in about 1,700 U.S.
locations and who generated $72 billion in sales last year. The
network will give HomeServices exposure to markets such as New
York,  Boston  and Northern California, Peltier said.  Hurricane Sandy , which made landfall in  New Jersey  this
week, may decrease inventory in the Northeast as homeowners
assess damage, Peltier said. The storm battered homes in coastal
states that account for about one out of every five U.S. real
estate sales.  “Short-term, it makes properties harder to sell when parts
of neighborhoods have been devastated,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  