-- Billionaire Rinehart Loses Bid to Dismiss Children’s Suit
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-10-31T09:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/billionaire-rinehart-loses-bid-to-dismiss-children-s-suit.html
Gina Rinehart ,  Asia ’s richest woman,
lost a bid to have a lawsuit by three of her children over their
multibillion-dollar family trust thrown out.  New South Wales Supreme Court Justice Paul Brereton today
rejected Rinehart’s request to dismiss the case and also granted
the children leave to amend their claims.  Hope Rinehart Welker, Bianca Rinehart and John Hancock sued
their 58-year-old mother in the Australian state court in
September 2011, accusing her of misconduct by threatening their
financial ruin and breach of trust. They want her removed as
trustee of the Hope Margaret Hancock Trust, which holds a $4.5
billion stake of  iron ore  and coal developer Hancock Prospecting
Pty.  Gina Rinehart hadn’t shown that their case was doomed to
fail, the judge ruled.  “Of course, that is not to say that the plaintiffs will
necessarily prove their allegations,” Brereton said. That can
only by resolved at trial.  An e-mail to Perth-based Hancock Prospecting Pty, Gina
Rinehart’s closely held company, seeking comment on the court
decision wasn’t immediately answered.  Gina Rinehart inherited iron-ore mining assets from her
father,  Lang Hancock , and has an agreement with  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) 
under which she collects royalties on properties in  Western
Australia  mined by Rio. She’s ranked 37th wealthiest person in
the world by the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , with an estimated
net worth of $18.6 billion.  Trust Control  Ginia, her youngest child, has sided with Gina Rinehart in
the dispute.  Welker, Bianca and John Hancock accused their mother of
threatening their financial ruin if they didn’t extend her
control of the trust.  “At the core of this are allegations that, as the vesting
date approached, she misrepresented to the beneficiaries that
they would incur capital gains tax liabilities with catastrophic
financial consequences for them,” Brereton wrote in his 12-page
ruling.  While Gina Rinehart has announced that she is prepared to
transfer shares to the beneficiaries when called to do so, that
doesn’t necessarily extinguish any concern that might arise from
her past alleged behavior, Brereton said.  Gina Rinehart’s children are planning to ask for the return
of trust moneys which she may have used to fund her defense in
this case, the judge said, allowing them to amend their
complaint.  The court case was important to the future of Hancock
Prospecting,  John Hancock  said in an e-mail responding to
Bloomberg requesting comment.  “Its the future of the family company, including
beneficial shareholders whose interests are managed by the
Trustee,” he said.  The case is Hope Rinehart Welker v Gina Rinehart.
2011/285907. New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  