-- Biogen Hemophilia A Therapy Helps in Fewer Injections
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-10-31T20:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/biogen-hemophilia-a-drug-controls-bleeding-in-fewer-injections.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and partner  Swedish
Orphan Biovitrum AB (SOBI)  said their hemophilia A therapy controlled
bleeding with fewer injections in a late-stage study. The
companies plan to apply for U.S. approval early next year.  The therapy, long-lasting recombinant Factor VIII Fc fusion
protein, or rFVIIIFc, yielded annual rates of 1.6 bleeds in a
preventive treatment study arm in which patients received the
drug about once every three and a half days. That compared with
3.6 bleeds for patients treated once a week, and 33.6 for
patients that received the medicine as needed, the companies
said in a statement today.  None of the patients in the study developed inhibitors,
antibodies that stop the drug from working, and the treatment
was generally well tolerated, the companies said. They plan to
apply for Food and Drug Administration approval in the first
half of 2013, they said.  The drug “has the potential to enhance the care of people
living with hemophilia A by offering protection from bleeding
with reduced treatment burden,” Glenn Pierce, chief medical
officer for Biogen’s hemophilia therapeutic area, said in the
statement.  Swedish Orphan rose 11 percent to 37.50 kronor at 5:30 p.m.
in  Stockholm , the biggest advance since Sept. 26. Biogen
declined 3.3 percent to $138.21 at 4 p.m.  New York  time. The
shares have gained 26 percent this year.  Bleeding Rate  Hemophilia is an inherited blood disorder caused by a low
levels or absence of a protein essential for blood-clotting. In
the first study arm, which treated patients on an individualized
basis to prevent bleeds, 30 percent of people began being
treated about once every five days in the last three months,
from once every three and a half previously, Biogen said.  “This is perhaps a bit below our expectations of about 40
percent to 70 percent plus that earlier data had predicted,”
 Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in New York, wrote
in a note to clients today. “The annualized bleeding rate in
this arm was stellar at 1.6 (well below historical averages). In
addition, the weekly dosing data look very good.”  The half-life of Biogen and Swedish Orphan’s drug was 19
hours, compared with 12.4 hours for  Baxter International Inc. (BAX) ’s
Advate, a therapy that leads the $5 billion market for
hemophilia A recombinant treatments, according to research from
 Barclays Capital .  “We would expect Biogen to pound the message that
‘whatever Baxter can do, we can do 1.5x better,’” Schoenebaum
wrote.  Sales Potential  Biogen and Swedish Orphan’s drug may draw $306 million in
annual revenue by 2016, according to  Brian Abrahams , an analyst
with Wells Fargo.  The companies reported data last month on their therapy for
hemophilia B, a bleeding disorder that affects a smaller number
of patients. The hemophilia A market is about four times the
size of that for hemophilia B, according to Eric Schmidt, an
analyst with Cowen & Co.  Those data showed Biogen and Swedish Orphan’s drug was
well-tolerated and enabled patients to be treated less
frequently.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  