-- BMC Plans $1 Billion Share Buyback After Exploring Sale
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-11-01T20:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/bmc-software-plans-1-billion-share-buyback-after-exploring-sale.html
BMC Software Inc. (BMC) , a maker of
software that helps manage corporate  computer networks , plans to
buy back $1 billion in shares within the next year after
reviewing options, including a possible sale of the company.  The repurchase represents about 15 percent of BMC’s
outstanding shares, and $750 million of the authorized fund will
go to buying back shares during the third quarter that ends Dec.
31, the company said in a statement yesterday.  The announcement, which came alongside BMC’s fiscal second-
quarter earnings report, follows a half-year period of
uncertainty since activist shareholder Elliott Associates LP
disclosed its stake in May and pressed the company to consider a
sale. The buyback appears to quell uncertainty about BMC’s
strategic direction, said Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. in  New York .  “It definitely conveys the message that they are focused
on core execution,” he said in an e-mail yesterday.  The company also considered alternatives to the buyback
including stock splits, spin-outs, acquisitions or a sale, BMC
said. The Houston-based company had attracted buyout interest
from private equity investment firms KKR & Co. and TPG Capital,
people close to the situation told  Bloomberg News  in October.  “BMC’s  board of directors  unanimously agreed that the
repurchase program is the best outcome for BMC’s shareholders,”
the company said, citing the results of an “extensive review.”
The process didn’t lead to serious sale talks, said one person
with direct knowledge of the situation.  Growth Review  The  software company , whose products let customers manage
networks of personal computers and servers, update software and
manage PC users’ support requests, has seen its  earnings growth 
slow the past two years. The company reported profit excluding
certain items of 88 cents a share for the quarter ended Sept.
30, matching the average estimate of analysts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales decreased 1.5 percent to $548.2 million. For the
fiscal year that ends in March, BMC reiterated its earnings
forecast of $3.49 to $3.59 a share. Analysts on average expect
$3.48.  Under pressure from Elliott to consider a sale, BMC had
hired Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp. as advisers,
according to the same person with direct knowledge of the
situation.  In July, BMC Software added two directors, Jim Schaper and
 John Dillon , chosen by Elliott. The new board members, along
with directors Lou Lavigne and Mark Hawkins, oversaw the review
with assistance of outside advisers, BMC said in the statement.  BMC rose less than 1 percent to $40.98 at the close in New
York. The  stock  has gained 25 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  