-- BOE’s Bean Says Economic Doubts May Undermine Impact of QE
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-01T08:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/boe-s-bean-says-economic-doubts-may-undermine-stimulus-impact.html
Bank of  England  Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  said consumers’ and businesses’ concerns about the
outlook may undermine the impact of quantitative easing, in
remarks one week before officials’ next decision on stimulus.  “Looser monetary policy works in large part by encouraging
households and businesses to bring forward future spending to
the present,” Bean said late yesterday. “It is plausible,
however, that such intertemporal substitution will be weaker
when uncertainty is elevated and when banks and some households
are concentrating on repairing their balance sheets.”  Speaking at the University of Hull, England, Bean gave an
overview of the measures the Bank of England has implemented to
battle the recession and said the financial crisis showed that
policy makers “knew less than we thought.” His comments come
as the central bank prepares to publish as soon as this week
independent reviews into its response to the turmoil and the
Monetary Policy Committee’s forecasting capability.  The past five years have been “a challenging, but humbling
experience,” Bean said. “As a result of the crisis, we have
found ourselves providing liquidity support in unexpected ways,
deploying unconventional monetary policies in alien
circumstances, and developing a whole new lexicon of macro
prudential policies.”  ‘Open Question’  The  Bank of England  unveiled a 50 billion-pound ($81
billion) round of  asset purchases  in July, and policy makers
will decide on Nov. 8 whether to expand stimulus again. Bean
said while QE has pushed down long-term yields, a “more open
question” is the “degree of traction these lower yields have
on demand at the present juncture.  ‘‘Uncertainty about the outlook for demand is far and away
the dominant factor’’ on businesses, he said. ‘‘That does not
mean that quantitative easing is impotent, as demand will still
be affected by the wealth effect from the higher asset prices,
as well as by any related exchange-rate depreciation. But I
think there are reasons to believe the effect of lower yields
may be weaker than usual.’’  Barclays Plc said Bean’s comments reinforce their view that
he will vote for no change to policy next week. It forecasts
that the target for bond purchases will be kept at 375 billion
pounds.  ‘‘While his comments seem to justify the exceptionally
loose monetary policy stance so far, it appears that he is
increasingly reluctant to provide further stimulus,’’ said
Blerina Uruci, an economist at Barclays in London.  Canceling Gilts  The pound rose for a third day against the dollar,
advancing 0.2 percent to $1.6154 as of 8:10 a.m. in London.
 Government bonds  declined, with the yield on the benchmark 10-
year gilt rising 3 basis points to 1.88 percent.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said last month that
he doesn’t have concerns about the bank’s scope to add to bond
purchases. On the question of the effectiveness of QE, he said
that while its direct impact on gilt yields may be reduced as
sovereign borrowing costs decline, raising the price on other
assets is an ‘‘equally important” objective.  Bean rejected the argument that the central bank should
cancel the gilts it holds through its QE program to reduce
government debt. This would deny the bank the assets needed to
sell back to investors and withdraw bank reserves to unwind the
policy, he said.  “It would also deprive the bank of the wherewithal to pay
the interest on the reserves in the meantime, so we would need
either to keep  bank rate  perpetually at zero or else be willing
to continue issuing additional reserves indefinitely in order to
meet our obligations,” he said. “One can easily see how this
would eventually lead to  inflation  taking off.”  Commenting on data last month showing Britain exited a
recession in the  third quarter  with the strongest growth in five
years, Bean noted it was “boosted by one-off factors.”  There’s ‘not quite as much good news as there might be on
face of it,’’ he said. While the data was “welcome news,” it
will be “some time before the post-crisis adjustment is
complete.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  