-- Business Activity in U.S. Shrank in October for Second Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-10-31T14:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/business-activity-in-u-s-shrank-in-october-for-second-month.html
Business activity in the U.S.
unexpectedly contracted in October for a second month, adding to
signs manufacturing has retreated from its central role in the
economic recovery.  A  gauge  from the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc. rose to 49.9 from 49.7 in September. A reading of 50 is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction. The median
estimate of 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 51.  The prospect that lawmakers will be unable to avert the
$607 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts slated
to take effect at the beginning of 2013, combined with a global
slowdown, may restrain activity for the rest of the year.
Nonetheless, gains in U.S.  consumer spending  over the past two
months may limit the damage and help manufacturers overcome the
uncertainties surrounding domestic fiscal policy.  “The manufacturing sector is struggling,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , who forecast a reading of 49.4. “You’ve
got global weakness which is hurting exports. You’ve got
uncertainty with the fiscal cliff, which may keep people
cautious.”  Projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 49.1 to
54.3.  Stocks held earlier gains after the report as equity
markets resumed trading for the first time this week after
 Hurricane Sandy . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3
percent to 1,416.58 at 10:08 a.m. in New York.  Report Components  The group’s gauge of  new orders  rose to 50.6 from 47.4. A
measure of employment declined to 50.3, the weakest since
December 2009, from 52. The production  index  fell to 51.8 from
55.4 in September, today’s report showed.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual rate from
July through September, up from a 1.3 percent pace in the prior
quarter, the Commerce Department reported last week. Corporate
spending on equipment and software was unchanged, the weakest
reading in three years, and companies are cutting forecasts on
slowing growth in Europe and  Asia .  “There’s just a great deal of uncertainty and there’s not
a lot of demand,” Stephen Roell, president and chief executive
officer of Johnson Controls Inc., an automotive and building
supplier in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, said in an Oct. 30 earnings
call. “I mean, there’s not a lot of growth in the underlying
economy.”  Chicago Report  Economists monitor the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group includes manufacturers and service
providers with operations in the U.S. and abroad, making the
gauge a measure of overall growth.  Other regional reports have been mixed. Manufacturing in
the region covered by the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Philadelphia
expanded in October, while factories in the New York Fed area
contracted for a third month.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index for
October fell to 51 from 51.5 the prior month, signaling a slower
pace of expansion, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before tomorrow’s report.  Businesses remain concerned about the package of tax
increases and government spending cuts -- the so-called fiscal
cliff -- that will begin to take effect in January unless
Congress acts. The outcome of next week’s presidential election
also is too close to call, with President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  in a tight race in a handful
of swing states that will decide the race.  Industrial ‘Caution’  “We have seen an industrial slowdown,” said Gregory Kenny, president and chief executive officer of General Cable
Corp., maker of wire and cable products in Highland Heights,
 Kentucky , on an Oct. 30 earnings call. “I would look for the
U.S. to start opening up early next year no matter who wins. But
I think we’ve talked ourselves into caution industrially.”  American consumers might help overcome that slowdown.
Household purchases, the biggest part of the  U.S. economy ,
climbed more than forecast in September. Consumer spending rose
0.8 percent, the most since February, after advancing 0.5
percent in August, the Commerce Department reported earlier this
week.  Cheaper gasoline, a lower  unemployment rate  and an
improving housing market are lifting moods. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index reached a six-month high in the week
ended Oct. 21. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final
gauge of sentiment advanced to the highest level since September
2007, before the recession began.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  