-- Tory Rebels Warned of Worse Deal on Europe After Vote
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n ,   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-11-01T10:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/cameron-s-government-is-defeated-in-commons-vote-on-eu-budget.html
Senior British government ministers
warned rebel Tory lawmakers they risk getting a worse deal on
the European Union budget than they want if they tie Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s hands in summit talks.  Cameron suffered a defeat in the House of Commons last
night when euro-skeptic Tories teamed up with the opposition
 Labour Party . Lawmakers voted 307 to 294 for a non-binding
amendment urging the premier to go into negotiations in Brussels
on Nov. 22-23 with the aim of securing a real-terms reduction in
the bloc’s spending between 2014 and 2020, rather than the
freeze Cameron has said he’ll push for.  Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
told BBC Radio 4 today that the party leadership will listen to
the rebels’ concerns, while warning that the real test will come
once Cameron returns from the summit. The House of Commons will
then hold a binding vote on whether to support an agreement.  “I want a cut in the EU budget, David Cameron wants a cut
and pretty much every Conservative MP wants a cut,” Osborne
said. “But is a deal better than the alternative?” he asked,
of the EU agreeing spending on an annual basis.  “Of course I would like to see less money go to the
European Union budget,” Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said
in a speech in  London . “It’s what you think is the best
possible deal rather than insist on an impossible deal.”  Clegg said the Conservative rebels had sent “a clear
signal” to bear down on EU spending, though he echoed Osborne
by saying that “the crunch decision will come when there is or
is not a deal on the table” in a Commons vote after the summit.  Veto Threat  The prime minister has said he’ll use Britain’s veto if he
can’t reach an acceptable agreement with other EU heads of
government.  Clegg, whose Liberal Democrats are the most pro-European of
the three main parties, was critical of Conservatives who say
their aim is to claw powers back from the EU.  “Repatriation is a false promise wrapped in a  Union
Jack ,” the deputy premier said.  He also attacked the opposition for siding with the Tory
rebels last night, saying the party should “grow up and stop
playing these playground games in Parliament and show they are
capable of taking mature decisions in the national interest.”  The Commons vote highlighted splits within the
Conservatives over  Europe  and the difficulties the prime
minister has getting his lawmakers to back policies they don’t
like. Earlier this year, rebels forced him to drop plans to
change the make-up of the upper House of Lords. Dissent among
lawmakers last month led to the resignation of Chief Whip  Andrew Mitchell , who had been responsible for Tory party discipline.  ‘Incendiary Issue’  “This vote again shows the difficulty Cameron has with his
own side,”  Philip Cowley , professor of politics at Nottingham
University, said in a telephone interview. “In this rebellious
party, Europe is the most incendiary issue, but it’s not the
only one.”  It’s the first time the premier has lost a parliamentary
vote at the hands of his own party. Cameron had only previously
been defeated in the Commons when Labour outmaneuvered the
Conservatives on a technical motion in 2011.  One of the rebels, Mark Pritchard, said the vote would
strengthen Cameron’s hand in the negotiations with his EU
counterparts. Tony Baldry, a Conservative who voted with
Cameron, dismissed that thinking.  Loyalist View  “The prime minister knows what he wants to achieve,”
Baldry told Sky News television after the vote. “Having been
defeated even on a ‘take-note’ vote in the House of Commons, he
will find that frustrating.” He described Pritchard’s argument
that Cameron would go into the budget talks stronger as
“complete cobblers.”  Even as his party rebels against him, Cameron has managed
to steer clear of the market woes hurting other European
leaders. With the  Bank of England  backing up his austerity drive
with debt purchases to keep the economy afloat, the yield on the
country’s 10-year bond is at 1.88 percent, about a third of the
yield on Spanish debt.  The Labour Party said 50 Tories rebelled last night, making
it Cameron’s second biggest revolt. The largest, in a vote he
won with Labour support, was last year, and also on the EU, when
81 Conservatives called for a referendum on leaving the 27-
member bloc. Both rebellions were bigger than any rebellion
suffered by a previous Conservative prime minister, including
those faced by  John Major  in 1993 that almost bought down his
government.  The European Commission has proposed a spending package of
1.03 trillion euros ($1.34 trillion) for the years 2014 through
2020, an increase of almost 6 percent compared with the 2007-
2013 budget. Cameron has said the proposal is excessive at a
time of national fiscal constraints.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net  