-- Cameron Reinforces EU Budget Veto Signal as Tories Revolt
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-31T16:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/cameron-faces-rebellion-as-conservatives-demand-cut-in-eu-budget.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
gave his strongest signal yet he will veto any increase in the
European Union’s budget as he sought to pacify rebel
Conservative lawmakers before a House of Commons debate.  Lawmakers vote today on an amendment put forward by
euroskeptic Conservatives that demands a cut in the EU’s budget,
highlighting splits in the party over Europe. Cameron has
previously said he’ll push for a freeze in real terms in the
bloc’s spending over the seven years starting in 2014, a stance
criticized by some lawmakers as not aggressive enough.  “This government is taking the toughest line in these
budget negotiations of any government since we joined the
European Union,” Cameron told the Commons at his weekly
question-and-answer session. “At best we would like it cut, at
worst frozen and I am quite prepared to use the veto if we don’t
get a deal that’s good for Britain.”  Cameron has been preparing for talks at a Nov. 22-23 EU
summit in Brussels by saying he wants the budget to rise only in
line with inflation. One of the rebel lawmakers, who declined to
be named because talks are still being held in private with
party managers, said more than 50 of the 304 Tories in the
Commons had indicated they were planning to vote against the
government today, demanding that Cameron should  toughen his
negotiating stance  and push for a real-terms cut.  “It is in our interest to try and get a deal because a
seven-year freeze would keep our bills down compared to annual
budgets,” Cameron said.  Commission Proposal  The European Commission has proposed a spending package of
1.03 trillion euros ($1.34 trillion) for the years 2014 through
2020, an increase of almost 6 percent compared with the 2007-
2013 budget. Cameron has said the proposal is excessive at a
time of national fiscal constraints.  “We are not rolling back wasteful public spending in this
country only to see it increased in Brussels,” Treasury
minister Greg Clark told the Commons at the start of the debate,
appealing for lawmakers to support the premier’s negotiating
position.  While today’s vote is not binding, a rebel victory would be
a further embarrassment for Cameron in a month in which Chief
Whip Andrew Mitchell resigned for verbally abusing police and
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  was found attempting
to travel in a first-class train carriage on a standard-class
ticket.  Coalition Agreement  A document setting out the mid-term aims of the prime
minister’s coalition with Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ’s
pro-Europe Liberal Democrats has been delayed to January, a
person familiar with the matter said.  “This is not an anti-European amendment,” Tory lawmaker
Mark Pritchard, who introduced the measure, said in a telephone
interview. “It merely represents the view of millions of U.K.
taxpayers that the EU budget should not be increased at a time
of financial austerity and fiscal restraint in the U.K. which
has seen family, local council and government budgets cut.”  The difficulties in restraining the  EU budget  were
underlined yesterday as poorer countries in eastern  Europe 
rebelled against a push to cut subsidies for farming and
construction. If no agreement is reached by the end of next
year, the 2013 budget would be rolled over into 2104.  The opposition  Labour Party  has sought to exploit Tory
tensions over Europe by also demanding a real-terms reduction in
the EU budget, suggesting Labour lawmakers may back the rebel
Conservatives today.  ‘Rank Opportunism’  Cameron accused Labour today of “rank opportunism,” since
 Tony Blair ’s Labour government agreed to water down Britain’s EU
budget rebate and supported an above-inflation increase in
spending during the last negotiations in 2005.  The issue of Europe has dogged Cameron throughout his two-
year premiership, as it did his Conservative predecessors.
Splits over Europe contributed to the fall of  Margaret Thatcher 
in 1990 and hobbled her successor,  John Major .  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  taunted Cameron today about the
“crimson tide” in the premier’s complexion, a refrain Miliband
frequently uses to describe Cameron’s anger.  “Maybe that’s because he’s worried about losing the vote
this afternoon,” Miliband said in the question-and-answer
session in Parliament.  “He’s thrown in the towel even before these negotiations
have begun,” the Labour leader said. “He can’t convince
European leaders, he can’t even convince his own backbenchers.
He is weak abroad, he is weak at home; it’s John Major all over
again.”  Referendum Demand  In October last year 81 lawmakers defied the leadership to
demand a referendum on Britain’s membership of the 27-nation EU,
the largest ever Tory rebellion on Europe.  “In the Tory Party there are no ‘pro-Europeans’ as such;
there is just division between those who are more ’euro-skeptic’
than others,” said  Philip Cowley , professor of politics at
Nottingham University. “Cameron is just less skeptic than some
of his party.”  Cameron will use a speech in December to set out his
approach to Europe. Some Tory euro-skeptic lawmakers want him to
commit to a referendum on Britain’s future in the bloc. So far
Cameron has only said he will seek a “fresh settlement” on
Britain’s role in the EU after the 2015 election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  