-- Can Government Training Programs Boost Competitiveness?
-- B y   M a r c   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-31T20:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/can-government-training-programs-boost-competitiveness-echoes.html
President  Barack Obama  promises
to “make education and training a national priority.” His
electoral opponent, Republican  Mitt Romney , favors using
federal funds to reimburse private companies for hiring and
training new employees.  This issue -- what role the federal government should
play in developing a skilled workforce -- first became
campaign fodder a century ago. Debate over whether the
government can promote national competitiveness has raged
inconclusively ever since.  A century ago, during the 1912 presidential campaign,
Democratic candidate Woodrow Wilson put worker training on
the national political agenda. Various farm, business and
education organizations had urged more attention to
teaching the “mechanic arts” since the 1880s, and what we
would now call a lobbying group, the National Society for
the Promotion of Industrial Education, had been founded in
1906. Official  Washington , though, hadn’t responded.  Wilson sought to incite public interest by  phrasing
the issue  in terms we would find familiar today: “America
is very much behind some of her chief competitors in the
commercial world in the matters in which she prepares her
people to earn their living by skillful work,” Wilson
warned shortly after his nomination.  Germany ’s commercial
advantage, he insisted, stemmed from government support of
worker training. “Why should you prefer to buy something
made in Germany rather than something made in the  United
States ?” he asked. “The only conceivable reason is that you
believe that the hands that made that in Germany were
better trained.”  National Training  Wilson’s electoral coattails brought in a Democratic-
controlled Senate and an enlarged Democratic majority in
the  House of Representatives . The new Congress embraced
worker training. In 1914, it established a nine-member
Commission on National Aid to Vocational Education, with
Senator Hoke Smith of Georgia as chairman. Relying heavily
on the ideas of the National Society for the Promotion of
Industrial Education, the commission’s 45-member staff
produced a report in just two months.  “Our foreign commerce, and to some extent our domestic
commerce, are being threatened by the commercial prestige
which Germany has won largely as a result of a policy of
training its workers,” the report said. “France and
 England , and even far-off  Japan , profiting by the schools
of the Fatherland, are now establishing national systems of
vocational education.” Without action, America would be
left behind.  The Smith commission recommended that the federal
government support vocational education. Ideas to create a
more sophisticated urban workforce to help industry compete
with the Germans soon captured the public imagination. The
commission proposed a system of full-day schools devoting
half their time to skills training, part-time schools for
14- and 15-year-olds who already had jobs, and evening
schools for workers over 16, along with funds for training
vocational teachers.  But while international competitiveness was a big
selling point, the Smith commission’s detailed
recommendations pointed in a different direction. Their
focus was not on training the burgeoning industrial
workforce, but on agriculture. Although the 1910 census
would be the last to show that most Americans lived in
rural areas, the commission called for spending equal
amounts on agricultural and industrial training. The
funding distribution would especially benefit the southern
states, which generally spent far less on education per
pupil than other states.  Little Connection  For good measure, all programs were to be run by the
states, according to their own policies -- meaning that
girls could be shunted into home-economics classes and
black pupils in the South might get no vocational training
at all.  The Smith commission’s recommendations became law in
the Smith-Hughes Act of 1917. The act was the main federal
vocational-education law for 20 years, paying to train
thousands of teachers and funding high-school shop,
agriculture and home-economics classes across the country.  Whether the programs raised workers’ living standards,
as the commission promised, has never been clear. But the
U.S. trade surplus in the years following World War I was
far smaller, relative to the size of the economy, than it
had been when  Woodrow Wilson  was elected in 1912 --
indicating that, in the end, there was probably little
connection between vocational training and America’s
international competitiveness.  ( Marc Levinson ’s books include “The Box: How the
Shipping Container Made the World Smaller and the World
Economy Bigger.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article: Marc Levinson at
 marclevinson1@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  