-- Canada Aug. Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-10-31T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/canada-aug-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Aug. GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product edged down 0.1% in August, the
first monthly decline since February 2012. Goods production
declined 0.5% in August, mainly as a result of decreases in
mining and oil and gas extraction and in manufacturing. Declines
were also recorded in utilities and construction. The output of
 service industries  was unchanged in August. Increases in
wholesale trade, transportation services and the public sector
(education, health and public administration combined) were
offset by declines in the output of real estate agents and
brokers, retail trade, and the finance and insurance sector.  Mining and oil and gas extraction declines  Mining and oil and gas extraction declined 0.7% in August.
Excluding oil and gas extraction, mining fell 2.8%. Metal ore
mining declined 4.7% as a result of decreases in output at
copper, nickel, lead and zinc mines as well as at gold and
silver ore mines. Scheduled maintenance affected metal ore
output in August. Non-metallic mineral mining decreased 2.6% as
a result of decreases in output at potash mines.  Oil and gas extraction decreased 0.4%, as a decline in
crude petroleum production outweighed an increase in natural gas
extraction. Maintenance activities at some oilfields affected
crude petroleum output in August.  Manufacturing output decreases  Manufacturing output decreased 0.6% in August, following a
0.9% increase in July. Durable goods production decreased 1.3%
in August, mainly as a result of declines in fabricated metal
products, furniture and related products, primary metal products
as well as electrical equipment, appliance and component
manufacturing. In contrast, the output of machinery
manufacturers increased. Non-durable goods manufacturing grew
0.3%, mainly as a result of increases in paper, in petroleum and
coal products, and in beverage and tobacco products
manufacturing. Conversely, there were declines in textile and
textile product mills and chemical manufacturing.  Wholesale trade rises while retail trade falls  Wholesale trade rose 1.0% in August. Notable increases were
recorded in the wholesaling of food products, of machinery,
equipment and supplies, of building materials, of petroleum
products and of farm products. Conversely, the activity of
miscellaneous wholesalers (which include agriculture supplies
and chemical products) declined in August.  Retail trade fell 0.5% in August, following a 0.4% increase
in July. There were declines in retailing activity at motor
vehicles and parts dealers, health and personal care stores,
food and beverage stores as well as at building material and
garden equipment and supplies dealers. Conversely, activity at
general merchandise stores (which include department stores) and
at sporting goods, hobby, book and music stores was up.  Construction edges down  Construction edged down 0.1% in August. Declines in
residential and non-residential building construction as well as
in repair works outweighed an increase in engineering
construction.  The output of real estate agents and brokers fell 6.6% in
August, down for a fourth consecutive month, as activity in the
home resale market declined.  Utilities retreat  Utilities declined 0.8% in August, following four
consecutive monthly increases. The notable decrease in
electricity production in August was partly a result of a return
to more seasonal weather.  Finance and insurance sector activity falls  After increasing for four consecutive months, the finance
and insurance sector fell 0.3% in August, led by decreased
output of security brokerages (from reduced volume of trading on
the  stock exchanges ) and declines in insurance carriers.  Other industries  The public sector edged up 0.1% as increases in health care
and education services were partly offset by a decline in public
administration. Transportation and warehousing services rose
0.3% as an increase in pipeline transportation more than offset
a decline in rail transportation.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry data
at basic prices are chained volume estimates with 2002 as the
reference year. This means that the data for each industry and
each aggregate are obtained from a chained volume index
multiplied by the industry’s value added in 2002. For the 1997
to 2008 period, the monthly data are benchmarked to annually
chained Fisher volume indexes of GDP obtained from the constant-
price input-output tables.  For the period starting with January 2009, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are 2008 industry prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data more
comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data, chained
quarterly.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted. For more
information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and
identifying economic trends ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11 -
010-x/2010003/part-partie3-eng.htm) .  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions
have been made back to January 2012. In the context of the
comprehensive revision to the Canadian System of National
Accounts, historically-revised data of monthly GDP by industry
are planned for release on January 31, 2013. These revisions
will extend back to January 2007 and will reflect conceptual,
classification and statistical improvements. For more
information about monthly GDP by industry, see the National
economic accounts ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index -
eng.htm) module on our website.  Table: Monthly gross domestic product by industry at basic
prices in chained (2002) dollars - Seasonally adjusted
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/daily-quotidien/121031/t121031a002 -
eng.htm)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  