-- Canada Economy Shrank for First Time in 6 Months on Mines
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-31T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/canada-s-economy-shrank-for-first-time-in-six-months-on-mining.html
Canada’s  gross domestic product 
shrank for the first time in six months in August on mining
maintenance shutdowns and lower factory production, paring the
annual growth rate to the slowest in more than two years.  Output fell 0.1 percent to an annualized C$1.29 trillion
($1.29 trillion),  Statistics Canada  said today, compared with
the 0.2 percent increase that was the median forecast in a
Bloomberg  survey  of 23 economists. Output grew 1.2 percent in
August from a year earlier, the slowest pace since January 2010.  The world’s 11th largest economy is being restrained by an
inconsistent global recovery with risks posed by Europe’s debt
crisis and the prospect of automatic tax increases and spending
cuts in the U.S. next year. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  cut
growth and revenue forecasts Oct. 29, citing lower commodity
prices, while Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  last week said
the need to raise  interest rates  is “less imminent.”  Manufacturing declined 0.6 percent in August following
July’s 0.9 percent increase, with durable goods such as metals
and furniture dropping by 1.3 percent, Statistics Canada said.
Mining and oil and gas production fell 0.7 percent, with mining
output falling 2.8 percent due to scheduled maintenance at sites
that produce metal ore.  The August economic contraction was limited by a 1 percent
increase in wholesale trade and a 0.3 percent gain in
transportation and warehousing.  The economy probably expanded at a 1 percent annualized
pace between July and September, and should grow at a 2.5
percent fourth-quarter pace, the  Bank of Canada  said Oct. 24.  Canadian National Railway Co., the country’s biggest
railroad, said Oct. 22 it may not reach the upper end of a
forecast range for full-year profit. “Given the weak economic
context, however, we certainly have our work cut out,” Chief
Financial Officer Luc Jobin said on a conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  