-- Canada Dollar Reaches Almost 3-Month Low After Economy Shrinks
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-10-31T21:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/canadian-dollar-erases-gain-after-report-shows-economy-shrank.html
Canada’s dollar reached almost a 12-
week low against its U.S. counterpart after the nation’s gross
domestic product unexpectedly  shrank  for the first time in six
months, spurring bets interest rates won’t be raised soon.  The currency traded below parity with the U.S. dollar for a
third day after Statistics Canada said output fell 0.1 percent
to an annualized C$1.29 trillion ($1.29 trillion) in August from
July, compared with a 0.2 percent increase forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. A report on Nov. 2 is forecast to show hiring
slowed this month. The currency pared losses as crude oil,
Canada’s biggest export, increased and Canadian stocks rose.  “The weaker-than-expected GDP print has the market
questioning the Bank of Canada’s hawkish bias,” said Joe Manimbo, a market analyst in Washington at Western Union
Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co. “Any slowing in
hiring in Canada is liable to push the loonie further below
parity against the greenback.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, little changed at 99.94 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after reaching C$1.0014
earlier. It touched C$1.0019 yesterday, the weakest since Aug.
6. One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0006.  The loonie lost 1.6 percent this month against the
greenback, paring a gain for the year to 2.1 percent.  Bonds Rise  Government bonds rose, pushing the yield on Canada’s two-
year benchmark down three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 1.07 percent. It touched 1.06 percent, the lowest
level since Oct. 4. The price of the 1 percent security due in
November 2014 increased 5 cents to C$99.86.  Crude oil for December delivery increased as much as 1.8
percent to $87.19 a barrel in New York before trading at $86.13,
up 0.5 percent. The Standard & Poor’s TSX Composite Index gained
0.4 percent.  The Canadian dollar’s weakening through the “key
resistance level of 99.50 cents to C$1” means the U.S. currency
may continue to strengthen, Niall O’Connor, a technical analyst
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, wrote to clients today.
Resistance is an area on a chart where orders may be clustered.  Canada’s currency was net sold today, according to Bank of
New York Mellon client flow data. Over the past five days it has
been seen net-buying three times stronger than its weekly
average over the past year, the data showed. BNY Mellon is the
world’s largest custodial bank with more than $26 trillion under
administration.  Economy Restrained  The world’s 11th-largest economy is being restrained by an
inconsistent global recovery with risks posed by Europe’s debt
crisis and the prospect of automatic tax increases and spending
cuts in the U.S. next year. Finance Minister Jim Flaherty cut
growth and revenue forecasts Oct. 29, citing lower commodity
prices, while Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said last week
the need to raise  interest rates  is “less imminent.”  Carney had said since April that the strength of the
nation’s economy might require borrowing costs to be increased.  “The report does move the tracking for the third quarter
to what the bank had forecast, so it doesn’t necessarily go
against what Governor Carney has said,” said  Greg Moore,
currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  in Toronto. “The
general message will likely remain that the move for interest
rates is up and won’t go down.”  The central bank has held the benchmark rate at 1 percent
since September 2010 to support the economy.  Rate Bets  The yield on March 2013 bankers’ acceptances, a measure of
interest-rate expectations, slipped to 1.25 percent, from 1.26
percent yesterday. It touched 1.22 percent on Oct. 15, the
lowest level since July. So-called Bax contracts have settled an
average of about 20 basis points above the central bank’s target
rate since 1992, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The loonie will strengthen to 98 cents to the greenback by
year-end, according to the median of 40 forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Canadian output increased 1.2 percent in August from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since January 2010, Statistics Canada
data showed today. Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast a
1.7 percent expansion.  Job growth  in the nation slowed in October, economists in a
Bloomberg News survey forecast before the statistics agency
reports the data this week. Employers added 10,000 jobs,
economists projected, compared with 52,100 in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  