-- Canada Gas Fluctuates on Cool Weather Brought by Hurricane Sandy
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-10-31T19:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/canada-gas-fluctuates-on-cool-weather-brought-by-hurricane-sandy.html
Canadian natural gas fluctuated as
weather forecasts predicted longer-lasting lower temperatures in
the eastern U.S. as a result of  Hurricane Sandy , boosting
heating demand.  Prices were unchanged after rising as much as 1.7 percent
earlier today. Cooler weather will linger in the eastern U.S.
and Midwest because of the storm, Commodity Weather Group LLC of
Bethesda, Maryland, said.  “Natural gas is seeing some buying interest today, as the
extensive power outages across the U.S. are being offset
somewhat by higher demand from those places still with power,”
Matt Smith, commodity analyst at Summit Energy Services Inc. in
Louisville, Kentucky, said in a note to clients.  November gas in Alberta  was steady at C$3.12 per gigajoule
($2.95 per million British thermal units) at 2:55 p.m. New York
time on NGX, a Canadian electronic exchange. The November
contract expires today.  Natural gas for December delivery on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange gained 0.1 cent to settle at $3.692 per
million Btu.  Cooler weather from Sandy is expected to spread further
into the Midwest over the next five days, Commodity Weather
Group said. The average temperature in Cincinnati, Ohio, will be
41 degrees (5 degrees Celsius) tomorrow, 10 degrees below
normal, said MDA EarthSat Weather of Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Power Cut  Sandy made landfall near Atlantic City, New Jersey, on Oct.
29, and knocked out power to 8.2 million people, the Energy
Department said. There were still  6.2 million people  without
power today, the agency said.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output from most of Canada’s gas wells, was 15.9 billion cubic
feet at 2 p.m. New York time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.95 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
rate was 2.12 billion cubic feet.  TransCanada’s  British Columbia system  at Kingsgate had 1.11
billion cubic feet per day of available capacity. The system was
forecast to carry 1.37 billion cubic feet today, 55 percent of
capacity.  The volume on  Spectra Energy Corp.’s  British Columbia
system, which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia
for delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled
3.03 billion cubic feet at 1:35 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  