-- Cat Bonds Likely Safe From Superstorm Payouts, Armored Wolf Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-10-31T19:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/cat-bonds-likely-safe-from-superstorm-payouts-armored-wolf-says.html
Bonds designed to protect insurers
such as  Chubb Corp. (CB)  and  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  from natural disaster
costs are signaling superstorm Sandy probably won’t trigger
payouts, according to John Brynjolfsson of Armored Wolf LLC.  While catastrophe bonds exposed to storm damage in the U.S.
Northeast have received lower bids from dealers after the
biggest Atlantic storm in history lashed the region, most
securities are still listed at about par, said Brynjolfsson,
whose hedge fund oversees $735 million and owns so-called cat
bonds. That includes notes tied to risk at Chubb and Travelers,
he said.  “This is not a major industry event” as cat bonds
typically pay out on losses at thresholds higher than the
projected damage from Sandy, Brynjolfsson said in a telephone
interview. “The par bids reflect less enthusiasm about rolling
the dice, but it also reflects that, odds are, none of these
bonds should attach.”  Cat-bond prices have gained 2.1 percent this year through
last week, compared with a 5 percent decline in 2011, even after
the securities dropped by the most in eight months during the
five days ended Oct. 26 as Sandy approached the East Coast. The
storm may have caused insured losses of as much as $15 billion
in the U.S., risk-modeler AIR Worldwide said yesterday.  Chubb Bonds  Chubb, which last week  reported  a 79 percent increase in
third-quarter profit on lower catastrophe costs, has cat-bond
arrangements of $475 million linked to storm losses in the
Northeast and $150 million for hurricane and severe thunderstorm
losses in eight states along the southern U.S. coastline,
according to an August regulatory filing.  Travelers, the lone insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , sold $250 million of cat bonds in June through a
related vehicle that are linked to hurricane damage in the
Northeast, according to its quarterly regulatory filing.  Both insures declined today, with Chubb  falling  1.4 percent
to $76.90 at 3:03 p.m. in New York and Travelers  down  1.3
percent to $70.62.  Mark Greenberg, a spokesman at Warren, New Jersey-based
Chubb, declined to comment on whether the storm would trigger
the securities. Jennifer Wislocki of New York-based Travelers
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message.  Growing Demand  Prices of catastrophe bonds, which lose money if damage
thresholds are reached, fell 0.4 percent to 94.77 in the week
ended Oct. 26, according to the Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return
Index. Total returns of 10.1 percent are still more than triple
the  3.3 percent  gain in 2011 after the March earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan  killed almost 16,000 people and destroyed about
390,000 homes.  Investor demand for the securities has grown with yields on
speculative-grade corporate bonds hovering at  record lows  as the
 Federal Reserve  holds down  interest rates  to boost the economy.  About $5.5 billion of dollar-denominated cat bonds issued
in 2012 have an average maturity of three years with yields of
9.28 percentage points more than short-term lending rates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
6.93 percent yield on speculative-grade bonds, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “We haven’t executed any trades yet,” Patti Guatteri,
director of insurance-linked securities trading at Swiss Re
Capital Markets in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“Most of what I hear is that investors were willing to buy
bonds if they see cheap levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  