-- CEZ Considers Leaving Albania on ’Nonexistent’ Market Visibility
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-10-31T09:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/cez-considers-leaving-albania-on-nonexistent-market-visibility.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the Czech Republic’s largest
power producer, said it’s considering leaving Albania as it
hasn’t been able to resolve its dispute with the government
regarding tariffs and extraordinary taxes.  Visibility on the Albanian market is “nonexistent” and
CEZ lacks a clear negotiation partner in the country, CEZ board
member Tomas Pleskac said today at a press conference in Prague.  CEZ, which runs Albania’s electricity distribution network,
reported a first-half loss of 2.3 billion koruna ($119 million)
in Albania in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization as the country’s regulator ordered it to pay the
state-owned power producer higher tariffs without allowing CEZ
to raise prices for customers. The dispute with Albania
escalated in the summer after the country slapped CEZ with an
extra tax of 23 million euros ($30 million).  “Things in Albania really aren’t going well,” said Petr
Bartek, an analyst at the Prague-based unit of Erste Group Bank
AG. “But legally it will be difficult for CEZ to exit the
country elegantly.”  CEZ can claim a 60 million-euro guarantee from the World
Bank, Pleskac said. The Czech company stopped all investments in
Albania in the fall, he said.  “The problem in Albania is that we reach an agreement with
some state body, and subsequently another body starts making
completely different claims,” Pleskac said. “There is no one
clearly designated person with whom we could negotiate.”  Expert Negotiators  The relationship between the Czech utility and the Albanian
government deteriorated to the point that CEZ was forced to
replace its management in the country with negotiation experts
from the U.K. company Schindlers, the utility said at the
beginning of October.  CEZ fared better in  Romania , where it reported a first-half
Ebitda of 16.9 billion koruna. The utility is finishing a 600-
megawatt wind farm project in Fantanele and Cogealac near the
Black Sea coast, the biggest onshore wind farm in  Europe . It is
also in “advanced negotiations” to purchase further wind
projects, Pleskac said.  CEZ wants to have as much as 1,500 megawatts in wind farms
in Romania by 2016. It may also bid for one of Romania’s three
power distributors left in state hands should the government
decide to sell its stake.  In  Bulgaria , CEZ reported a first-half Ebitda of 14.4
billion koruna. The company, which controls the majority of
Bulgarian electricity distributor, said it won’t bid for the
remaining minority stake put up for sale by the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  