-- Chelsea Beats Manchester Utd. 5-4 in League Cup, Liverpool Loses
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-01T00:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/chelsea-beats-manchester-utd-to-reach-league-cup-quarterfinals.html
Chelsea rallied to beat Manchester
United 5-4 after extra time to reach the League Cup
quarterfinals alongside Premier League rivals Norwich and
Swansea, which ousted defending champion Liverpool.  Goals from  Daniel Sturridge  and Ramires in extra time gave
Chelsea a 5-3 lead last night at Stamford Bridge before United’s
 Ryan Giggs  scored with a late penalty kick. The Blues forced the
extra 30 minutes when Eden Hazard converted a penalty with the
last kick of normal time.  “We showed again the fantastic character the boys have to
come back three times,” Chelsea manager Roberto Di Matteo told
 Sky Sports . “It was a very exciting game, a typical cup game,
quite open and we played well with a lot of chances.”  Swansea won 3-1 at Liverpool and Norwich beat Tottenham 2-1
to complete the last eight lineup in English soccer’s second-
tier cup competition.  Last night’s quarterfinal draw handed Chelsea a trip to
Leeds, while Swansea hosts Middlesbrough, Norwich faces  Aston
Villa  and Arsenal visits League Two Bradford, the lowest-ranked
team left in the competition.  Manchester United appeared headed for its second win at
Stamford Bridge in four days before Chelsea’s late rally. The
Red Devils won 3-2 in a Premier League match that featured two
red cards for Chelsea players and accusations of racial abuse
against the Blues’ John Obi Mikel from referee Mark Clattenburg,
who has denied the allegation.  “It you’re winning 3-2 in the final seconds of the game,
then you should see it out,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told
Sky Sports. “We’ve only got ourselves to blame.”  Spot Kick  Hazard’s penalty came after Scott Wootton knocked over
Ramires in the area in the fourth minute of stoppage time. The
Blues then took the lead in the seventh minute of extra time as
Sturridge collected a loose header back toward Anders Lindegaard
and went around the United goalkeeper to score.  With United pushing forward for the tying goal, Ramires
made it 5-3 on a counterattack after taking a pass from Hazard.
Giggs got a goal back for United with his penalty and Hazard hit
the post just before the final whistle.  Chelsea earlier made two defensive errors as Giggs and
 Javier Hernandez  scored either side of David Luiz’s penalty.
Gary Cahill made it 2-2 in the 52nd minute and Nani then gave
United its third lead seven minutes later.  Chico Flores, Nathan Dyer and Jonathan de Guzman scored as
Swansea eliminated Liverpool and former manager  Brendan Rodgers 
to reach the quarterfinals for the first time.  Luis Suarez  came
off the bench to pull Liverpool within 2-1 before de Guzman
clinched the Swans’ victory with an injury-time goal.  Simeon Jackson’s 87th-minute goal and Mark Bunn’s penalty
save lifted Norwich to the come-from-behind home win over Spurs.  Gareth Bale put Tottenham in front in the 66th minute
before an own goal from Jan Vertonghen with six minutes left
tied the game. Jackson then put the Canaries in front by
knocking in the rebound after Hugo Lloris couldn’t hold  Grant
Holt ’s header and Bunn stopped Clint Dempsey’s penalty a minute
later after Marc Tierney took down  Kyle Walker .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 