-- Chelsea Makes Formal Complaint to F.A. Over Referee Clattenburg
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-31T19:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/chelsea-makes-formal-complaint-to-f-a-over-referee-clattenburg.html
Chelsea lodged a formal complaint
with the Football Association over alleged comments by referee
Mark Clattenburg to midfielder John Obi Mikel during a game.  Chelsea said in a  statement  on its website that Clattenburg
used “inappropriate language” to the Nigerian during the Premier
League leader’s 3-2 loss to Manchester United at  Stamford  Bridge
three days ago.  “This is a result of a thorough investigation carried out
by the club, and led by outside legal counsel, of all
information available to us including interviews with a number
of players and staff,” Chelsea said.  The club said it reported the matter to the match delegate
and then launched its own investigation. This provided
insufficient evidence to support a second claim of alleged abuse
by Clattenburg of another player it didn’t identify. U.K. media
including the Daily Mail identified that player as Spanish
midfielder Juan Mata.  The Sun reported that two Chelsea players said they heard
Clattenburg racially abuse Mikel, a charge the referee denies.
London police and the F.A. have both opened investigations.  “We will cooperate fully with the F.A. and the police as
they each investigate the matter,” Chelsea said in its
statement. “As events on Sunday are now subject to those
investigations we are unable to comment further until those
processes are complete.”  Red Cards  The Professional Game Match Officials, a body that manages
referees, has said Clattenburg will “cooperate fully” in the
process, while Prospect, the referees’ union, said it’s
supporting the 37-year-old. Both bodies today said they had
nothing to add to their previous statements.  During the match against United, which closed to within a
point of the league leader, the referee red-carded Chelsea's
Branislav Ivanovic and Fernando Torres, and allowed a winning
goal that Blues manager Roberto di Matteo said was offside.
Clattenburg also yellow-carded Mikel for dissent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 