-- Chelsea, NYC Art Hub Drowns, Sotheby’s Postpones Sale
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-10-31T21:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/chelsea-art-epicenter-drowns-in-hurricane-s-floodwaters.html
Art dealer  Marc Jancou , his jeans
soaked to the knees, stood outside his gallery on West 24th
Street in Chelsea supervising a clean-up brigade wielding mops
and buckets.  A walk through New York’s epicenter of contemporary art on
Tuesday afternoon revealed wide-spread damage. The floodwaters
of  Hurricane Sandy  smashed walls, ravaged office spaces and
destroyed artworks.  The fallout from the hurricane continued to affect New
York’s art world today, with Sotheby’s rescheduling its
Impressionist sale by three days due to travel difficulties. The
power outage downtown forced the New Museum to suspend its
public programs and events while it closes. A host of galleries
said they would have to postpone openings in the next two weeks
because of flooding and lack of power.  Sotheby’s Impressionist and Modern art evening sale has
been moved to Nov. 8 from Nov. 5.  “This revised timeline will give our clients and
international staff greater flexibility to view the exhibition
and participate in the auction,”  Sotheby’s (BID)  said in a statement.  The flooding and power outages have forced many galleries,
including Pace, David Zwirner, Cheim & Read and Lehmann Maupin
to postpone exhibition openings scheduled to coincide with the
big auctions at Sotheby’s and Christie’s.  In Chelsea, next door to Jancou, the water rose about
three feet at  Susan Inglett Gallery , puddling into a large pond.  With power out all over Chelsea, galleries resorted to
flashlights for illumination.  “This is like a disaster zone,” said Jancou. “Everyone
was flooded. Everyone has lost so much art.”  Art dealers and handlers scrambled to move artworks into
dry areas. People scooped water by buckets and large garbage
bins.  “It’s bad,” said Rachel Churner, who opened  Churner and
Churner  gallery on Tenth Avenue a year-and-a-half ago. Wet
cardboard and paintings in bubble wrap piled up on the sidewalk
in front of the entrance.  “I’ve probably lost $100,000 worth of art. Our basement
is wet all the way to the ceiling,” she said. Churner said the
gallery is insured. But she feared “that there’s some act of
God or hurricane clause.”  Under Water  On West 19th Street,  Klemens Gasser & Tanja Grunert 
gallery, which has an exhibition space on the basement level,
was completely flooded.  “It’s all under water,” said Erika Burgos, who has been
with the gallery for 10 years, pointing her flashlight at the
flooded staircase leading downstairs. She said she managed to
save a few pictures.  Across the street, at  David Zwirner , art handlers were
moving paintings to dry ground. The watermark from flooding was
visible on the doors and walls several feet from the ground. It
was the same story at  Paula Cooper  and  Gagosian  galleries on
West 21st Street, where a giant Henry Moore sculpture, in
protective wrapping, could be seen through the window.  The true damage will take “a long time to shake out,”
said art dealer  Leo Koenig . “It brings tears to my eyes. I
don’t care about the damage to the gallery. That’s fixable. The
irreplaceable art that has been lost -- that’s the worst of
it.”  Art dealer  Margaret Thatcher , who operates a gallery on West
23rd Street, pointed to a folder of approximately 40 drawings
for an upcoming exhibition. Priced at $5,000 each, all were
soaked.  “They are all destroyed,” she said. “We need federal
funding, this is a devastated area.”  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining  and Mark
Beech on  music .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 