-- Clariant Cuts 2012 Sales Goal as Europen Demand Deteriorates
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-10-31T09:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/clariant-lowers-forecast-as-southern-european-weakness-spreads.html
Clariant AG (CLN) , the Swiss maker of
specialty chemicals, cut its full-year sales and profit
forecasts amid a “massive volume reduction,” as weakening
demand spreads from southern Europe to the rest of the region.  The stabilization of the global economy that Clariant had
aimed for in the third quarter didn’t materialize, the company
said in a statement today. Clariant now predicts unchanged sales
in local currencies this year, compared with a July 25 forecast
of revenue growth and sustained profitability.  “We currently expect this to continue, there is no real
reason why the economy fundamentally would go better,” Chief
Financial Officer Patrick Jany said in an interview. Sales
declines were most pronounced in chemicals used in coatings,
paints and in the manufacture of mobile phones and computers, he
said.  Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann is banking on less
cyclical businesses from last year’s acquisition of German
catalyst-maker Sued-Chemie to steer the company through times of
stagnating global demand. Midland, Michigan-based  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  announced 2,400 job cuts on Oct. 24 to cope with a slowing
economy.  Clariant declined as much as 0.83 Swiss francs, or 7.7
percent, to 10.01 francs, and traded at 10.30 francs as of 10
a.m. in Zurich. That tapered the gain to 11 percent this year,
for a market value of 3.03 billion francs ($3.26 billion).  Oil, Mining  Third-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization excluding one-time items fell 7 percent to 201
million francs, the Muttenz-based company said today. Analysts
in a Bloomberg survey predicted 225 million francs. The Ebitda
margin fell to 10.5 percent from 11.6 percent a year earlier.  Jany said the slowdown is not affecting less-cyclical units
such as oil & mining or catalysis & energy, which will
contribute to a stronger fourth quarter compared with the three
months that just ended. Clariant’s mid-term forecast to 2015
remains intact, the company said.  Business units most affected by the slowdown “probably
need to review their dimensions a bit in  Europe ,” Jany said.
Clariant will not make major changes after reducing its
workforce by 850 people this year as it integrates Sued-Chemie,
and completed a restructuring during 2009 and 2010, Jany said.  Clariant is in the midst of divesting units such as paper,
textile, emulsions and detergents that have more than $1 billion
in combined revenue. Margins at these units have declined
because of competition and rising energy costs.  Jany reiterated a goal of exiting the units by the end of
2013. He could not confirm the number of bidders of whether the
units would be sold individually or as a package.  “We are pleased by the dynamics of the process,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  