-- Clinton Tells Kosovo Relations With Serbia Are Key to Progress
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-10-31T09:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/clinton-tells-kosovo-relations-with-serbia-are-key-to-progress.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
told Kosovars that normalization of relations with  Serbia  will
be key to the country’s economic and social progress.  “It calls for political will, even courage, but by moving
forward on this path, Kosovo and Serbia will be aided in their
efforts to tackle other urgent matters, like strengthening their
economies and creating opportunity for their people,” Clinton
said.  Clinton is on a five-day visit to the Balkans to urge an
end to divisions that still fester between Serbs, Muslims and
Croats since the war there ended with the 1995 Dayton Accords,
signed when her husband  Bill Clinton  was president.  Clinton assured Kosovo that “the  United States  remains
firm on Kosovo’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and
seeing the rule of law extended throughout Kosovo,” which is
wracked by corruption problems.  The U.S. “will oppose any discussion of territorial
changes or reopening Kosovo’s independent status,” Clinton
said. “These matters are not up for discussion.” Clinton made
clear her backing wasn’t a typical foreign policy pledge.  “For me, my family, and many of my fellow Americans, this
is more than a matter of foreign policy,” she said. “This is
personal.”  Balkan Tour  The top U.S. diplomat has already visited Bosnia and
Serbia, accompanied by European Union foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton . Clinton will travel to Croatia later today.
She is scheduled to visit Albania later in the week.  Clinton and Ashton are in the Balkans to urge Bosnia,
Serbia and Kosovo to work on relations with their neighbors,
market reforms, rule of law and democracy in order to better
integrate them into Euro-Atlantic institutions, including NATO
and the European Union.  “Addressing the concerns of the Kosovo Serbs will also be
critical,” Clinton said. “I will meet with a group of ethnic
Serb returnees later today and will convey America’s commitment
to helping build a future in Kosovo and throughout the region
where all people, of all backgrounds, have a chance to
succeed.”  In Pristina, Clinton met with Kosovar President Atifete Jahjaga and Prime Minister Hashim Thaci, a founder of the Kosovo
Liberation Army. She will also meet with ethnic Serbs who have
returned to Kosovo and consider it the cultural cradle of their
nation.  Opening Dialogue  Clinton also addressed relations between Serbia and Kosovo,
stressing the need for the two countries to engage in practical
ways, and continue their dialogue after the first- ever meeting
between the countries’ prime ministers in October.  Nationalist Serbian President  Tomislav Nikolic  has said
that while he is willing to pursue better relations with Kosovo,
Serbia will never recognize Kosovo as independent. About 60,000
Serbs live in the north, which is not fully integrated with the
rest of Kosovo and has parallel institutions which are funded by
Serbia. About 100,000 live in the rest of Kosovo, most in
municipalities with Kosovo Serb mayors and local leadership.  “This dialogue does not require of Serbia the immediate
recognition of Kosovo,” Clinton said yesterday in Belgrade.
“It does, however, call for the two governments to move forward
with practical agreements that serve the everyday security and
economic interests of all the people of Serbia and  Kosovo .”  The U.S. and EU would like to see Kosovo and Serbia make
progress on issues such as freedom of movement, customs,
utilities and government services, Clinton said.  Obstacle  Serbia’s stance on recognizing Kosovo, which seceded in
1999 with NATO backing, remains an obstacle to Serbia’s
membership in the EU, the State Department official said.  Serbia will not become part of the EU as long as it keeps a
security presence in Kosovo and continues to fund parallel
institutions, the official said. The majority of hospitals,
schools and to some degree courts in northern Kosovo continue to
be run and financed by Serbia, the official said.  Later in her trip, Clinton will highlight the contributions
Albania and  Croatia  have made to NATO and note Croatia’s
scheduled membership in the EU next year. The message to the
rest of the region will be that while reforms are hard, if they
are undertaken and standards are met, they will become EU
members, said the State Department official.  -- Editors: Alan Crosby, James M. Gomez  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Sarajevo at  ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  