-- Cnooc Said to Probably Accept Canada Nexen Bid Extension
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-10-31T20:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/cnooc-said-to-probably-accept-canada-nexen-bid-extension.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883)  anticipates the Canadian
government will seek an extension on its review of the Chinese
company’s $15.1 billion proposed takeover of  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , said a
person familiar with the Chinese company’s plans.  The government already extended its review of the deal by
30 days on Oct. 11, and Beijing-based Cnooc must agree to
further delays under  Canada ’s foreign investment review law.
Cnooc would probably accept another extension, said the person,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the negotiations are
confidential.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, is seeking
greater access to Canada’s oil sands, the world’s third-largest
pool of reserves, to support growth. Canadian Prime Minister
Stephen Harper has said that the government will release new
guidelines for how it judges foreign takeovers when it announces
the decision on Cnooc- Nexen. (NXY)   While Harper has said selling more of the nation’s natural
resources to Asia is a “national priority,” and that his
government welcomes foreign investment, he also said earlier
this month the Cnooc offer for Calgary-based Nexen raises a
“range of difficult policy questions.” Canada reviews any
foreign takeover worth more than C$330 million ($330 million) to
ensure the sale provides a net benefit to the country.  Industry Minister Christian Paradis issued a statement Oct.
19 saying he wasn’t satisfied that Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s
acquisition of Calgary-based  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  was
in the country’s national interest. Petronas, as  Malaysia ’s
state-owned oil company is known, had agreed Oct. 5 to extend
the deadline review until Oct. 19. Petronas and Progress have
another 30 days to revise the C$5.2 billion deal in a bid to win
government approval.  Deal Completed  Paradis declined to comment today on whether the government
will ask for another extension of the Cnooc-Nexen review. Nexen
spokeswoman Patti Lewis and Cnooc spokesman Peter Hunt weren’t
immediately available to comment.  Cnooc expects the Nexen deal,  China ’s largest foreign
takeover, to be completed within the year, Chief Financial
Officer Zhong Hua said on a conference call last week.  Nexen rose 2.1 percent to $23.90 at 4 p.m. in New York, 13
percent below the $27.50 Cnooc offer price. Progress advanced
1.2 percent in Toronto to C$20.12, trailing the C$22-a-share bid
from Petronas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  