-- Cnooc Parent to Pay BG $1.93 Billion to Raise LNG Stake
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-10-31T16:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/cnooc-parent-to-pay-bg-1-93-billion-to-raise-lng-stake.html
China  National Offshore Oil Corp.
will pay  BG Group Plc (BG/)  $1.93 billion for a supply contract and an
additional stake in an Australian liquefied natural gas project
as China secures fuel sources to meet soaring consumption.  The unlisted parent of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore
oil and gas explorer, signed the contract that will make BG the
biggest provider of LNG to China, the U.K. company said
yesterday in a statement to the London Stock Exchange. The deal
will provide state-run China National with 5 million metric tons
a year of LNG for 20 years starting 2015.  China National will raise its stake in a part of BG’s
Queensland Curtis LNG project in  Australia  to 50 percent from 10
percent. BG said in May the cost for building a gas export
project in the region jumped 36 percent to $20.4 billion as the
Australian dollar gained and labor and materials expenses rose.  “The deal would further deepen China National’s LNG
participation in the region, which is strategically important
given the growth of LNG in China,” said  Neil Beveridge , a Hong
Kong-based energy analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
“Clearly the Queensland project is running over the budget,
given a high cost inflation, and running behind the schedule.
China National’s participation could help lessen some of BG’s
spending burden.”  BG has an existing deal with the China National to supply
3.6 million tons of LNG a year from 2010.  LNG Imports  A Beijing-based spokeswoman for Cnooc declined to comment
on the parent’s business. China National’s Beijing-based
spokesman Liu Xiaobiao didn’t answer two calls each to his
office line and mobile phone.  China has 29 billion cubic meters, or 21.5 million tons, a
year of LNG-importing capacity in operation and an additional 26
billion cubic meters under construction, according to the
International Energy Agency. The nation’s LNG imports may rise
to 47 billion cubic meters a year by 2015, the Paris-based
agency said in its first Medium-Term Gas Market Report on June
5. Purchase of the clean fuel rose to a record of 12.21 million
tons in 2011.  PetroChina Co. and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  own Australia’s
Arrow Energy, which is planning an LNG project on Queensland’s
Curtis Island next to the BG venture.  BG’s coal-seam gas-to-LNG project is among $180 billion of
LNG developments being built in Australia to meet Asian demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  