-- Cooper Gets A$60,000 Fine, Suspended Ban for Wallabies Comments
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-31T07:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/cooper-gets-a-60-000-fine-suspended-ban-for-wallabies-comments.html
The Australian Rugby Union fined
Quade Cooper a total of A$60,000 ($62,274) and handed the
injured fly-half a suspended three-match ban for breaching its
code of conduct.  Cooper, 24, attended a tribunal hearing in Sydney today
after making statements on Twitter and on television criticizing
the national team setup and the Wallabies’ style of play under
head coach Robbie Deans.  After a hearing lasting more than four hours, Cooper was
fined A$10,000 for an adverse Twitter comment relating to an
ARU-licensed product and a further A$50,000, $A20,000 of which
was suspended for two years, for social media and media comments
made about the governing body and the Wallabies, the ARU said.  “I understand that I fell well below par of what it means
to be a Wallaby,” Cooper said in a televised news conference.
“For all the supporters who are out there, my apologies. From
now, I’m just looking forward to the future and hopefully
having a big year not only with my state but the Wallabies.”  The three-match suspension, which would apply to Super
Rugby or Test matches, will only be enforced should he breach
the code of conduct during the next two years, the ARU added.  Queensland Reds playmaker Cooper, who was ruled out of
 Australia ’s tour to  Europe  next month following knee surgery,
had described the Wallabies environment as “toxic” and said in
a television interview that the setup was “destroying me as a
person and as a player.”  Cooper said problems included a lack of appropriate
facilities for the squad to prepare for Test matches and
signaled that he was unlikely to play for Australia again unless
his concerns were addressed.  Contract Situation  New Zealand-born Cooper, who’s played 38 Tests for the
Wallabies, has agreed a contract with the Reds for the next
three Super Rugby seasons, although he’s yet to agree on terms
with the ARU.  The governing body said it will now address Cooper’s
contract situation after putting negotiations on hold pending
the conclusion of the disciplinary process, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Matt Carroll said in an e-mailed statement.  “Given the tribunal has handed down its decision, this
matter as far as we a concerned has been finalized,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  