-- Copper Futures Gain for a Second Day on Signs of Asian Revival
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-10-31T18:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/copper-climbs-most-in-six-weeks-on-suggestion-of-asian-revival.html
Copper futures rose for a second
straight day after signs of revival in Asian economies bolstered
prospects for demand.  Taiwan’s economy resumed growth last quarter, South Korean
production climbed for the first time in four months, and
Singapore’s jobless rate fell, separate reports showed. An
official gauge due tomorrow may show manufacturing in China, the
world’s biggest copper consumer, expanded for the first time in
three months in October, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Futures ended an eight-session slump yesterday on
prospects for Chinese demand.  “Copper is rebounding, and the news out of Asia and China
looks to be supportive,” Frank Lesh, a trader at FuturePath
Trading in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “It seems
that it has at least stopped the market from going down any
further.”  Copper futures for December delivery advanced 0.3 percent
to settle at $3.5175 a pound at 1:12 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices fell 6.4 percent this month.  Comex floor trading took place today for the first time
since Oct. 26 after shutting because of Atlantic storm Sandy,
according to the website of CME Group Inc., which owns the
exchange.  Total Chinese demand, including refined and scrap metal,
may gain an average 6 percent a year from 2011 to 2015, Wang
Zhongkui, deputy general manager of Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co., said yesterday.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months climbed 0.5 percent to $7,759.50 a metric ton ($3.52 a
pound). Lead, zinc, nickel and tin also rose in London. Aluminum
fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  