-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline; Spectrum Plans Bond Sale
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-31T20:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/corporate-credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-fall-most-in-two-weeks.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined as the nation’s financial markets opened for the
first time since  Hurricane Sandy  paralyzed the New York region.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.1
basis points to a mid-price of 99.6 basis points at 4:42 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The bond market resumed trading today after the Securities
Industry & Financial Markets Association recommended it close at
noon Oct. 29 in New York before the biggest Atlantic storm in
history. Fixed income volumes remained subdued.  The credit-risk measure declined as Ford Motor Co. and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  reported better-than-expected profit in the
most recent quarter, which may allay investor concerns that the
economic recovery is weakening and bolster confidence in
companies’ ability to repay debt.  The index has looked volatile today and liquidity could be
a lot thinner with some traders still unable to operate because
of the storm, said Mark Pibl, head of credit strategy at New
York-based Cortview Capital Securities LLC. The good numbers
reported by companies including GM are the major mover, he said.  Stymied Trading  Bond volumes of 2,767 trades of $1 million or more as of
4:22 p.m. in New York compared with a daily average of 4,319
during the three months before the storm, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The credit-swaps index, which touched as low as 97.9 basis
points earlier today, typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc. (SPB) , the maker of consumer goods
from batteries to pet food, plans to issue $1.04 billion of
eight- and 10-year bonds to fund its $1.4 billion acquisition of
 Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK) ’s hardware unit, according to a
person familiar with the offering who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  Calik Holding AS, the Istanbul-based group with interests
in energy and media, may sell $300 million of five-year, dollar-
denominated bonds as soon as this week. The debt may yield as
much as 10.5 percent according to a person familiar with the
offering.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade bonds
widened 3 basis points, led by a 24 basis point rise in the
spreads of utilities companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  