-- Cramo Jumps as Net Beats Estimates on Cost Cuts: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-10-31T10:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/cramo-jumps-as-net-beats-estimates-on-cost-cuts-helsinki-mover.html
Cramo Oyj (CRA1V) , a Finnish company
renting out construction machinery, jumped the most in almost
2 1/2 years after third-quarter earnings beat estimates and it
announced a joint venture in  Russia .  The shares rose as much as 14 percent. Net income in the
quarter was 18.1 million euros ($23.5 million), the Vantaa-based
company said in a statement today. That exceeded the 14.3
million-euro average estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Cramo also announced a joint venture today with  Ramirent
Oyj (RMR1V)  for their Russian and Ukrainian units in equipment rental.  “The impact from the efficiency and cost-cut program was a
bit larger than expected,” Tomi Tiilola, an analyst at Swedbank
AB, said by phone. “It might be that the joint venture also
gives a small positive boost.” He has a hold recommendation on
the stock with a 12-month share-price estimate of 9 euros.  Cost reductions begun in the second quarter started to show
in the third-quarter result, Cramo said. The company will pay
Ramirent about 9.2 million euros for an equal share in the new
venture, which it said is expected to receive approval from
competition authorities in January. The combined business is
estimated to have annual sales of 52 million euros in 2012 and
offers an opportunity for expansion, Cramo said.  Cramo climbed as much as 1.02 euros to 8.07 euros, the
biggest intraday gain since May 10, 2010. The shares were up 7.9
percent at 7.61 euros as of 12:52 p.m. Ramirent rose 6.3 percent
to 5.75 euros.  Growth Potential  “The Russian and Ukrainian markets offer significant
growth potential for equipment rental and through the joint
venture we have a strong foundation to invest for accelerated
growth,” Cramo said.  Chief Executive Officer Vesa Koivula said in an Aug. 8
teleconference that Cramo was seeking about 10 million euros of
savings as financial difficulties facing  Europe  hurt
construction prospects.  Cramo’s profit had missed analyst estimates in the previous
three quarters. The company’s shares dropped 11 percent this
year before today, extending last year’s descent of 53 percent.  “Cramo has performed quite badly due to profitability
concerns, perhaps there were some fears related to the full-year
guidance,” Tiilola said. “Now that the third quarter surprised
positively, we’re seeing a relief rally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  