-- Dana Gas Drops as Debt Standstill Not Mentioned: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-31T10:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/dana-gas-drops-as-debt-standstill-not-mentioned-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  shares slumped the
most in almost two years after the fuel producer failed to
confirm whether it had reached a so-called standstill agreement
with bondholders for $1 billion of sukuk due today.  The shares tumbled 8.9 percent, the biggest decline since
January 2011, to 41 fils at the close in  Abu Dhabi . The stock
fell 2.4 percent this month after surging 11 percent in
September. Dana Gas was the  most traded by  volume and the
biggest decliner on Abu Dhabi’s benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI) ,
which was little changed.  The Sharjah-based company said today it’s in talks to reach
a consensual solution to restructure the sukuk, without
providing details. A person familiar with the talks, speaking on
condition of anonymity, said yesterday Dana Gas reached a
standstill accord this month, under which creditors make no
effort to collect debt payments thereby preventing a default.  “Investors are disappointed with the way the management is
handling things,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-
based brokerage Al Fajr Securities LLC. “First they issue an
ambiguous press release that basically said nothing and second
they neither confirmed nor denied” yesterday’s comments, he
said.  Political upheaval in  Egypt  and  Iraq ’s Kurdish region, the
gas producer’s main sources of revenue, led to payment delays
and squeezed Dana Gas’ cash position. The company had  $393
million of cash and investments  at the end of June, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock, which lost  38 percent  of
its value last year, has declined 8.9 percent in 2012 compared
with an 11 percent advance in the benchmark measure.  ‘Panic’ Selling  A standstill agreement is “not as bad as it seems” for
shareholders as the company probably won’t face dilution, ING
Investment Management said.  “The normal reaction to a standstill or anything close to
default is to panic, dump and ask questions later,” Fadi Al Said, Dubai-based senior investment manager at ING, said by e-
mail today. “Dilution was something equity holders were
fearing, and it doesn’t look like it’s happening.”  Dilution implies downward pressure on a company’s equity
ratio, earnings per share, and book value per share when
additional stock is issued even though income hasn’t increased.  The agreement will be effective until one party decides to
end it, the person said yesterday, asking not to be identified
because the information is private. Bondholders and Dana Gas are
close to reaching a final accord on new terms and payment to
sukuk holders, if any, will be made thereafter, the person said.  Dana Gas’ debt is secured against its Egyptian assets as
well as Sajaa Gas Private Ltd. and United Gas Transmissions Co.,
part of a venture to supply Iranian gas to the  United Arab
Emirates  that hasn’t yet started. In case of a default,
investors will have the right to stake a claim to these assets
in an English court.  Five analysts  recommend investors  buy the shares of Dana
Gas while two have a hold rating on the stock, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  