-- DBS Profit Rises 12%, Tops Estimates on Interest, Fee Income
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-11-01T07:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/dbs-quarterly-rises-12-beating-estimates-on-interest-income.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast
Asia ’s largest bank, said third-quarter profit rose 12 percent,
beating estimates as interest and fee income climbed.  Net income advanced to S$856 million ($701 million) from
S$762 million a year earlier, the company said in a stock
exchange statement today. That exceeded the S$801 million
 average  of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  DBS boosted lending and made smaller provisions for bad
loans even as Singapore’s economy slowed. Chief Executive
Officer  Piyush Gupta  is seeking to expand in faster-growing
markets, which may help the bank weather waning demand from
corporate borrowers and pressure on loan profitability as
competition for deposits intensifies in the city-state.  “The net profit number is ahead of expectations, but the
underlying drivers are probably not as exciting,” said  Matthew Smith , an analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities Singapore Pte.
The gain “appears to be all coming from credit costs, which are
very low,” said Smith, who rates DBS shares  neutral .  DBS fell 0.7 percent to S$13.81 at 3:25 p.m. in Singapore
trading, compared with the benchmark Straits Times Index’s 0.3
percent loss.  Margin Narrows  The net interest margin, a measure of profitability on
loans, narrowed to 1.67 percent last quarter from 1.73 percent a
year earlier. That partly reflected pressures in  China  that
outweighed a widening in Singapore and other markets, DBS said.  The worst is probably over for DBS in China after margins
were squeezed by the country’s liberalization of  interest rates ,
Gupta said at a news briefing.  Net interest income, the difference between what a bank
makes from lending and what it pays on deposits, increased 10
percent to S$1.3 billion as loans grew 9 percent to S$202
billion. Operating profit before accounting for loan-loss
provisions slid 2 percent from a year earlier to S$1.1 billion.  Corporate loans by banks operating in Singapore expanded 22
percent in August, the slowest pace in 17 months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, as the weakening economy sapped
demand for credit. DBS derived 61 percent of its revenue from
the  domestic market  in the first six months.  Net fees and commissions advanced 6 percent in the quarter
to S$422 million, DBS said, on gains from credit cards, wealth
management and  investment banking .  Investment Banking  Gupta said he is building the investment banking business
related to fixed income, while he has no plans to become a large
investment bank focusing on  equity capital markets  or mergers
and acquisitions advice.  “Any M&A activity and advisory activity in the region we
can do because we know the clients, but it’s not a huge part of
our business,” he said. “Fixed income I like because it
matches with what we do well and we don’t need a lot of prima
donna bankers to try and do that.”  DBS bolstered debt-related investment banking this year,
given the company’s expertise in related areas such as
derivatives, currencies and interest-rate trading, Gupta said.
Much of the 58 percent gain in investment banking fees to S$60
million in the third quarter stems from fixed income, he said.  Other non-interest income declined 30 percent to S$250
million, as income from the lender’s financial investments fell.
It recognized a S$47 million gain in the category a year earlier
from combining DBS Asset Management with Japan’s Nikko Asset
Management Co.  Provisions for credit and other losses fell 76 percent to
S$55 million.  Danamon Bid  As part of Gupta’s strategy to expand abroad, DBS bid about
$6.9 billion for PT Bank Danamon  Indonesia  in April. The
Singapore lender is awaiting approval from regulators in
Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest economy.  Banks in Singapore earn the least on loans in the region,
based on their average net interest margin of 2.03 percent,
according to the most recent data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore’s economy will grow at below-potential levels for
a second year in 2013 as external demand remains “tepid and
volatile,” the Monetary Authority of Singapore said this week.
It expects the economy to expand 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent this
year. Gross domestic product fell at an annual 1.5 percent rate
last quarter, the Trade Ministry said on Oct. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  