-- Ecuador to Sue Chevron in Argentina to Enforce Judgment
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-10-31T22:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/ecuador-to-sue-chevron-in-argentina-to-enforce-judgment.html
Ecuadorean plaintiffs will ask an
Argentine court to enforce a $19 billion award against  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  in a lawsuit over pollution in the Amazon rain forest by
seizing the company’s local assets, a lawyer for the group said.  An attachment order will be filed as soon as tomorrow in a
Commercial Court of Justice in Buenos Aires, Pablo Fajardo, the
Ecuadorean lawyer who represents the group, said today at a
press conference in Buenos Aires. The group will ask to seize
Chevron’s local Argentine unit, dividends, oil sales income and
the company’s bank accounts in  Argentina , Enrique Bruchou, an
Argentine attorney with Bruchou, Fernandez, Madero & Lombardi,
said at the same press conference.  The Ecuadoreans blame Texaco Inc., which Chevron acquired
in 2001, for destroying the environment in the Lago Agrio
region, damaging living conditions of 30,000 inhabitants.  Chevron, based in  San Ramon ,  California , on Oct. 9 lost a
U.S. Supreme Court bid to block the judgment imposed by an
Ecuadorean court. The highest U.S. court let stand a federal
appeals court ruling against Chevron that the Ecuadoreans can’t
be barred from seeking to collect the award anywhere in the
world.  “The Ecuador judgment is a product of bribery, fraud, and
it is illegitimate,” Chevron said today in an e-mailed
response. “The company does not believe that the Ecuador
judgment is enforceable in any court that observes the rule of
law.”  Shale Partnership  The Ecuadorean group also plans to file an attachment order
asking a Colombian court to do the same as the Argentine court,
Bruchou said. Seizures may be expedited because of a treaty
between the Latin American nations, he said.  Another related lawsuit was filed by the Ecuadoreans in the
Ontario Superior Court of Justice in Toronto on May 30.  Chevron, the fourth-largest producer of oil in Argentina,
signed a memorandum of understanding on Sept. 14 with  YPF SA (YPF) ,
Argentina’s biggest energy company, to analyze a partnership to
jointly develop projects at the shale formation of Vaca Muerta.  “Any attachment of Chevron assets should not affect YPF
but any proceeds from the partnership belonging to Chevron will
become attachable,” Bruchou said. Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a YPF
spokesman in  Buenos Aires , declined to comment in an e-mail.  The Ecuadorean group estimates Chevron’s assets in
Argentina at $2 billion, Bruchou said. The Argentine assets
include a minority ownership in local pipeline Oleoductos del
Valle SA. Chevron’s Colombian assets that may be attached
include natural gas sales, which represent about two-thirds of
the country’s production, Bruchou said.  Chevron Canada Ltd. will have a hearing on the lawsuit Nov.
28 in the Ontario Superior Court, Alan Lenczner, an attorney for
the Ecuadoreans based in Toronto, said in a telephone interview
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  