-- Election Costs to Exceed $6 Billion in 2012, Research Group Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-10-31T19:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/election-costs-to-exceed-6-billion-in-2012-research-group-says.html
Driven by spending from outside
groups, the cost of the 2012 U.S. election will exceed $6
billion, $700 million more than four years ago, the  Center for
Responsive Politics  estimated.  Organizations such as Crossroads GPS and the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce and super-political action committees including
Restore Our Future and Priorities USA Action will spend close to
$1 billion, according to the center, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign donations and spending. That is more
than triple the $276 million outside groups spent in 2008.  Such expenditures, much of them by groups that keep their
donors hidden, have increased following the U.S. Supreme Court’s
2010 Citizens United decision, which removed restrictions on
independent corporate and union spending. About two-thirds of
the outside spending has gone to benefit Republican candidates.  “In the new campaign finance landscape post-Citizens
United, we’re seeing historic spending levels by outside groups
dominated by a small number of individuals and organizations
making exceptional contributions,” said Sheila Krumholz, the
center’s executive director.  The figures include spending for the presidential and
congressional races and the national party conventions. They
could be greater because many outside groups don’t disclose
their spending.  Spending by super-PACs Restore Our Future and American
Crossroads have helped Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  close his fundraising gap with President  Barack Obama .
Those two groups have spent $217 million, $160 million more than
the $57 million by the pro-Obama super-PAC Priorities USA
Action. Obama’s campaign committee has outspent Romney’s by $193
million, $553 million to $360 million.  Unlimited Donations  The super-PACs can take in unlimited donations. Casino
executive  Sheldon Adelson  and his wife Miriam have given $20
million to Restore Our Future and Houston homebuilder Bob Perry
has contributed $10 million. American Crossroads has received
$17.5 million from Harold Simmons, chairman of Dallas-based
Contran Corp. Jeffrey Katzenberg, chief executive officer of
Dreamworks Animation SKG Inc., donated $3 million to Priorities.  Both candidates have also relied on bundlers, those who
gather up donations from other individuals and send them to the
campaign. Obama has identified 758 bundlers who have raised at
least $50,000; Romney, breaking with tradition, has declined to
release his top fundraisers except for registered lobbyists he
must identify by law.  “There is an expectation that the rewards will go beyond
mere gratitude,” Krumholz said. “There is ample evidence that
there are numerous high rollers who will come calling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 