-- Telefonica to Swap EU2 Billion Preferred Shares for Bonds
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-11-01T10:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/telefonica-to-swap-eu2-billion-preferred-shares-for-bonds.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  plans to swap 2 billion
euros ($2.6 billion) in preferred shares for bonds and treasury
stock, a move that will help the debt-ridden Spanish phone
company lower financing costs.  The carrier offered to buy the securities at 100 percent of
nominal value in cash, it said yesterday. The offer by  Europe ’s
most indebted phone operator is conditional upon investors using
the money they receive to buy newly issued bonds and shares
currently held as treasury stock. The preferred shares count as
liabilities on Telefonica’s balance sheet.  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is reversing a
decade-long expansion strategy by selling assets to avoid a
reduction of debt ratings. The exchange of preferred shares into
common stock will reduce the debt showing up on Madrid-based
Telefonica’s balance sheet and help boost capital, said
Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG Valores.  “This move will help Telefonica to continue improving its
financial structure as it will be able to reduce its debt,” he
said via phone. “The swap will also allow the company to cut
its financing costs.”  The preferred shares are valued at 2 billion euros,
according to Telefonica’s annual report. If all holders accept
the offer, about 40 percent of the total will go into treasury
shares and 60 percent into new bonds. The deal will help
Telefonica cut 800 million euros of debt.  Lower Charges  “If fully tendered, the group will both lower its interest
charge and optically reduce its leverage as these preferential
shares did not quite qualify as equity either under GAAP
accounting rules or for rating agencies,” said Henri Alexaline,
a fixed-income investor who helps manage $1 billion at London-
based FM Capital Partners Ltd. “It’s a natural step toward
optimizing the balance sheet which the market should welcome.”  Telefonica added 0.2 percent to 10.18 euros at 11:27 a.m.
in  Madrid  . The stock has declined 24 percent this year,
compared with an 8.5 percent decline in  Spain ’s benchmark IBEX
35 index.  The company, which raised 1.45 billion euros this week
selling shares in its German unit, has canceled its dividend and
a share buyback plan for this year. As it struggles to reduce
more than 58 billion euros of debt, Telefonica also plans to
spin off its Latin American business. In July, it divested a
$1.4 billion stake in China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  Moody’s Investors Service ranks Telefonica’s long-term debt
Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade, with a negative
outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  said last month it may reduce
Telefonica’s BBB rating, the equivalent of Moody’s, citing the
company’s exposure to Spain’s sovereign-debt risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  