-- Emerging Stocks Cut Monthly Drop as Korea Boosts Outlook
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-31T21:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/emerging-stocks-rise-on-south-korea-output-u-s-housing.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
a second day, paring the biggest monthly decline since May, as
commodities gained and improving data from South Korea to the
U.S. bolstered the global economic outlook.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s
largest bank by market value, jumped the most in three weeks,
and  LS Industrial Systems Co. (010120) , a Korean maker of power
transmission and distribution equipment, surged the most in 11
months after reporting earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.
OAO Novatek,  Russia ’s second-largest natural gas producer,
snapped a six-day slump as oil rose. Brazilian retailer Lojas
Renner SA rallied after third-quarter net income beat estimates.  The benchmark gauge for developing-nation equities added
0.2 percent to 995.33 at the close of trading in New York,
cutting its drop in October to 0.7 percent, the most since the
index lost 12 percent in May. South Korean factory output rose
for the first time in four months in September, boosted by
stronger sales of cars and electronics. A report yesterday
showed home prices rose by the most in two years in the U.S.,
where equity markets resumed after a two-day shutdown during
Hurriance Sandy.  “Economic indicators from South Korea and the U.S.
combined with higher-than-expected earnings are helping keep
equities afloat,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market
strategist at Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc. The biggest Atlantic
storm in history, which caused at least 50 U.S. deaths, “will
spur reconstruction that would encourage consumer spending and
demand that may find its way into the  emerging markets .”  Energy Stocks Slump  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.1
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, gained 0.8 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
trading in Hong Kong increased 1.2 percent. South Korea’s Kospi
index added 0.7 percent and the won advanced for a fifth day to
a 13-month high. Russia’s Micex Index gained 0.3 percent, ending
a six-day slide as oil climbed 0.5 percent to $86.07 a barrel in
New York.  Brazil ’s Bovespa fell 1.1 percent.  Gauges of health-care, consumer discretionary and material
stocks led gains among the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 10
industry groups. Energy stocks dragged, as  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4) ’s preferred shares fell 3.4 percent in Sao Paulo on concerns
that current fuel prices in Brazil are too low to support the
company.  Lagging Behind  The measure of emerging market stocks has risen 8.6 percent
this year, lagging behind a 10 percent increase in the MSCI
World Index of developed countries. The emerging-markets index
trades at 11.4 times estimated earnings,  compared  with the MSCI
World’s multiple of 13.1, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Taiwan ’s dollar rose for a third month as official data
showed economic growth rebounded in the third quarter. The South
Korean won led the monthly gains among emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, while South Africa’s rand
weakened the most.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 294, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Raising Estimates  Lojas Renner gained 3.3 percent in Sao Paulo as third-
quarter profit exceeded estimates. Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA, South America’s largest power producer, gained
0.9 percent after saying it expects to receive “close to” 30
billion reais ($14.8 billion) in compensation after the
government changed concession rules.  Novatek rose 2.7 percent. Cyprus will negotiate the sale of
oil and gas licenses in its exclusive economic zone, which will
be concluded in 2013, with companies including Novatek, Minister
of Commerce, Industry and Tourism Neoklis Sylikiotis said,
according to a statement e-mailed late yesterday.  LS Industrial Systems surged 6.9 percent, the most in
almost a year. Operating income rose to 50.9 billion won ($47
million) in the three months to Sept. 30, from 16.7 billion won
a year earlier, the company said today in a filing. That’s more
than the 46.6 billion won  average  of analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Globe Trade Centre SA, Poland’s biggest property developer
by market value, rose 0.9 percent after Deutsche Bank AG raised
its recommendation to buy from hold and increased its share-
price estimate.  Bank Earnings  ICBC climbed 2 percent, the most since Oct. 11. The company
led the nation’s biggest lenders in posting a profit that beat
analyst estimates. Net income at ICBC rose 15 percent to a
record 62.4 billion  yuan  ($10 billion).  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390)  surged 7.6 percent in Hong Kong
after third-quarter profit jumped 65 percent to 1.88 billion
yuan. China Shipping Container Lines Co. rallied 8.9 percent,
the largest gainer on the emerging-markets gauge, after the
company returned to profit in the third quarter.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the world’s largest
contract manufacturer of electronics, added 0.8 percent. Third-
quarter  net income  climbed 58 percent to NT$30.3 billion ($1
billion), according to Bloomberg calculations based on nine-
month results. The average of 13 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg was for a profit of NT$23.4 billion.  PetroChina Co., the world’s biggest publicly traded oil
producer, slid 2 percent. The company posted its lowest third-
quarter profit in at least five years because of refining losses
and natural-gas import costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  