-- Mercedes Dangles $5,000 VIP Discounts to Hold U.S. Lead Over BMW
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-10-31T14:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/mercedes-dangles-5-000-vip-discounts-to-hold-u-s-lead-over-bmw.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, guarding
its U.S. luxury-auto sales lead, is letting some buyers skip
more monthly payments than  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
offering as much as $5,000 discounts to “VIP customers.”  Mercedes introduced a program for 2012 models sold through
this month that included cash offers and special lease deals,
according to an Oct. 2 memo to dealers. The Stuttgart, Germany-
based automaker in an Oct. 5 e-mail to dealers also announced a
promotion for the month that lets some current Mercedes owners
forgo as many as five payments.  Mercedes leads BMW by 5,221 sales in the U.S. through this
year’s first nine months. Weak demand in  Europe  is spreading to
 Germany  and deliveries in  China  slipped for the first time in
eight months in September. Those markets’ struggles are putting
more pressure on Daimler and BMW in the U.S.  “It isn’t just about being No. 1,” said Greg Goodwin,
chief executive officer of  Vancouver , Washington-based Kuni
Automotive, which operates 14 dealerships, including a BMW
franchise, in  Washington ,  California ,  Colorado  and  Oregon .
“What BMW and Mercedes also are dealing with is global
competition and the ebbs and flows of global demand.”  BMW last year outsold Mercedes and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
 Lexus , which had been hurt by vehicle shortages after natural
disasters in  Asia . Lexus had been the top-selling luxury-auto
brand in the U.S. for 11 years.  Dueling Programs  The five-payment program introduced by Mercedes is similar
to a promotion that BMW is using this month. The Munich-based
automaker mailed owners of most of its 2010 models an offer to
waive as many as three payments to buy a new or certified used
vehicle, according to an Oct. 10 notice sent to dealers.  The Mercedes deal lets owners of all models except the
ML450 Hybrid sport-utility vehicle skip five payments to buy or
lease any 2012 or 2013 vehicle through Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services, according to the e-mail to dealers. Both the Mercedes
and BMW Financial Services lease programs run through today.  “This is great news for luxury clientele nationally,”
Goodwin said in a telephone interview.  Mercedes has used lease pull-ahead promotions for almost a
decade and has introduced such programs several times in 2012,
Donna Boland, a Mercedes spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The Customer Advocacy Program from the Mercedes Oct. 2 memo
sets maximum cash offers and suggests featured leases to
dealers, who are being paid a $750 commission per sale.  ‘VIP Customers’  The deals “can be offered at the discretion of the
dealership’s general manager to VIP customers of the dealership,
business associates of the dealership’s employees and dealership
employees’ extended family members,” the memo said.  The cash offers include as much as $750 for C-Class and
$2,250 for E-Class cars, $3,000 for GLK-Class SUVs, $3,275 for
S-Class cars and $5,000 for GL-Class SUVs, according to the
memo.  The Customer Advocacy Program “has been around for a
number of years” and is primarily used as Mercedes is winding
down inventory of outgoing model-year vehicles, Boland said.
This year’s program is limited primarily to 2012 models, which
are almost sold out, and the 2013 S-Class, which she said gets a
new body style next year.  “We limit the number of cars” in the program, Boland
said. “It is not carte blanche.” Most dealers don’t give the
maximum offer that Mercedes allows, and the commission that’s
part of the program is intended as compensation if a dealer does
“give it all away,” she said.  Courtesy Vehicles  Mercedes also is updating a program similar to an
initiative that BMW ran in July that boosted sales to dealers’
demo fleets. The Mercedes Courtesy Vehicle Program, running
through Jan. 3, 2014, requires enrolled dealers to provide
courtesy Mercedes vehicles at no charge to service customers who
have at least two hours of warranty repair work.  The dealers receive credit for a sale of a vehicle once it
goes into their service loaner fleet, according to a memo from
the manufacturer. Dealers are eligible for incentive allowances
from $4,500 for C-Class cars to $10,000 for S-Class cars once a
vehicle is in their service fleet for at least 12 months.  The Courtesy Vehicle Program sets an annual fleet size for
participating dealers, the memo said. The allocation is based on
historical repair order data.  Mercedes is in the process of determining courtesy fleet
sizes for 2013, Boland said. Mercedes has had such a program for
10 or more years and announced details about next year’s version
as part of a national dealer meeting last week, she said.  ‘Pain Point’  “A ‘pain point’ with customers is that they don’t always
receive a Mercedes-Benz as a loaner,” Boland said. “That’s
what we’re addressing here in a significant way. The loaners
must be MB and we in turn will help offset the costs.”  Once a vehicle goes into the courtesy program, it becomes
part of dealers’ pre-owned inventory. If a vehicle is taken out
of the program and sold as used before 365 days, the dealer
qualifies for an incentive allowance that’s prorated for how
much time it spent in the service fleet, according to the memo.  BMW, which beat Mercedes last year by 2,715 deliveries in
the U.S., has shifted “tens of thousands” of cars that were
originally targeted for Europe to the U.S. and Asia this year as
sales weaken in the crisis-hit region,  Ian Robertson , the sales
chief for the world’s largest luxury-car brand, told reporters
on Oct. 17 in Munich.  European auto deliveries are headed for their biggest
annual plunge in 19 years after tumbling 11 percent in
September, the Brussels-based European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association said on Oct. 16.  Japanese brands such as Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota’s
Lexus also suffered a blow last month because of a territorial
dispute between their home country and China that turned Chinese
consumers away from buying the vehicles.  “All of that points to more and more product coming to the
U.S.,” said Goodwin, who added that he expects BMW to stay
competitive with luxury brands including Mercedes through the
end of this year. “Our business is recovering well and there is
still a lot of pent-up demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  