-- Erdogan Says Turkey Lacks Authority to Impose Syrian Buffer Zone
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-31T15:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/erdogan-says-turkey-lacks-authority-to-impose-syrian-buffer-zone.html
Turkey ’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said his country was unable to unilaterally impose
buffer zones on its border with  Syria  and relied on the  United
Nations  to make such decisions.  Responding to questions in Berlin during a joint news
conference with  Chancellor Angela Merkel  today, the premier said
Turkey “has no authority or right to declare” a buffer zone or
a no-fly zone to protect civilians inside Syria. “It is an
issue which the UN Security Council can decide on,” he said.  His comments came as the 19-month Syrian civil conflict
again spilled over the border, with ambulances ferrying wounded
rebels from the frontier to hospitals inside Turkey, CNN-Turk
television showed, as gray smoke billowed from Syrian buildings
and the sound of gunfire could be heard.  Reinforced Turkish army units have been engaging Syrian
targets since a shell killed five Turks this month, with the
most recent exchange on Oct. 29. More than 35,000 people have
been killed since the conflict began, according to the
opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights , while more than
388,000 Syrians have fled their homeland, the UN says.  A U.S. military delegation, meanwhile, visited an air base
in the southeastern Turkish city of Diyarbakir to prepare
possible operations related to Syria,  Hurriyet newspaper 
reported today, without citing anyone. The U.S. embassy in
Ankara did not immediately respond to a call seeking comment.  At least 67 people have been killed across Syria today,
including 36 in Aleppo, the Local Coordination Committees in
Syria said. Six people were killed and 13 injured in an
explosion at a vegetable market near a Shiite Muslim shrine in a
Damascus suburb, Syria’s state television said.  A meeting of the Syrian opposition in the town of Silivri,
near Istanbul called for the creation of a government-in-exile
or a transitional government that can “lead political action
and achieve political victories,” according to a statement
today by the Syrian Center for Political & Strategic Studies, a
think-tank which organized the three-day event.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  