-- There’s No Business Like the Brokerage Business
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-10-31T22:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/there-s-no-business-like-the-brokerage-business.html
If regulators and brokerage firms are
serious about restoring public confidence in the markets, they
will have to do better than they did in the pathetic case of
Mark C. Hotton.  Hotton is the 46-year-old former stockbroker who allegedly
duped the producers of the Broadway musical “ Rebecca ” into
believing he had lined up $4.5 million in  financing . According
to law enforcement officials, he even concocted a fictitious
Australian guy, Paul Abrams, who would have been good for $2
million if only he hadn’t keeled over from malaria when it was
time to write his check. While the clueless backers fell for his
stories, Hotton pocketed finder’s fees. “Rebecca” has been
“postponed indefinitely,” according to the show’s  website .  It’s distressing, but it shouldn’t have come as much of a
surprise from a man whose brokerage industry  records  since 1993
reveal a stolen-property charge, 16 customer disputes, a firing,
a lien and a bankruptcy.  The real disgrace here isn’t Hotton, who is being held
without bail after his arrest on two counts of fraud last month.
The bigger scandal is trumped-up claims like this one:  “Ultimately, Hotton’s imagination was no match for the
FBI, which uncovered, with lightning speed, his alleged
financial misdeeds,” said Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in an Oct. 15  press release .  Lightning speed? Now that is what I would call a real
whopper.  First Queries  I first began to contact Hotton’s lawyers a year ago this
month when I saw that Hotton continued to work as a broker after
filing for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, but they weren’t very
talkative. Michael S. Finkelstein, a lawyer on Long Island, told
me to call him back at 4 p.m. on Nov. 22, but didn’t answer that
day, and never responded to voicemails. Similarly, voicemails
and e-mails that I left with three other Hotton lawyers since
Oct. 8 after the “Rebecca” flap erupted have gone unanswered.
I couldn’t reach Hotton for comment.  Hotton has faced allegations of financial misdeeds as far
back as 1990, yet moved on to work at six brokerage firms,
including Ladenburg, Thalmann & Co. and Oppenheimer & Co. He was
accused of fraud in multimillion-dollar lawsuits filed before
anyone involved in “Rebecca” had ever heard of him. But there
was nothing speedy about law enforcement’s response until the
victims were attention-grabbing show-business types.  Hotton got a modest $60,000 from the producers of
“Rebecca,” according to the U.S. attorney, and I suppose the
crack investigators at the Federal Bureau of Investigation
deserve credit for getting to the bottom of one of his punier
swindles.  Anyone truly interested in watching out for the public
might have started paying attention after Hotton bounced a check
for $31,550 to Vilsmeier Auction Co. in Montgomeryville,
 Pennsylvania , on April 25, 1990. Hotton took possession of a
1985 Ford van and three other vehicles, thanks partly to a
forged letter from a Westminster Bank officer assuring that his
account had sufficient funds. Four months later, the real
manager at the bank said in an affidavit that the letter was
bogus and signed by a person who didn’t exist.  People who bounce checks and forge documents don’t belong
in the securities business, but Hotton, who pleaded not guilty
to two fraud counts last month, managed to get a broker’s
license three years later anyway.  I asked Michelle Ong, a spokeswoman for the  Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority , how a broker like Hotton could
stay in the business as long as he had. She said that before
2009, the complaints against Hotton had either been denied by
his employers, or “settled for little money.” She says Finra
began to investigate Hotton in 2009. That’s nice, I suppose, but
three years later, Finra still has not announced any sanctions.  Finra Knew  Ong said that Finra knew Hotton had been convicted of
criminal possession of stolen property, which apparently isn’t
enough to convince regulators that a broker shouldn’t be in
charge of other people’s money.  In the securities business, there is this brilliant idea
that firms have a self-interest in tossing out bad guys. So I
checked in with two firms that employed Hotton. I sent a list of
11 questions about Hotton’s criminal record and customer
complaints to Paul Caminiti, a spokesman for Ladenburg, and all
he had to say was that Hotton left the firm in 2005 to join
Oppenheimer.  It gets worse.  On Oct. 15, the day Hotton was arrested, I called Noah
Sorkin, a securities lawyer who worked at Oppenheimer when
Hotton was there. Today, Sorkin is general counsel in New York
at AIG Advisor Group, a network of independent brokers. “Lemme
do this if it’s OK with you,” he said when I began to ask about
Hotton. Sorkin said he would be happy to chat with me, but would
first have to talk with lawyers at Oppenheimer. I’m still
waiting for that call back.  An Oppenheimer spokesman, Brian Maddox, said this:
“Investigations were conducted by both Oppenheimer and a
securities regulator and no evidence of misconduct was
uncovered. Any claims involving Mr. Hotton’s activities came to
Oppenheimer’s attention after he left Oppenheimer.” He added
that Oppenheimer employees who hired Hotton are no longer with
the firm.  That probably would come as a surprise to Philip R. Schatz,
a lawyer who filed an affirmation on June 25, 2010, in a
multimillion-dollar lawsuit against Hotton while he was working
at Oppenheimer, which wasn’t named as a defendant. Schatz said
that, in previous lawsuits he had been involved with, Hotton’s
actions at Oppenheimer and Ladenburg left him with serious
reservations about the broker. In fact, he wrote that he had
urged Sorkin in 2006 to investigate Hotton. “I told Mr. Sorkin
that if I were in his position, as a matter of prudence, I would
conduct a thorough review” of Hotton’s history, he wrote.  Yet for almost three more years, Hotton worked at
Oppenheimer before moving to another firm. His story is but the
latest example of the joke that securities regulation has
become.  (Susan Antilla, who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  power grid in a perilous world ;
Caroline Baum on  what women really want from a president ; Michael
Kinsley on why  Stuart Taylor is wrong about affirmative action ; 
Virginia Postrel on how new findings will  revolutionize cancer drugs ;
part four of A. Gary Shilling’s series on how  low interest rates are
creating a buildup of risk and leverage ; Alex Marshall on the  future
of publishing .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at   santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  