-- Heseltine Calls for National Growth Council to Spur U.K. Economy
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/heseltine-calls-for-national-growth-council-to-spur-u-k-economy.html
Former Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine called for a government-led body backed by a state-
lending bank to boost economic growth, and said ministers should
block unwanted foreign bids for U.K. companies.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  should lead a National Growth
Council to implement the plan and create a business bank that
can finance the long-term needs of industry, Heseltine said in a
government-commissioned report published today. Ministers should
take a “greater interest” in foreign bids for companies that
may harm the U.K.’s industrial strategy, it said.  “The government should set out a comprehensive strategy
for national wealth creation, defining its view of its own role,
and the limits of that role,” said Heseltine, who served in the
Conservative governments of  Margaret Thatcher  and  John Major  and
is now a lawmaker in the House of Lords.  The 89 recommendations urge the government to do more to
spur growth as Britain struggles to regain economic output lost
in the recession triggered by the 2008 financial crisis.  “Some will say they are criticisms,” Heseltine wrote.
“That is exactly the wrong approach. To invite criticism is a
sign of strength.”  Cameron has sought to aid the economy by boosting credit to
small companies with programs including the Funding for Lending
Scheme and a business bank backed by 1 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) of government money, and by easing regulations.
Heseltine said government efforts to cut red tape don’t always
help companies.  Olympic Effort  Britain exited a double-dip recession in the third quarter
with growth of 1 percent, the strongest in five years, as
Olympic ticket sales and a surge in services helped boost the
rebound. Heseltine called for the government to replicate the
Olympic effort throughout other sectors of the economy.  The government needs to engage with would-be foreign owners
of British companies to make sure they spur research and
development and build up supply chains, Heseltine said.
Ministers should block unwanted bids in “exceptional
circumstances.”  The British government faced a backlash over Kraft Foods
Inc.’s acquisition of Cadbury Plc in 2010. Northfield, Illinois-
based Kraft closed a factory in Keynsham, southwest  England 
after the takeover was completed, having said beforehand it
would keep it open.  Heseltine, 79, who backed British adoption of the euro over
a decade ago, called on Cameron and his  Conservative Party 
to forge closer links with the European Union to give companies
certainty with their investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  