-- Espirito Santo Sells First Senior Bond Since 2010 as Risk Falls
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-10-31T13:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/espirito-santo-sells-first-senior-bond-since-2010-as-risk-falls.html
Portugal ’s  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) 
led sales of new corporate bonds with its first euro-denominated
senior benchmark issue since 2010 as credit risk fell for a
second day in  Europe .  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit default swaps
linked to the debt of 50 mostly junk-rated European companies
fell nine basis points to 515 at 1:53 p.m. in London. The gauge
has tightened 54 basis points this month, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit risk fell as the  New York  Stock Exchange re-opened
after a two-day stoppage because of  Hurricane Sandy . Better-
than-expected quarterly earnings from companies including
General Motors Co., the largest U.S. automaker, and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
also boosted confidence and encouraged borrowers to raise money.  Banco Espirito Santo’s sale is “symptomatic of the
improvement in market conditions over the past few months and
the increasing confidence amongst investors that it is not just
a temporary improvement,” said Roger Francis, an analyst at
Mizuho International Plc in  London . “It’s hardly cheap money
for them.”  The bank is selling three-year bonds in euros that may be
priced to yield 6 percent to 6.25 percent, according to a person
with knowledge of the sale, who asked not to be identified. It’s
the lender’s first benchmark senior bond sale in the currency
without government backing since the Lisbon-headquartered lender
priced 750 million euros of bonds Jan. 21, 2010, data compiled
by Bloomberg  show .  Achmea Bond  Achmea Hypotheekbank NV is also selling benchmark bonds in
euros in its first sale in the currency since June 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The bonds are being sold with a
spread of 185 basis points more than the benchmark midswap rate,
according to a person with knowledge of the sale who asked not
to be identified.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell one basis points to 127. Bank
credit risk also dropped, with the Markit iTraxx Financial Index
on the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers falling three basis
points to 171.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  