-- Espirito Santo Sells First Portugal Bank Bond Since March 2010
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-31T17:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/espirito-santo-sells-first-portugal-bank-bond-since-march-2010.html
Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  took
advantage of a two-day rally in European credit markets to sell
Portugal’s first benchmark senior bank bonds in more than two
and a half years.  The lender’s 750 million euros ($972 million) of three-year
bonds were priced to yield 6 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The sale is the country’s first senior bond
without a government guarantee since Banco Comercial Portugues
SA priced 300 million euros of three-year bonds in March 2010,
data show.  Credit markets have been bouyed by earnings from companies
including Barclays Plc and General Motors Co., the largest U.S.
automaker, that beat analysts’ estimates. Trading in bonds and
equities also restarted in New York after the closure caused by
 Hurricane Sandy .  “This is a significant event. The funding markets are open
to nearly all again,” Suki Mann, a credit strategist at Societe
Generale SA in London wrote in a note to clients. “It is major
confirmation that the credit markets are now looking at
everything much more pragmatically.”  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit default swaps
linked to the debt of 50 mostly junk-rated European companies
fell for a second day, dropping as much as 15 basis points to
508, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Strong Demand  “Demand was very strong,” at 3.6 times the amount on
offer, said Isabel Almeida, head of the Espitiro Santo’s
financial markets department. While the sale was “a very
important step” for the bank it doesn’t plan to sell similar
bonds this year, she said.  Energias de Portugal SA  broke a 20-month deadlock for the
country’s corporate borrowers when it sold the country’s first
benchmark company debt since January 2011 on Sept. 14. It raised
750 million euros from a sale of five-year bonds, receiving
orders worth 7.5 billion euros.  Yield spreads on European bank debt have fallen 138 basis
points since the start of June to 179, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s EUR Corporate, Banking index shows. The index contains
706 bonds from lenders including ABN Amro Bank NV, Italy’s
Intesa SanPaolo SpA and UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  