-- Letitia Baldrige, Arbiter of Workplace Etiquette, Dies at 86
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-10-31T00:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/letitia-baldrige-arbiter-of-workplace-etiquette-dies-at-86.html
Letitia Baldrige, whose work as
chief of staff for U.S. first lady  Jacqueline Kennedy  helped
establish her as an authority on etiquette, the “social
arbiter” of “new American manners,” as a 1978 Time magazine
cover put it, has died. She was 86.  She died on Oct. 29 in Bethesda,  Maryland , the New York
Times reported, citing Mary M. Mitchell, a longtime friend and
collaborator. No cause was given. She was most recently a
partner at protocol consultant Baldrige & Lewris in McLean,
Virginia.  Building on the legacy of writers Emily Post and Amy
Vanderbilt, Baldrige brought rules on manners to the workplace,
tackling topics such as proper behavior on elevators (“the only
really safe topic of conversation is the weather”) and prudent
use of speakerphones.  Baldrige’s own career in public relations, starting at
Tiffany & Co. in 1956, gave her firsthand knowledge of issues
created when women began to enter the workforce in large
numbers. Her 1993 “New Complete Guide to Executive Manners”
included a chapter on “problems in today’s working world which
never existed before,” including office romances and sexual
harassment.  She said she viewed etiquette, a term often associated with
white gloves and proper cutlery, as simple courtesy toward
others.  ‘Lack of Kindness’  “There are major CEOs who do not know how to hold a knife
and fork properly, but I don’t worry about that as much as the
lack of kindness,” she said in 1992, according to the  New York 
Times. “There are two generations of people who have not
learned how important it is to take time to say, ‘I’m sorry’ and
‘Please’ and ‘Thank you’ and how people must relate to one
another.”  Born into a Midwest Republican family, Baldrige was
educated among the Eastern elite thanks to the connections of
her Yale-educated father, who fought in both world wars and
represented  Nebraska  as a congressman from 1931 to 1933. Through
her parents’ social network in  Washington  she knew young
 Jacqueline Bouvier , who followed three years behind her at both
Miss Porter’s School in Farmington,  Connecticut , and Vassar
College in Poughkeepsie, New York.  Establishing Camelot  After Bouvier’s husband,  John F. Kennedy , won the
presidency in 1960, Baldrige became the first lady’s social
secretary and chief of staff, overseeing the banquets, cultural
showcases and  world travels  that helped establish the idea of
the Kennedy presidency as modern-day Camelot -- a cosmopolitan
exposition of fashion, art and youthful vigor.  Over the next decades she would be invited to the White
House to advise incoming first ladies, including  “Lady Bird”
Johnson , who was thrust into the role by the assassination of
Kennedy in November 1963, and  Nancy Reagan .  Baldrige, known to friends as Tish, was born on Feb. 9,
1926, according to the Times, in  Miami Beach . She was the
youngest of three children of Regina and Howard Malcolm
Baldrige. Her father, a lawyer, had moved the family from
Nebraska to try his hand at Florida real estate. They returned
to Omaha in 1928. One of Baldrige’s brothers, Malcolm, would
serve as U.S. Commerce secretary under President  Ronald Reagan .  Baldrige accompanied her father as he drove throughout
western Nebraska in his election campaign and admired how he
gave everybody “his undivided attention” while promising to
help. Following his  one term  in the  House of Representatives , he
practiced law in  New York City  and Washington.  Dinner Table  Many of Baldrige’s early lessons on proper behavior came
from her parents at the dinner table -- “the training lab where
our manners were observed and corrected,” she wrote, each meal
becoming “an active class in grammar and civility.”  She earned a bachelor’s degree in psychology from Vassar in
1946. Fluent in French, she spent much of the next decade in
 Europe , beginning with 14 months of graduate studies at the
University of Geneva. Frustrated in her efforts to break into
male-dominated business in the U.S., she joined the Foreign
Service and worked at the U.S. embassies in Paris and  Rome .  In Paris, as social secretary to Ambassador  David Bruce  and
his wife, Baldrige arranged party invitations and restaurant
reservations when Rose Kennedy, wife of the former U.S.
ambassador to the U.K., would visit Paris with daughters Eunice,
Patricia and Jean. She also spent time with “Jackie” Bouvier,
her friend from back home, when the future first lady studied
for a year at the Sorbonne.  Clare Boothe Luce  After returning to the U.S. to work at the Central
Intelligence Agency and to study Italian, she moved to Rome to
work for Clare Boothe Luce, one of the first female U.S.
ambassadors and the wife of Henry Luce, publisher of Time and
Life magazines. Baldrige chronicled her experience in her first
 book , “Roman Candle.”  Through Luce, Baldrige landed her next job, as the first
director of public relations for New York City-based jeweler
Tiffany & Co. in 1956. She left there for the White House at the
request of the first lady, Jackie Kennedy.  In addition to public schedules and guest lists, Baldrige
and her staff handled the flood of mail addressed to the
glamorous, young first lady. Mimi Alford, whose 2012  book 
described what she said was an 18-month affair with President
Kennedy while she was a White House intern, said one of those
letters came from her.  JFK Introduction  As a student at Miss Porter’s, the high school alma mater
of Baldrige and the first lady, Alford had written to request an
interview with Mrs. Kennedy, and Baldrige offered herself as an
alternative. Alford said Baldrige personally introduced her to
the president during her March 1961 visit. She also said she
assumed, but never confirmed, that Baldrige had been behind the
internship offer she received the following year.  Baldrige didn’t comment publicly about Alford’s book.  In her own memoir, “ A Lady, First ” (2001), Baldrige
revealed that she wanted to quit 18 months into her job, after
clashing with the first lady on a trip to  Greece , only to be
persuaded to stay by the president.  Soon, though, “I sensed the first lady’s resentment of my
constant nudging,” Baldrige wrote. “She wanted to do less, and
only those things that she wanted to do. I wanted her to do
more, knowing that her power to help her husband and the country
was unlimited.”  Into Business  Baldrige left the White House in June 1963 and began work
in  Chicago  as an executive at the Kennedy-owned  Merchandise
Mart . She married Robert Hollensteiner, a real-estate executive,
with whom she had a son, Malcolm, and a daughter, Clare.  Tiffany and the Merchandise Mart were among her first
clients when she opened her own PR and marketing firm, Letitia
Baldrige Enterprises Inc., in 1964. From 1969 to 1972 she was
director of consumer affairs for Burlington Industries.  When Vanderbilt, the author of a widely read etiquette
guide first published in 1952,  died  in 1974, her estate and her
publisher, Doubleday & Co., selected Baldrige to take over the
franchise.  “The Amy Vanderbilt Complete Book of Etiquette, a Guide to
Contemporary Living, Revised & Expanded by Letitia Baldrige”
was published in 1978. It landed Baldrige on  Time’s cover  along
with a drawing depicting “The Business Lunch 1978”: a man and
woman in business attire at a table, the woman handing a  credit
card  to the tuxedoed waiter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  