-- MetLife Operating Profit Rises 47% After Asia Expansion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-31T21:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/metlife-operating-profit-rises-47-after-expansion-in-asia.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, said operating profit rose 47 percent in the third
quarter as the firm’s Asian businesses expanded.  Operating  profit  climbed to $1.42 billion, or $1.32 a
share, from $965 million, or 91 cents, a year earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Earnings beat the
 average estimate  of $1.28 a share from 17 analysts polled by
Bloomberg. The company took a $1.6 billion impairment on its
retail annuity business, driving a net loss of $954 million.  Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  is targeting
growth beyond the U.S. and cutting back on capital-intensive
offerings such as variable annuities as he seeks a return on
equity of at least 12 percent by 2016. The Federal Reserve has
blocked Kandarian’s plans to repurchase shares as part of its
review of how the largest banks would weather a financial
crisis, and he was unable to win regulatory approval as quickly
as he’d planned to sell deposits and limit the oversight.  “Their longer-term ability to hit that ROE is predicated
quite frankly on capital deployment and, as well, on
international growing,”  Randy Binner , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets, said in an interview before results were announced.
“These are nascent markets when it comes to insurance
products.” Return on equity was 10.3 percent last year.  Asian Growth  MetLife is expanding in developing nations from Southeast
Asia to  Latin America  after buying American Life Insurance Co.,
with operations in about 50 countries, from  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2010. MetLife said in May it’s
seeking to cut costs by $600 million by 2016, mostly in the U.S.  In Asia, operating earnings rose 17 percent to $259 million
as the company collected more premiums in Japan and Korea and
investment income increased.  Operating profit in the Americas jumped 58 percent to $1.2
billion as MetLife recorded lower catastrophe expenses. Costs
from  Hurricane Sandy  will be reflected in fourth-quarter
results.  Variable annuity sales fell by 46 percent to $4.6 billion.
The retirement products can expose insurers to risks including
low  interest rates , market volatility and stock declines.  MetLife has said it would reduce variable-annuity sales by
about a third this year, and lowered some guarantees to cut
risks. The insurer fell to the No. 3 seller of the retirement
products in the first six months of this year, trailing
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and  Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s Jackson National,
according to data from industry group Limra. MetLife was the top
seller in 2011.  Book Value  Book value rose to $58.35 per share as of Sept. 30 from
$56.83 three months earlier. Net investment income was $5.05
billion, up from $4.96 billion a year earlier, and the
investment portfolio grew to $522 billion.  The shares have  gained  14 percent this year, matching the
advance of the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   MetLife reported $718 million of pretax net derivatives
losses, compared with a gain of $4.2 billion in the third
quarter of 2011, when net income was $3.46 billion. The figures
reflect the value of interest-rate and currency hedges and
fluctuations in the insurer’s credit spreads, a change that the
insurer said does “not have an economic impact on the
company.”  The insurer said this month it’s adding asset management
for institutional investors to increase income from fees. The
initiative will focus on real estate and private-placement debt,
an area in which the company already invests.  Principal
Financial Group Inc. (PFG)  has said it’s working to boost fees from
asset management as low yields weigh on its insurance business.  Bank Status  MetLife is seeking to limit U.S. oversight by selling
deposits to  General Electric Co. (GE)  and amended the deal in
September so that Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approval was
no longer required. Kandarian said the insurer would escape bank
status by the end of June and later backed away from the
projection. The firm faces a January deadline to submit a new
capital plan to the  Federal Reserve .  MetLife’s annual dividend has remained 74 cents a share
since 2007. No. 2 Prudential Financial, which isn’t subject to
the same oversight, increased its  dividend  in 2009, 2010 and
2011 and announced buybacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  