-- EU Nations Said to Vote on Carbon Registry Rules in December
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-31T16:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/eu-nations-said-to-vote-on-carbon-registry-rules-in-december-1-.html
European Union member states will
vote in December on a draft proposal to revise the bloc’s carbon
registry rules, in which the EU regulator seeks to include a
provision to limit the use of certain international credits.  The agenda for the next meeting of the EU Climate Change
Committee on Nov. 15, composed of representatives of national
governments, includes a “state of play” point on the registry
 regulation , without a vote on the draft measure, according to a
document obtained by  Bloomberg News . The vote will take place in
December, said an EU official, who declined to be identified,
quoting policy.  In a draft modified amendment to the registry regulation,
submitted to member states last month, the European Commission
proposed to ban from its market United Nations Emission
Reduction Units issued from next year by countries that fail to
adopt new carbon goals. Other planned changes include rules on
banking aviation allowances and provisions on offset swaps.  The proposal on ERUs would bar emitters in the EU cap-and-
trade system from holding in their accounts credits issued after
2012 by non-EU countries such as  Russia , two people familiar
with the matter said last month. That nation is not planning to
adopt a new set of binding climate goals under the  Kyoto
Protocol  after its first phase expires. It generates ERU credits
under the UN Joint Implementation program in a procedure
overseen by the government and known as Track One.  Track Two  ERUs from countries without new emission-reduction targets
in place until 2020, and whose greenhouse-gas cutting projects
are approved by UN regulators, would be allowed for use in the
EU as long as they were issued before the end of April 2013, and
covered emissions reductions achieved before the end of 2012,
according to the people. This procedure, where issuance of ERUs
under the Joint Implementation program is supervised by UN
authorities, is referred to as Track Two.  The EU law allows about 12,000 factories and power plants
in the bloc’s emissions trading system to use tradable UN
offsets, including ERUs and Certified Emission Reductions
generated under the Clean Development Mechanism, as a cheaper
way to comply with pollution quotas.  Any changes to the registry regulation proposed by the
commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, need qualified-majority
support from  member states  to pass. Some member states voiced
concerns about the commission’s plans to limit the use of ERUs,
the people said.  Climate Summit  The Dec. 13 meeting of the Climate Change Committee will
take place after the next UN climate summit, at which
negotiators worldwide are due to discuss rules for Kyoto
Protocol mechanisms after 2012. The commission said last year on
its website that in line with the principle of the treaty the
continuation of JI “is subject to new quantified emission
targets being in place.”  The planned revision of the EU registry regulation will
also clarify rules for the banking of aviation permits from the
current trading period in the bloc’s emissions trading system
into the next stage, known as Phase 3 and starting in 2013.  Under the current rules banking is carried out by deleting
Phase 2 allowances and creating an identical amount of Phase 3
permits in the same registry accounts. That would allow aviation
permits, which can be surrendered for compliance only by
airlines, to be converted into standard Phase 3 allowances,
which can be used by carriers as well as power plants and
manufacturers in the EU cap-and-trade system. The U.K. said
earlier this month it didn’t think that was the original
intention and was discussing the issue with other governments.  Offset Swap  The commission also proposed that the revised version of
the registry regulation allow emitters from May 1 to swap
international  carbon offsets  into EU allowances eligible for
compliance in Phase 3, according to a draft obtained by
Bloomberg earlier this month. In the next phase of the ETS
companies will need to exchange imported carbon-reduction
credits into EU permits before surrendering them for compliance.  Exchanges of eligible offsets generated for emission
reductions before 2012, up to the allowed limit, are guaranteed
until the end of March 2015, the commission said on its website.  At its November meeting the Climate Change Committee is
also scheduled to give an opinion on the commission’s draft
decision on aid to clean energy projects under a program known
as NER300, according to the agenda of the meeting. The program
aims to raise funds for helping new technologies through selling
carbon permits from a special post-2012 reserve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  