-- EU Should Scale Back Failing-Bank Writedown Plan, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-31T10:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/eu-should-scale-back-failing-bank-writedown-plan-lawmaker-says.html
The European Union should scale back
plans to write down  unsecured bondholders  at failing lenders as
they risk causing a bank run, according to an EU lawmaker.  Gunnar Hoekmark, the member of the European Parliament
leading work on the draft rules, also said the EU should weaken
planned powers for regulators to parachute managers into banks
and to demand changes in their structures and operations.  The draft EU measures “represent a far-reaching
interference with property rights in banks,” Hoekmark said in
an assessment published on the  parliament’s website . For the
“sake of legal certainty and transparency it is vital to
distinguish between the phases where the shareholders of an
institution are still in full control” and the phase “where
control is seized by the resolution authority,” according to
the report.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, has
called for sweeping powers for regulators to take control of
failing banks and write down their creditors as part of a push
to take taxpayers off the hook for rescues. His plans must
be approved by governments and by lawmakers in the parliament
before they can take effect.  Barnier’s proposal for writing down unsecured creditors may
“increase systemic risk and give market participants incentives
to start a bank run” unless it includes safeguards, according
to Hoekmark’s report.  To counter this, debt with an original maturity of six
months or less should be excluded from the measures, according
to the report.  Hoekmark also calls for the EU to partly scrap proposals
that would force nations to set up bank-financed funds that
would stabilize lenders in crisis, and that would lend to each
other as a last resort.  While banks should be required to pay a fee to governments
to cover the cost of bank rescue efforts, this money shouldn’t
have to go into a specific fund, according to the report.
Nations should only be required to assist each other in
stabilizing a bank if the lender has cross-border operations,
Hoekmark argues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  