-- Euro Advances Versus Yen as Leaders Push Greece on Bailout Terms
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-10-31T21:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/euro-strengthens-before-eu-finance-ministers-hold-greece-talks.html
The euro rose for a second day
versus the yen as European governments pressed  Greece  to make
deeper spending cuts to keep aid flowing as they pushed to
resolve the region’s three-year-old sovereign-debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency earlier erased a gain against the
dollar as a decline by U.S. stocks, trading for the first time
in three days due  Hurricane Sandy , damped the appeal of riskier
assets. The euro strengthened earlier against most of its 16
major peers before Portuguese lawmakers hold an initial vote
tomorrow on the 2013 budget proposal. Norway’s krone rose as the
central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  on hold and said
it won’t buy foreign currency.  “Risk came off,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in telephone interview. Leaders
discussing Greece’s bailout “gave some support overnight. Those
developments aren’t that surprising, given comments from Europe
officials over recent weeks.”  The shared currency gained 0.2 percent to 103.38 yen at 5
p.m. New York time after climbing to 104.59 on Oct. 23, the
strongest since May 4. The euro was little changed at $1.2960
after appreciating as much as 0.5 percent. The yen weakened 0.2
percent to 79.77 per dollar.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, rose less than 0.1 percent to 79.938.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index finished little changed
after rising as much as 0.5 percent.  Krone Rises  Norway’s krone rose against all its major counterparts
after Norges Bank left its overnight deposit rate at 1.5
percent, the Oslo-based bank said today. The decision was
forecast by all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central
bank earlier said it wouldn’t purchase foreign currency for its
sovereign-oil fund in November.  “One of the biggest headwinds against near-term krone
strength has been averted,” Erica Blomgren, chief strategist at
SEB AB in Oslo, wrote in reply to e-mailed questions.  The krone appreciated 0.5 percent to 5.7021 per dollar
after rising as much as 1 percent. The currency advanced 0.5
percent to 7.3903 per euro.  The pound strengthened for a second day against the dollar
amid speculation the  Bank of England  will refrain from adding
monetary stimulus to the economy when it meets next week.  Quantitative Easing  The central bank will announce on Nov. 8 whether to
increase its  target for asset purchases , or quantitative easing,
from 375 billion pounds ($604 billion) after data last week
showed gross domestic product expanded 1 percent last quarter as
the economy emerged from a recession.  Sterling rose 0.4 percent to $1.6129 and gained 0.4 percent
to 80.35 pence per euro.  With Greece pleading for a 31 billion-euro ($40 billion)
aid payout in November and facing a sixth year of recession in
2013, euro finance ministers said unfreezing loans for the
country required more efforts in  Athens  to rein in the  budget
deficit  and deregulate the economy.  “We called on the Greek authorities to solve remaining
issues so as to swiftly finalize the negotiations,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said in an e-mailed statement
today after leading a two-and-a-half-hour conference call with
the finance chiefs. He said the aim is “to conclude on the
program” at a scheduled Nov. 12 meeting of the ministers in
Brussels.  Greek ‘Flexibility’  Leaders discussing Greece’s bailout and “showing a little
bit of a flexibility without giving up the ultimate goal is
definitely a positive development” for the euro, said Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist in New York at  Credit
Agricole SA. (ACA)   The Portuguese parliament is due to hold a final budget
vote on Nov. 27. The coalition government is backed by the
 Social Democrats  and the conservative CDS party, which together
have a majority of seats in the legislature. The Greek
government will also present its budget to parliament today,
though no date has been set for a vote.  The Dollar  Index (SPX)  dropped earlier as Hurricane Sandy was
forecast to cut output in the world’s largest economy by as much
as $25 billion in the fourth quarter, according to Gregory Daco,
a U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight. He said that could
reduce the fourth-quarter pace of growth to between 1 percent
and 1.5 percent, from the firm’s earlier estimate of 1.6
percent.  Kocherlakota’s View  Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana
Kocherlakota  said yesterday in Duluth,  Minnesota , that he
“strongly” disagreed with the view that the Fed’s policy has
been too accommodative.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  voted last week to
continue buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds each month, aiming
to reduce unemployment. The Minneapolis Fed chief has been
calling for additional stimulus through a more explicit pledge
to keep interest rates near zero.  The euro has strengthened 0.9 percent this month, the
second-best performance after the Swiss franc among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The yen fell 2.3 percent, and the dollar rose
0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  