-- European Insurers May Rally After Sandy Resilience
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-10-31T11:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/european-insurers-may-rally-after-sandy-resilience.html
A gauge of the euro area’s biggest
insurers may rally as much as 9 percent in the next two to four
weeks as the measure managed to hold above a key level in the
aftermath of  Hurricane Sandy , according to a technical analyst
at Natixis.  The  Euro Stoxx 50 Insurance Index (SXIE)  dropped 0.9 percent to
148.26 on Oct. 29 as Sandy made landfall. The measure, whose
members include  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA (CS) ,  surged 37 percent  from
this year’s low on June 1 through yesterday as European Central
Bank policy makers agreed on an unlimited bond-buying plan and
the Federal Reserve announced further quantitative easing.  “The short-term outlook is still bullish after the index
held above the short-term bullish channel, whose lower limit
currently stands at 146.82,” Ouri Mimran said in a phone
interview from Paris today. “That confirms and paves the way to
the next medium-term resistance area between 162.1 to 164.7.”  Sandy may have caused insured losses of as much as $15
billion in the U.S., modeling firm AIR Worldwide said yesterday.
The biggest Atlantic storm in history, spanning an area broader
than Texas, came ashore as a hurricane two days ago near
Atlantic City, New Jersey.  Millions of American remained without power today following
the storm, which caused at least 50 U.S. deaths, according to
the Associated Press. In  New York  City, subway service may not
be restored for four to five days, said Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News .  Bullish Scenario  A decline below 146.82 would invalidate the bullish
scenario in the short term and trigger a correction of about 4
percent to the 137 level, Mimran said. The Euro Stoxx 50
Insurance Index advanced 1.7 percent to 150.7 yesterday.  “Momentum is still bullish, and we maintain a bullish view
for the global market until year-end,” he said. “In the medium
term, however, we’re much more cautious.”  In technical analysis, investors study charts of trading
patterns and prices to predict changes in a stock, commodity,
currency or index. Analysts identify resistance levels, or
ceilings limiting further gains, and supports, which act as
floors in a declining market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  