-- European Stocks Decline as ArcelorMittal, BG Group Fall
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-31T17:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/european-stock-futures-little-changed-as-companies-report.html
European stocks  fell, paring the
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index’s fifth straight monthly gain, as
ArcelorMittal and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  reported disappointing results
and euro-area governments pressured Greece to increase spending
cuts in return for aid.  ArcelorMittal dropped 6.4 percent after the world’s biggest
steelmaker posted its smallest quarterly profit in almost three
years. BG Group Plc sank a record 14 percent as its energy
company’s production forecast disappointed investors.  Air
France-KLM (AF)  Group and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  both rose at least 7
percent after Europe’s largest airlines reported earnings that
beat estimates.  The Stoxx 600 lost 0.5 percent to 270.30 at the close of
trading after earlier rallying as much as 0.5 percent. The index
erased gains after euro-area finance ministers called on  Greece 
to instigate deeper budget cuts during a conference call. The
gauge rose 0.7 percent in October, completing its longest
monthly winning streak in six years.  “Given the lack of progress we have seen with summits,
once again, there has been a lot of words and not much action,”
Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “We are seeing disillusionment with
European markets. Lufthansa has kept markets from slipping down
too much.”  Trading volumes across Europe were lower for the past two
days amid the longest weather-related shutdown of U.S. equity
markets in more than a century. The number of shares changing
hands in companies listed on the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  today was 2.7 percent
less than the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Volume had been down by more than 35 percent the
previous two days.  Greek Bailout  Euro-area governments pressed Greece to make deeper
spending cuts to keep aid flowing.     With Greece pleading for a 31
billion-euro ($40 billion) aid payout in November and facing a
sixth year of recession in 2013, euro finance ministers said
unfreezing loans for the country required more efforts in  Athens 
to rein in the budget deficit and deregulate the economy.  “We called on the Greek authorities to solve remaining
issues so as to swiftly finalize the negotiations,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said in an e-mailed  statement 
today after leading a two-and-a-half-hour conference call with
finance ministers. He said their scheduled Nov. 12 meeting in
Brussels would “seek to conclude on the program.”  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western-
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 1.2 percent,  France ’s
CAC 40 slid 0.9 percent and  Germany ’s DAX slipped 0.3 percent.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  lost 6.4 percent to 11.43 euros after it said
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
dropped 44 percent to $1.34 billion, in line with the median
analyst estimate of $1.3 billion.  The steelmaker also cut its 2013 dividend to save $1
billion as slowing Asian demand drags down prices and it
attempts to cut debt. Next year’s payout will drop to 20 cents a
share from the 75 cents planned for 2012.  BG Group tumbled 14 percent to 1,147.5 pence, the biggest
drop since the shares started trading in 1988. The U.K.’s third-
largest natural-gas producer forecast a 3 percent gain in full-
year production growth this year and said 2013 output growth
will be flat.  “This is a big disappointment as the market had expected
the start of the volume growth phase,” a note from Canaccord
Financial Inc. said.  BG also signed a deal with China National Offshore Oil
Corp. for the sale of its interests in  Australia ’s Queensland
Curtis LNG project for $1.9 billion and the sale of LNG from its
global portfolio.  Clariant Slides  Clariant tumbled 8 percent to 9.97 Swiss francs as the
maker of specialty chemicals lowered its full-year sales and
profit forecasts after a “massive volume reduction in Europe.”  Clariant now sees sales measured in local currencies to be
unchanged this year, compared with a July 25 forecast of sales
growth and sustained profitability.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  slid 4.7 percent to 227.5 pence. The bank
today reported a 29 percent rise in third-quarter pretax profit
to 1.73 billion pounds ($2.8 billion) and said it was the target
of two more regulatory probes. Revenue from the fixed-income arm
of its securities unit missed estimates.  Barclays said the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission is
investigating its western U.S. power trading business between
2006 and 2008 and could issue a notice of penalties as soon as
today. The Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange
Commission are also probing whether the group’s relationships
with third parties who assist the bank to win or retain business
comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Airlines Climb  Air France jumped 8.4 percent to 6.45 euros. Europe’s
largest airline reported a 27 percent increase in third-quarter
operating profit to 506 million euros as job cuts and improved
summer traffic offset higher fuel costs. Analysts had predicted
earnings of 434 million euros, based on the average of nine
estimates.  Lufthansa rose 7.3 percent to 11.79 euros after Europe’s
second-biggest airline posted a 6.2 percent increase in third-
quarter operating profit to 648 million euros as a cost-savings
program helped boost earnings. Analysts had estimated earnings
of 522 million euros, based on nine estimates.  Fiat Industrial SpA (FI)  climbed 3 percent to 8.36 euros. The
truck and tractor manufacturer raised its 2012 sales target
after reporting a 19 percent increase in third-quarter earnings
before interest, taxes and one-time gains to 575 million euros.
That beat the 505 million-euro average analyst estimate in a
Bloomberg survey, amid higher demand for CNH farm equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  