-- Ex-Chrysler Executive Defends Corporate China Investments
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-10-31T16:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/ex-chrysler-executive-defends-corporate-china-investments.html
Gerald Greenwald, a former Chrysler
vice chairman and co-founder of a private-equity firm, said
companies shouldn’t be criticized for hiring in  China  after the
automaker was made a subject of the U.S. presidential campaign.  “We’ve all got to quit telling corporations where they
should employ,” Greenwald, the co-founder of Greenbriar Equity
Group LLC, said today on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers.” The U.S. should focus on how to “tempt” corporations
to invest in the country and “not beat up on companies because
they’re doing what is economically in their interest.”  Greenwald, 77, departed the then-independent Chrysler Corp.
in 1990. He is a former chief executive officer of UAL Corp.,
the former parent company of United Airlines.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  told a crowd
of supporters at an Oct. 25 campaign event that Chrysler Group
LLC was considering moving Jeep production to China, citing an
unidentified news story. Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne said yesterday in a  message  to employees that Jeep
sport-utility vehicle output will stay in the U.S., reiterating
the company’s statements in an Oct. 25  blog post .  Romney has aired ads in the closely contested state of  Ohio 
that are critical of Chrysler and  General Motors Co. (GM)  for hiring
workers in China, the world’s largest auto market.  Bloomberg News reported Oct. 22 that Chrysler’s majority
owner  Fiat SpA (F)  planned to resume Jeep output in China and may
eventually make all of the brand’s models there. The report
stated that potential production in China would be in addition
to output at plants in Michigan, Illinois and Ohio, where
Chrysler is adding shifts and hiring more workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 