-- Facebook Falls After 229 Million Shares Freed for Trading
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 0 4 2 6 9 3 ]   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   [ ]   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-10-31T21:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/facebook-falls-after-229-million-shares-freed-for-trading.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  declined the most in
more than five weeks on concern that employees will start
selling their shares now that prohibitions on insider sales have
ended.  Shares of Facebook had touched $20.73 for the biggest
intraday decrease since Sept. 24. They declined 3.8 percent to
$21.11 at the close in New York, the first trading session since
restrictions on the potential sale of 229 million additional
shares lifted on Oct. 29. Trading shut down for two days this
week because of  Hurricane Sandy .  The lockup was designed to prevent a flood of shares
immediately after the company’s initial public offering in May.
Current and former Facebook employees, whose shares were made
available for trading today, have seen the value of their equity
compensation  decline  as the stock fell 42 percent through Oct.
26. Some employees are eager to realize gains, said Michael Pachter, an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc.  “The bulk of their compensation is stock, and probably a
whole lot of them are living way above what their salary will
justify,” Pachter said in an interview. “The day that it
unlocks, you’re just asking people to sell.”  Shares of Menlo Park, California-based made available for
trading are held by current and former employees, according to a
 regulatory filing . The lockup will expire for an additional 960
million shares by the end of the year, followed by 47.3 million
more in May 2013.  Zuckerberg’s cache of 444 million shares and options for 60
million more is excluded from the tally because he has said he
won’t sell before September 2013, according to the filing.  First Lockup  The first lockup on Facebook stock expired August 16,
freeing up 271.1 million shares held by early investors
including DST Global Ltd., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Elevation
Partners and Accel Partners.  Facebook reported last week that third-quarter sales rose
32 percent, beating analysts’ predictions, as the company began
to benefit from efforts to sell adds targeted at the growing
number of users who access the service via mobile devices. The
growth matched the second quarter’s pace, snapping a streak of
slowing increases.  The company’s market value has plummeted since it held the
largest Internet IPO on record as investors fretted that it
wouldn’t quickly ramp up mobile-related sales.  Growth Prospects  Facebook ’s mobile growth prospects are promising as users
show more engagement on wireless devices than on desktop
computers, CEO Zuckerberg said on an earnings-related call. The
company may eventually make money more easily from mobile ads
than those on desktops, he said.  “Our opportunity on mobile is the most misunderstood
aspect of Facebook today,” Zuckerberg said. “Most people
underestimate how fundamentally good the trend toward mobile can
be for Facebook.”  About 60 percent of Facebook’s more than 1 billion members
are accessing the service on mobile, compared with about 47
percent a year earlier, with some skipping the desktop
altogether. About 126 million monthly active users accessed
Facebook solely through wireless devices during the month of
September, up 24 percent from June, according to a regulatory
filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  