-- Failed AstraZeneca Drugs Seen Holding Key to Next Viagra
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-10-31T20:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/failed-astrazeneca-drugs-seen-holding-key-to-next-viagra.html
(Corrects clinical trial sponsor in ninth paragraph.)  A failed prostate cancer drug might
reverse Alzheimer’s. A former lung disease medicine may stop the
ravages of muscular dystrophy. An experimental heartburn
treatment may be better suited for treating a chronic cough.  Those are the ideas that scientists have come up with for
compounds sitting on  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s shelf that the company
made available to academics through a partnership with the
U.K.’s  Medical Research Council . The council said today 15
research projects have been awarded 7 million pounds ($11.3
million) to study the drugs in animals or humans.  The collaboration is part of an effort by AstraZeneca to
take a second swing at products that failed in clinical trials
and are outside the areas it’s focused on in the past few years,
such as cancer and cardiovascular disease. While the money
involved is small, AstraZeneca hopes to unearth something big.
There’s a precedent: Viagra, which  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  developed as a
heart drug, was ultimately approved for erectile dysfunction and
generated almost $2 billion in sales last year.  “We don’t want to leave value on the table outside of the
core business,” Clive Morris, the AstraZeneca executive who
heads up the effort to redevelop failed compounds, said in a
telephone interview.  AstraZeneca’s effort is among the ways drug companies are
trying to wring more value out of research.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
said Oct. 11 it would publish all trial data, including for
drugs that have failed, so that outside researchers can make new
discoveries from it.  Research Setbacks  For AstraZeneca, the stakes are high: The company is under
pressure to bring new products to market amid research setbacks
and patents expirations on its best-selling drugs. By 2014 the
company will have lost patent protection for medicines that
account for more than 40 percent of  sales , including Seroquel
for schizophrenia and Nexium for ulcers, which together
generated $10.3 billion last year.  In May, London-based AstraZeneca joined Pfizer and  Eli
Lilly (LLY)  in making dozens of compounds that failed in development
available to U.S.-funded scientists for testing through the
 National Institutes of Health . If drugs are successfully
developed, the companies and researchers will share sales and
profit.  Any AstraZeneca program that’s discontinued is reviewed by
Morris’s team of 30, who come from across the company’s research
and development groups. Some experimental treatments aren’t
worth spending more money on, while others might be, Morris
said. The goal is to develop the assets at minimal cost and
share the risk through academic or corporate partnerships.  Glaucoma Drug  The most advanced product to come from his team and to
remain in house is AZD4017, a compound that AstraZeneca
discontinued testing for diabetes and obesity in 2010 and is now
being re-purposed in a mid-stage clinical trial for glaucoma.
Another drug that was dropped after it didn’t meet goals of a
study will reappear on the company’s  development pipeline  early
next year for a new use.  Of the 22 compounds released by AstraZeneca to the MRC,
zibotentan, an endothelin A receptor blocker, stood out to  Seth
Love , a professor at the  University of Bristol , who studies
Alzheimer’s. AstraZeneca terminated a late-stage study of the
drug in advanced prostate cancer in February 2011 because it
failed to stop the cancer from spreading.  Love has been looking at why Alzheimer’s patients have high
levels of the vascular protein endothelin-1 in the brain and
reduced blood flow there. He has found that a build-up of
amyloid beta protein in the brain, a hallmark of Alzheimer’s,
stimulates overproduction of enzymes that cause blood vessels in
the brain to narrow, restricting blood flow and encouraging the
disease to progress.  Blocking Enzymes  He and his team will study whether zibotentan, in
combination with high blood pressure medicine losartan, can
delay or reverse the progression of  Alzheimer’s disease  by
blocking the enzymes and improving blood flow through the brain.
Love said he will start with animal models before seeking
approval to test the drug in patients.  “This is exactly what we’re looking for,” Love said in an
interview. “The good thing is it’s a drug that’s been tested
over a period of time in elderly people. We’re pretty hopeful
the side effect profile isn’t too bad.”  The chance of finding a blockbuster among the relics may be
slim. Still, it makes sense to reconsider a drug candidate if it
was proven safe in early-stage trials and the patent life is
sufficient, Elmar Kraus, an analyst with DZ Bank AG in
 Frankfurt , said in an interview. The process can be “both
strenuous and potentially very rewarding,” he said.  “A clear advantage is that the company by then should have
ample knowledge of how the drug is to be produced, stored and
administered, plus what the side effects are,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  