-- Ferrovial Sells 5.72% Heathrow Stake to China Investment
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-11-01T01:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/ferrovial-sells-5-72-heathrow-stake-to-china-investment.html
China ’s sovereign wealth fund bought
10 percent of  London ’s  Heathrow Airport  from investors,
including Spanish builder  Ferrovial SA (FER) , as the fund seeks to
boost investment returns amid a global economic slowdown.  China Investment Corp., which helps China manage the
world’s largest foreign-currency reserves, paid Ferrovial 257.4
million-pound ($414.6 million) for a 5.72 percent of Heathrow
parent company FGP Topco Ltd., the Madrid-based company said in
a  statement  yesterday. The $482 billion fund also added shares
from other investors, bringing its total holdings of the hub to
10 percent, according to the statement.  “We will continue to work with the new shareholders and
with existing shareholders” to maintain Heathrow’s rank “as
one of the best infrastructure assets in the world,” Ferrovial
Chief Executive Officer Inigo Meiras said in the statement.  CIC posted a 4.3 percent loss on its overseas investments
last year, its worst performance since the Beijing-based company
was set up in 2007, as declines in global commodity prices
roiled the value of its resources-heavy portfolio. The weak
recovery in the global economy is posing a challenge to overseas
investments, CIC’s Executive Vice President Fan Yifei told a
seminar in  Tsinghua University  in Beijing yesterday.  CIC has taken a “flexible” approach in its investments
abroad such as by taking minority stakes in target companies
amid rising wariness over foreign acquisitions by Chinese firms,
he said. Two calls to CIC today went unanswered.  Minority Stakes  Chinese companies should avoid “a headlong rush”  to
acquire foreign assets as it could stoke suspicion in the
countries they invest in, Fan said.  The Chinese fund’s board requires a 10-year annualized
investment return ratio to be 3 percentage points higher than
inflation in G20 countries excluding China and the European
Union, according to Fan.  The fund can tolerate short-term volatility in its
investments because dividends from Chinese lenders, including
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s most
profitable bank, are enough to cover its interest payments from
a bond sale for now, Fan said.  CIC owns Central Huijin Investment Ltd., which controls the
nation’s largest banks.  Ferrovial agreed in August to sell a 10.6 percent stake in
Heathrow to Qatar Holding LLC. Ferrovial, controlled by the
family of Chairman Rafael del Pino, is seeking to diversify
assets, Meiras said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  