-- Festering Balkan Tension a Warning on Afghan Withdrawal
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-10-31T00:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/festering-balkan-tension-a-warning-on-afghan-withdrawal.html
As Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  visits the Balkans this week, she’s seeing how hard it
is to build durable peace, democracy and prosperity where ethnic
and religious rivalries still fester.  November 21 will be the 17th anniversary of the Dayton
Peace Accords that ended the Bosnian War and the worst
atrocities in  Europe  since World War II, and its aftermath may
hold lessons for the U.S. in  Afghanistan  and  Iraq . While the
peace deal midwifed by American, European and Russian officials
halted the ethnic and religious slaughter that claimed almost
100,000 lives, it also helped entrench the region’s ethnic and
religious divisions.  Postwar Bosnia is a reminder to U.S. officials that a peace
deal alone can’t produce stability and effective governance,
according to former diplomats and Balkans specialists. After
U.S. and allied forces withdraw, former warring parties may 
continue to seek by other means what they failed to achieve 
in open warfare. Power-sharing deals intended to satisfy rival
ethnic groups also can lead to political paralysis.  “Ending a war is only the beginning,” Bruce Hitchner,
director of the Dayton Peace Accords Project at  Tufts University 
in Medford,  Massachusetts , said in an interview.  “Winning the
peace” requires “more sustained investment and commitment, and
more patience. If there is one lesson that the intervention in
Bosnia has taught us, it is that if you take too long and move
too cautiously in the postwar phase, you will lose effective
control of the postwar process. And that’s what happened in
Bosnia.”  Some Bosnian Serb leaders have carried on a “longstanding,
peaceful counterinsurgency” to “undermine and divide Bosnia,”
Hitchner said.  ‘Totally Unacceptable’  Traveling together in Bosnia,  Serbia  and  Kosovo  this week,
Clinton and the European Union’s top diplomat,  Catherine Ashton ,
are encouraging leaders to respect peace agreements and borders
and adopt political and economic reforms required to join the
European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  “It is totally unacceptable that, 17 years after the war
ended, some still question Bosnia and Herzegovina’s sovereignty
and territorial integrity,” Clinton said yesterday in Sarajevo,
Bosnia’s capital, a message aimed at Bosnian Serb leaders
agitating to secede and form an independent state. “Such talk
is a distraction from the problems facing this country, and
serves only to undermine the goal of European integration.”  U.S. and European officials have criticized Bosnia’s
postwar leaders -- Muslims known as Bosniaks and Christian Serbs
and Croats who govern under a power-sharing agreement -- for
putting their own interests above the nation’s and failing to
govern effectively without international overnight.  No Government  The Bosnian economy is depressed, and for 16 months after
elections in October 2010, the country had no government. The
current leadership is “more than shaky” and has made no
headway on any significant project, said Alexandra Stiglmayer, a
senior analyst with the European Stability Initiative, a
research group based in Berlin.  Bosnia is divided into two autonomous regions, a Serb
Republic and a Muslim-Croat federation, held together tenuously
by the weak central government. Unlike in Iraq, where  Sunni
Muslims , Shiites and Kurds are dueling after the withdrawal of
U.S. forces at the end of last year, an international High
Representative for Bosnia has far-reaching powers, including the
right to impose legislation by decree and dismiss officials.  Clinton and Ashton met with the country’s three co-
presidents from each ethnic group, as well as international
officials, including international community High Representative
Valentin Inzko, who has warned that Bosnia lags behind its 
neighbors in meeting requirements to join the EU and NATO.  ‘Opportunistic Leaders’  “We -- I will be honest with you -- have been frustrated”
by the Bosnian leadership’s dragging its feet on reform, Clinton
said at a press conference.  The reason for that gridlock, Stiglmayer said in an
interview, is “not ancient religious and ethnic rivalries,”
nor is it the fault of the power-sharing design of the Dayton
Accords. The fault, she said, in a comment that’s relevant to
Iraq, Afghanistan and other countries, lies with “opportunistic
leaders” who have exploited ethnic fears “and an international
mission with far-reaching powers” that has prevented Bosnian
institutions from functioning by themselves.  Stiglmayer, who covered the Bosnian War as a journalist and
worked for the international High Representative in Sarajevo,
said Clinton should say, “It is up to the Bosnians to make
their country work.” Clinton and Ashton can “lend a helping
hand, but no more.”  Human Rights  Benjamin Ward, deputy Europe director in  London  for  Human
Rights Watch , a New York-based advocacy group, said the U.S.
must press Bosnia’s leaders to respect  human rights , including
for gays and lesbians and for minorities, including Jews and
Roma who are barred from running for public office unless they
declare themselves a member of one of the three main ethnic
groups.  A disheartening example of segregation 17 years after the
Dayton agreement is in education, Ward said. Children in the
Muslim-Croat federation attend separate schools under one roof
with different curricula and no mixing. “And these are kids who
were not alive during the war,” he said.  Dayton’s defenders say the agreement was the only way to
halt the genocide. Dayton’s success -- and the success of the
U.S. intervention in Bosnia -- is that peace has held.  “We led an intervention in Bosnia to stop a civil war that
was pumping out refugees throughout Europe and threatening to
destabilize the region,” James Dobbins, who served as a U.S.
special adviser on the Balkans and a special envoy to Bosnia,
said in an interview. “It’s mission accomplished -- there are
no refugees, no civil war, and no destabilization.”  Dysfunctional System  “You’re not going to make Muslims, Croats and Serbs love
each other” after the atrocities that were committed during the
war, he said. The “most you can expect is to make them stop
killing each other. Maybe generations from now, you’ll have a
less divided society.”  While Dobbins acknowledged that ethnic divisions have
created a dysfunctional political system, he said that “all
societies tend to be divided along some lines -- ideological,
class, sectarian, religious,” and any democratic system is
prone to gridlock.  “But the fact remains that” no one in Bosnia “is happy
with” the system there, said Marko Prelec, the Balkans project
director for the  International Crisis Group , a global non-
governmental organization focused on conflict zones.  The Dayton accord, he and other analysts said, is a
qualified success that may serve as a guide to winding down some
other military interventions.  Higher Stakes  The stakes may be higher for the U.S. in Iraq, where 4,486
Americans  died  according to icasualties.org, the local al-Qaeda
affiliate is rebuilding and Iranian influence is growing. In
Afghanistan, where according to the same source  2,244 Americans 
have died, the central government remains weak and the Taliban
and other extremist groups remain strong, while militants have a
safe haven in neighboring  Pakistan .  One lesson for the U.S. as it withdraws from these other
conflicts is that any peace agreement in Afghanistan would have
to be supported by its neighbors, said Dobbins, who also served
as a special envoy to Afghanistan and is now director of the
security and defense policy center at the Washington office of
the  Santa Monica , California-based RAND Corp., a policy
institute.  Bosnia’s peace deal worked, Dobbins said, because U.S.
envoy  Richard Holbrooke  and other negotiators were able to
strong-arm the leaders of neighboring Serbia and  Croatia  to
compel local warring parties to make peace.  Pakistan, Iran, Russia and  India  all have clients and
influence in Afghanistan, and would have to support a peace
deal, Dobbins said.  “It may be too late already,” for America’s efforts at
nation-building in Iraq, said Hitchner at Tufts University.
“But for Afghanistan, it means pursuing in tandem with Kabul
and our allies a clear strategy for neutralizing the Taliban
politically that will be achieved within, say, the next five
years, not 17 years and counting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Sarajevo at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  