-- Fiat Tumbles on Doubts Over Italian Production Plan
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-10-31T10:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/fiat-tumbles-on-doubts-over-italian-production-plan.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the majority owner of
Chrysler Group LLC, tumbled as much as 5 percent after analysts
downgraded the stock on concerns over the automaker’s plan to
invest in building more upscale models in  Italy .  The shares  dropped  as much as 20 cents to 3.73 euros, the
worst performer in the Bloomberg  Europe  500 Autos Index and
Milan benchmark FTSE MIB Index, and were down 4.4 percent as of
11:36 a.m. in Milan trading.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  presented a
plan yesterday to turn around the European operations, which are
posting wider losses and led the Turin, Italy-based company to
cut its 2014 profit goal by 31 percent to 5.2 billion euros
($6.7 billion). The CEO intends to introduce 19 new models
through 2016 that will be produced in Italy, including a small
Jeep SUV, 9 Alfa Romeos and 6 Maseratis.  “No magic touch in new industrial plan,” Kristina Church,
an analyst at Barclays Plc in  London , said in a note to
investors. “Competitors have tried on numerous occasions but
failed to push upscale.”  At least four analysts cut their recommendation on Fiat
after yesterday’s plan was announced, and at least four others
reduced their target price on the stock.  Other European automakers also are struggling as
industrywide sales head for their biggest annual decline in 19
years. Marchionne said yesterday that he needs to turn around
Fiat before a full merger with Chrysler, which he said he’s
still targeting to complete in 2015.  Fiat Profitability  “Our primary objective right now is fixing the European
environment and getting that up and running so we can restore
the full Fiat level of profitability that it needs to achieve,”
Marchionne, who heads both companies, said on Chrysler’s
quarterly earnings conference call.  Of the 19 new vehicles, 15 will be made for both export
outside the region and sale in Europe, according to an investor
 presentation . Fiat plans to invest as much as 18 billion euros
in the next two years to develop new models from a previous
target of investing about 12.4 billion euros, according to the
presentation.  “For a man famed for ‘optionality,’ Mr. Marchionne is
running out of options,”  Max Warburton , an analyst with
Bernstein Research, said in a note to investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  