-- FSB Calls for End to Trans-Atlantic Rift on Derivatives Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/fsb-calls-for-end-to-trans-atlantic-rift-on-derivatives-rules.html
The European Union, U.S. and  Japan 
should resolve a clash over rules for over-the-counter
derivatives as it risks hampering efforts by investors and
clearinghouses to comply with the measures, global regulators
warned.  The Financial Stability Board said that uncertainty over
what types of OTC trades will have to pass through
clearinghouses is making it harder for businesses to adapt. The
lack of clarity and international wrangling may imperil an end-
of-the-year deadline for overhauling regulation of OTC markets,
the FSB said in an e-mailed report yesterday.  “Progress to date in cross-border discussions” between
regulators “has been slow,” the FSB said. The disagreements
risk “delaying the full and timely implementation” of the
international rules.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is under
pressure from regulators in the European Union and Japan to
overhaul its planned national rules for OTC derivative trading
on concerns that the measures may leave companies outside the
U.S. facing overlapping requirements and unnecessary costs if
they seek to trade with U.S.-based businesses.  “At a time of highly fragile economic growth, we believe
that it is critical to avoid taking steps that risk a withdrawal
from global financial markets,” U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne , French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici , Ikko Nakatsuka, Japan’s financial services minister,
and  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said in a
joint letter to CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  dated Oct. 17.  ‘Potential Inconsistencies’  The FSB calls in its report for “discussions to quickly
resolve any potential inconsistencies and, where needed, agree
on coordinated approaches across jurisdictions.”  Regulators sought new rules for OTC derivatives
following the collapse in 2008 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the
largest traders in credit default swaps.  The measures include forcing trades in standard types of
OTC derivatives to take place on regulated trading platforms and
to pass through clearinghouses. The Group of 20 nations agreed
in 2009 that the standards should be fully in place by the end
of this year.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s Eurex Clearing operate as central counter-parties
for every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  Clearinghouses have warned that “legislative and
regulatory uncertainty” is “causing delays in offering
products for clearing and developing new services to support
mandatory central clearing,” according to the FSB report.  “This uncertainty is compounded by perceived potential for
overlapping and inconsistent regulation,” the FSB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  