-- Gas Boom Means U.S. Exports Grow Fastest Rate Since ’70s
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-11-01T14:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/gas-boom-means-u-s-exports-grow-fastest-rate-since-70s-energy.html
The natural gas glut that’s straining
drillers is creating a bonanza for pipeline operators, spurring
the biggest increase in exports to  Mexico  and  Canada  since the
1970s.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) , the biggest U.S. pipeline
company, and its rivals are planning to add 2.4 billion cubic
feet a day of export capacity within three years, or enough gas
to heat 32,000 U.S. homes. That’s a 58 percent increase on this
year’s total, which in turn was up 34 percent from 2011.  As politicians debate the benefits of liquefied natural gas
exports, which are carried in tankers, the pipeline industry is
building lines to Canada and Mexico more quickly and cheaply,
investing less than $2 billion for all six projects. The only
fully permitted LNG export plant planned for the lower-48
states, by  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , won’t begin running until 2015
or 2016 and is budgeted at $5.6 billion for its first phase.  “It’s here, and it’s now, and we don’t have to wait,”
said Bill Maloney, executive vice president for North American
development at Statoil ASA, which plans to ship gas from
 Pennsylvania  to Canada this year.  Mexican and Canadian demand is a bright spot for an
industry that has underperformed in stock markets during the
first three quarters of this year. The 10-member  Bloomberg
Natural Gas Pipeline & Storage Partnerships (BIPIPONC)  index lost 4.5
percent in the period. The Standard & Poors 500 Oil & Gas
Exploration & Production Index rose 2.2 percent, well below the
over Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 13 percent gain.  Net Exporter  Exporting to neighboring countries allows pipeline
companies and gas producers to reach new markets without the
risk of the LNG trade, said Judith Dwarkin, chief energy
economist at ITG Investment Research in Calgary.  U.S. gas production increased 25 percent in five years to
65.3 billion cubic feet a day feet a day in July, the latest
month available, according to the Energy Department.  The country will be a net exporter in about a decade,
according to the department’s data. Imports from Canada have
fallen to 8.2 billion cubic feet a day this year, from 10.4
billion in 2007. Imports from Mexico have fallen to less than 1
million cubic feet a day this year, from 148 million cubic feet
a day in 2007.  Exports last year were driven by a 49 percent jump in
shipments to Mexico and a 26 percent increase in shipments to
Canada, according to the department.  Shipping gas to Asia offers high premiums. LNG -- which is
chilled to minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 162 Celsius) and
loaded onto tankers --  averaged  $17.06 per million British
thermal units this year in Japan, more than six times the
average U.S. gas price.  Building Plants  Plans to build LNG export plants in the U.S. have run into
opposition from politicians, who worry that it will lead to
price increases for U.S. consumers, and environmental groups
opposed to wider gas development.  While demand in Canada and Mexico increases, the countries
offer lower premiums than Asia.  Petroleos Mexicanos , the national oil company of Mexico,
sold gas for about $3.34 per mmBtu in August, while the
benchmark U.S. price averaged $2.82, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Producers can generally earn 10 to 50 cents above
the U.S. benchmark by selling to  power plants  and industrial
customers in Mexico, Kenneth Medlock, an economist at  Rice
University ’s Baker Energy Institute in Houston, said in an
interview.  Mexican Imports  “The only way for Mexico to meet its growing natural gas
demand is to import more LNG at prices way higher than prices of
gas imports from the U.S.,” Anas Alhajji, chief economist at
NGP Energy Capital Management LLC, in Irving,  Texas , wrote in an
e-mail.  In Canada, the high cost of transporting gas has created
opportunities for U.S. producers. TransCanada Corp., which
operates the nation’s only cross-country  pipeline , charges about
$2 per mmBtu to move gas from producing fields in Alberta to
eastern provinces. That means Alberta gas, which averaged $3.122
in October, costs as much as $5.12 by the time it reaches
Toronto and Montreal, about 2,000 miles (3,400 kilometers) away,
Dwarkin said.  U.S. producers in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale have
plenty of cheap gas and are closer to Canada’s big markets, said
 Martin King , an analyst with FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in
Calgary.  “They have some of the lowest finding costs on the
continent,” King said in an interview. “Right now, it’s just a
question of expanding your end-use market.”  Reversing Pipes  Spectra Energy (SE) ,  DTE Energy Co. (DTE)  and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  are
signing up shippers for a pipeline that would carry 1 billion
cubic feet a day and run from Ohio to Ontario. The project would
open in 2015 and cost as much as $1.5 billion, the companies
said.  “Gas has always gone back and forth across the border,”
Spectra Chief Executive Officer Greg Ebel said in an interview
today. “You’re going to increasingly need in the heartland of
Canada imports from the  United States .”  Canada may also export gas from its East Coast in the
future, and those projects may be served by pipelines from the
U.S., Ebel said.  National Fuel Gas Co. (NFG)  plans to reverse an existing pipeline
so that it can move gas into Canada through Niagara Falls, New
York, said Sandra James, a spokeswoman. Statoil ASA is the major
shipper on the Northern Access Line, which cost $62 million to
reverse and will be able to pipe as much as 320 million cubic
feet a day to Canada.  Strong Prices  Statoil has a contract with JPMorgan Chase & Co. to sell
its gas in Toronto, Canada’s largest city.  “Canada has some of the strongest priced markets in  North
America ,” James wrote.  About one-third of the planned exports will come from
reversing or expanding existing border crossings.  Kinder Morgan can boost its exports to Mexico on the
Samalayuca pipeline near El Paso, Texas, by 236 million cubic
feet a day simply by increasing the pressure at an existing
compressor station, according to a regulatory filing. Kinder
plans to add another 238 million cubic feet a day of cross-
border capacity near Douglas, Arizona, by reconfiguring the
compressors that serve its Willcox lateral pipelines, according
to filings.  New Pipelines  Kinder Morgan, based in Houston, also plans two new
pipelines: a $4.9 million line that will add 366 million cubic
feet a day of export capacity at El Paso and a 60-mile line from
Tucson to the border town of Sasabe, Arizona, filings show. The
Sasabe lateral will open in 2014 with a capacity of 210 million
cubic feet a day and may expand to 760 million cubic feet,
according to filings.  Kinder Morgan  Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Richard D. Kinder estimated the Sasabe lateral’s cost at
more than $200 million.  The export projects not only provide a new outlet for gas
to Mexico, they’ll help fill up unused capacity on Kinder’s
interstate pipeline between Texas and California, the CEO said
on an Oct. 17 conference call.  “We believe we will end up with more than one lateral
going down there,” Kinder said on the call.  Pemex ‘Priorities’  Mexico will continue to import U.S. gas, as Pemex spends
most of its capital searching for more profitable crude
supplies, said David Shields, an independent energy analyst in
Mexico City.  “I don’t see anything stopping it,” Shields said in an
interview. “Pemex has 20 other priorities.”  Demand for gas has stressed Mexico’s 6,000-mile pipeline
network and led to shortages in some parts of the country.  Mexico’s federal power company, the Comision Federal de
Electricidad, has awarded two contracts in the last month to
expand its gas infrastructure. TransCanada Corp.’s Mexican
subsidiary won a contract to build a $1 billion, 329-mile (530-
kilometer) pipeline from El Encino, Chihuaha, to Topolobampo,
Sonora, according to a statement today. Sempra Energy will build
a 329-mile pipeline from the Arizona border to power plants in
Guaymas, Sonora, according to an Oct. 16 statement.  In Canada, gas producers have asked the  National Energy
Board  to reduce TransCanada’s tolls on its cross-country
Mainline system. Even if the producers win, tolls will stay high
enough to give U.S. companies an advantage in Eastern Canada,
ITG’s Dwarkin said.  “It’s already a continental gas market,” Dwarkin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  