-- Gas Golden Age Darkens in Europe on U.S. Coal: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-10-31T00:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/gas-golden-age-darkens-in-europe-on-u-s-coal-energy-markets.html
Europe is missing out on the  natural
gas boom  that is transforming energy use in the U.S. and Asia,
instead burning cheaper, dirtier coal imported from America.  Global gas consumption may rise 19 percent by 2017 from
2010 levels as demand surges in Asia and the U.S. while Europe’s
usage drops 1.6 percent, according to the  International Energy
Agency . Increasing coal-fired generation in Europe has cut gas
demand by 3 billion cubic feet a day, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., about 7 percent of consumption. The IEA last
year predicted a golden age for the fuel with new exports from
America to  Australia .  European utilities’ preference for burning coal to generate
electricity is pushing up  carbon emissions  even after the region
invested twice as much in renewable energy as the U.S. since
2004. In Europe, gas costs three times as much as in the U.S.,
cutting competitiveness at industrial users such as Germany’s
 BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemical maker.  “We are in the dark ages of gas in Europe and have some
kind of golden age of coal,” Anne-Sophie Corbeau, an analyst at
the IEA, said in an Oct. 9 interview in  London . “We are looking
at relatively rapid growth of gas demand in the world, but
Europe doesn’t want to go in that direction.”  Gas for delivery next month on the Netherlands’ Title
Transfer Facility, the mainland European benchmark, traded at
27.50 euros ($35.65) a megawatt-hour yesterday, more than double
the price four years ago, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s equivalent to $10.43 per million British
thermal units and compares with $3.69 per million Btu for front-
month fuel in the U.S., which fell 43 percent over the period.  Loss-Making  German power stations make a loss of 11.25 euros a
megawatt-hour from burning gas, according to Bloomberg
calculations of the so-called clean-spark spread, which takes
into account electricity, fuel and carbon prices for next month.  The equivalent measure when burning European coal for
delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Antwerp shows a profit of
14.22 euros a megawatt-hour. U.S. Central Appalachian Coal
Futures for the next month traded at $59.43 a short ton on Oct.
29, excluding shipping, versus $84.85 a metric ton ($93.53 a
short ton) for European coal.  “Gas is too expensive a fuel for Europe,” Thierry Bros,
an analyst at  Societe Generale  SA in Paris, said in an Oct. 3
webcast. “With gas demand further down, it looks like the major
producers will be compelled to agree to alternative pricing.”  More than half of Europe’s supply of the fuel is bought
through long-term contracts linked to the price of oil, and that
will remain the case until 2014, according to Societe Generale.
 Brent crude  has climbed 72 percent over the past four years.  Contract Renegotiations  Even after a wave of renegotiations, most prices for gas
from Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (OGZD) , which meets about a third of the EU’s
needs through contracts tied to oil, were revised down no more
than 10 percent, Bros said. Disputes remain with  RWE AG (RWE) ,
Germany’s second-largest utility, and Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe
i Gazownictwo SA, the Polish gas company known as PGNiG.  While European buyers battled with Gazprom, U.S. prices
plummeted, reaching a decade-low $1.902 per million Btu on April
19, as new technologies made it possible to extract gas from
previously inaccessible shale formations.  Hydraulic fracturing, the process known as fracking, where
water, chemicals and sand are pumped into wells to create
fissures in rocks to release fuel, helped make the U.S. the
world’s largest gas producer last year, creating a glut that
displaced record amounts of coal in electricity generation.  U.S. gas demand from power plants jumped 18 percent in
September from a year earlier, according to the Energy
Department in Washington. European imports of U.S. coal jumped
32 percent to 34.2 million short tons in the first six months of
the year, data from the department’s Energy Information
Administration show.  U.S. Coal  Burning coal has contributed to a 10 percent increase in EU
carbon-dioxide output this year through September, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. First-quarter emissions from power
generation in the U.S. dropped to the lowest since 1992 because
of increased gas usage and a milder-than-normal winter, the EIA
said in an Aug. 1 report.  EU emissions are rising even after the region received more
than double the investment in clean energy sources that the U.S.
got this year, at $61.7 billion versus $27.8 billion, BNEF data
show. Since 2004, the difference is $511 billion versus $250.9
billion.  “If you burn gas in a power plant you burn money; if you
burn coal, you make money,” Walter Boltz, vice chairman at the
Agency for Cooperation of Energy Regulators, said in an Oct. 9
interview in London. “Given our climate goals, that’s the
stupidest thing we can do, but commercial realities force
companies to do that.”  Different Regions  The variation in pricing, availability and industrial base
in Europe, the U.S. and  China  may delay the triumph of gas.  “A golden age for gas may not prevail soon or
everywhere,”  John Mitchell , a researcher at international
affairs think tank  Chatham House  in London, said in an Oct. 8
report. “For this to happen each major region needs prices
which are low enough to increase demand but high enough to
increase supply. Relying on imports to build new gas demand will
seem risky to some countries.”  DuPont Co. and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the third- and fourth-
largest chemical makers by market value, enjoy an 8 percent
profit advantage over Ludwigshafen-based BASF because they pay
less for the fuel, according to Jeremy Redenius, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in London.  BASF is taking a “deeper dive” into investigating
opportunities to harness shale gas in the U.S., Chief Executive
Officer Kurt Bock said in an interview with Linzie Janis on
Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” on Oct. 25. Passing on raw
material costs has become more difficult, he said.  Oil Pricing  EON AG (EOAN) , Germany’s biggest utility, lost 79 million euros in
its mid-stream business last year from buying gas linked to  oil
prices  and selling it at the prevailing spot price. RWE Supply &
Trading, the corresponding unit at RWE, lost 336 million euros
in the first half.  European utilities including EON and RWE will open six
times more coal-burning plants than gas-fed units by 2015, UBS
AG said in a Sept. 5 research note.  Power generators have closed, mothballed or delayed at
least 3.8 gigawatts of gas-fired generation in the U.K. and
Germany in the past two years, enough to power about 7.6 million
European homes, with a further 1 gigawatt planned over the
coming 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Advanced Power AG, an independent power-plant developer in
Zug, Switzerland, has postponed plans to build a 420-megawatt
gas-fired station in Germany until 2013, two years later than
planned. In the U.K.,  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  cut generation at its 1,875-
megawatt Teesside plant to 45 megawatts.  U.S. Power  U.S. gas use in power generation rose 14 percent from 2008
to 2011 to 20.8 billion cubic feet a day and will grow a further
9 percent to 22.7 billion cubic feet a day by 2013, according to
the EIA’s latest short-term energy outlook.  While gas costs are hurting industry in Europe, Asian users
are overcoming higher prices to expand their use of the fuel.  Competition within Asia helped push the average  price  for
Japanese imports of LNG, gas chilled to a liquid for
transportation by sea, to a record $18.07 per million Btu in
July, according to finance ministry data.  Japan needs to replace the world’s third-largest nuclear
fleet, which produced 841 terawatt-hours of electricity in 2010,
according to the BP Statistical Review, after promising to scrap
its atomic-power program by 2040 following the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi disaster last year.  Japan and  South Korea , both of which rely on LNG for all
their natural gas, are facing increased competition from China,
which is predicted by the IEA to quadruple its use of the fuel
in power generation to 914 terawatt-hours by 2020, and to 1,994
terawatt-hours by 2035.  LNG Prices  LNG prices must fall if it is to be affordable for buyers
in India and China, Shigeru Muraki, executive vice president of
Tokyo Gas Co., said at a conference in London on Oct. 8. A price
of $9 to $11 per million Btu is needed if the fastest-growing
consumers are to be able to stop subsidizing the fuel, he said.  The trajectory of Asian prices will depend on China’s
ability to exploit its indigenous shale reserves, according to
the IEA’s Corbeau.  “The question for China is: where is the supply coming
from?” she said. “Will shale gas be a reality in China? The
jury’s out. It’s a huge question mark.”  Shale development in China, home to the world’s biggest so-
called unconventional gas resources, has been slower than
predicted by the government. China may produce 6.5 billion cubic
meters of shale gas by 2015 and set a target of 60 billion to
100 billion cubic meters by 2020, according to the National
Development and Reform Commission.  Chinese Shale  A higher population density than the U.S. and about a fifth
the amount of water availability are major hurdles to China
fulfilling its shale ambitions, according to Fan Gao, a research
fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies.  As China’s population becomes increasingly aware of health
and safety issues, environmental concerns could be a “show-
stopper,” she said.  Fracking has also met opposition in Europe. It is awaiting
government approval in the U.K., after two tremors near sites
last year, and banned in France and Bulgaria. In Poland, where
it is allowed, techniques used in the U.S. failed.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  will return two of its six Polish shale
gas exploration licenses to the government after it decided to
leave the country in June, the world’s biggest energy company
said last month.  “Europe: the ‘golden age’ finished in 2008 when demand
peaked,” said  Jonathan Stern , chairman and founder of the
Oxford Institute for Energy Studies. “Since then we have been
in a downward spiral. Can we stop the decline? Only if the
commercial environment changes completely. Otherwise it’s
renewables all the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  