-- Gasoline Jumps as Storm-Related Shutdowns Crimp Deliveries
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-10-31T14:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/gasoline-jumps-as-storm-related-shutdowns-crimp-deliveries.html
Gasoline jumped more than 5 percent
as fuel suppliers bought November futures contracts to cover
near-term delivery agreements after the biggest Atlantic storm
in history closed terminals and pipelines.  November futures surged as a  Colonial Pipeline  Co. product
line that feeds gasoline, diesel and other fuels from Gulf Coast
refineries into the New York Harbor area remained shut.
Terminals around Linden,  New Jersey , and Phillips 66’s Bayway
refinery suffered power failures and flooding in the wake of
superstorm Sandy. Power companies warned some blackouts may
persist through next week.  “It’s a bit of a squeeze play because of Colonial Pipeline
being down,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price
Futures Group in  Chicago . “Wholesalers are scrambling for
supply to meet contractual obligations.”  Gasoline for November delivery rose 15.07 cents, or 5.5
percent, to $2.8795 a gallon at 9:46 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Volume in the November contract was light,
with 1,402 lots changing hands. This is the first day of floor
trading since trading was suspended the first two days of the
week because of the storm.  The November gasoline and heating oil contracts expire
today. The more actively traded December contract rose 4.06
cents, or 1.6 percent, to $2.6561 a gallon.  Terminals Shut  “With terminals in New York Harbor shut, it’s difficult,
if not impossible for sellers to make deliveries on the expiring
contract,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC in Houston. “Longs hold the advantage, requiring the shorts
to cover their position. It’s not like we have a supply
shortage. We just can’t get supply through the terminals.”  Sandy came ashore as a hurricane two days ago near Atlantic
City, New Jersey.  As Sandy approached land, Colonial, which operates the
largest system connecting the Gulf and East coasts, began
shutting delivery lines along the East Coast as terminal
customers in  Virginia ,  Maryland , New Jersey and New York halted
operations. The company shut its 825,000-barrel-a-day Line 3
running from Greensboro, North Carolina, to Linden, at 7 p.m.
New York time Oct. 29, a bulletin to shippers showed.  Buckeye Partners L.P. (BPL)  said yesterday that many of Buckeye’s
facilities in New York City, New Jersey, and Connecticut are
without power and that it couldn’t estimate when all affected
operations will be restarted.  Refineries Shut  In New Jersey, restarts at the 238,000-barrel-a-day Bayway
refinery and  Hess Corp. (HES) ’s 70,000-barrel-a-day Port Reading plant
are contingent on post-storm assessments, the companies said
yesterday.  Philadelphia Energy Solutions’ 355,000-barrel-a-day
Pennsylvania refinery is restoring operations and “came through
the storm without issues,” Cherice Corley, a spokeswoman at the
plant, said in an e-mail yesterday.  PBF Energy Inc.’s refineries in Delaware City, Delaware,
and Paulsboro, New Jersey, are operating at reduced rates.  Heating oil  for November delivery fell 0.66 cent to $3.08 a
gallon on the exchange. The more actively traded December
contract fell 0.38 cent to $3.0659.  The average nationwide price for  regular gasoline  at the
pump declined 1.3 cents to $3.521 a gallon yesterday, AAA, the
largest U.S. motoring organization, said today on its website.
That’s the lowest level since July 31. Prices have fallen every
day since Oct. 10. The pump price reached a 2012 high of $3.936
on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 