-- German Retail Sales Increased for a Second Month in September
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-10-31T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/german-retail-sales-increased-for-a-second-month-in-september.html
German retail sales increased for a
second month in September as rising wages and unemployment near
a two-decade low boosted  consumer confidence .  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, rose 1.5
percent from August, when they advanced 0.1 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists forecast a
gain of 0.3 percent, according to the median of 17 estimates in
a  Bloomberg News survey . Sales dropped 3.1 percent from a year
earlier, due partly to the fact that September 2011 had one more
shopping day.  While  Germany ’s jobless rate rose for the first time in
three years in September, at 6.9 percent it is still close to
the lowest since reunification. That will help to drive consumer
sentiment to a five-year high in November, market research
company GfK predicted last week. Still, business confidence is
at a 2 1/2 year low as the debt crisis curbs exports and damps
growth in  Europe ’s largest economy.  “Higher unemployment won’t necessarily have an effect on
retail sales right away,” said  Alexander Krueger , chief
economist at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf. “But it probably
will at some point, and that’s why I expect consumers’ purchases
to fall in the coming months.”  While the German economy may contract in the fourth quarter,
private consumption will continue to support growth, the
Bundesbank said last week. Financial markets have also rallied
since the  European Central Bank  pledged to do whatever it takes
to preserve the euro.  Metro AG, Germany’s biggest retailer, said yesterday it’s
ready for the Christmas season and “positive” on the outlook
for the fourth quarter, boosting the shares after third-quarter
earnings missed estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  