-- German Stocks Decline as U.S. Data Outweighs Lufthansa
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-10-31T17:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/german-stocks-advance-as-lufthansa-profit-beats-estimates.html
German stocks  fell as a measure of
business activity in the U.S. climbed less than predicted,
outweighing an increase in German retail sales and a rally by
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)   Fresenius Medical Care AG retreated 4.4 percent after
third-quarter earnings and revenue missed analysts’ estimates.
Lufthansa surged 7.3 percent after reporting third-quarter
operating profit that unexpectedly rose. Software AG added 1.3
percent after Barclays Plc upgraded its shares.  The  DAX (DAX)  slid 0.3 percent to 7,260.63 at the close in
Frankfurt, erasing an earlier advance of as much as 0.9 percent.
The equity benchmark has still risen 0.6 percent in October and
 22 percent  from this year’s low on June 5. The broader HDAX
Index also declined 0.3 percent today.  “What’s been driving the German market is the retail-sales
figures,” said Alexander Kraemer, a cross-asset strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The trigger for the change in
sentiment this afternoon has been the Chicago PMI,”  German stocks rose the most in two weeks yesterday as
Deutsche Bank AG reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates
and Allianz AG increased its forecast.  Business activity  in the U.S. unexpectedly contracted in
October for a second month. The gauge from the Institute for
Supply Management-Chicago Inc. rose to 49.9 from 49.7 in
September. The  median estimate  of 54 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had called for a figure of 51. A reading of 50 is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  Retail Sales  German retail sales  increased for a second month in
September as rising wages and unemployment near a two-decade low
helped stimulate consumer spending.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, rose 1.5
percent from August, when they advanced 0.1 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists had
forecast a gain of 0.3 percent, according to the  median of 17
estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey.  Euro-area finance ministers insisted that  Greece  implement
spending cuts before it receives further aid from two
international bailout programs.  “We called on the Greek authorities to solve remaining
issues so as to swiftly finalize the negotiations,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said in a statement after
leading a two-and-a-half-hour conference call with the finance
chiefs. He said the aim is “to conclude on the program” at a
scheduled Nov. 12 meeting of the ministers in Brussels.  Fresenius Medical  Fresenius Medical Care fell 4.4 percent to 54.19 euros,
dropping for a fourth day. The world’s biggest provider of
kidney dialysis reported  third-quarter net income  of $270
million, missing the average analyst projection of $285 million.
Quarterly sales climbed to $3.4 billion.  Analysts had predicted 
revenue of $3.5 billion.  Continental AG (CON)  slid 2.8 percent to 77.33 euros.  Europe ’s
second-largest maker of car parts said its markets would become
harder in the fourth quarter.  “It is clear that the road is becoming rockier and we must
keep our eye on the development of the markets,” Continental’s
Chief Executive Officer, Elmar Degenhart, said a statement.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  declined 2.9 percent to 5.25
euros, snapping a three-day rally.  Lufthansa surged 7.3 percent to 11.79 euros, its biggest
gain in three years, after Europe’s largest airline by sales
said quarterly profit rose 6.2 percent as a cost-savings program
helped increase earnings.  Operating profit  advanced to 648 million euros ($840
million) from 610 million euros a year earlier, Cologne,
Germany-based Lufthansa said today. Analysts had predicted
earnings of 522 million euros, based on nine estimates. Revenue
rose 6.1 percent to 8.31 billion euros.  Software AG (SOW)  advanced 1.3 percent to 30.91 euros.  Germany ’s
 second-biggest maker of business software  was raised to equal
weight from underweight at Barclays, meaning that investors
should not sell more of the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  