-- GFI’s Backup Systems Cover Customers as Volumes Remain Low
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-10-31T17:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/gfi-s-backup-systems-cover-customers-after-new-york-office-shut.html
GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , the broker that
matches trades between Wall Street dealers, closed its New York
office because of effects from  Hurricane Sandy , covering
customers from back-up venues amid lower volume.  GFI can’t use its office on the higher floors of its
headquarters at 55 Water Street in lower  Manhattan  because the
basement levels flooded and power supply has been interrupted,
the company said today in a statement. New Jersey and London
computing centers are “unimpaired,” leaving electronic systems
that match buyers and sellers and those that combine electronic
and telephone trading functioning as usual, GFI said.  “The operations of many of our customers have been
similarly impacted by Hurricane Sandy, and GFI expects that
trading volumes in many of the U.S. markets that we serve will
be affected for several days,” the company said in the
statement.  The New York region is recovering from Sandy, the Atlantic
superstorm that killed at least 50 people, sparked a fire that
destroyed 111 homes, flooded tunnels of the biggest U.S. transit
system and left millions of customers in the Northeast without
power. The storm forced the New York Stock Exchange to close for
two days, with NYSE Euronext shutting markets across every asset
class for the first consecutive closings because of weather
since 1888.  Stymied Trading  The storm stymied bond-trading, with volume of 1,525 trades
of $1 million or more as of 1:09 p.m. in New York. That compares
with a daily average of 4,319 during the three months before the
storm, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommended a close of noon Oct. 29 and no opening yesterday of
U.S. fixed-income markets as Sandy approached the East Coast.  GFI, which has dropped more than 25 percent this year, fell
2 percent to $3 as of 1:07 p.m. today in New York.  Standard & Poor’s, the world’s largest provider of credit-
ratings, is in the same building. S&P’s headquarters are closed
and “operations normally handled there are being done from
other locations,” the unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. said on its
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  