-- Ghana Election Halts Plan to Sell State-Owned Agricultural Bank
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2012-10-31T07:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/ghana-election-halts-plan-to-sell-state-owned-agricultural-bank.html
Ghana ’s government put its plan to
sell its stake in  Agricultural Development Bank Ltd.  on hold as
leaders of the West African nation focus on their election
campaigns, according to the  Finance Ministry .  President John Dramani Mahama and his ministers are
preparing for the Dec. 7 presidential and parliamentary votes,
Yvonne Quansah, acting director of the ministry’s financial
sector division, said by phone yesterday from the capital,
Accra.  “Because of time constraints, the discussions have been
put on hold so that the party that comes to power next year
would take it up,” she said.  Since the 1996 stock market listing of  Ghana Commercial
Bank Ltd. (GCB) , the government of West Africa’s second-biggest
economy has been selling stakes in financial institutions to
boost investment and support growth in the country. ADB has
written a proposal to the government for it to sell its 52
percent stake, allowing the bank to list on the Ghana Stock
Exchange, Quansah said last month. The  Bank of Ghana , which owns
the remainder, said last year it would sell its holding.  ADB’s net income rose fourfold to 48.6 million cedis ($25.9
million) in 2011, according to its annual report published on
its website. It boosted its branch network in the period to 76
from 65. The bank is “keen to follow through the necessary
processes to enable it list on the stock exchange,” Managing
Director Stephen Kpordzih said in the report.  Mahama will seek a second term for the ruling National
Democratic Congress party in the election, where he faces
opposition leader Nana Akufo-Addo of the New Patriotic Party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  