-- Glencore Offers Concessions in EU Review of Xstrata Takeover
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-10-31T17:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/glencore-offers-concessions-in-eu-review-of-xstrata-deal-2-.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  offered
unspecified concessions to European Union antitrust regulators
examining its $33 billion takeover bid for  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , which
would create the world’s fourth-biggest mining company.  The European Commission reported the proposed commitments
today and extended until Nov. 22 a deadline to rule on the deal,
it said in a website  filing  that gave no details of the remedies
Glencore offered. An official from Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore official declined to comment.  The combined company would be the world’s third-biggest
producer of mined copper, the largest zinc miner, and the
biggest exporter of coal burned by power stations. The dominance
is largest in zinc, where the group would control about 64
percent of traded volumes globally and 75 percent in Europe,
Bloomberg calculations show.  Glencore offered to exit its marketing agreement with
 Nyrstar (NYR)  NV, the largest zinc smelter, Reuters reported, citing
an unidentified person. Glencore owns a 7.8 percent stake in
Nyrstar and has an agreement to sell all of its “commodity
grade” zinc and lead metal output, according to the Balen,
Belgium-based company. Nyrstar produced about 1.1 million tons
of zinc last year.  “That concession would be very small in value compared to
the $500 million synergy Glencore estimates it would achieve
from marketing all of Xstrata’s commodities production,” Paul
Gait, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London, said
today. “I believe the commission would be looking to reduce
Glencore’s dominance to below 50 percent to stop a single player
from being in a majority position.”  Ivan Glasenberg  Glencore sells 2.7 million tons of zinc annually, 60
percent of the global traded volume, the company said in its
2011 prospectus. Glencore markets about a third of Xstrata’s 1
million tons in annual zinc output.  Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg increased
Glencore’s offer to 3.05 of its shares for each one in Xstrata
from 2.8 shares on Sept. 7 after investors including 12 percent
shareholder Qatar Holding LLC called for a higher bid. Glencore
already owns 34 percent of Xstrata.  Glencore declined 0.3 percent to 343.05 pence at the close
in London, while Xstrata fell 0.3 percent to 979.10 pence.
Nyrstar slumped 3.9 percent to 4.19 euros in Brussels. A Nyrstar
official declined to comment on the Reuters’ report.  Glencore said in February that the decision to seek EU
authorization for the deal followed “constructive
consultation” with regulators. Xstrata CEO Mick Davis has said
he doesn’t have “any concerns” because the EU “has always
treated Xstrata and Glencore as one unit.”  Avoid Delay  Glencore on Oct. 2 submitted its proposal to acquire the
rest of Xstrata for antitrust approval from the commission, the
EU’s executive agency, and had until yesterday to offer remedies
to avoid the process extending into a second phase, which would
delay a decision by a further 90 working days.  Glencore-Xstrata would have about 11 percent of global zinc
output of some 13 million metric tons, and some 40 percent of
the 1.9 million tons produced in Europe.  Zinc accounted for 18 percent of Glencore’s 2011 operating
profit, and 10 percent at Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata.
Glencore will gain through the takeover the right to sell all of
Xstrata’s production of zinc, used to harden steel for
construction and automobiles, compared with a third now.  Glencore, Xstrata, Nyrstar and  Boliden AB (BOL)  are the only four
companies producing zinc metal in Europe. Boliden’s output of
460,000 tons will be the only European production Glencore won’t
be marketing after the takeover.  At the end of the first phase of the examination, now due
by Nov. 22, the commission could approve the deal, allow it with
conditions potentially involving an asset sale, or refer the
case to a second phase. Glencore’s offer would lapse if the
commission refers the investigation to a second phase prior to
Xstrata’s court meeting to vote on the offer on Nov. 20,
according to the current terms of the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  