-- GM Profit Tops Estimates While End to Europe Losses Seen
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-10-31T20:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/gm-profit-tops-estimates-while-end-to-europe-losses-seen.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S.
automaker, reported a third-quarter profit that surpassed
analysts’ estimates by more than 50 percent and said it wants to
break even in  Europe  by mid-decade.  Net income slipped to $1.83 billion from $2.1 billion a
year earlier, Detroit-based GM said today in a statement.
Excluding one-time items, the profit was 93 cents a share,
beating the 60-cent average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. GM had a strong performance globally “with the
exception of Europe,” said Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann.  The automaker, which has now lost $17.3 billion in Europe
since 1999, said it will have a deficit of $1.5 billion to $1.8
billion this year in the region. GM said it expects “slightly
better” results in 2013. GM posted a $1.82 billion profit
before earnings and taxes in North America.  “This should be the global example of what restructurings
look like: Cut 30 percent and bring your union contracts in line
with today’s realities,”  Peter Nesvold , an analyst with
Jefferies & Co., said in a telephone interview, referring to
North America. “It shows you how profitable these businesses
can be.”  GM gained 9.5 percent to $25.50 at the close in  New York .
It was the stock’s biggest one-day gain since its initial public
offering in November 2010. The U.S. still holds about 500
million shares of GM, or 32 percent of the shares, and that
stake increased in value by about $1.11 billion today.  Peugeot Alliance  “What we’re starting to see is the benefit from the focus
and discipline we’re bringing to the business,” Ammann told
reporters on a conference call today. “We’re continuing to make
progress on tough situations in front of us, including the
pension situation and making some modest headway in Europe.”  Ammann said GM will reveal more actions to improve its
European operations later today.  “We’re obviously working on our cost and capacity
reductions,” Ammann said.  The automaker is seeking a solution to its woes there
through an alliance with Paris-based  PSA Peugeot Citroen. (UG)  GM and
Peugeot said  Oct. 24  they would jointly develop small and mid-
size cars, vans and utility vehicles.  GM lost $478 million in Europe in the third quarter before
interest and taxes, from an operating loss of $292 million a
year earlier. GM’s struggling European operations have slid
further as the region’s auto market has collapsed amid the
stubborn sovereign-debt crisis. Auto sales may drop to their
lowest level in 19 years, according to industry group ACEA.  ‘Too Small’  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said last week it plans to close three
European factories and cut 6,200 jobs to achieve profitability
in the region by mid-decade. Ford rose 5.8 percent to $10.96 on
the first trading since it reported a better-than-estimated
third-quarter profit yesterday.  “GM is actually too small and too weak to do what Ford is
doing,” said Adam Jonas, a Morgan Stanley auto analyst who last
month estimated that GM’s European Opel unit has a value of
negative $17 billion and “represents the single biggest threat
to GM’s long term financial health and sustainability.”  Despite the setbacks in Europe, Jonas recommends GM shares
on the expectation they will rise to $44 on robust growth in
 North America ,  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China . He also said GM
can isolate its European losses through a more formal
partnership with PSA that removes the operation from the U.S.
automaker’s balance sheet.  GM’s shares have fallen 9.9 percent in the past 12 months
as Europe descended. GM fell 1.5 percent to $23.28 on Oct. 26,
the last day before  Hurricane Sandy  caused New York trading to
be suspended.  ‘Coming Weeks’  “We’ve identified four product programs that we’ve agreed
to work on jointly now and that we’re continuing to work on the
joint purchasing collaboration,” Ammann said. “We’re working
on those and would expect to bring those to resolution in the
coming weeks.”  GM also has said it plans to shutter its plant in Bochum,
 Germany , in 2016, the first car factory closing in that country
since World War II. GM said it will eliminate one shift at an
assembly plant in Eisenach, Germany, next year and is reviewing
the status of its transmission plant in Strasbourg,  France .  To adjust to the market collapse, GM cut third-quarter
production in Europe by 27 percent to 196,000, Ammann said. That
lowers revenue because the automaker books sales when it sends
vehicles to dealers.  Third-quarter revenue rose to $37.6 billion from $36.7
billion last year. The average estimate of eight analysts was
for $35.9 billion.  North America  In North America, GM’s $1.82 billion earnings before
interest and taxes compares with a $2.2 billion profit last
year. In the year’s first half, GM earned $3.66 billion in the
region, up from $3.5 billion the year before.  GM’s U.S. car and light-truck sales are up 3.4 percent so
far this year to 1.97 million vehicles, according to researcher
Autodata Corp. of Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey .  The average price U.S. consumers paid for a GM model fell
less than 1 percent in the third quarter to $33,024, according
to researcher Edmunds.com. The decline was caused by growing
sales of new lower priced small cars such as the Buick Verano
and Chevrolet Spark, said Ivan Drury, an analyst for the Santa
Monica, California-based researcher.  GM’s average transaction prices in the U.S. have risen 21
percent since 2002 and 13 percent since 2007, according to
Edmunds.  International Operations  International operations, which include China, had earnings
of $689 million, from a $365 million operating profit a year
earlier. The increase came from regions other than China, where
profit margins are under pressure, Ammann said.  GM slipped behind  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in sales in the quarter in
China. The U.S. automaker maintains a 77,000-vehicle sales lead
over VW for the first nine months of 2012.  “We’d like to see a more robust market in China,” Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson told reporters Oct. 21 in  Sao
Paulo . “To me, it’s not whether you’re the biggest car
manufacturer. It’s whether you want to be the most profitable.”  GM’s South American unit posted operating income of $114
million, from a loss of $44 million in 2011’s third quarter. GM
is introducing seven new models in Brazil this year in a push to
turn around its operations in the region as China slows and
Europe losses continue.  GM also provided an update on pension-buyout offers. About
30 percent of retirees offered pension buyouts took the lump-sum
payout, the company said. Through annuitizations and lump-sum
payments, about $29 billion of GM’s U.S. salaried pension
liability is expected to be eliminated, compared with an
original estimate of $26 billion, the automaker said.  Buyout Offers  GM offered buyouts to 42,000 pensioners, or about 36
percent of its salaried retirees, who left from Oct. 1, 1997, to
Dec. 1, 2011. Those who refuse the lump-sum buyouts have their
 pension plan  shifted to a unit of Prudential Financial Inc.
along with the plans of other retired U.S. salaried workers, a
deal GM expects to close early next month.  The company expects to make total cash contributions to its
U.S. salaried pension plan of approximately $2.6 billion. GM
will also record about $2.9 billion in pretax costs in the
fourth quarter as a special item. GM originally estimated that
it would make a cash contribution of $3.5 billion to $4.5
billion and record costs of $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion.  Fourth Quarter  GM said it expects fourth quarter results to be similar to
or slightly better than the same period a year earlier. The
automaker’s outlook for the final three months of the year is
cautious and lower than analysts’ estimates, Ryan Brinkman, an
analyst for JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in an investment note
today.  “Citing typical seasonality, 4Q appears guided down
relative to Street expectations,” wrote Brinkman, who has an
overweight rating on GM. “Still, the magnitude of 3Q beat
offsets the incremental 4Q weakness.”  The biggest drag on GM remains the U.S. government’s 32
percent ownership stake, a legacy of the automaker’s 2009
federal bailout and bankruptcy, said Kee, the president of South
Texas Money Management. Kee bought 500,000 shares of GM in
February and expects to ride them up 30 percent to 50 percent as
the  U.S. economy  recovers and housing comes back.  “GM has a slightly better cost structure because of the
reorganization and a higher return on investment than Ford,”
said Jim Kee, president of South Texas Money Management in  San
Antonio , referring to GM’s government-backed bankruptcy in 2009.  “GM also has the government red tape and that limits their
options,” Kee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  