-- Gordhan Says Anglo Needs More South African Managers
-- B y   O l i v i a   S t e r n s   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-10-31T15:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/gordhan-says-anglo-needs-more-south-african-managers.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  should appoint
more South Africans to its board and senior management to
reflect its history and assets, said  Pravin Gordhan , the
country’s finance minister, adding to calls from local
shareholders and the mines minister.  The mining company, which was founded in Johannesburg in
1917, on Oct. 26 said that its American Chief Executive Officer,
 Cynthia Carroll , is resigning and will leave once her
replacement is found. Carroll, 55, was the first non-South
African to lead the company, which in 1999 shifted its
headquarters to  London  from Johannesburg.  “Given the strong roots that they have both in terms of
history and in terms of where their profit base is, they should
look at a greater South African presence on both their board and
at a senior management level,” Gordhan, 63, said in an
interview in  Pretoria  today. “If we are given the opportunity
we will certainly express our views on the matter.”  Founded to mine deposits on the Witwatersrand, the world’s
biggest gold field near Johannesburg, the company helped build
 South Africa ’s mining reliant economy over the next eight
decades, dominating its stock exchange and at one stage owning
assets ranging from coal mines to banks. South Africa accounted
for 49 percent of Anglo’s 2011 sales, according to its website.  ‘Umbilical Cord’  “All we can do is say what the facts of the matter are,”
Gordhan said. “The facts are you have South African roots, you
went off to London. You still have, if you like, an umbilical
cord to South Africa in terms of your profits that are extracted
here. In that sense, you have some obligations to South Africans
as well.”  Anglo controls Johannesburg-based  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s biggest producer of the metal, and  Kumba Iron
Ore Ltd. (KIO) , Africa’s largest iron ore producer. The company also
owns coal and diamond mines in the country.  Its leaders have been Ernest Oppenheimer, his son Harry
Oppenheimer, Gavin Relly, Julian Ogilvie Thompson and Tony
Trahar.  Of the company’s board only one member, Phuthuma Nhleko, is
South African, the company said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  On Oct. 26 Susan Shabangu, South Africa’s mines minister,
said in a statement she hoped Carroll’s replacement would be “a
local person that will continue to contribute to transformation
of our industry and who will have our interest as a country at
heart.”  The country’s Public Investment Corp. and the Government
Employees Pension Fund, which together own 7 percent of Anglo,
said on the same day that the London-based company’s board
needed to be more reflective of where its assets are.  On Oct. 29 South African President  Jacob Zuma  told
reporters that the government wouldn’t dictate to companies how
they choose their leaders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivia Sterns in Johannesburg at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  