-- Grains, Soybeans Rise on Weather Concerns in Argentina, Brazil
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-10-31T20:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/grains-soybeans-rise-on-weather-concerns-in-argentina-brazil.html
Corn and soybeans rose for a second
day as adverse weather threatened South American yields,
tightening global supplies and boosting overseas demand for U.S.
crops. Wheat advanced.  About 45 percent of the grain and soybean fields in
Argentina are excessively wet after getting as much as three
times the normal rain the past two months, David Streit, the
senior forecaster for Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
Maryland, said in a telephone interview. About 30 percent of
Brazil is too dry for planting and germination with some showers
expected during the next week, he said.  “It’s very soggy in Argentina, delaying corn and soybean
planting and reducing yields for maturing wheat,” Brian Grete,
the senior market analyst for the Professional Farmers of
America newsletter in Cedar Falls, Iowa, said in a telephone
interview. “Rains the next week in Brazil are more critical for
corn, because it needs to get planted earlier than soybeans.”  Corn futures for December delivery rose 1.9 percent to
close at $7.5575 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, capping the first two-day gain since Oct. 19. Prices fell
0.1 percent this month.  Soybean futures for January delivery climbed 0.8 percent to
$15.4875 a bushel in Chicago, paring this month’s decline to 3.3
percent.  Wheat futures for December delivery advanced 0.9 percent to
$8.645 a bushel on the CBOT. The grain lost 4.2 percent in
October, the first monthly drop since May.  Prices extended gains after  Egypt  announced buying 300,000
tons in a tender today from supplies in Russia, France and
Romania, Grete said. Combined wheat harvests in Ukraine, Russia
and Kazakhstan fell by 37 percent this year, helping send global
stockpiles to four-year low, data from the U.S. Department of
Agriculture show.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures
show. Wheat is the fourth-largest at $14.4 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomber.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 