-- Greece Topping Forecasts Is European Exception: Chart
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-10-31T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/greece-topping-forecasts-is-european-exception-chart.html
Greece  is the only western European
stock market to trade at a premium to analysts’ price forecasts
after a 71 percent rally in the benchmark ASE Index from this
year’s low.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that the ASE has climbed 6.1
percent above the level indicated by collating brokers’ share-
price estimates for individual companies. The premium jumped to
16 percent last week, the most since at least July 2010, and
compares with an average 8.4 percent discount for the region’s
other 16 gauges, the data show. Bloomberg doesn’t have
projections for Iceland.  The ASE has surged from the two-decade low reached June 5
as the European Central Bank unveiled an unlimited bond-purchase
program to control interest rates in the euro area and fight
speculation of a currency breakup. President Mario Draghi
pledged in July that ECB policy makers will do whatever needed
to preserve the euro, and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
on Oct. 18 she wants Greece to remain in the currency union.  “We’ve had quite a strong rally post Draghi comments and a
greater commitment from  Germany  toward saving the euro,” James Butterfill, who helps oversee about 40 billion pounds ($64
billion) as global equity strategist at Coutts & Co. in  London ,
said in a phone interview. “It’s that correction after
realizing that Greece isn’t imminently leaving. It’s quite a
contrast to where analyst targets are. Consensus does remain
quite bearish.”  The ASE is the most volatile among the 18 western European
national equity gauges, making the gains prone to losses. Greek
shares’ volatility was 41.42 in the past 20 trading days, more
than double the region’s average of 16.29, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The ASE plunged 8.3 percent over the past four
days, the biggest decline in almost five months.  “There’s such a huge amount of uncertainty around
Greece,” Butterfill said. “There’s going to be periods when
the markets get quite concerned again about Greece leaving, but
it’s still the end game for at least the next 12 months: Greece
stays within  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  