-- Greece Urged by Europe to Overcome Last Hurdles to Aid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-10-31T16:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/greece-urged-by-euro-area-to-overcome-last-hurdles-to-aid-pact.html
Euro-area governments pressed Greece
to make deeper spending cuts to keep aid flowing, in the latest
test of wills during the three-year battle to prevent the single
currency’s breakup.  With Greece pleading for a 31 billion-euro ($40 billion)
aid payout in November and facing a sixth year of recession in
2013, euro finance ministers said unfreezing loans for the
country required more efforts in Athens to rein in the budget
deficit and deregulate the economy.  “We called on the Greek authorities to solve remaining
issues so as to swiftly finalize the negotiations,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said in an e-mailed  statement 
today after leading a two-and-a-half-hour conference call with
the finance chiefs. He said a scheduled Nov. 12 meeting of the
ministers in Brussels would “seek to conclude on the program.”  Greece remains in intensive care after being rescued in
2010 in return for a prescription of budget cuts that Greeks
increasingly resist. Failure to resuscitate Greece could
threaten Europe’s effort to stem the crisis, which has also led
Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus to seek emergency aid.  Greece, the epicenter of Europe’s debt crisis since
revealing a bloated spending gap in late 2009, has faced regular
demands to get a firmer grip on the budget or risk being forced
out of the euro.  In-or-Out Vote  Almost a year ago, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and
then-President Nicolas Sarkozy of France turned a planned Greek
referendum on austerity into an in-or-out vote on the nation’s
future in the 17-nation single currency. The warning, which led
the referendum to be scrapped and then Greek Prime Minister
George Papandreou to resign, cast doubt on European treaty
provisions that call the euro “irrevocable.”  The current Greek government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras wants two extra years until 2016 to meet targets for
narrowing the deficit, a step that would create additional
funding needs on top of 240 billion euros in aid pledges for the
country since 2010. At the same time, Greece’s three-party
ruling coalition is squabbling over creditors’ demands to scale
back labor-market protection.  With 5 billion euros of 13-week Treasury bills expiring on
Nov. 16, the Samaras government has been negotiating with the
euro area and International Monetary Fund over the steps needed
to qualify for the release of loan instalments frozen since
June.  No Reference  Juncker made no reference in his statement to a possible
longer timetable for Athens. He cited progress toward an accord
“including ambitious and wide-ranging measures in the areas of
fiscal consolidation, structural reforms, privatization and
financial-sector stabilization.”  The government in Athens may win “a somewhat flatter
adjustment path” for meeting fiscal targets, Thomas Wieser, an
Austrian who heads a group that prepared the euro-area finance
ministers’ conference call, told German radio station
Deutschlandradio Kultur today before the call. “It could be
that it’s postponed by one or two years.”  Greece’s recession has driven unemployment to a record 25
percent, fueled domestic opposition to the pace of budget
tightening and raised fresh doubts about the nation’s fitness
for the euro. Meanwhile, in a bid to restore investors’
confidence in the single currency, euro-area governments have
built a 500 billion-euro permanent rescue fund and the European
Central Bank has pledged potentially unlimited purchases of the
bonds of nations that sign up to fiscal rigor.  Economic Contraction  The Greek government today predicted a bigger economic
contraction next year as it presented a 2013 budget that deepens
cuts to pensions, wages and social benefits. The economy will
shrink 4.5 percent next year, more than the 3.8 percent forecast
in the draft budget on Oct. 1.  Greece narrowed its budget deficit from more than 15
percent of gross domestic product in 2009 -- five times the 
European Union limit -- to 9.4 percent in 2011. The spending gap 
is due to shrink to below 7 percent of GDP this year and to almost 
5 percent in 2013.  Nobel economics laureate Christopher Pissarides said
yesterday that the euro area should “be softer on fiscal
austerity” in Greece to give “structural” policy changes,
including in the labor market, time to work.  Aid Payout  The next aid payout for the country would go mainly to
recapitalize banks. That disbursement would be under a 130
billion-euro rescue package approved earlier this year after an
initial 110 billion-euro bailout in 2010.  The latest rescue, which also included the biggest write-
down of privately held debt, sought to help Greece reduce its
debt to 120 percent of GDP in 2020 from about 144 percent now. 
The combination of Greek political indecision and economic 
weakness in recent months has pushed the country off the track 
to meet the 2020 target.  That has led Germany to say it is open to discussing a
proposal backed the ECB, which holds around 45 billion euros of
Greek government bonds, for a buyback of Greece’s debt. At the
same time, Berlin has rejected any write-off of euro-area loans
to Greece.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said today after
the call with his euro-area counterparts that “big advances”
had been made on Greece while “a lot still needs to be done.”
While calling Nov. 12 a “very ambitious” date for deciding on
Greece, Schaeuble described the timeframe as “always
manageable” and said he was “not concerned” about an upcoming
German parliament vote on any revised aid program.  Funding Package  In an allusion to the domestic hurdle in Germany, Juncker
said wrapping up any revamped funding package required Greek
authorities to enact a series of previous commitments -- dubbed
prior actions -- and “national procedures in member states” to
be completed.  Objections in Greece to the spending cuts led to two
parliamentary elections this year. After an inconclusive vote in
May, the country held a re-run the following month in which
Samaras’s New Democracy party remained the biggest in the Greek
parliament while still lacking a majority.  Samaras formed a government with the Socialist Pasok, which
came in third, and the sixth-place Democratic Left. The ruling
coalition is an unprecedented attempt at political unity in
Greece after an anti-bailout party called Syriza overturned four
decades of dominance by New Democracy and Pasok with second-
place finishes in the May and June elections.  “A lot of time has been lost because of two subsequent
elections,” IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde told
Belgian newspaper De Standaard today. “Athens should get
approval to spread its budgetary efforts over four years rather
than two years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  