-- GT Advanced Plunges on Job Cuts, Sees ‘Challenging’ 2013
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-10-31T20:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/gt-advanced-technologies-to-fire-25-of-workforce-worldwide.html
GT Advanced Technologies Inc. (GTAT) , a
U.S. supplier of manufacturing equipment for solar and energy-
efficient lighting products, fell the most in more than five
months after saying it will fire 25 percent of its workforce in
anticipation of a “challenging” 2013.  GT Advanced fell 15 percent to $4.34 at the close in New
York, the most since May 17.  The company, based in Nashua, New Hampshire, said the
reorganization plan will save about $13 million a year and will
result in a $4.2 million charge in the current quarter,
according to a statement today. It’s facing declining sales,
especially in Asia, as global demand for solar cells slows and
prices fall, Chief Executive Officer Tom Gutierrez said in the
statement.  “It is becoming increasingly clear that some of our Asian
customers are experiencing severe financial difficulties,”
Gutierrez said. “We are taking steps to prepare for what is
likely to be a challenging 2013.”  The company said that revenue in the third quarter, ending
Sept. 29, will be at the low end of its forecasted range of $110
million to $140 million. That will be down from second-quarter
 sales  of $167.3 million. GT Advanced will report its earnings
Nov. 6.  “There’s no question that both of its businesses are
experiencing excess capacity -- solar and, to a lesser extent,
LED -- and it makes sense to cut fixed costs,” Pavel Molchanov,
an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston, said
by telephone.  GT Advanced will consolidate its photovoltaic, polysilicon
and sapphire units into a single, so-called Crystal Growth
Systems group, according to the statement. The sapphires are
used to make light-emitting diodes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  