-- Gunvor Wins Rosneft One-Year Oil Contract; More May Follow
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-10-31T14:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/gunvor-wins-rosneft-s-one-year-tender-to-export-oil-products-1-.html
Gunvor Group Ltd. signed a one-year
contract to export OAO Rosneft’s refined products as  Russia ’s
state-run oil producer considers expanding cooperation.  The contract covers about 6 million metric tons of products
from Rosneft’s Samara group of refineries, which will be shipped
from the Baltic Sea port of Ust-Luga and the  Black Sea  port of
Novorossiysk, Gunvor said today on its website.  Gunvor co-owners  Gennady Timchenko  and Torbjorn Tornqvist
met with Rosneft Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  to discuss
trading and possible exploration and production projects on Oct.
9 after its failed bid for as much as 15.4 million tons of crude
offered by the oil producer in a six-month tender in September.
Gunvor had previously won long-term deals from Rosneft.  “Gunvor appears to increasingly focus on products versus
crude trading,” Arsenije Dusanic, an analyst at JBC Energy GmbH
in Vienna, said by e-mail today. The shift “would also be
supported by its ownership of Russian product export facilities,
as well as European downstream.”  The trader, which operates out of Geneva, referred to the
contract as a “landmark deal” that allows Rosneft, Russia’s
largest oil company, to benefit from Gunvor’s export facilities,
according to its statement.  “We are interested in long-term contracts” with Gunvor,
Sechin told reporters today in Rybinsk, in Russia’s Yaroslavl
region. Rosneft is interested in working with Gunvor’s
infrastructure and may seek  project financing  from the trader,
he said.  Gunvor owns an oil products terminal in Ust-Luga that plans
to reach capacity of 25 million tons a year and, together with
OAO Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port, a fuel oil terminal on the
Black Sea with planned annual capacity of 4 million tons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  