-- Liberia’s Johnson-Sirleaf Says Nobel Critic Gbowee ‘Too Young’
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-10-31T15:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/liberia-s-johnson-sirleaf-says-nobel-critic-gbowee-too-young-.html
Liberian President Ellen Johnson- Sirleaf dismissed concern about corruption from Leymah Gbowee,
who shared the Nobel Peace Prize with her last year, saying she
is “too young.”  “My fellow Nobel laureate is too young to know what we’ve
gone through to achieve peace and security in my country, to
reach the level of democracy that we all are experiencing
today,” Johnson-Sirleaf, 74, said in London.  Johnson-Sirleaf, who became Africa’s first female president
in 2005, has been rebuilding a country devastated by civil wars
from 1989 to 2003 that killed an estimated 250,000 people.
Gbowee, a social worker, featured in “Pray the Devil Back to
Hell,” a documentary about the Liberian women who took on
warlords and the regime of  Charles Taylor  during the civil war.  Gbowee, 40, spoke in an  interview  with the British
Broadcasting Corp. earlier this month, asking why the
president’s sons had important official jobs in the West African
Nation.  “I have been through a process of really thinking,
reflecting and saying to myself ‘you are as bad as being an
accomplice for things that are happening in the country if you
don’t speak up,’” Gbowee told the  BBC  in an interview.  Johnson-Sirleaf suspended her son Charles in August as a
central bank deputy governor for failing to declare his assets,
the BBC reported. Her son Robert is chairman of the state-owned
National Oil Company of Liberia.  The Liberian president said today that she still wants to
work with Gbowee.  Reconciliation Process  “She agreed to be a part of the reconciliation process.
Subsequently she has decided that she does not want to be a part
of it. We respect that decision,” Johnson-Sirleaf told the
 Royal African Society  in  London . “I suspect that, as we move
on, working with others, that she will change her mind and she
will become a part of that process because the nation needs all
of its people.”  Liberia is making progress in tackling corruption by
working on prevention and punishment of crimes, she said.  “We have made progress that is going to address
corruption,” Johnson-Sirleaf said. “Punishment, I would say,
we have fallen short of. Our judicial system is just beginning
to be reformed.”  The president said she has removed or fired people whom she
believed had a “lack of integrity,” though she was limited in
what she could do until the justice system functioned better.  Strong Message  “Until there is prosecution to send a strong message of
deterrence we know that we won’t have the full effect,” she
said, speaking at the meeting at Simpson’s-in-the-Strand.  Johnson-Sirleaf was speaking in London to promote
investment in her country.  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,  OAO Severstal (SVST)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  are among companies that have invested in mining,
rubber and oil industries in Liberia. The  World Bank (BOWEMBA)  says 56
percent of Liberia’s 4.1 million people live below the poverty
line.  “I hope that I will leave Liberia on an irreversible
course of peace and prosperity based upon the proper use of its
natural resources,” Johnson-Sirleaf said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  