-- IC Holding Considers Bid With Fraport on Istanbul Airport
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-10-31T16:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/ic-holding-considers-bid-with-fraport-on-istanbul-airport.html
IC Yatirim Holding AS, the winner of
a Turkish state contract to build a third bridge over the
Bosporus, said it’s considering bidding to construct a new
airport for Istanbul with German partner Fraport AG.  “We would like to take part in the auction,” Serhat Cecen, a board member at the Turkish company, said in an
interview today in Istanbul. “If we do, we may do it with
Fraport because we have a good partnership with them.” The two
companies jointly operate the airport in the southern Turkish
resort town of Antalya.  IC Yatirim would make an offer for the project should “the
auction terms, which are yet to be announced, be suitable,”
Cecen said.  The government is planning to invite bids later this year
for the airport, which will cost about 10 billion liras ($5.6
billion) and open in 2016 with annual capacity for 60 million
passengers, Transport Minister Binali Yildirim said Aug. 20. The
airport would be the third serving Turkey’s largest city.  Mike Schweitzer, a spokesman at Frankfurt-based Fraport,
wasn’t immediately available to respond to requests for comment
made to his office by telephone today.  Third Bridge  IC Yatirim Holding’s unit IC Ictas Insaat Sanayi & Ticaret
AS and its partner  Astaldi Spa (AST)  of  Italy  are also trying to
complete the financing for a Turkish government contract they
won this year to build a third bridge over Istanbul’s Bosporus
strait and its connecting roads, Cecen said.  “We are in talks with seven banks to secure a club loan of
$2.2 billion or $2.3 billion for the project,” Cecen said. “We
are aiming to complete the financing by the end of the first
quarter of 2013,” he said.  The consortium, which is also building a terminal at St.
Petersburg’s airport in a $1 billion contract, is talking with
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) ,  Turkiye Is Bankasi AS (ISCTR) ,  Turkiye
Vakiflar Bankasi TAO (VAKBN) ,  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS (YKBNK) , TC Ziraat Bankasi
AS,  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) ,  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , Cecen said.  The cost of the project may rise to $3 billion from the
earlier announcement by the government that it would be $2.5
billion, he said, without saying why.  IC Yatirim will increase its hydro power production
capacity to 450 megawatts in 5 years from 250 megawatts now and
plans a 500 megawatt coal-fired power plant in Yumurtalik, near
the southern Turkish oil terminal of Ceyhan, Cecen said.  An airport it built in the western Turkish town of Kutahya
for 70 million euros ($91 million) will begin operations in
November, Cecen said. The company is also building airports
between the Black Sea towns of Ordu and Giresun as well as
Bulgaria’s Burgas and Varna, he said. “These five airport
projects have a total investment cost of 1.25 billion euros,”
he said.  IC Yatirim, which today signed a management accord with
 Hilton Worldwide (BX)  to build Istanbul’s biggest hotel for 250
million euros, plans three more hotel investments in Turkey’s
southern coastal province of Mersin and is considering
purchasing a hotel in  London  in five years, he said, without
specifying which one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 