-- Micron Chosen as Elpida Buyer by Tokyo Court
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-10-31T16:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/micron-chosen-as-elpida-buyer-by-tokyo-court.html
The Tokyo District Court picked
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  as a buyer for Elpida Memory Inc. to
revive the bankrupt Japanese chipmaker, dismissing an
alternative plan put forward by bondholders.  The court said creditors must vote on a reorganization plan
that includes the Micron offer by Feb. 26, Elpida said in a
statement today. Boise, Idaho-based Micron offered 200 billion
yen ($2.5 billion) in July to take over Elpida.  Bondholders
challenged the deal, calling it “severely detrimental.”  “This is an important step forward in the reorganization
process,” Micron Chief Executive Officer Mark Durcan said in a
separate statement. The transaction, which remains subject to
creditors’ approval as well as court and regulatory approvals in
other countries, is expected to close in the first half of 2013,
the company said.  Micron’s purchase of Tokyo-based Elpida may help the U.S.
company vie with industry leader  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  while
giving it greater control over supply gluts that have caused it
to report  losses  amid falling prices. The deal doubles the U.S.
company’s share of the global market for dynamic random access
memory, the most widely used memory chips in personal computers,
to about 24 percent.  Elpida,  Japan ’s biggest maker of DRAM chips, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in February. Micron, the largest U.S.
maker of computer memory chips, won approval from the Tokyo
District Court in May to negotiate to buy Elpida’s entire
business after the Japanese company held two bidding rounds.  Some of Elpida’s creditors had urged the Tokyo court to
reject Micron’s takeover and presented an alternative plan in
August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  