-- Life as a Cavewoman Entices Among Fairy Chimneys: Travel
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-10-31T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/life-as-a-cavewoman-entices-among-fairy-chimneys-travel.html
I could get used to life as a
cavewoman.  Banish from your mind images of slimy walls and bat-
infested gloom. The boutique hotels of Cappadocia in central
Turkey are for the discerning would-be troglodyte. My cave at
 Alkabris hotel  in the village of Ortahisar had heating, a chic
bathroom, careful lighting and tasteful decor including mosaics
crafted by our artist hostess.  Cappadocia is a moonscape of wacky rock formations created
by eroded volcanic tuff, interspersed with bucolic valleys
cradling vineyards and orchards. Rock-hewn fortresses tower over
quaint cave villages. Below the surface are ancient underground
cities and sculpted cave chapels adorned with Byzantine
frescoes, some of which are 1,500 years old.  The bizarrely shaped monoliths, obelisks, columns and
needles studding the landscape are known as “fairy chimneys.”
They are best viewed from above by hot-air balloon, or explored
from the valleys below on foot or horseback.  We were picked up at 5:25 a.m. for our balloon ride. Bleary
eyed and coffee-deprived, we sat in the dark outside a cafe in
 Goreme , the main tourism center of Cappadocia, waiting for the
pilots to decide whether the weather was good enough to fly.  The pungent aromas from dozens of pots of instant noodles
being devoured by the 100 or so Asian tourists waiting with us
was overpowering at that time of day. My traveling companion, a
vertigo sufferer, was nervous, and passed the wait by making
friends with a white street dog that was missing one eye.  “How many people are they going to put in each balloon?”
she asked, wide-eyed, looking at the crowded tables of the cafe.  Bijou Basket  There were eight of us in our bijou balloon basket. Most
others carried 20. The nerves and wait were forgotten as soon as
we left the ground, floating over surreal rock characters (is
that group of cubist figures a huddle of gossipy old ladies?) We
watched as dozens of balloons behind us puffed up with air and
lifted off gracefully.  The cloudy weather added to the ethereality of it all. At
times we were low enough to scrape the tops of the trees; at
times so high, the balloons below us shrank to freckles on the
face of the earth. It was an exhilarating trip. Something about
the way our youthful pilot Cem punched air into his balloon to a
catchy rhythm suggested that he reckons he has the best job in
the world.  Many visitors to Cappadocia stay just three days and
sightsee on organized tours. There is really no excuse for that.
Everything is easily accessible independently and three days is
not nearly long enough.  Priests, Hermits  We hired a car to explore the Ihlara valley, where priests
and hermits dwelt at the dawn of Christianity, as long ago as
the fourth century.  Twelve churches are entombed in the canyon’s caves --
including one in a rock sculpted like a Walt Disney fairy-tale
castle, though entirely natural. At Belisirma, we ate a fish
lunch on a floating wooden platform on the river.  Many of the chapel paintings are in a terrible state of
repair, damaged by centuries of vandalism and neglect. Some are
covered with the soot of cave fires; many biblical figures have
their faces scratched out; others are damaged with graffiti.  It was good to see that the beautiful, 1,000-year-old
indigo frescoes at Tokali Church, one of the most important in
the  Goreme Open Air Museum , are being restored by an Italian-
Turkish team.  The Red Valley, close to Ortahisar, yielded the most
civilized hiking I have ever experienced, along a path that
meanders through airy cave tunnels and orchards. The route is
punctuated by little open-air cafes every kilometer or so.  Byzantine Frescoes  At one, the owner gave us the key to explore his secret
Byzantine chapel with spectacular orange frescoes. At the next,
we bought walnuts and dried apricots from a gray-bearded old
man. Further along, we sank onto cozy cushions for a rest with a
young modern-day hermit who insisted on giving us free tea
because we were staying in his village.  What draws me to  Turkey  time and again (this was, I
calculated, at least my sixth trip) is not just the cultural
heritage of centuries, the climate or the fabulous cuisine. It’s
the warmth and hospitality of the people; the ease with which a
smile and hello can slip into a chat over tea in a glass.  The smallest interaction is richly rewarded. I helped a
young peasant woman by passing her bags of heavy shopping as she
got off the dolmus minibus from Urgup market. Her face erupted
into wreaths of smiles and thanks, and I was sure a tea
invitation was on the tip of her tongue as the door slid shut.  Boutique Hotels  Cappadocia feels like a region on the move. The roads are
newly surfaced, the vibe is positive and the amount of building
work going on is astonishing. Boutique hotels are springing up
by the dozen, it seems.  Still, it would be hard to find one better than Alkabris,
with just five snug cave bedrooms. Our hosts Sait and Kamer
Kazuk baked fresh bread and cakes for breakfast, served homemade
jams and borek (flaky Turkish pastries) and organized everything
from car hire to balloon rides for us.  They also cooked in the evenings for an extra charge of 25
euros ($32) per person if we requested it -- a treat well worth
staying in for.  I could definitely get used to life as a cavewoman.  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Warwick
Thompson  on U.K. stage,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech,  Jeremy Gerard 
on  New York  theater and  Ryan Sutton  on New York dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Turkey at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 