-- Singh Hatches India Reforms of Decade as Growth Now or Die
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n ,   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-11-01T09:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/india-s-reforms-of-decade-hatched-by-singh-as-growth-now-or-die.html
Sitting in the study of the prime
ministerial bungalow in New Delhi, surrounded by manicured lawns
and palm trees, Indian leader Manmohan Singh and his soon-to-be
finance minister Palaniappan Chidambaram pored over plans late
into the evening to stem a growing sense of crisis.  Singh, the 80-year-old soft-spoken architect of the
country’s economic opening two decades earlier, and Chidambaram,
the 67-year-old Harvard University-educated lawyer who enjoyed
the trust of ruling party chief Sonia Gandhi, saw the window
closing to reverse a growth slump, according to people briefed
on the talks. Their recipe: a combination of spending cuts and
foreign-investment liberalization that amounts to the biggest
policy overhaul in a decade.  With growth approaching its weakest pace in three years,
the rupee sliding to a record low, one of the nation’s largest
private air carriers teetering toward bankruptcy, and elections
due within 18 months, the ruling Congress party was ready to
back steps opposed by coalition allies, ministers and party
leaders said on condition of anonymity because the discussions
were private. Their prescription for resetting  India ’s economy
will face its first test when parliament reconvenes this month.  “The government has won the first battle but it hasn’t won
the war,” said Satish Misra, a political analyst at the
Observer Research Foundation in New Delhi who has been following
Indian politics for three decades. “In the next session of
parliament the opposition will start its fight-back with all its
sound and fury.”  No-Confidence Vote  To bolster the government before the legislative debates,
Singh on Oct. 28 replaced about a third of his ministers,
drafting in younger lawmakers as he aimed to repair the
reputation of an administration tainted by corruption scandals
over the past two years.  Opposition parties are threatening a no-confidence vote
when  parliament  meets for the winter session scheduled to begin
on Nov. 22. Two smaller regional parties, in protest over the
changes, have bolted the Congress-led coalition, which was
already reliant on outside support to survive.  Mayawati, the leader of the fourth-largest party in India’s
parliament, declined to say last month whether her Bahujan Samaj
Party would continue to back the government. The Samajwadi
Party, the third largest in parliament, has signaled it will
continue outside support for the coalition while opposing the
economic overhaul.  First Barometer  As the government tries to navigate the next session of
parliament, two provincial elections may provide the first
barometer of how the public views Congress’ bid to reassert
authority ahead of national elections. Voters will go to the
polls in early November in Himachal Pradesh where Congress is
hoping to wrest power from the  Bharatiya Janata Party , the main
federal opposition party.  In December, elections will be held in Gujarat where
Congress is aiming to weaken the hold of the BJP. Support for
the BJP administration led by Chief Minister Narendra Modi was
almost 50 percent, while backing for Congress was at 36 percent,
according to an opinion poll published yesterday that was
conducted by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies
for the CNN-IBN television channel. No margin of error was given
for the survey of 3,658 voters in the state.  The government is not backing down, saying it will enact
further changes beyond those already announced in the retailing,
insurance and pension industries, and in energy markets.  Next Moves  Chidambaram, who has served two previous terms as finance
minister, said in an Oct. 12 interview with Bloomberg Television
that the government is planning further measures to open up the
economy.  “We intend to take some more steps on the capital market
side, some more steps on insurance, banking and some more steps
on the infrastructure side,” he said. “These are under
preparation.”  The Oct. 4 announcement on foreign investment in insurance
and pensions by Singh, who had been branded an “underachiever”
on the July 16 cover of Time magazine and a “tragic figure” in
a Sept. 4 Washington Post article, propelled  Indian shares  to
their highest close in 17 months and the rupee to its strongest
level against the dollar in more than five months.  Partnership Rekindled  In the year prior to the policy revamp, the rupee had
declined more than 14 percent. Since the campaign began with the
Sept. 13 announcement on increased diesel tariffs, it’s been the
second best-performing currency among emerging market nations
tracked by Bloomberg, gaining 3 percent.  Chidambaram’s move from the Home Ministry, where he had
taken charge in the aftermath of the 2008 Mumbai terrorist
attacks to oversee an overhaul of internal security, reinstated
a partnership with Singh that presided over a record period of 9
percent annual growth from 2004 to 2008.  “Chidambaram by becoming finance minister tipped the
balance in favor of reforms,” said Rasheed Kidwai, author of
the book “Sonia: A Biography.” “They might have happened
anyway, but he reinforced Singh in arguing they were necessary
right now.”  It may have also helped overcome fears in the ruling party,
in particular concerns held by Sonia Gandhi that the government
might collapse if its allies were pushed to the wall, said
Kidwai.  ‘Trusted Counsel’  Chidambaram is a “trusted counsel of Sonia Gandhi,” with
their relationship dating back three decades to when he was an
adviser to her husband, the late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, and later when he joined the board of a foundation set
up in Rajiv’s name, said Kidwai. “Chidambaram is able to frame
the arguments in a way that Sonia will understand -- that if you
have growth then you will have more money for social spending.”  Singh unveiled his policymaking drive in September after
almost two years of legislative paralysis, and it included moves
to allow foreign investment in multibrand retail outlets,
aviation, broadcasting and power exchanges, and the decision to
raise diesel prices to stem a fiscal deficit.  In the second wave of policy changes at the start of
October, the government announced plans to allow overseas
companies to take larger stakes in insurance companies and for
the first time to permit foreign investment in pension firms.
Unlike the moves in retail and aviation, the changes in the
pension and insurance industries require legislation that will
have to be passed in parliament.  ‘Hard Decisions’  Singh said Sept. 21 in a speech to the nation that “the
time has come for hard decisions” and that the new measures
would spur growth, creating millions of jobs and garnering
revenue for spending on health and education. To press its case,
the government published a series of full-page advertisements in
the country’s best-selling newspapers, arguing that the decision
to allow foreign retail chains like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to hold
a majority stake in ventures would benefit farmers and
consumers.  The government’s policy efforts have reversed a trend of
falling inflows of overseas money, after  foreign direct
investment  fell 33 percent in the first six months of this year.
Foreign capital entering India, mostly in the form of purchases
of the nation’s equities, surged $5.3 billion since Singh began
to roll out his policy changes, taking the year’s total inflows
to $18.1 billion.  Upper Hand  “It looks like the reformers have finally got the upper
hand,” said Sam Mahtani, who oversees about $5 billion of
assets as director of  emerging markets  at  F&C Asset Management
Plc (FCAM)  in  London . “The way out for India is growth, if they can
get back to seven or eight percent growth then you grow your way
out of the problems. It looks like they really want to press
ahead with reforms now. In a year or two years’ time, we could
be saying this was a turning point.”  India, Asia’s third-largest economy,  expanded  5.5 percent
in the three months through June from a year earlier, close to
the 5.3 percent pace of the previous quarter that was a three-
year low. The central bank cut lenders’ reserve requirements on
Oct. 30 in a move that supports the government’s policy revamp.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, has climbed 2.7
percent since mid-September, when the overhaul was first
announced. The benchmark has gained 19 percent this year, the
best performance among the BRIC countries, which also include
Brazil, Russia and  China .  Singh’s U-Turn  The last time Singh’s government announced a round of
policy changes it ended up backtracking under pressure from its
coalition allies. In December, the prime minister shelved plans
to allow foreign direct investment in pension funds and the
multibrand retail industry.  Noting the political challenges facing Singh’s government,
Standard and Poor’s said Oct. 10 that India may lose its
investment-grade credit rating within the next 24 months if
economic growth slows and political opposition to policy
overhauls increases. Being tagged with junk status would deprive
India’s debt of investment by funds that avoid high-risk, high-
yield securities.  The country faces at least a one-in-three possibility of a
downgrade, S&P analysts Takahira Ogawa and Elena Okorochenko
said in a note, reiterating comments made in April when the
rating agency lowered India’s outlook. S&P cut the country’s
sovereign credit outlook to negative, a step away from non-
investment grade rating and the lowest in the BRIC group.  Parliament Headache  With some of its governing partners having quit, the 11-
party Congress-led coalition now has 247 members in the 545-seat
lower house of parliament. That means it needs the support of
lawmakers from outside the coalition to pass legislation such as
changes to allow foreign investment in pensions and insurance.  While Indian opinion polls face a series of sampling
difficulties that can affect their accuracy, such as the diverse
caste, regional and linguistic makeup of the electorate, a poll
published in August by  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN)  and India Today
magazine forecast that a BJP-led bloc would win the most seats
in an election.  According to the survey, Singh’s coalition will win 181
seats, 78 fewer than it secured in the May 2009 election, while
the BJP bloc of parties may win as many as 205. The poll,
conducted in July in 19 states, had 16,000 respondents and no
margin of error was given.  “We still have to bear in mind that they have a political
system they have to work with and there is a risk that they
could lose power and have to call fresh elections,” Mahtani
said, referring to Congress’ tenuous standing in parliament.
“It is a fairly fine balancing act. The worst case scenario is
they have to backtrack.”  Poll Rout  Singh and Chidambaram are betting that a number of parties
outside the ruling coalition don’t want to go to elections now
because they will lose seats and so won’t bring the government
down over the policy moves.  Mayawati’s BSP was routed in regional elections in March in
Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, and may not want to
face voters again soon. Meantime, the BJP has yet to decide who
will lead the party into the next election and what direction it
should take.  The role played by Chidambaram in winning party support for
the policy changes has bolstered his standing and may make him a
contender to succeed Singh in the top job, said B.G. Verghese,
an analyst with the Centre for Policy Research in New Delhi, who
is a former aide to ex-Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and has
known Singh for 30 years.  Fizzle Out  “The recent reforms have certainly given him a leg up and
he will certainly be considered for the post because he is one
of the brightest people in the party,” said Verghese. The
problem is “he has very firm views, there is an arrogance about
him, and his political base is very narrow,” he said.  Chidambaram said in the Oct. 12 interview that it was too
early to discuss who will be the next prime minister when asked
if he considers himself a candidate for the position.  “We will take a call on the leadership when we have to
elect a leader,” he said. “But at the moment, I have a job at
hand and let me do that job without being distracted.”  The government’s ability to persist with the policy
overhaul hatched by Singh and Chidambaram in their bungalow
meetings may determine whether Congress, the party that has
dominated Indian politics since independence, remains the
country’s leading political force.  The government “may have acted too late to restore growth
and their own credibility,” said R.K. Gupta, the New Delhi-
based managing director of Taurus Asset Management Ltd., which
manages $672 million in assets. “For a sustained economic
recovery the government needs to keep pushing ahead with
reforms, they can’t just let them fizzle out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  