-- Intellectual Ventures, Kardashians:Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-31T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/intellectual-ventures-kardashians-intellectual-property.html
Nathan Myhrvold , the chief executive
officer of Intellectual Ventures and former chief technology
officer of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , is a named inventor on two new
patents issued yesterday.  Patent 8,300,007 covers a method of manufacturing displays
used in television screens, computer monitors and electronic
signs, according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
database. It involves the use of display elements with different
light-modulating and self-assembling characteristics.  The patent application was filed in August 2006.  The other patent, 8,301,028, covers a data center with
free-space optical communications. It would reduce the use of
cables in large-scale data centers, or “server farms,” as data
could be transmitted across short distances using laser light,
according to the patent.  That patent application was filed in December 2009.  Both patents are assigned to the Invention Science Fund LLC
of Bellevue,  Washington , an affiliate of Bellevue-based
Intellectual Ventures.  Burroughs Sues Panini Over Patent for Document Processing System  Burroughs Inc., a provider of imaging technology for
financial transactions, sued a unit of  Italy ’s Panini SpA/Turino
for patent infringement.  In dispute is patent 6,546,396, which covers a document
processing system with a multi-platform application-programming
interface. According to the complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Ann Arbor, Michigan, a number of Panini North America
Inc. products infringe this patent.  Among those Panini products listed are Vision X, My Vision
X, and I-Deal. Burroughs also claims that Panini itself
infringes by performing some of the actions covered by the
patent.  Burroughs claims it is injured by Panini’s actions and the
sale of Panini products and asked the court to bar further
infringement. Additionally, it seeks money damages, and asked
that they be tripled to punish Panini for its actions.  Burroughs also asked for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Panini didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the complaint.  The case is Burroughs Inc. v. Panini North America Inc.,
5:12-cv-14804-JCO-MAR, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Michigan  (Ann Arbor).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Kardashians’ ‘Khroma’ Makeup Line Has ‘Chroma’ Owner Concerned  The Kardashian sisters, reality-show celebrities, have
filed two applications to register trademarks containing the
word “khroma” for use with cosmetics, according to the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office database.  The applications, filed in June, are among more than 50
trademarks and pending applications filed by the daughters and
ex-wife of the late Robert Kardashian, a businessman and lawyer
who helped defend O.J. Simpson in his 1995 murder trial.  The owner of  Chroma Makeup , a Beverly Hills, California,
cosmetics boutique, said in a statement on his website that he
has retained legal counsel and hopes to persuade the Kardashians
to change the name of the  Khroma line,  which will be sold in
mass-market outlets such as  Sears Holding Corp. (SHLD) ’s stores and  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS)  pharmacies.  He said he has received “multiple inquiries” from clients
who mistakenly assumed his company is associated with the
Kardashians.  Watson Sells Rugby Marks, Product Line to Harvard Drug  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  sold its line of Rugby over-
the-counter pharmaceutical products and related trademarks to
Court Square Capital Partners LC’s Harvard Drug Group for about
$117 million.  The products include cough and cold, allergy, pain relief,
anti-nausea nicotine gum, vitamins and nutritional-supplement
products, Watson said yesterday in a statement. The U.S. Federal
Trade Commission approved the deal on Oct. 19.  Watson, based in Parsippany, New Jersey, will retain the
right to sell and distribute store-branded nicotine gum products,
as well as other non-Rugby over-the-counter products, according
to the statement. Watson also will make and supply nicotine gum
products sold under labels belonging to Harvard Drug.  Watson acquired Rugby in 1998.  Marines Given Until Dec. 12 to Oppose WWE Trademark Application  World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. (WWE) ’s application to
register “Marine: Homefront” as a trademark is being opposed
by the U.S. Marine Corps.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office,  Stamford , Connecticut-based WWE filed three applications
this year to register the phrase as a trademark for a variety of
uses, including Halloween costumes, other clothing, downloadable
ring tones, refrigerator magnets, sunglasses, video and computer
games and entertainment services.  The Office of Counsel for the Commandant of the U.S. Marine
Corps filed a request to oppose registration of the marks. The
Patent Office gave the Marine Corps until Dec. 12 to file its
opposition.  WWE said in April that “The Miz,” one of its performers,
would star in the film, “The Marine: Homefront.” According to
a company statement, he portrays a Marine “who is forced to put
his skills to the test when a radical militia group kidnaps his
rebellious niece.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ‘Dead Season’ Producer Sues 13 for Infringing Zombie Film  The producer of “ Dead Season ,” a film about a zombie
attempt to take over the world, sued 13 unidentified defendants
for copyright infringement.  The defendants used the BitTorrent file-sharing protocol to
view and distribute the film without authorization, according to
the complaint filed Oct. 29 in federal court in Tampa,  Florida .
Dead Season LLC said all of the defendants either live or
committed the infringement within the court’s geographic
jurisdiction.  Information to be obtained in court proceedings will yield
the infringers’ identities, Dead Season said. Presently the
producer says only their Internet Protocol addresses are known.  Dead Season said it was harmed by the defendants’ actions
and suffered “great and irreparable injury.” It asked the
court to bar further infringement of its copyright and to order
the destruction of all unauthorized copies of the film in the
defendants’ possession. Additionally, the producer seeks money
damages and attorney fees.  Dead Season is represented by Richard E. Fee of the  IP
Enforcement Law Group PA  of Tampa, Florida.  The case is Dead Season LLC v. Does 1-13, 12-cv-02436, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  