-- Invalid New Yorker’s Pals Keep Life-Saving Gear Running
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/invalid-new-yorker-s-pals-keep-life-saving-gear-running.html
For Nick Dupree, losing power in
Sandy’s fury quickly became a matter of life and death.  The 30-year-old lower Manhattan resident survives only with
the help of a mechanical ventilator. Even moving the bed-ridden
Dupree may endanger his health, according to Alejandra Ospina,
32, his wheelchair-bound partner.  Since the storm cut electric service to his Duane Street
building two blocks from  City Hall , Dupree and Ospina have
relied on their friends and firefighters to supply him with
ventilator batteries, and bring food and water to their 12th-
floor apartment.  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , the utility serving
 New York , has said restoring power in the area may take days.  “It’s mission-critical that he’s ventilated -- he can’t
breathe on his own,” Ospina said.  “There’s no water, no phone,” Ospina told a reporter
visiting the apartment yesterday. Dupree lay in a bed, hooked to
a phalanx of tubes, machines and oxygen tanks. He communicated
in a barely audible burble. An activist from Mobile,  Alabama , he
has sought to help the chronically ill obtain health care,
Ospina said. She said he has mitochondrial myopathy, a form of
muscular dystrophy.  For those with disabilities like herself and Dupree, there
are no quick ways to find help before or during events such as
storms and blackouts, Ospina said. When they ask, “what are my
resources in an emergency? The default answer is -- call 911,”
she said.  Firefighters, Friends  Since Sandy swept through Oct. 29, city firefighters have
been charging batteries for the ventilator and bringing them up
the 12 floors when needed. Visitors are also helping, including
Ray Wofsy, 29, a high-school social worker.  A friend of a friend told him Dupree needed a hand, Wofsy
said as he carried a recharged battery up the narrow, unlit
emergency staircase.  “We just wanted to help people after the storm,” Wofsy
said.  A connection to a portable generator in the fire house
across the street, or to one placed by the building, would keep
the ventilator working, Ospina said. That would require an
extension cord as long as 200 feet (61 meters). Such a link
would go far toward helping Dupree make do until the electricity
is restored, Ospina said.  “With power,” she said, “we can provide the care here.”  Dupree and Ospina were warned before the storm hit that
they would probably lose power because of Sandy, according to
 Joanna Rose , a spokeswoman for Related Co., the building
manager. She said the building lacks an auxiliary generator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 