-- IPad Mini Is Crazy Thin, Crazy Light: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-10-31T20:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/ipad-mini-is-thin-light-costs-more-than-rivals-review.html
See, here’s the thing about the new
iPad mini. It’s an iPad, only... smaller.  Beyond that, there may not be much more to say about the
latest addition to  Apple (AAPL) ’s tablet family. But I’ll think of
something.  OK, how about this?  Apple’s most important products created their own markets:
People didn’t know they wanted or needed an iPhone until Steve Jobs & Co. showed it to them. The iPad mini, by contrast, is an
attempt to follow competitors rather than find a new audience.
 Amazon.com (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire and Google’s Nexus 7, to name two, have
shown that users want something smaller than the 9.7-inch screen
that’s been on every iPad until now.  Which isn’t to say Apple has compromised the iPad
experience. For the most part, it has simply shrunk it.  The mini’s screen measures 7.9 inches diagonally. Though
that’s 35 percent larger than the competing Amazon and  Google (GOOG) 
devices, which have 7-inch screens, I still found it small
enough to hold comfortably in one hand.  Like its big-brother iPad, the mini accommodates six rows
and four columns of app icons. The icons here are smaller, but
arrayed with enough space between them that even my large
fingers had no difficulty landing on the one I wanted.  Crazy Light  The most striking thing about the mini is in how thin and
light it is. It is really thin and light. Crazy thin and crazy
light, even.  Despite the mini’s larger screen, at under 11 ounces it
weighs a full 21 percent less than the Kindle Fire HD, and 9
percent less than the Nexus 7. It’s also 30 percent thinner than
either of them, thinner, in fact, than a pencil.  With those dimensions, the mini is extraordinarily easy to
slip into a purse or jacket pocket. I was even able to smuggle
my review unit into  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s Surface tablet launch event in
New York last week in my sports coat. No one noticed.  Besides the size and price tag -- more about that later --
the most notable thing about the mini is the quality of its
display, which can be best described as adequate. Unlike the big
iPad (just refreshed with a faster processor and graphics chip,
plus Apple’s new Lightning connector), the iPad mini lacks
Apple’s ultra-sharp Retina display.  Instead, the mini’s screen has a resolution of 1024 by 768
pixels. That’s the same as on the iPad 2, but less than either
the Kindle or Nexus.  Fine Print  I didn’t see a huge difference in some uses, such as
watching videos or reading e-books. But I found it noticeably
harder to read some Web pages, particularly those with fine
print. If you’ve got eyesight at all like mine, be prepared to
do a lot of pinching and zooming.  Beyond that, the mini offers few surprises to anyone who’s
ever used an iPad. Battery life will vary depending on your
activities, but I found it comparable to the all-day performance
of the 9.7-inch model. And the mini ran all my iPad apps without
difficulty -- a particularly big advantage, given the paucity of
apps available for either the Kindle Fire or the Nexus 7.  Google claims 600,000 apps for the Nexus 7. But almost all
of those are simply smartphone apps running on the bigger
screen, as opposed to the 275,000 designed specifically to take
advantage of the iPad’s capabilities. And the Google Play store
can’t approach Apple’s iTunes Store in terms of its selection of
movies, music and other content.  App Selection  Amazon, with its huge content selection, can plausibly
compete with Apple on that score. But its selection of apps,
depending on how you want to count, is even worse than Google’s.  Which raises the question: How much is Apple’s superiority
in software and content worth to you? How about $130?  That’s the price difference between the iPad mini, which
starts at $329 for a Wi-Fi model with 16 gigabytes of storage,
and a comparably equipped Nexus 7 or Kindle Fire HD, which both
go for $199. The mini is also available with 32 and 64 GB
capacities, each for an extra $100. And, for an another $130, it
will come in versions capable of connecting to the  AT&T (T) ,  Verizon (VZ) 
or  Sprint (S)  4G LTE wireless networks.  There are a few extra benefits as well. The mini has both
front and rear-facing cameras; the Kindle and Google tablets
have only front-facers. The cellular-enabled models also have a
GPS chip.  I can tell you the iPad mini is the best small tablet you
can buy. The question you’ll have to answer for yourself is
whether it’s that much better.  (Rich Jaroslovsky is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jeremy Gerard 
on New York theater,  Warwick Thompson  on U.K. stage and  Ryan
Sutton  on New York dining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 