-- Irish Hotel Linking Reagan to Beatles’ Lennon on Sale
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-10-31T14:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/irish-hotel-linking-reagan-to-beatles-lennon-on-sale.html
Ashford Castle, the hotel that
charges the most in Ireland per night, was put up for sale at 25
million euros ($32 million), about half of what Irish developer
Gerry Barrett paid for the property at the market’s peak five
years ago.  The historic 83-room hotel, where parts of “The Quiet
Man” starring  John Wayne  were filmed, is being sold on behalf of
receiver Ernst & Young Ltd., according to a statement today by
 Savills Plc (SVS) , the broker managing the sale. The average room rate
was about 315 euros a night in July, said  Tom Barrett , head of
Savills’ hotel and leisure unit in Ireland. That was the most in
Ireland that month, he said, citing data compiled by STR Global.  Income-producing properties in Ireland have, on average,
lost about two-thirds of their value since 2007, according to
Investment Property Databank Ltd. Ashford Castle, near the
village of Cong about 240 kilometers (150 miles) west of Dublin,
was less affected by the slump than other hotels because it
appeals to overseas visitors, Savills’ Barrett said.  “American tourists would be the biggest element of that”
foreign demand, he said by phone.  Parts of the castle were built in the 1220s and it became
the  Guinness (DGE)  family’s home in 1852. It was turned into a hotel
in 1939, according to the hotel’s website. Guests have included
Britain’s King George V, writer  Oscar Wilde , Beatles singer John Lennon and President  Ronald Reagan , according to the statement.  Fishing, Falconry  The hotel offers its guests falconry and clay pigeon
shooting as well as trout and salmon fishing, according to its
website. Pat Cohan’s Bar, a village pub an 8-minute walk from
the hotel, was used for some of the key scenes in “The Quiet
Man,” a 1952 movie that also starred Maureen O’Hara.  A plan to develop 13 penthouse bedrooms, 30 lodges and
expand the 9-hole golf course to 18 holes was drawn up and never
completed, London-based Savills said in the statement.  Gerry Barrett bought the hotel, on 365 acres (148 hectares)
of land, in 2007 for 50 million euros, according to the Irish
Times. He declined to comment by telephone.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s (LLOY)  Bank of Scotland (Ireland) unit
appointed a receiver to Ashford Castle Properties Ltd. and
Ashford Castle Estate Ltd. in November 2011, according to Iris
Oifigiuil, the Irish State Gazette.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 