-- Italy Battles French Tsarist Playground for Russia Riches
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-10-31T09:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/italy-battles-french-tsarist-playground-for-russia-riches.html
Italy  is battling  France  to become
the new playground for  Russia ’s billionaires as  Europe ’s luxury
destinations seek buyers of property and companies to weather
the debt crisis.  “It’s incredible stuff,” Riccardo Monti, head of the
Italian Trade Agency, said last month on a promotional tour of
Russia, touting a palace for sale in  Venice ’s  Grand Canal  and a
villa that once belonged to the King of Naples. “Trophy assets
are really loved by big Russian entrepreneurs.”  The agency has sent him to Russia three times since May,
while envoys from Nice in France were there last month. Both
seek investments by Russians, whose foreign-property purchases
more than doubled since 2007 to $12 billion, even as values risk
falling due to a worsening economy. The 10 richest Russians are
worth a combined $150 billion, Bloomberg estimates.  “Purchases are going at full steam,” said Georgy
Kachamzov, head of research at Moscow-based Tranio.ru, which
surveys more than 200 Russian brokers selling real estate in 43
countries. “The most popular locations for elite residences are
 London , followed by the Cote D’Azur. Then comes Spanish
Marbella, the Italian Riviera and Tuscany.”  Italy, mired in a fourth recession since 2001, has turned
to real estate sales to help cut the euro area’s second-biggest
 debt burden  after  Greece . The government has targeted for sale
46,000 state properties valued at a combined 55 billion euros.  Tom Cruise  Among them are medieval Orsini Castle outside  Rome , built
for a pope and the site of the wedding of Hollywood actors  Tom
Cruise  and  Katie Holmes , and a Sicilian villa redone in Oriental
style by Ferdinand IV of Naples in the 19th century.  Scenari Immobiliari, an Italian property research company,
forecasts a record 4,600 property transactions in Italy by
foreigners this year, valued at 2.1 billion euros ($2.7
billion). Russians, who made up 2 percent of buyers in 2005,
held a 13 percent share in the first half of this year after
Britons and Germans.  “The opportunity is there now with the crisis,” Monti of
the trade agency said. “Foreign investors want to buy cheap and
they know that at one point they have to enter the market.”  While more Russians have purchased property in Italy than
France, the French Riviera has drawn Russia’s biggest buyers,
such as  Roman Abramovich , who has a residence in Cap D’Antibes.  Nice, once a holiday spot for the Tsars, is seeking to
leverage that history as it competes for Russian cash. Two years
ago, the city reopened a luxury railway from Moscow that had run
from the imperial capital  St. Petersburg  from 1864 until the
Bolshevik Revolution in 1914.  Russian Visitors  About 250,000 Russian visited Nice last year 2011, up 15
percent on the previous year, and they were the third-biggest
foreign spenders although in fifth place in terms of numbers,
according to the city’s tourism office.  “Many of the Russian tourists we welcome are major
businessmen who run big companies and want to establish
themselves overseas,” said Rudy Salles, head of Nice’s tourism
office and deputy mayor. He recently visited Moscow with a
delegation of hotel owners and investment-promotion officials.  Even with France’s economy in its fifth consecutive quarter
without growth, luxury real estate prices have held steady since
dipping slightly between 2008 and 2009, according to the website
Priximmo, which tracks the French market.  “Prices on the French Riviera continue to remain stable,”
Maria McLean of Burger Sotheby’s in St. Tropez said in an e-
mail. The Mediterranean climate “and of course its luxury
lifestyle” are attracting buyers mainly from “eastern and
northern Europe.”  Possible Risks  Buying luxury properties isn’t without risk, however. Real
estate prices in exclusive Italian resorts such as  Capri  fell an
average 4.4 percent in the year through September, according to
Bologna-based research institute Nomisma.  “The biggest risk for high-end properties in the Italian
countryside, such as villas, is that the market is somewhat
illiquid and it can often take years to sell,” Mario Breglia,
Milan-based chairman of  Scenari Immobiliari , said by phone.  There’s also the threat of tax increases as euro-area
governments enact austerity measures to tackle the debt crisis,
as well as legal disputes. Russian tycoon  Mikhail Prokhorov  had
to forfeit a 39 million-euro deposit in 2010 after failing to
conclude a deal to pay 390 million euros for a mansion near Nice
built for Belgian King Leopold II.  Company Buys  Still, property isn’t the only lure. Billionaire Rustam Tariko, who controls bank and vodka assets through his Russian
Standard Corp., bought 70 percent of Italian sparkling-wine and
vermouth producer F.LLI Gancia & C. SpA. in December, seven
years after purchasing a Sardinian villa from the ex-wife of
Italian former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi .  In January, Tariko said in a Bloomberg interview that he
may also buy into Italian lenders. Shares in  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Italy’s biggest bank, are down almost 80 percent since 2009.  Italy is marketing about 200 distressed companies for sale
to Russians, including  Richard Ginori (RG) , a manufacturer of fine
china. Russian businesses have invested about 1 billion euros in
65 companies in Italy,  Bank of Italy  data show. Russia’s
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  became the world’s sixth-largest wireless
operator last year after merging with Wind Telecom SpA.  Paris Project  Invest in France, a state agency, is working on 20 new
projects with Russian businesses, including in aeronautics,
agriculture and railways. The biggest is a 2 billion-euro
project to build twin skyscrapers designed by  Norman Foster  in
the La Defense district outside Paris.  “With the fall in the value of assets in Europe, Russians
are snapping up French companies,” Jerome Clausen, head of
Invest in France’s Russian office, said by phone. “They develop
these firms, inject cash and give them access to new export
markets.”  The tussle with Italy over Russian cash will only get
tougher, according to Monti, who contends Nice is overpriced.  “Italy is really value for money,” he said. “For 2 or 3
million euros, you can have a fantastic villa in Tuscany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  