-- J.C. Penney ‘Backtracking’ With Discounts, Deutsche Says
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-10-31T20:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/j-c-penney-backtracking-with-discount-offer-deutsche-says.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the 110-year-old
department-store company, is “backtracking” on Chief Executive
Officer  Ron Johnson ’s new pricing strategy with a 30 percent
discount on clearance items, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  The deal, advertised by e-mail, is available both in-store
and online from Oct. 28 to Nov. 3,  Charles Grom , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank in New York, wrote in a note to clients today.  “On the heels of a $10 in-store coupon provided earlier
this month, free haircuts for kids, and free family photos to
begin later this week, we believe JCP is backtracking on its no
promotion strategy, confusing customers,” said Grom, who has a
“hold” rating on the stock. “We, therefore, remain skeptical
of near-term improvement in business trends.”  Grom said the promotion suggests inventory levels may be in
poor shape relative to sales.  Johnson, the former  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  retail chief who joined as
CEO in November, has tweaked his pricing strategy after a
previous plan confused customers by reducing sales events and
coupons. The Plano, Texas-based company, which reports third-
quarter earnings on Nov. 9, posted sales declines of more than
20 percent in the first and second quarters amid the pricing
shifts and changes to the store’s layout.  The shares fell 5.7 percent to $24.01 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day decline since Sept. 20. The stock,
which had the fifth-biggest  loss  in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index today, has declined 32 percent this year.  Rival department-store company Macy’s Inc. also declined
today amid concern that Hurricane Sandy may result in lower
sales. The retailer fell 1.1 percent to $38.07. Competitors
 Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  