-- Airlines’ New York Schedules Boosted as LaGuardia Reopens
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n ,   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-11-01T22:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/jfk-joins-newark-reopening-as-air-travel-disruptions-ease.html
New York’s LaGuardia Airport started
receiving flights today, completing the reopening of the
region’s aviation hubs and boosting U.S. airlines in their
effort to rebuild schedules after superstorm Sandy.  Arrivals resumed shortly after 7 a.m. local time, and both
LaGuardia runways are open after floods receded, said Pasquale DiFulco of the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey.  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  began landing planes this morning, and  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines is running a full schedule.  Resuming flights at LaGuardia restores an important link to
the U.S. air-transport network, which lost an integral component
Oct. 29 when Sandy forced all three major New York airports to
close. The other two, John F. Kennedy and  Newark  Liberty, are
international gateways and they reopened yesterday.  “Just like it’s been a historic storm, it’s been a
historic disruption,”  Michael Derchin , an analyst with CRT
Capital Group LLC, said in a telephone interview. “The pre-
planning was outstanding. They’ve had some bad experiences
previously, learning lessons from past problems. By early next
week we should be pretty much fully recovered.”  Sandy-related losses may be $200 million to $250 million,
 Helane Becker , a Dahlman Rose & Co. analyst in New York, said in
a Bloomberg Radio interview. That prospect didn’t weigh on the
carriers’ shares, as the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL)  of 10
carriers rose 1.6 percent for the biggest gain since Oct. 3.  Cancellations Tally  About 2,900 flights were canceled yesterday, or about one-
tenth of the total U.S. schedule, according to industry
researcher FlightAware. That bought the total to more than
19,820 since Oct. 28.  FlightStats has logged 873 flights grounded for today and
36 for tomorrow as airlines repair their schedules.  Delta started landing LaGuardia flights around 7 a.m. and
expected to operate about half of its normal schedule of 268
flights, said Morgan Durrant, a spokesman.  “It’s going to be a little slow today as airlines position
planes and crews,” DiFulco said of LaGuardia in a telephone
interview. Flights there may not return to normal until late
this weekend or early next week, he said.  Navigation Aids  Inclement weather might hamper LaGuardia’s flight-handling
capacity in the short term. The Federal Aviation Administration
reported damage to three of the four instrument-landing systems
used to guide pilots during low visibility.  “FAA technicians from New England are assisting
technicians in New York to help restore all damaged equipment as
quickly as possible,” the agency said in a statement. So far,
the weather has remained clear.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  planned to fly into LaGuardia by 1
p.m. New York time and resumed flights into Newark earlier
today, said Paul Flaningan, a spokesman.  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  shifted its LaGuardia flights today
to Kennedy airport, said Mateo Lleras, a spokesman. The New
York-based carrier told customers to ignore cancellation notices
for Nov. 1 departures from LaGuardia and to check the status of
those flights online.  JetBlue will resume flights at Newark today and operate
about half its usual schedule from Kennedy.  Those two airports will be “close to 100 percent” within
the next day or two, DiFulco said.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , Delta and American began
some flying at both airports yesterday.  ‘Full Schedule’  United is “getting close to resuming normal operations
today at Newark,” a spokesman, Charles Hobart said by e-mail.
The world’s biggest carrier expanded its travel waiver for
passengers who were supposed to fly via Newark, Kennedy or
LaGuardia to allow them to go into any of the 29 airports in the
region, providing more options to complete their trips. Waivers
usually don’t let customers switch airports.  Delta operated about half of its usual schedule yesterday
at Kennedy and expected to have “near a full schedule” today,
said Durrant, the spokesman for the Atlanta-based airline.  American made some flights into Kennedy last night and is
now operating a full schedule at all three airports, said  Andrea Huguely , a spokeswoman for  the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier.
The airline added one domestic and one international flight at
Kennedy to assist customers affected by cancellations earlier
this week.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  expected to resume flights at both
JFK and Newark this afternoon, said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman.
The airline plans to restart LaGuardia service tomorrow morning,
although it’s hoping to complete an in-bound flight tonight from
its hub at  Charlotte , North Carolina, he said.  “Cleanup work continues and engineering inspections are
still being conducted,” Lehmacher said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  