-- JPMorgan Joins Citigroup Opening Branches After Storm
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-10-31T20:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/jpmorgan-chase-reopens-55-of-branches-in-tri-state-area.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , the largest and third-largest U.S. banks by assets, opened
about half their retail branches in  New York ,  New Jersey  and
Connecticut following the biggest Atlantic storm in history.  Almost 60 percent of JPMorgan’s 3,200 cash machines and 70
percent of Citigroup’s 1,500 ATMs are working today, the New
York-based banks said. JPMorgan is waiving late fees and other
charges for customers in 10 states along the East Coast and the
 District of Columbia  through Nov. 1, the lender said in a
statement. Citigroup said it is waiving similar charges through
Nov. 5.  “Our employees have done simply heroic things to get more
than half of our branches open today,” said Ryan McInerney,
chief executive officer of Chase’s consumer bank. “We stand
ready to help our customers in any way we can,” including
charging mobile phones, he said.  Financial markets were shut for two days, airports were
dark and government offices shuttered by a storm that killed at
least 50 people and disrupted millions of lives because of
flooding and power failures. JPMorgan opened 587 branches, or 55
percent of its retail locations in the region. About 55 percent
of Citigroup’s 300 branches in the area are open, said Catherine Pulley, a spokeswoman for the bank.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second biggest U.S. lender, said
it was deploying mobile ATMs to serve customers in lower
Manhattan and that it had 13 banking centers open in the
borough. About 75 percent of its branches were open in the
Northeast, according to Mark Pipitone, a spokesman for the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender.  Citigroup said it is refunding fees for customers who need
to use ATMs outside the bank’s network.  “We realize it’s important during this time to have easy
access to cash,” said Cece Stewart, president of U.S. consumer
and commercial banking for Citigroup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  