-- Kenyan Inflation Slows for 11th Month in October, Rate Cut Eyed
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-10-31T11:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/kenyan-inflation-slows-for-11th-month-in-october-rate-cut-eyed.html
Kenyan  inflation  slowed for the 11th
consecutive month in October, strengthening the case for the
country’s central bank to cut  interest rates  even further.  The inflation rate in  East Africa ’s largest economy
declined to 4.1 percent from 5.3 percent in September, the
Nairobi-based  Kenya  National Bureau of Statistics said today in
an e-mailed statement. Prices rose 0.4 percent in the month, the
agency said.  “There are expectations the central bank will lower
interest rates to boost growth and signal the banks to boost
credit,” Solomon Alubala, head of trading at Cooperative Bank
of Kenya Ltd., said by phone before the figures were released.  Kenyan policy makers have cut the key lending rate twice in
the second half of the year to 13 percent, and are under
pressure to make more reductions as inflation slows to help
stimulate economic growth.  The economy expanded 3.3 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest pace since the final three months of 2009, as tea and
flower  exports  slumped and tourism declined, eroding foreign-
exchange income from the country’s two biggest sources.  The  International Monetary Fund  said last week that easing
price pressures have given Kenya’s central bank room for
monetary loosening to guard against slowing global growth and
rising oil prices, “provided economic conditions warrant.”  Kenyan politicians are pushing for cheaper  consumer credit 
to appeal to voters before national elections in March, Alubala
said. The bank’s Monetary Policy Committee, which convenes every
two months, is next meeting on Nov. 7.  “It’s becoming a political issue and even discussed in
parliament,” he said. “The politicians are going to make noise
about the central bank, that they need to help the common man.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  