-- Khamenei Warns Iran’s Top Officials to Avoid Political Spats
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-10-31T14:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/khamenei-warns-iran-s-leaders-to-avoid-political-disputes.html
Iranian Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  told the country’s top politicians to focus on their
job and avoid disagreements that may “feed the foreign media’s
propaganda.”  “Differences between officials should not lead to discord
in actions, or into getting at each other’s throat or efforts to
uncover each other’s mistakes,” Khamenei said today according
to the state-run  Mehr  news agency. “I am warning top officials,
do your job,” he said. “Be careful not to let minor matters
turn into material for scandals.”  Khamenei’s comments, directed at the heads of the
government, parliament and judiciary, come as differences
between President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  and his political rivals
have surfaced in recent weeks. The president and chief justice
have exchanged open letters and diatribes over Ahmadinejad’s
plans to visit Tehran’s Evin prison, where his press adviser has
been held for over a month.  The request was turned down by the judiciary as not
“appropriate” in the country’s current political and economic
mood, prompting Ahmadinejad to fire off a letter saying he
didn’t need permission and accusing the law-enforcement agency
of behaving unconstitutionally. Judicial chief Sadegh Larijani
responded that the president did not understand the limits of
his powers, and barred him from accessing the jail.  Mounting Criticism  A former Khamenei protege, Ahmadinejad has fallen out of
favor after challenging the supreme leader’s authority. In March
he became the first president in the Islamic republic’s history
to be hauled before the parliament and forced to defend his
record, while his allies lost ground in this year’s
parliamentary elections.  Ahmadinejad, who’s completing his second term and isn’t
eligible to run in the June 14 elections, has been the target of
mounting criticism including by parliament Speaker  Ali Larijani .
Ahmadinejad’s rivals have been emboldened by the president’s
inability to counter the effects of international sanctions over
 Iran’s nuclear program , which have led to a drop in the
currency’s value and soaring inflation.  “From now on and until the elections, anyone who uses
people’s emotions to create divisions would have betrayed the
nation,” Khamenei was quoted as telling today an audience of
university students.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  