-- Kingfisher Woes Show Need for Bankruptcy Law: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-11-01T04:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/kingfisher-woes-show-need-for-bankruptcy-law-corporate-india.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , controlled
by liquor tycoon  Vijay Mallya , is struggling to resume services
after five straight years of losses and mounting debt forced it
to ground planes.  India ’s bankruptcy laws aren’t helping.  The carrier can’t emulate U.S. airlines that have gone
through court-led Chapter 11 restructuring, as India doesn’t
have any similar procedures for service providers. Under the
existing law, a government body only oversees rehabilitation of
companies with licenses to run factories.  Kingfisher’s troubles highlight how India’s corporate laws
have failed to keep pace with growth and emergence of new
businesses in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy. Lack of a modern
legal framework makes it slower for struggling companies to
renegotiate debts and cut cost, said Jai Pathak, partner-in-
charge at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. in  Singapore .  “India needs a comprehensive bankruptcy law that will
allow financially distressed companies to revive faster,”
Pathak said. The existing system doesn’t “provide a framework
by which companies can take preventive measures to avoid a
further downward spiral.”  Current  rules  allow companies that operated for at least
five years and holding a factory license to approach the Board
for  Industrial and Financial  Reconstruction if accumulated
losses equal or exceed their net worth. The recourse is
available under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special
Provisions) Act of 1985.  ‘Outdated Tool’  Under the Indian Companies Act of 1956, firms can
voluntarily wind up operations or a court can order their
closure. In a court-ordered shutdown, an official liquidator
will be appointed to oversee the process and distribute the
proceeds from sale of assets to creditors.  “BIFR is the most outdated tool available under law in
India,” Kishor Ostwal, managing director at CNI Research Ltd.
in Mumbai, said. “There are examples where companies have
applied for rehabilitation and it has taken several years for
even the plan to be approved. It’s next to impossible.”  BIFR took almost four years to approve a rehabilitation
plan for  Windsor Machines Ltd. (WML) , which was declared a ‘sick’
company in June 2006. By the time the revival plan got approval
from the agency in April 2010, the company had made quarterly
profits.  World Ranking  India  ranked  116 among 185 economies when it comes to  ease
of resolving insolvency, according to Doing Business 2013 data
published by International Finance Corp. and the  World Bank . The
nation’s ranking fell from 109 in 2012. India scored 132 for the
overall ‘ease of doing business’ in the latest report published
last month.  In 2001, as an alternative to the BIFR process, India’s
central bank allowed companies and their creditors to enter into
a  debt recast  arrangement to help businesses return to financial
health. The mechanism was limited to firms that had borrowed
more than 200 million rupees ($3.7 million) from a group of
lenders.  Kingfisher in 2010 restructured 77.2 billion rupees of debt
it had run up by ordering aircraft and buying a budget carrier.
It can seek a second round of debt recast if a majority of its
lenders agree, said Avinash Gupta, head of financial advisory
services at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt. The carrier has
been seeking more loans and investments at least for a year
after losses widened and debt swelled to 86 billion rupees.  Shares of the airline gained 4.4 percent to 13.15 rupees at
9:51 a.m. in Mumbai today. Kingfisher shares have slumped 38
percent this year, compared with a 20 percent gain in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Lengthy Process  Debt restructuring may offer little help for distressed
companies because of the lengthy procedures, said Thomas Britt,
a Hong Kong-based partner at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP.  “Negotiations with creditor banks take place in a time-
consuming Reserve Bank of India-supervised process and only
after the company has reached a state of severe financial
crisis, if not a complete collapse,” Britt wrote in an e-mail.
That makes “the prospects remote for that company’s return to
financial health and viability.”  India’s Civil Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said he will
push for an overhaul of the bankruptcy laws to help companies
like Kingfisher restructure operations. He didn’t say what
changes he is seeking in the rules.  “It’s not just the owner who suffers, it’s also the
employees, the creditors and the consumers,” Singh said in an
interview in  New Delhi  on Oct. 27. “Reform of the companies law
will not only offer protection from creditors, but also from
labor unions and other agencies.”  Prakash Mirpuri, spokesman at Kingfisher Airlines, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comments.  Delta, American  India’s aviation regulator suspended Kingfisher’s license
on Oct. 20 after the carrier failed to provide a plan to resume
operations that were halted Oct. 1 because of a strike by pilots
and engineers. The employees resumed work last week after
management promised to pay their salary dues. The carrier will
soon prepare a “comprehensive” revival plan, Mallya said in
New Delhi Oct. 30.  In the U.S., carriers including Delta Air Lines Inc. have
used  bankruptcy protection  to restructure debt and shed costly
pension and retiree benefit plans in the years after the 2001
terrorist attacks. In November last year, American Airlines
parent AMR Corp. filed for bankruptcy after failing to secure
cost-cutting labor agreements. With the filing, American became
the final large U.S. full-fare carrier to seek court protection
from creditors.  India has been planning to update company laws for almost a
decade. A new Companies Bill that proposes to replace the 1956
Act with easier restructuring rules has been in the works since
at least 2004. The Bill needs to be passed by parliament. Its
previous versions have been introduced in parliament at least
three times.  Absence of bankruptcy laws means Mallya has very few
options to revive Kingfisher unless he wins investments, said
Pathak at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. He can either seek to
restructure the debt or try to reach a compromise with the
carrier’s creditors after getting approvals from a high court.  “Had Kingfisher been a U.S. carrier, the natural choice
for it would have been to seek  Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection ,” CNI Research’s Ostwal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  