-- Knight Asks Clients to Send Orders Again as Power Fixed
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-11-01T21:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/knight-capital-shuts-down-trading-because-of-electrical-outage.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , one of the
largest U.S. market makers, told customers they could resume
sending orders after resolving an electrical outage that shut
down its equities trading yesterday.  A failure of backup power at its headquarters in  Jersey
City , New Jersey, drove the company to stop accepting new orders
for stock trades yesterday amid a blackout following Hurricane
Sandy. The issue has been fixed and systems are operating
normally, according to a memo from Knight, which almost went
bankrupt in August after a computer error flooded the market
with unintended orders. The company is open for “all
equities,” spokeswoman Kara Fitzsimmons said by e-mail.  Knight is one of dozens of Wall Street firms affected by
power outages after  Hurricane Sandy  flooded parts of New York
and New Jersey on Oct. 29. Citigroup Inc., the third-largest
 U.S. bank , said its office at 111 Wall St. in  Manhattan  will be
unusable for weeks and that a building housing senior capital-
markets executives lost power.  “Knight Capital Americas LLC, has identified and resolved
the power outages that were experienced earlier today,” the
company said yesterday in a circular to clients. “Please feel
free to route back at your earliest convenience.”  Generator Power  The broker told employees today that generator power
resumed at about 2 p.m. yesterday and it began “limited
trading.” While the fuel supply for generators hadn’t been
depleted, the company asked clients to send order elsewhere
because “at lower levels of fuel generators can experience
disruptions,” the notice said.  “Knight never lost power to its critical trading systems
due to double redundancies built into its system,” the company
said. “Battery power was utilized during the generator down
time.”  Knight is now operating on its “normal power supply,” it
told customers after the close of trading today.  Yesterday Knight stopped handling client business in its
institutional sales and trading unit and market-making group in
all exchange-listed and over-the-counter stocks and in options,
Fitzsimmons said by phone yesterday.  Hotspot, BondPoint  “Power went down at about 11:45,” Fitzsimmons said. Other
regional offices continued to trade, including Knight’s
institutional fixed-income business in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
she said.  Knight said in a separate statement after the market closed
that it had also asked customers using its Knight Direct,
Hotspot FX and BondPoint services to send orders elsewhere until
the company regained a power supply. Trading through these
systems had resumed yesterday, Fitzsimmons said.  U.S. equity markets opened yesterday after the storm forced
exchanges to shut for the first two days of the week, the only
back-to-back closures related to weather since 1888. The New
York Stock Exchange’s trading floor operated on backup power and
will do so through today if necessary, Joe Mecane, head of U.S.
equities for NYSE Euronext, said in a phone interview.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s  data center  in Carteret,  New
Jersey , was also running on backup power, according to a notice
disseminated yesterday. The exchange company can refill the
generators, which have 72 hours’ worth of fuel, every evening
and has a backup data center in Ashburn,  Virginia , Robert Madden, a company spokesman, said by phone.  Power Issues  “Due to a building emergency (power issues), Knight
Capital Americas is asking you to seek an alternate destination
for the order handling and execution of your OTC, Options and
Listed orders until further notice,” said a memo to clients,
which was confirmed by Fitzsimmons yesterday. “All computer
interfaces with Knight will be shut down with no new orders,
both by phone or electronic, being accepted at this time.”  The market-making unit of Citadel LLC saw an increase in
order flow from retail brokers following Knight’s withdrawal
from equities at midday, according to  Katie Spring , a
spokeswoman for the Chicago-based company. She said Citadel’s
trading systems are working properly.  Some of the larger retail brokers routed trade requests to
other firms once Knight stopped trading.  Individual Investors  Fidelity Investments  sent orders from individual investors
to other market makers including Citadel and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. after Knight’s generators failed, according to  Steve Austin , a spokesman for the Boston-based asset manager. Knight
handled 38 percent of immediately executable orders from
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC for companies listed on the NYSE
in the third quarter and 18 percent for those listed on Nasdaq
Stock Market, the investment firm said in a report about its
order-routing practices.  “We haven’t had any service disruptions for our clients,”
 Kim Hillyer , a spokeswoman for retail broker  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. (AMTD)  in Omaha,  Nebraska , said by phone. The broker sent
customer orders to other market makers when Knight’s systems
stopped accepting orders. “It’s very easy for us to move order
flow,” she said. “Trading has been pretty normal.”  TD Ameritrade sent 9 percent of immediately executable
orders for NYSE-listed companies and 10 percent for those on
Nasdaq to Knight in the third quarter, according to a brokerage
report.  A technology error by Knight on Aug. 1 bombarded equity
exchanges with erroneous orders, leading to a  $457.6 million
loss . The broker, one of the largest traders of U.S. shares by
volume, was at the brink of insolvency as customers routed
orders elsewhere and its shares plunged 75 percent in two days.  The company is now more than 70 percent owned by the
companies that bailed it out with a $400 million cash infusion
the following week. Almost all retail brokerage clients have
come back to the firm, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce has
said.  Knight  shares , which fell as much as 8.4 percent during
trading, closed up 0.4 percent to $2.63. The stock traded for
higher than $10 before the August mishap.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  