-- Kocherlakota Says Fed Policy Too Tight With Low Inflation
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-10-31T02:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/kocherlakota-says-fed-policy-too-tight-with-low-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said a subdued outlook for
inflation suggests monetary policy is currently “too tight”
even after record easing.  “Some observers argue that the Fed has done too much, has
been too accommodative,” Kocherlakota said today in a speech in
Duluth,  Minnesota . “I strongly disagree.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  voted last week to
continue buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds each month, aiming
to reduce 7.8 percent  unemployment . The Minneapolis Fed chief
has been calling for additional stimulus through a more explicit
pledge to keep  interest rates  near zero.  “The FOMC must offset these adverse shocks by making
monetary policy more accommodative,” Kocherlakota said at the
 University of Minnesota  at Duluth, referring to the loss of
wealth and jobs since 2007.  After concluding a two-day meeting on Oct. 24, the FOMC
said it expects to keep the federal funds rate low through at
least mid-2015, repeating a pledge from Sept. 13. Several
members would prefer to link policy to specific economic
conditions instead of a date, minutes of the September meeting
showed.  Kocherlakota is among Fed officials in favor of tying low
 interest rates  to what he calls numerical thresholds. The main
rate should stay near zero until unemployment falls below 5.5
percent or the medium-term outlook for inflation rises above
2.25 percent, he said on Oct. 10. Clearer guidance will help
persuade households that borrowing costs will remain low and
thereby encourage spending, he said.  Safe Assets  Responding to an audience question, the Minneapolis Fed
president said interest rates on what are considered
comparatively safe assets, such as U.S. Treasuries, are low at
the moment because people have doubts about the outlook.  “Going forward, I’m optimistic,” he said, noting recent
improvements in  consumer confidence . “That is a sign people
feel more secure about the future, and you’ll start to see
upward pressure on interest rates, and this would be a very good
piece of news.”  The  U.S. economy  will probably grow about 2.5 percent next
year, an acceleration from the 2 percent expansion in the third
quarter.  U.S. equity markets will reopen tomorrow after the longest
weather-related shutdown in more than a century. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.5 percent last week to 1,411.94 as
companies from 3M Co. to DuPont Co. reported disappointing
quarterly results and forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  