-- South Korea’s Exports Rise for First Time in Four Months
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-11-01T00:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/korea-s-inflation-accelerates-to-highest-in-four-months.html
South  Korea ’s exports unexpectedly
rose for the first time in four months as resilience from the
country’s largest companies helped offset the effects of a
global slowdown.  Overseas shipments  rose 1.2 percent in October from a year
earlier, after a revised 2 percent decline in September, the
Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in a statement today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists was
for a 0.7 percent decline. Consumer prices rose 2.1 percent last
month from a year ago.  South Korea’s  industrial production  also rose for the first
time in four months in September, adding to evidence that a
slowdown in Asia’s fourth-largest economy has hit bottom. Still,
data has been mixed, with manufacturers’ confidence for November
falling for a second-straight month and the  Bank of Korea  saying
in a report to parliament yesterday that growth momentum is
weakening.  “Things have started to move up in Korea, even if not at
full steam yet,” Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said before the release. “This momentum would
need to be sustained for economic growth to pick up.”  South Korea’s won was little changed at the 9 a.m. opening
in  Seoul , after reaching a 13-month high yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  stock index fell 0.4
percent.  Beating Estimates  Imports rose 1.5 percent from a year earlier in October,
the ministry said today. The  trade surplus  was $3.8 billion
after a $3.1 billion excess in September.  The nation’s biggest companies have shown resilience, with
Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest carmaker, reporting
profit that beat analysts’ estimates in the third quarter.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s biggest maker of TVs
and mobile phones, said Oct. 26 that operating profit from
telecommunications more than doubled as its Galaxy brand devices
widened their lead over Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  South Korea’s output rose 0.8 percent in September from
August, when it dropped a revised 0.9 percent, Statistics Korea
said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  