-- KPS Said to Seek $3 Billion for Special Situations Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-10-31T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/kps-said-to-seek-3-billion-for-special-situations-fund.html
KPS Capital Partners LP, the
private-equity firm co-founded by Michael Psaros, plans to seek
$3 billion for its next special situations fund, said two people
familiar with the matter.  The fund is likely to come to market in the second quarter
of next year, said one of the people asking not to be named
because the capital raising hasn’t been announced. The
predecessor, KPS Special Situations Fund III, originally
gathered $1.2 billion in 2007 before accepting an additional
$800 million two years later to take advantage of what the firm
called “unprecedented” opportunities arising from the global
financial crisis.  Daniel Yunger, a spokesman at Kekst & Co., declined to
comment on behalf of KPS.  KPS, based in  New York , makes control investments in
special situations including corporate divestitures and carve-
outs, turnarounds, bankruptcies, financial restructurings and
out-of-favor industries, according to its website. The firm,
which primarily targets manufacturing companies, will consider
all industries except technology, financial services,
telecommunications, broadcast media, real estate and natural
resources.  KPS typically invests $50 million to $300 million in deals
as large as $1 billion. It targets companies with revenues of at
least $400 million, according to the website.  Fund Returns  The firm can point to recent exits. This month it agreed to
sell North American Breweries Holdings LLC to Florida Ice & Farm
Co. SA’s Cerveceria Costa Rica for $388 million. It also sold
HHI Group Holdings LLC, a maker of components for automotive
customers, to American Securities LLC for undisclosed terms.  The prior fund was producing a 1.7 multiple and a 21
percent net internal rate of return as of March 31, according to
 performance data  from California Public Employees Retirement
System.  Founded in 1997, KPS has four investment partners: Psaros,
 David Shapiro , Raquel Palmer and Jay Bernstein. The firm has
more than $2.7 billion under management, according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  