-- Kvetching Cousins Draw Blood in ‘Bad Jews’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-10-31T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/kvetching-cousins-dra-blood-in-bad-jews-jeremy-gerard.html
“Bad Jews,” at the  Roundabout ,
begins with a familiar scene of  New York  apartment envy and ends
100 minutes later with more blood on the floor than “Hamlet.”  Daphna Feygenbaum is sleeping over at her cousin Jonah’s
sweet Upper West Side studio apartment. It’s down the hall from
his parents; they’ve gathered for the funeral of their beloved
grandfather.  The fact that Daphna can see the  Hudson River  even from the
bathroom is enough to set her off.  It doesn’t take much to provoke Daphna, brilliantly played
by Tracee Chimo with a mix of smugness and passion. She’s tapped
into her Jewishness with a vengeance, planning to become a
rabbi, move to  Israel  to marry her fiance and join the army.  Jonah (Philip Ettinger) could care less. But when his older
brother, Liam, arrives with his blank Gentile girlfriend,
Melody, Daphna works herself -- and the rest of them -- into a
lather.  Liam (Michael Zegen) is working toward a doctorate in
Japanese cultural studies. He has nothing but contempt for what
he describes as an ancient, sexist religion.  Holocaust Survivor  At stake is the gold “chai”  -- the Hebrew word for
“life” -- their grandfather kept even through two years in a
concentration camp. Daphna wants it. Liam not only has it, he
plans to give it to Melody (Molly Ranson, mousily sweet) when he
proposes.  Daphna is oblivious to feelings hurt in the name of truth-
telling. Liam is the soul of assimilation, unable to embrace the
irony of his intellectual and romantic pursuits.  Written by Joshua Harmon and staged with exemplary fury by
Daniel Aukin, “Bad Jews” is a fine example of a play that
works even when almost nothing about it is believable.
Impossible to imagine why, for example, Liam and Melody haven’t
beat a hasty exit within five minutes of their arrival.  But Harmon has the good sense to make Liam and Daphna
intellectual equals. Their increasingly nasty arguments will be
discomfiting to anyone who has struggled with the issue of
religious enfranchisement.  The playwright stacks the deck too heavily against one of
the contenders. He loses control of the story, not knowing how
to end the play in a satisfying way.  But “Bad Jews” is another scorching provocation from the
Roundabout’s Black Box series, where all tickets are $20. You
get way more than your money’s worth.  Through Dec. 16 at the Roundabout Black Box Theatre, 111 W.
46th St. Information: +1-212-719-1300;
 http://www.roundaboutunderground.org .
Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and  Ryan
Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 