-- Nani Plans Manchester Utd. Exit at End of Season: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-31T05:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/nani-plans-manchester-utd-exit-at-end-of-season-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Nani Eyes Exit  Nani is planning to leave  Manchester United  at the end of
the season after losing patience with negotiations over a new
contract, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  The 25-year-old Portuguese winger and club are said to be a
“sizable distance” apart on salary figures as they try to
reach an agreement on an extension to a contract that expires in
June 2014, the newspaper said.  Back to Blackburn  Blackburn Rovers  are set to appoint former defender Henning Berg as manager after moves for big-name candidates including
 Diego Maradona  came to nothing, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Berg, a 43-year-old Norwegian who had two spells as a
player with Rovers, has met with club officials and agreed a
deal, the Mirror added.  Isco Interest  Spanish club Malaga is trying to sign midfielder Isco to a
new contract that will increase his buy-out clause to 30 million
pounds ($48.2 million) from 17 million pounds amid interest from
Manchester City and Real Madrid, the  Sun reported .  City’s newly appointed director of football Txiki Begiristain already recommended Isco, 20, while manager  Roberto Mancini  watched him play against  Atletico Madrid  this month, the
newspaper added.  Sterling Future  Jamaican soccer officials will try to convince Liverpool
teenager Raheem Sterling that he should commit his international
future to the Caribbean nation of his birth rather than England,
the  Daily Mail reported .  “Based on the FIFA rules Raheem is still eligible for
us,” the Mail cited Jamaica Football Federation President
Horace Burrell as saying. “We think it is worthwhile to
speak.”  Midfielder Monitored  Manchester United is monitoring Bayer Leverkusen midfielder
Lars Bender and had scouts watch the 23-year-old in Bundesliga
and international matches, the  Daily Mail reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  