-- Nets Brooklyn NBA Opener Versus Knicks Postponed By Storm Damage
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/nets-brooklyn-opener-against-knicks-postponed-after-storm-1-.html
The Brooklyn Nets’ season opener
against the  New York Knicks  won’t take place tonight at the new
$1 billion Barclays Center because of mass transit problems in
the wake of  Hurricane Sandy .  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said yesterday the game
was postponed at his suggestion, a day after the  National
Basketball Association  said it would be played. A makeup date
was not announced. The Nets’ arena now will host its first
regular-season NBA game Nov. 3 against the  Toronto Raptors .  “I’m sorry about the game,” Bloomberg said in a news
conference. “I was personally going to take my daughters and
Diana, we were looking forward to it.”  The Nets, who moved to Brooklyn from New Jersey this
offseason, had a countdown clock on their website ticking off
the seconds until tonight’s scheduled 7:00 p.m. Eastern start
time. It was taken down yesterday afternoon.  “It’s a great stadium, it would have been a great game,”
Bloomberg told reporters. “But the bottom line is there is not
a lot of mass transit. Our police have plenty of other things to
do.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  The 900-mile-wide (1,500-kilometer-wide) storm produced
life-threatening surges in a region with 60 million residents.
Property and economic damage from the storm might reach $50
billion.  “ Mayor Bloomberg  informed us this afternoon that after
further analysis of the damage caused by Hurricane Sandy that he
felt it was in the best interests of the city of New York, the
teams and our fans that we postpone the Knicks-Nets game
scheduled for Thursday night,” NBA Deputy Commissioner  Adam Silver  said in a statement e-mailed by the league. “Our
thoughts are with all those affected by this devastating
storm.”  Rescheduled Contest  Tickets for the game will be honored for the rescheduled
contest, Nets Chief Executive Officer Brett Yormark said in a
statement.  “Our hearts go out to everyone affected by Hurricane
Sandy,” Yormark said. “We know these are trying times for so
many of you and our thoughts are with you.”  The Barclays Center, which seats 18,000 fans for
basketball, is next to Brooklyn’s main transportation hub, which
includes stops for subway lines and the Long Island Rail Road,
neither of which were running because of storm damage.  “I know lots of fans are going to be disappointed, and the
players are disappointed,” Bloomberg said. “The players wanted
to play this. But I did talk to the NBA and asked them to cancel
the game.”  The Knicks will now open their season against the
defending-champion  Miami Heat  tomorrow night at Madison Square
Garden in New York.  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Rob Gloster  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  