-- New U.K. Coalition Accord Said to Be Delayed Until Next Year
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-31T12:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/new-u-k-coalition-agreement-said-to-be-delayed-until-next-year.html
A U.K. government document setting
out the mid-term aims of Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron’s coalition with Nick Clegg’s Liberal Democrats has been
delayed to January, a person familiar with the matter said.  Relations between the two parties hit a low in July after a
rebellion by Tory lawmakers over an overhaul of the upper House
of Lords sparked retaliation by the Liberal Democrats derailing
changes to electoral-district boundaries that would have
benefited the Conservatives.  Cameron and Clegg, seeking to reinvigorate the coalition
following the spat, said July 16 a new coalition document
setting out what their government had achieved would be
published at the end of the summer. The release of the document
has now been put back until the new year, according to the
person, who’s familiar with the discussions and declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  Asked by reporters in  London  about the delay in
publication, Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, said: “I don’t
have a date I can give you on that.”  The two parties’ annual conferences a month ago
demonstrated potential flashpoints within the coalition in the
months ahead, including differences over tax and welfare
benefits. That will spill over into Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne’s preparations for his end-of-year statement on
Dec. 5, in which he may need to announce further budget cuts.  European Relations  Another potential area of disagreement between the two
governing parties is the U.K.’s relationship with the European
Union. Cameron is due to set out his position on Britain’s
future in the EU in December amid pressure from his lawmakers to
commit to a referendum on continued membership of the bloc.  While Clegg has backed Cameron’s call for an increase in
the EU budget to be restricted to the rate of inflation, he
described opponents of Britain’s membership of the EU as
“insular,” “chauvinistic” and “short-sighted” at a private
dinner for business leaders at the Liberal Democrat conference
in Brighton in September.  Cameron faces a rebellion in a House of Commons vote today
from Conservative lawmakers demanding a cut in the EU’s spending
and said before the debate he is “quite prepared” to use the
U.K.’s veto to get the deal he wants.  ‘Toughest Line’  “This government is taking the toughest line of any
government since we entered the European Union,” Cameron told
the Commons at his weekly question-and-answer session. “At best
we would like it cut, at worst frozen.”  The  PoliticsHome  website reported today that Cameron
berated Clegg last night over a measure introduced in the Lords
to delay further changes in parliamentary boundaries until 2018.  Asked about the report, Field replied that “I am sure they
have discussed this issue.”  In another sign of tension between the two parties, Tory
Energy Minister John Hayes was quoted as saying in interviews
with two newspapers published today that the U.K. is
“peppered” with wind farms and that “enough is enough.”  Hayes’s comments were contradicted by his Liberal Democrat
boss, Energy Secretary  Ed Davey , who said the government’s
position of supporting wind energy had not changed. Cameron also
told lawmakers there had been no changes to renewable-energy
policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  