-- New York Subway System Faces Weeks to Recover From Storm
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e ,   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-10-31T17:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/new-york-subway-system-faces-weeks-to-recover-from-storm.html
If you laid the  New York City   subway
system  in a line, it would stretch from  New York  to  Detroit . Now
imagine inspecting every inch of that track.  That’s the job ahead for Metropolitan Transit
Administration officials, who must examine 600 miles of track
and the electrical systems with it before they can fully reopen
the largest U.S. transit system, which took a direct hit by
 Hurricane Sandy .  Seven subway tunnels under New York’s  East River  flooded,
MTA officials said. Pumping them out could take days, and a 2011
state study said it could take three weeks after hurricane-
driven flooding to get back to 90 percent of normal operations.
That study forecast damages of $50 billion to $55 billion to
transportation infrastructure including the subways.  “No subway system is designed for a flood of this
magnitude,” said Nasri Munfah, chairman of tunnel services at
HNTB Corp., a  Kansas City , Missouri-based infrastructure
construction, design and consulting firm. “I don’t think it’s
going to be a matter of a day or two. It’s a big job.”  Fourteen of 23 MTA subway lines will resume limited service
tomorrow, though none will run between  Manhattan ’s 34th Street
and  Brooklyn , New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said at a news
conference today. Some Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North
Railroad trains will be back by 2 p.m. today.  Metro-North’s Lower Harlem Line, connecting Grand Central
Terminal to  White Plains , will run trains once per hour, Cuomo
said. Subway tunnels for the R, A, C, L, and 7 trains are still
flooded, he said.  Worst Ever  Chairman Joe Lhota of the MTA, which carries an average of
8.7 million riders on weekdays, called the storm the worst
disaster in the subway’s 108-year history. Sandy, which made
landfall in  New Jersey  and swept north to New York City, was the
largest tropical storm measured in the Atlantic.  New Jersey Transit ’s rail operations center was engulfed in
water, damaging the computer system that controls the movement
of trains and power supply, the agency said in a statement
yesterday.  A subway system has an electrical system that runs
equipment, pumps, lights and communications, one that runs
switches and signals and a third that powers the electrified
third rail for train propulsion, Munfah said. All can be ruined
by salt.  Saltwater Damage  “It’s like dropping your computer into a bucket of salt
water,” he said.  MTA officials yesterday said the extent of electrical
damage can’t be assessed until the water is drained.  Thousands of connections in signal systems will need to be
cleaned and tested before trains can run again, said Mortimer Downey, a former MTA executive director and current board member
of the  Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority .  “It’s an enormous amount of wiring and an enormous amount
of connections that go to what’s called relay rooms,” Downey
said. “They’ve got to turn the system on, and if it seems to be
working I think they’ve got to go to every component and check
it and get rid of all the salt. What you don’t want is a short
circuit that causes the system to fail.”  Such a failure caused the deadliest crash in the history of
 Washington ’s Metro system in 2009, he said.  Spare Parts  Finding enough replacement parts will be another challenge
that could delay repairs, said Kathy Waters, vice president for
member services at the American Public Transportation
Association.  “The New York system, although there are some components
that have been upgraded over the years, has a lot of antique
components where the vendor has been out of business for 50
years,” Waters said in an interview.  “To some extent, they will have inventory,” she said.
“But depending on the extent of damage, you don’t keep things
on the shelf to have a replacement for every piece should it all
go down at once.”  A 2011 study funded by New York state concluded it would
take 21 days to restore the subway system to 90 percent of its
full operations after flooding caused by a severe hurricane.  It estimated it would take a week to pump water out of
tunnels, assuming officials could get 100 portable pumps. The
subway had only three mobile train pumps for the entire system,
the report said.  Billion Gallons  The study, which assumed damage levels from a once-in-100-
years storm, estimated 1 billion gallons of water would have to
be pumped out of the subway system.  “The essence of that report unfortunately came true,”
Klaus Jacob, the Columbia University scientist who co-wrote the
study, said in an interview.  Subways’ pump rooms are designed to handle runoff from
typical storms, not floods, Munfah said. The pumps run on
electricity, with diesel generators as a limited backup. The 14-
foot  storm surge  was much higher than any planned flood level,
so the systems couldn’t do much to keep up.  The city decided before the storm hit to end train and bus
service, moving equipment to safety and encouraging customers to
stay home.  Moving trains out of the tunnels and turning off power to
the electrified third rails prevented the damage from being
worse, Munfah said.  “We took every precaution we possibly could,” said
Deirdre Parker, a spokeswoman for the MTA, citing the use of
sandbags at subway entrances and the agency covering vents. “It
was just a record-setting storm surge. There was really nothing
else we could have done.”  Shrink Wrapping  New York has handled the storm preparations and aftermath
as well as it could, said Joseph Schofer, a professor of civil
and environmental engineering and the director of Infrastructure
Technology Institute at  Northwestern University  in Evanston,
 Illinois .  “As best I can tell from what they’ve done in the past,
they protected a lot of the vulnerable infrastructure,” said
Schofer, who directed a case study last year of how the MTA
responded to  Hurricane Irene  in 2011. “They shrink-wrapped fare
machines, and they also pulled equipment out of low-lying areas,
particularly the tunnels. Electrical equipment is particularly
vulnerable.”  An inundation like this could have been predicted given the
depth of New York’s subway tunnels compared with cities with
more modern underground tunnels, Downey said in an interview.  Lines under the river are low points in the system, leading
water to collect there, he said.  “Our transit system wasn’t designed for this kind of surge
of water pouring into lower Manhattan,” former New York
Lieutenant Governor  Richard Ravitch , who’s a co-chairman of the
State Budget Crisis Task Force, said yesterday in an interview
on Bloomberg Television. “Nobody ever dreamed of this. It’s not
something that can be easily changed, either.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  