-- NIB Gets AAA Boost as Europe Fights Darkest Hour: Nordic Credit
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-10-31T09:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/nib-gets-aaa-boost-as-europe-fights-darkest-hour-nordic-credit.html
Europe ’s recession is helping the
Nordic Investment Bank as the lender plans to expand its bond
sales to three benchmarks worth a total 5 billion euros ($6.5
billion) next year.  “As long as there is uncertainty in the euro area, there
will be a certain flow toward the Nordic region,” Chief
Executive Officer Henrik Normann said in an interview at the
bank’s headquarters in Helsinki. Europe is “at the darkest hour
at the moment, before the reforms start to work,” he said.  The debt crisis and recession riling Europe have sent
investors to AAA rated  Sweden , Denmark,  Norway  and Finland in
search of bonds deemed safe from the currency bloc’s turmoil.
Investor appetite has made its way into higher-yielding debt
classes from the region, moving from sovereign and agency notes,
such as NIB’s, to mortgage-backed covered bonds and corporate
credit.  European policy makers have proposed fiscal coordination
and bank supervision to boost confidence in the 17-member euro
bloc. Governments are also cutting spending, raising taxes and
enacting reforms to fix their economies. Yet the measures have
so far failed to end the crisis and persuade investors to turn
away from haven markets.  In the Nordic region, which is backed by government debt
loads less than half the euro-zone average and current account
surpluses,  Finland  is the only euro member. Denmark pegs its
krone to the euro, while Sweden is a European Union member
that’s opted to keep its krone in a free float. Norway, like
 Switzerland , has stayed outside the European Union.  ‘Opportunistic’  The AAA rated investment bank, backed by Nordic and Baltic
governments, is “on track” with its 3.2 billion-euro issuance
planned for this year, Normann said. By Sept. 30, the bank had
sold about 3 billion euros of debt. Its growing balance sheet
and bond redemptions are boosting the funding target in 2013.  “We hope we can issue three benchmarks next year,”
Normann said. “We are opportunistic in that if the market is
good and there is demand, we may issue a bit ahead of time.”  The bank raised $1.25 billion in a five-year benchmark
issue on Jan. 31, narrowing its spread to four basis points over
the mid-swap rate, compared with six basis points a year earlier
when it last sold a similar-maturity dollar-denominated
benchmark. The AAA rated  European Investment Bank ’s five-year
$3.5 billion bond sold Jan. 18 had a spread of 70 basis points
over the mid-swap rate.  ‘So Few AAA’  “Next year funding costs will still be low because there
are so few AAA rated names,” Normann said. “On a relative
basis, NIB will do quite well.”  NIB has about 3.6 billion euros of debt maturing next year
and 4.1 billion euros in 2014, including interest payments,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year, it repaid
about 1.1 billion euros. Of NIB’s shareholders, Sweden, Denmark,
Norway and Finland represent 95 percent of its share capital.  NIB spends its funds on infrastructure loans, such as the
$56.5 million electricity grid expansion of Lyse Energi AS in
Norway or the $168 million provided for research in the cement
and mineral industries by FLSmidth & Co. A/S in  Denmark .  The spread on NIB’s 1 percent 2017 bond to the U.S.
Treasury actives curve was at 9 basis points today, compared
with a May high of 28 basis points.  The bank hasn’t sold a single bond denominated in euros
this year, as it gets lower borrowing costs by issuing dollar-
denominated securities and then using the swap market.  ‘Arbitrage’  “It’s cheaper for us to issue in U.S. dollars and swap
back to euros,” Normann said. “We don’t look at arbitrage as
such. We look at minimizing our funding cost.”  NIB matches the maturity of its bonds with that of the
loans in its portfolio and hasn’t sought to lock in the cheaper
rates by selling debt with a longer maturity, said Normann, who
also serves on the board of directors of Nasdaq OMX Nordic Ltd.
and previously ran Danske Markets’ worldwide operations.  “If we issue a 10-year loan, then we generally issue 10-
year bonds,” he said. “We have very few gaps.”  The investment environment isn’t likely to change until
economic reforms begin to work and Europe regains
competitiveness, Normann said.  “We were lucky it was the Greeks who started the crisis,”
he said. “If it had been the Spaniards, it would have been
much, much worse. Now it was a relatively small country that
could be insulated and you could start a reform process.”  The  European Central Bank  has already restored some
confidence, helping to ease yields by lending the region’s banks
more than a trillion euros for three years and pledging to buy
sovereign bonds on the secondary market.  “This will be seen as a turning point for the euro,”
Normann said. “We will end up sending flowers to the Greeks in
two-to-three years’ time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  