-- Nile Traffic Seen Exploding as Egypt Cuts Fuel Subsidy: Freight
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-10-31T14:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/nile-traffic-seen-exploding-as-egypt-cuts-fuel-subsidy-freight.html
Egypt ’s planned reduction of fuel
subsidies to tackle the  Middle East ’s biggest  budget deficit  is
sending more barges down the Nile, one of the world’s oldest
trade arteries.  The share of cargo moved through the Nile was only 0.5
percent of Egyptian traffic in 2010, an Egyptian-Japanese  study 
shows, as diesel costing less than half what it does in the U.S.
tips the balance toward trucks and railroads. This advantage
will erode once President Mohamed Mursi starts cutting subsidies
to narrow a budget gap that’s 11 percent of economic output,
according to  Beltone Financial Holding (BTFH) , a Cairo investment bank.  Small-scale subsidy cuts for premium fuels may start before
June, while the rest will be in the next budget, Fitch Ratings
says. In anticipation, Cairo-based private equity firm  Citadel
Capital SAE (CCAP)  has invested more than $200 million on barges, ports
and storage facilities that are already handling shipments of
wheat, cement and phosphate. Within five years, the share of
cargo moved by river may jump to at least 15 percent, said
Stephen Murphy, a managing director at the company.  “As soon as you see a rational subsidy program, or a
removal of the irrational subsidy program, the Egyptian
operation will turn profitable,” Murphy said in an interview in
Dubai on Oct. 15. “We’ve got a range of barges that can take
any cargo today. We’ve got the cranes, the handling equipment
and we’ve got the storage capacity.”  The investment is part of Citadel’s plan to develop
transport infrastructure in Nile basin countries. Founded in
2004 with headquarters overlooking the river, Citadel now has
$9.5 billion in total investments.  Nile Logistics  Part of the transport program is carried out via Nile
Logistics, which invests in Egypt,  Sudan  and South Sudan. The
unit has refurbished 31 used barges and built four 100-meter
barges, each capable of carrying 1,200 tons, and plans to
develop two more ports in Egypt, Murphy said.  Mursi, an Islamist politician, won the country’s first free
presidential election in June, marking another milestone in the
transition to democracy after last year’s popular uprising ended
 Hosni Mubarak ’s three-decade rule. The chaos that accompanied
the revolt plunged the economy into the worst slowdown in almost
two decades, prompting the government to approach the
 International Monetary Fund  over a loan agreement to restore
investor confidence and revive growth.  Investor optimism about the election and the talks have
supported a 57 percent gain in Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  so
far this year. Citadel Capital shares, which fell 2.2 percent
today, have soared 59 percent in the same period after the
company “managed to  narrow its losses ” by 70 percent in the
second quarter and raised $3.7 billion to build a refinery in
Egypt, said Allen Sandeep, a researcher at Beltone Financial who
has an  add rating on the stock .  Rocks to Temples  Ancient Egyptians revered the Nile as a source of water and
land fertility. They used the river for passenger transportation
and to ferry rocks from quarries to the sites of pyramids and
temples in Giza and Luxor. Until the 1952 military coup that
overthrew Egypt’s monarchy, traders used the waterway to carry
grain and food across the country, serving a population that
mostly lived on the banks of the river.  River ports and locks were left to deteriorate after 1952,
when military rulers introduced food and energy subsidies as
they sought to turn Egypt into a socialist state.  Six decades later, rising domestic consumption has turned
the most populous Arab country into a net fuel importer, forcing
the government to increase spending on energy subsidies last
year to 96 billion pounds ($15.7 billion), or almost twice the
amount it spent on education, according to official data.  Single Biggest  Mursi has vowed to overhaul the system, which he said was
riddled with corruption and waste. A “successful reform of
these subsidies is the single-biggest reform the government can
make to improve Egypt’s fiscal position or free up revenue to
spend elsewhere,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement on Oct. 9.  An eventual removal of subsidies is also on the wish list
of the IMF, whose technical team arrived in Cairo yesterday to
resume talks with the government for a $4.8 billion loan.  Citadel’s gains from the planned subsidy cuts are a “long-
term positive beyond five or six years from now, especially
given where they are in terms of developing the Nile Logistics
infrastructure,” Sandeep said by phone on Oct. 18. “The
company does have a point, though, as traders will likely look
for alternatives for transport once subsidies are gradually
phased out for diesel or gasoline.”  The concern that deterred Mursi’s successors from cutting
subsidies may tie his hands until a new constitution is approved
and parliamentary elections are held due to concern that an
earlier move would stoke unrest, said Cairo-based Mona Mansour,
co-head of research at investment bank CI Capital Holding.  Sensitive Issue  “They’re moving so slowly in terms of implementing
reform,” Mansour said in a telephone interview Oct. 18. “I
refer back to the sensitivity of the issue, and that it might
create social resentment.” The delay may leave the country’s
budget deficit this year little changed at 10 percent of gross
domestic product, she said.  Diesel prices at the pump averaged $0.32 in Egypt between
2007 and 2011, compared with $0.84 in the U.S., according to
World Bank data. A doubling of the cost of diesel in Egypt will
increase the costs of land shipments “significantly,” said
Citadel’s Murphy. “If you think about trucks, 65 percent to 70
percent of their cost is fuel, versus our situation on a barge,
which is 30 percent to 35 percent,” he said. “All of a sudden,
the economies that you get from barges are huge.”  Citadel Capital plans to expand Nile Logistics’ fleet by
almost a third to 58 vessels by mid-2014, the company said in an
e-mailed statement Oct. 21.  Lunatic Express  Citadel’s cross-border transport project also includes a
controlling stake in Rift Valley Railways Ltd., which operates a
2,000-kilometer rail link from  Mombasa  in  Kenya  to neighboring
 Uganda , dubbed the Lunatic Express during its construction in
1896 when many of its builders succumbed to tropical diseases
and lion attacks.  Nile Cargo’s operation in  South Sudan  is offering a glimpse
of the future. In the absence of subsidized fuel, the company is
making a profit on a $20 million investment, Murphy said, moving
cargoes of wheat and other goods to remote destinations.  The company signed a five-year contract in 2010 with
Egypt’s government to transport as much as 2 million tons of
grain a year.  “If you’re an importer of grain, today we can go up to
your ship in Alexandria, get our floating crane, take it off
into a 1,200 ton barge, float it into our warehouse and keep it
there,” Murphy said. “That’s highly efficient compared with
having 70 trucks lined up in a port that’s extremely busy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  