-- NJ Transit Train That Brings 10,000 to Giants Game May Not Run
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-01T04:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/nj-transit-may-not-run-train-that-brings-10-000-to-giants-game.html
New Jersey Transit  may not run the
train that brings 10,000 people to MetLife Stadium when the  New
York Giants  meet the Pittsburgh Steelers on Nov. 4 as it
continues to assess damage from  Hurricane Sandy .  The National Football League team’s practice facility and
$1.6 billion stadium were undamaged during the storm, which
caused flooding and blackouts in the metropolitan area, and the
team’s weekly schedule is unchanged, Giants spokesman Pat Hanlon
said in an e-mail. NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  declined in an e-
mail to comment.  A decision on the rail service may be made late tomorrow or
Nov. 3, N.J. Transit spokesman Nancy Snyder said yesterday. The
game is scheduled to begin at 4:25 p.m. local time Nov. 4.  “We’re thinking about everything right now,” Snyder said
in a telephone interview. “We’re trying to recover from the
storm, and at this point it is too early to make that call.”  Hurricane Sandy, at 900 miles (1,448 km) wide the biggest
tropical storm in Atlantic Ocean history, produced life-
threatening surges in a region with 60 million residents and
caused what may add up to billions of dollars of damage. N.J.
Transit rail service was suspended at 4 p.m. Oct. 28 in advance
of the hurricane’s arrival and remains shut down. The system’s
hub at Hoboken remains closed after it was flooded.  Coach USA, which runs buses to the stadium from  New York 
City’s  Port Authority , is expecting its service to run as
scheduled, spokesman Mike Alvich said yesterday. The company
will monitor N.J. Transit’s status as the week progresses, and
may add buses, he said.  Bus Service  “There could be a possibility of putting out some extra
buses in case the trains don’t run, but we won’t know that
probably up until the last minute,” Alvich said in a telephone
interview. “If we see a need, we’re going to try to meet that
need.”  The  Coach USA service  costs $5 each way and takes about 20
minutes, depending on traffic. Alvich said buses will run
continually to the stadium starting at 1 p.m. until 4 p.m., and
depart one after another until 30 minutes after the end of the
game.  The  New York Jets , who share MetLife Stadium with the
Giants, are off this week. They don’t play at home until Nov. 22
against the  New England Patriots . The Giants’ next home game is
Nov. 25 against the  Green Bay Packers .  N.J. Transit hasn’t yet determined whether there was damage
to the 2 1/4-mile track that runs from Frank R. Lautenberg Rail
Station in Secaucus, New Jersey, to the stadium in East
Rutherford, according to Snyder. She said it was also too early
to determine whether it would try to run a bus service if the
trains weren’t available.  Rail Cost  The rail line cost $213 million and opened in 2009 for the
final season of  Giants Stadium , which since has been torn down.
Fans can park at Secaucus or transfer from trains that run
through New Jersey and New York’s  Penn Station .  The trip from Secaucus to MetLife Stadium is $2.55 each way
and takes about 10 minutes, while the 30-minute trip from Penn
Station costs $5.25. An average of 10,000 people uses the rail
service for NFL games, according to Snyder.  The defending-champion Giants (6-2) have not lost since
Sept. 30 against the division-rival  Philadelphia Eagles , while
the Steelers (4-3) have won their last two games. The two teams
have combined to win four of the past seven Super Bowl titles.  -- With assistance from Aaron Kuriloff in New York. Editor:
Michael Sillup, Larry Siddons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  