-- Norway Central Bank Delays Plans to Tighten Monetary Policy
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-10-31T14:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/norway-central-bank-delays-plans-to-tighten-monetary-policy-3-.html
Norges Bank pushed back plans to
tighten  monetary policy  and said it probably won’t start raising
interest rates until March at the earliest.  The bank, which had previously signaled rates may rise as
early as December, kept  its benchmark interest rate  at 1.5
percent for a fourth meeting as policy makers struggle to
balance the risks posed by  Europe ’s debt crisis and an
overheated domestic economy. Today’s rate decision was forecast
by all 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “The key policy rate is being kept at a low level because
inflation is low and global interest rates are at very low
levels,” Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said in a
statement. “Growth among Norway’s trading partners is weak and
the uncertainty surrounding developments in the international
economy is elevated.”  Policy makers are keeping rates close to record lows
following two cuts over the past year after the krone’s strength
hurt exporters struggling to stay competitive. At the same time,
 Norway ’s Financial Supervisory Authority has warned that
Europe’s second-biggest oil exporter may be in the grip of a
housing bubble after low borrowing costs spurred credit growth
and sent private debt loads to almost double average after-tax
incomes.  October 2013  “The rate path that the bank has put forward shows a small
probability of a rate increase in the second quarter, with the
greatest likelihood of a rise in the third quarter,” Ole Andre
Kjennerud, an economist at DNB Markets, said in an e-mailed
note. DNB expects the central bank to keep its main rate
unchanged until October next year, after which gradual
tightening will start, he said.  The krone, which gained as much as 0.7 percent against the
euro earlier today, was trading 0.4 percent higher at 7.3948 per
single currency unit as of 2:54 p.m. local time. Versus the
dollar, the krone was up 0.7 percent at 5.6919, after trading as
much as 1 percent higher earlier in the day.  The central bank’s executive board decided that the policy
rate should be in an interval of 1 percent to 2 percent through
March next year, “unless the Norwegian economy is exposed to
major new shocks,” the bank said. Policy makers didn’t consider
cutting rates today, Olsen told reporters after the decision was
announced.  Global Outlook  Weak global growth prospects have prompted central bankers
in the  euro zone , the U.S. and  Japan  to resort to stimulus,
pushing rate increases further out in time. That’s limited scope
for tightening in Norway, where Olsen has signaled he doesn’t
want rates to stray too far from levels elsewhere.  “Developments in the Norwegian economy give reason to
believe that inflation will gradually pick up,” Olsen said.
“The analyses in this report suggest that the key policy rate
should be kept at today’s level into next year, followed by a
gradual increase towards a more normal level. The forecast for
the key policy rate in 2013 is slightly lower than the June
forecast.”  Gains in the krone, which hit a nine-year high against the
euro in August, have kept  inflation  below the central bank’s 2.5
percent target since mid-2009. Annual underlying inflation,
which adjusts for taxes, fees and energy prices, slowed to 1.1
percent last month from 1.2 percent in August.  Currency Gains  The currency’s appreciation has also raised the cost of
Norwegian exports. Companies such as the world’s second-biggest
newsprint maker  Norske Skogindustrier ASA (NSG)  and solar company
 Renewable Energy Corp. (REC)  ASA have cut jobs to stay competitive.  Meanwhile, the domestic economy continues to show signs of
overheating.  House prices  rose an annual 7.3 percent in
September, the Norwegian Association of Real Estate Agents
estimates.  Registered unemployment  fell below 2.5 percent last
month as retail sales rose 0.7 percent in September from August,
more than economists surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted.
Household credit growth was 7 percent last month, the statistics
agency said today.  Norway’s  mainland economy , which excludes oil, gas and
shipping, will expand 3.7 percent this year as an oil sector
boom filters through to the rest of the economy, boosting wages.
That compares with the European Commission’s estimate for a 0.3
percent contraction in the debt-laden euro area.  While Norges Bank is trying to balance policy to guide an
oil-driven expansion, in neighboring  Sweden , the Riksbank last
month cut its benchmark to the lowest level since early 2011.  As Olsen responds to the threats facing Norway by leaving
rates on hold, “the risk is apparent that Norway in the medium
term will develop precisely the domestic imbalances that the
bank itself has warned against,”  Carl Hammer , a currency
strategist at SEB, said in a note before the decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  