-- Norway Won’t Buy Foreign Currency for Wealth Fund Next Month
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-10-31T11:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/norway-won-t-buy-foreign-currency-for-wealth-fund-next-month-1-.html
Norway ’s central bank said it won’t
buy any foreign currency for its $650 billion sovereign wealth
fund next month amid changes in the nation’s strategy to hedge
against overheating.  The decision sent the krone higher, and Norway’s currency
rose as much as 0.7 percent against the euro to trade at 7.3961
as of 12:26 p.m. in Oslo. Versus the dollar, the krone soared as
much as 1 percent to trade at 5.6818. The gains made the krone
today’s best-performing major currency against the euro, the
dollar and the yen.  “One of the biggest headwinds against near-term krone
strength has been averted,” Erica Blomgren, chief strategist at
SEB AB in Oslo, said in reply to e-mailed questions.  The decision not to purchase foreign currency next month,
which Blomgren said “surprised” market participants, follows
the central bank’s efforts to build up a separate hedge against
overheating through its so-called petro-buffer. Norway’s central
bank converts oil revenue received into foreign currency, which
its wealth fund invests abroad to avoid overheating the domestic
economy.  “Norges Bank has increased the size of the petro-buffer
portfolio considerably through 2012 for covering the transfers
towards the end of the year,” the bank said. “These changes
have reduced Norges Bank’s need to purchase foreign exchange in
the market.”  The move also follows a decision by the  Finance Ministry  to
allow allocation of cash to the wealth fund in December, the
Oslo-based bank said. That means the central bank can also
purchase currency in December, a transaction that wasn’t
possible previously,  DNB ASA (DNB)  said.  “As a result, approximately half of the initial transfer
in November will be made in December this year,” the central
bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  