-- Obama Tours N.J. Damage as Half of State Without Power
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g ,   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-10-31T21:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/obama-tours-n-j-storm-destruction-with-christie-as-deaths-rise.html
President  Barack Obama  toured New
Jersey’s hurricane damage with Governor  Chris Christie  by
helicopter as rescuers searched for stranded residents, the
death toll rose to eight and more than half of the state’s homes
and businesses were without electricity.  Along the New Jersey coast today, residents and emergency
workers began to clean up after the Atlantic storm Sandy made
landfall on Oct. 29. They removed downed trees, pumped flooded
basements and cleared sand and debris from roads. In Atlantic
City, casino executives made plans to try to open on Nov. 2.  In the hardest-hit parts of the  state , authorities couldn’t
estimate how long it would take to rebuild. Along two  barrier
islands  north of  Atlantic City  in Ocean County, where amusement
piers and rides were destroyed, rescue crews checked houses to
make sure everyone who wanted to evacuate had been taken away.
With access to the islands blocked and homes that had been wiped
off their foundations bobbing in Barnegat Bay, workers began to
remove sand from roads.  “All of these shore towns have to be up and running by
summer -- that’s when everyone is coming down here and it’s what
they rely on,” said Frank Howe, 50, a tile setter from Long
Branch, a coastal community damaged by the storm. “People will
still come to the beach. But we won’t have a boardwalk for
them.”  Tourism Backbone  The state’s 127 miles of beaches, known as the  Jersey
Shore , are the backbone of a $38 billion  tourism industry , New
Jersey’s third largest. Last year, 67.8 million tourists visited
the state, according to the state division of travel and
tourism.  Casinos in Atlantic City, which claims title to America’s
first oceanside boardwalk and is the second-largest U.S. gaming
center, have been central to Christie’s economic revival
strategy since he took office in January, 2010.  About 2.05 million residences and businesses, about half of
those in the state, were without power as of 2 p.m., according
to a U.S. Department of Energy report.  Eight people, including three who may have drowned, were
reported dead in New Jersey as of this morning, according to
Mary Goepfert, a spokeswoman for the state office of emergency
management. Authorities are trying to confirm that each death
was storm-related, she said.  Filling Shelters  There were 6,329 people in shelters across the state.
Temporary housing in three counties -- Morris, Passaic and Union
-- was at capacity.  Obama today arrived near Atlantic City and boarded a
helicopter with Christie, 50, a first-term Republican governor,
to tour storm damage.  “We’re going to be here for the long haul,” Obama said at
the Brigantine Beach Community Center. “We’re not going to
tolerate any bureaucracy.”  Christie, a surrogate for Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney , praised Obama, a Democrat, for his administration’s
response to the storm. With six days left for voters to decide
whether to re-elect Obama, the storm brought the two political
foes together. White House officials and campaign aides said
politics played no role in the visit.  “We’re going to work together to make sure we get
ourselves through this crisis and everybody back to normal,”
Christie said at the community center.  ‘Jersey Shore’  On Ocean County’s northern barrier island, where episodes
of the MTV show “Jersey Shore” have been filmed, a roller
coaster was submerged and an amusement pier in ruins. More than
a dozen small fires burned from natural-gas lines that had been
attached to damaged or destroyed homes on part of the island,
which includes Seaside Heights, Lavallette and Mantoloking, said
Rich Peterson, a county spokesman.  Boardwalks along two islands were destroyed. Wood and other
debris was tossed across the islands. The islands -- about 40
miles long -- are home to thousands of homes and businesses and
officials haven’t assessed the extent of damage or how long
it’ll take to complete repairs, Peterson said.  “We’ve never faced anything like this before,” he said.
“The brunt of the storm hit us badly, everywhere.”  In nearby Toms River, on the mainland, residents were
permitted to return to their homes a day after flooding forced
them to flee. Some roads were still covered with water and
fallen trees. The side of a house was sheared off, exposing a
living room and kitchen with a table and chairs still in place.  ‘Just Shock’  Tracy Brazaitis, 53, said she reacted with “shock, just
shock” after seeing her home, which had four feet of water on
the first floor. Her back porch had dislodged from the house.  “Who would have ever imagined this?” she said. “You see
this on the news, but you never imagine it can happen to you.”  Nearby, Nancy Beiswinger, 60, discovered that the home she
rents to a tenant was in tatters. The living room, kitchen and
bathroom floors were covered with several inches of wet branches
and twigs. A musty smell filled the air. Her own house, across
the street, suffered a cracked foundation, she said.  “It looked like a bomb went off,” said Beiswinger as she
started to cry.  In Long Branch, a city of 31,000 on the northern end of New
Jersey’s coast, two surfers in black wet suits braved the
churning Atlantic Ocean.  Flooded Basements  Hoses directed water to the streets from flooded basements.
Lawns were littered with fence panels, downed trees and trash
from upended cans.  At a beach-front townhouse development, Renaissance on the
Ocean, crews used front-end loaders to clear debris. Shattered
glass lay on the ground and balcony railings were ruined. On
Ocean Avenue, parallel to the water a block inland, roof
shingles and vinyl siding pieces lined the gutters.  In Atlantic City, blinking lights from  slot machines  could
be seen only from behind locked doors. Flood waters had receded,
leaving behind sand and debris. Casino executives met yesterday
with state officials to discuss re-opening on Nov. 2, according
to Tom Pohlman, executive vice president and general manager for
the Golden Nugget.  “We have no damage and are prepared to open as soon as the
state allows,” Pohlman said in a statement.  Casinos such as Caesars, the Trump  Taj Mahal  and the
Showboat probably were spared from significant damage because of
a project earlier this year to fortify the beach and build
dunes, said Frank Branagan, a superintendent with Agate
Construction Co.  Boardwalk Remains  The boardwalk outside those casinos was intact.  “You sacrifice your dunes to save your city,” Branagan
said in an interview on the dunes.  The city, with 40,000 residents, was mostly quiet today as
power remained out for more than 5,000 homes and businesses,
according to Atlantic City Electric.  A crew with Atlantic City Electric pumped underground water
out of a manhole next to Caesars casino to assess damage to the
city’s electrical grid.  The storm caused physical and economic damage at All Star
Liquors at  New Hampshire  and Atlantic avenues in Atlantic City,
one block from where the boardwalk was torn apart.  “We had almost $20,000 worth of damage,” Vishee Mandahar,
26, said from inside his family’s store as workers pumped out
water and mud and picked up glass from broken liquor bottles.
The store was flooded with about a foot of water, leaving mildew
and mud splashes on the counter and walls.  “By not opening we’re losing money,” Mandahar said.
“We’ve got bills to pay.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Atlantic City,  New Jersey  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  