-- Obama’s Virginia Wild Card in Hands of Ex-Congressman
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/obama-s-virginia-wild-card-in-hands-of-ex-congressman.html
If the presidential contest in
 Virginia  is as close as polls show, the outcome might be
determined by a folksy ex-congressman with a country twang who
has been a Democrat, an independent and a Republican and may now
earn a new label: spoiler.  Former Virginia Representative Virgil Goode, an enduring
figure in the state’s rural Southside, could become the  Ralph Nader  of 2012. It was Nader, as the Green Party candidate in
2000, who peeled enough votes to cost Democratic Vice President
president Al Gore the key state of  Florida , which tipped the
presidential election to then-Texas Governor  George W. Bush .  Goode, 66, is on the ballot with Republican  Mitt Romney  and
President  Barack Obama  as the Constitution Party candidate in 26
states. The former Republican lawmaker’s anti-immigration, pro-
gun-rights and federal budget-cutting messages appeal to some of
the same voters who might support Romney in next week’s
presidential election.  Goode, who lost his bid for a seventh House term in 2008,
rejects the premise that his candidacy could materially affect
the outcome of the presidential election.  “That’s like saying Ralph Nader cost  Al Gore  the election
in 2000,” Goode said in an interview. “He cost it himself.”  Goode’s chances of taking votes that Romney would otherwise
collect are greatest in the critical swing state of Virginia,
where he represented the state’s Fifth Congressional District
for 12 years and where 2 percent of voters support his bid,
according to a September  Washington  Post poll.  Virginia Key  Virginia, with 13 electoral votes, is one of the four or
five most competitive of eight states that will determine the
election less than one week away.  Goode is spending the final weeks of the campaign focusing
on the Old Dominion, though he’s also spent time in Ohio, Nevada
and Florida. Goode, first elected to his House seat in 1996,
often won with more than 120,000 votes -- more than the 97,000
votes that Nader won in Florida.  “Clearly Republicans are concerned about this,” said
Craig Brians, a political science professor at  Virginia Tech  in
Blacksburg. Brians notes that in the past few weeks, the local
Roanoke Times has printed several letters to the editor from
nervous Republicans imploring party members to “hold your nose
and vote for Romney or Obama wins.”  ‘Can’t Win’  “It certainly could affect the election” in a close race,
said Charles Poindexter, a Republican state House delegate from
Goode’s home turf of Franklin County. “The question I get is,
‘Why is Virgil doing this?’ I think most people understand he
can’t win.”  His impact will depend on the closeness of the contest in a
state that Democrats hadn’t won since  Lyndon Johnson ’s landslide
victory in 1964 until Obama carried it in 2008.  The state’s electorate is now evenly divided, according to
an average of polls compiled by Real Clear Politics from Oct.
22-26 showing Obama and Romney tied at 47.8 percent.  Since 2008, Virginia has seen a 3 percentage-point decline
in white working-class, non-college-educated voters who would
tend to favor Romney, said  William Frey , a demographer at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington. Minority voters also have
gained 1 percentage-point in numbers, as have white college-
educated voters -- two groups favoring Democrats.  Turnout Critical  Still, those advantages for Obama may be offset by greater
turnout among white voters frustrated by a sluggish, though
recovering, economy who may favor Romney.  “There’s probably going to be bigger turnout among whites
in Virginia than there was in 2008,” Frey said. “That makes it
more even.”  While the dominant campaign issue, the economy isn’t as
beneficial for Romney as it is in other states. Virginia’s
unemployment rate last month was 5.9 percent, compared with 7.8
percent nationally, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics .  Democrats say they’re confident that any votes won by
Goode, who advocates limiting legal immigration and deep cuts to
federal spending, would hurt Romney, not Obama.  “If he takes votes away at all, it would be from the
Republican ticket,” said  Brian Moran , chairman of the Virginia
Democratic Party.  Some Skeptical  Mark Rozell, a political analyst at  George Mason University 
in Fairfax County, said polling estimates of Goode earning 1 or
2 percent of the vote may be overstated.  “I’m a skeptic,” Rozell said. While voters may express
support for a third-party candidate like Goode in polls, he
said, “The tendency of voters is to change their mind by
Election Day rather than throw their vote away.”  Goode (rhymes with “food”) has long been a colorful, if
volatile, figure in Virginia politics. Wiry, with an angular
face and pronounced Virginia twang, Goode made a habit of
passing out pencils while campaigning, once explaining that
voters found them more useful than bumper stickers or
literature. His office for years featured a chair made from a
tree stump.  “What you see is what you get with Virgil,” said Steven
Angle, the mayor of Goode’s hometown of  Rocky Mount  who attended
high school with him. “Any type of function in the town or the
county he attended if he could. If he couldn’t, he would send
you a letter telling why he couldn’t be there.”  Party Switches  Elected to the state Senate as a Democrat at age 27, Goode
still belonged to that party when he initially won his
congressional seat in 1996. He became an independent two years
later and then a Republican in 2002. He lost his seat in 2008 as
Obama won Virginia by 7 percentage points.  Goode is perhaps best known nationally for his anti-
immigration stance, the cornerstone of his candidacy. Goode says
there should be a moratorium on green card admissions until U.S.
unemployment is under 5 percent. “I’m the only one advocating
that,” he said in the interview.  His Constitution Party platform also calls for ending
automatic birthright citizenship and balancing the budget by
eliminating the departments of energy, education and commerce.  Goode has received an A+ rating from the  National Rifle
Association , the nation’s biggest gun lobby, and opposes a ban
on assault weapons like those used in the recent massacre in a
Colorado movie theater. In contrast, Romney signed the nation’s
first assault weapons ban in  Massachusetts  and previously said
he would support a federal version. In 1994, Romney also backed
a five-day waiting period for gun sales. In his presidential
campaign, he’s said there’s no need for new gun laws.  Goode says his values align more closely with voters in the
Old Confederacy, with a pro-gun, anti-federal-spending culture.
Many of these former Democrats-turned-Republicans like Goode
have in recent decades shunned the  Democratic Party  over social
issues even as they are dissatisfied with the  Republican Party ’s
prescriptions for the economy and creating jobs.  “The problem with America is people aren’t voting their
beliefs,” Goode said. “They’re always asking you to hold your
nose and vote against what you believe in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  