-- Local Debt’s Win Over Treasuries Longest Since ’06: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/local-debt-s-win-over-treasuries-longest-since-06-muni-credit.html
The $3.7 trillion U.S. municipal-
bond market is set to beat Treasuries for the longest monthly
stretch in six years as investors turn to tax-exempts for their
relative safety.  Securities sold by states and localities have earned 0.3
percent this month, compared with a 0.5 percent loss on federal
borrowings, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. It would be
the fifth straight month for muni returns to exceed those on
Treasuries, the best performance since 2006.  Bill Gross , who oversees the world’s biggest bond fund, is
among investors favoring munis as they are poised to out-earn
Treasuries this year on an absolute basis and also when adjusted
for volatility. Local-debt mutual funds have added assets for 28
straight weeks, the lengthiest span since March 2010, according
to Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  “It’s been an extraordinary run,” John Hallacy, head of
muni research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “People are just seeking a safe
harbor.”  Local debt has returned 3.9 percent in 2012 after
accounting for price swings, compared with 0.6 percent for
Treasuries, data compiled by Bank of America and Bloomberg show.
It would be the first time since 2006 that tax-exempts have
bested Treasuries in consecutive years on a volatility-adjusted
basis.  Better Bet  Without accounting for volatility, munis have earned 7
percent this year, to 1.7 percent for Treasuries. Munis have
been the better bet as defaults are on pace to be the lowest
since at least 2009, according to data from Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors. The drop refutes
banking analyst  Meredith Whitney ’s projection in December 2010
of “hundreds of billions of dollars” of defaults within a
year.  Gross, 68, directed 5 percent of the $278 billion Total
Return Fund to munis in September. It’s the first time he’s held
that much local debt in back-to-back months since at least 2006,
according to data from his firm, Pacific Investment Management
Co., in Newport Beach, California. At the same time, he reduced
Treasuries to 20 percent, the least since October 2011.  Generational Lows  The Federal Reserve’s move to keep its benchmark overnight
rate close to zero to spur the economy has helped drive yields
to generational lows. Interest rates on munis due in 20 years
were 3.68 percent last week, near a 45-year low of 3.6 percent
set Jan. 19, according to a Bond Buyer index.  The demand has benefited lower-rated cities and localities.
Investors demanded as little as  1.66 percentage points  of
additional yield on Oct. 2 to buy munis due in 30 years and
rated BBB, Standard & Poor’s second-lowest investment-grade
rating, Bloomberg data show. That yield spread above AAA bonds
was the narrowest since October 2008.  Issuers from New York to  California  have sold  $298 billion 
of fixed-rate bonds this year, compared with $204 billion in the
same period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The biggest percentage in almost two decades has been to
retire higher-cost debt, giving investors fewer new bonds to bid
on. Securities for refunding account for 42 percent of issuance
this year as of Oct. 17, JPMorgan Securities LLC analysts led by
Peter DeGroot said in an Oct. 19 report. It’s the most for
refinancing since 1993, according to the report.  Revenue Streak  Muni investments are also benefiting from an improving
fiscal outlook following the 18-month recession that ended in
June 2009.  State tax collections rose 3.2 percent in the second
quarter compared with the same period in 2011, according to the
Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in  Albany , New
York. It’s the 10th straight quarterly increase.  In an Oct. 29 trading session that was abbreviated because
of  Hurricane Sandy ,  yields  on benchmark 10-year tax-exempts were
little changed at about 1.7 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Treasuries of similar maturity yielded about 1.72 percent
at about 12:30 p.m. New York time that day. Bond markets were
shut in the U.S. yesterday because of the storm.  Munis have ended with yields below their federal
counterparts since Oct. 4. Investors look at the  ratio  to gauge
relative value between the two asset classes. The lower it is,
the more expensive munis are compared with Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  