-- Oil Trims Biggest Monthly Decline Since May After Storm
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-31T12:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/oil-trades-near-two-day-high-as-refiners-plan-post-storm-restart.html
Oil rose, trimming the biggest
monthly decline since May, as refineries started resuming
operations after the Atlantic superstorm Sandy moved away from
the U.S. East Coast.  West Texas Intermediate futures gained as much as 1.1
percent after advancing 0.2 percent yesterday. Philadelphia
Energy Solutions’ 355,000 barrel-a-day  Pennsylvania  refinery is
restoring operations and  NuStar Energy LP (NS) ’s 74,000 barrel-a-day
plant in Paulsboro,  New Jersey , will be at full production
tomorrow, the companies said. Seven refineries with a total
capacity of 1.29 million barrels a day had shut or reduced
operations because of Sandy.  “If we think the refineries on the East Coast haven’t
suffered material damage and are restarting,” that will support
WTI prices, said Torbjoern Kjus, a senior oil analyst at DNB ASA
in Oslo, who predicts  Brent crude  will average $109 a barrel
this quarter. “You could argue Sandy should have more negative
effects on oil demand than negative effects on supply.”  Crude for December delivery rose as much as 91 cents to
$86.59 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $86.32 at 12:11 p.m. London time. Prices
gained 14 cents yesterday to $85.68, the highest close since
Oct. 26. Futures are down 6.4 percent in October and 12.7
percent this year.  Brent for December settlement rose 54 cents to $109.62 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude’s premium to the West Texas
Intermediate contract was at $23.30, from $23.40 yesterday.  Price Support  Oil may extend gains in New York after futures settled
above the lower Bollinger Band yesterday for the third time in
four days, signaling technical support, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator is at $85.02 a barrel
today. Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support
levels.  Gasoline for November delivery rose as much as 10.12 cents
to $2.83 a gallon in  New York , the highest level since Oct. 17.
The contract expires today. The more-active December future was
up 4.32 cents at $2.6587.  Floor trading on the Nymex will resume today after being
suspended for a second day yesterday because of the storm, CME
Group Inc., the exchange’s owner, said in an e-mail. Electronic
trading has operated normally.  East Coast Refineries  Philadelphia Energy’s Pennsylvania refinery “came through
the storm without issues,” Cherice Corley, a spokeswoman at the
plant, said in an e-mail yesterday. NuStar announced the
Paulsboro resumption on its website.  About 308,000 barrels a day of refining capacity remained
shut in New Jersey. Production starts at Phillips 66’s 238,000
barrel-a-day Bayway refinery in Linden and  Hess Corp. (HES) ’s 70,000
barrel-a-day Port Reading plant depend on post-storm
assessments, the companies said.  PBF Energy Inc. (PBF) ’s Delaware City and Paulsboro facilities
“ran well” overnight at reduced rates, said Michael Karlovich,
a Parsippany, New Jersey-based spokesman for the company. The
plants have a combined capacity of 367,200 barrels a day.  Trebor Banstetter, an Atlanta-based spokesman for Delta Air
Lines Inc.’s Monroe Energy LLC, didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail asking about the status of the 185,000 barrel-a-day
Trainer, Pennsylvania, refinery. The U.S. Energy Department said
the plant was operating at reduced rates as of 8 a.m. local time
yesterday.  Buckeye Partners LP (BPL)  is starting to return six oil-products
pipelines to service after shutting them before Sandy, according
to a statement from the company yesterday. The resumptions are
conditional on favorable reports about the lines and supply
availability, the company said.  Oil Stockpiles  Sandy weakened to a surface trough of low pressure over
western Pennsylvania, according to a 5 a.m.  advisory  issued by
the Hydrometeorological Prediction Center in  College Park ,
 Maryland . The storm’s remnants are forecast to continue
weakening over the state as it now lacks any discernible
circulation, and no specific location was stated.  U.S. oil stockpiles rose by 2.1 million barrels to 371.7
million last week, the  American Petroleum Institute  said
yesterday. Crude supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for Nymex futures, dropped 659,000 barrels to 43.4
million.  The Energy Department postponed release of its inventory
report from today. It may publish the data tomorrow, depending
on the extent of storm damage and delays, the department’s
Energy Information Administration said in an e-mail.  The government report may show crude supplies increased by
1.75 million barrels last week, according to the median of nine
responses in a  Bloomberg survey  of analysts. Gasoline stockpiles
fell 500,000 barrels and distillate inventories declined by 1.4
million in the survey.  The industry-funded API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  