-- Holcim Indonesia Adds Cement Plants to Tap Rising Demand
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2012-11-01T05:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/holcim-indonesia-expands-to-tap-rising-demand-southeast-asia.html
PT Holcim Indonesia (SMCB) , the country’s
third-largest cement producer, will add a plant in Tuban, East
Java in addition to one already under construction as it seeks
to meet rising demand in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy.  Holcim Indonesia, 80.6 percent owned by Swiss cement maker
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , plans to boost capacity to 12 million tons a year
by 2015 from 8.3 million tons as housing construction increases
and the government works on more infrastructure projects,
President Director Eamon Ginley said.  “The cement industry here in terms of domestic supply
needs to double because the market will grow to nearly 100
million tons by 2020-2021,” Ginley, 46, said in an interview at
the company’s headquarters in south Jakarta. “The prospects for
the cement industry are very strong.”  Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has pledged
to build more highways, airports and ports to clear bottlenecks
and meet an economic growth target of an average 6.6 percent by
the end of his second term in 2014. Gross domestic product
expanded 6.37 percent in the second quarter.  Bank Indonesia (BBRI) 
reiterated its forecast last month for expansion at 6.1 percent
to 6.5 percent this year and 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent in 2013.  Holcim Indonesia is spending $450 million to build the
first Tuban plant, which will have an annual capacity of 1.7
million tons when it begins operation next year, Ginley said.
The second facility will have “similar” capacity, he said.  Holcim operates two sites on Java island and a cement
grinding station in Banten province, west of Jakarta. If the
second plant in Tuban is approved, the company would have total
capacity of almost 12 million tons by 2015, Ginley said.  Outlook  “If Holcim wants to remain competitive with the other two
listed cement companies, it better expand its capacity again,”
said Adolf Sutrisno, an analyst at Andalan Artha Advisindo
Sekuritas in  Singapore . “The outlook for the cement industry is
very good as it will be supported by the government’s
infrastructure spending.”  Indonesian cement companies have outperformed the broader
market this year and Holcim is the best-performing stock among
three listed cement makers. Its share price has gained 49
percent in 2012, better than the 28 percent increase of  PT Semen
Gresik (SMGR)  and 26 percent gain of  PT Indocement Tunggal Prakarsa. (INTP) 
The Jakarta Composite index has risen 13 percent.  Holcim reported yesterday its nine-month net income rose to
911.2 billion rupiah ($95 million) from 740.2 billion rupiah the
same period a year earlier. Its share price was unchanged at
3,250 rupiah each as of the noon Jakarta-time break. The Jakarta
Composite index declined 0.7 percent and Semen Gresik,
Indonesia’s biggest cement producer by volume, fell 2 percent.  Better Margins  Ginley predicted a margin on earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of 30 percent to 35 percent over
the next five years as better efficiency from the facility in
Tuban helps lower the operating costs and reduces transportation
costs to areas in East Java. The margin for the nine-month
period rose to 28.2 percent from 21.5 percent a year earlier.  The Tuban plant “gives us position in the East Java
market,” Ginley said. “We truck the cement from the West Java
or Central Java plants to supply East Java today. Next year,
when we turn on the Tuban plant, we can save all those
additional logistic costs.”  Indonesia  consumed 48 million tons of cement last year,
industry data show, and Ginley expects the volume to expand by
14 percent this year and at least 10 percent in 2013.  Indonesia has a “very solid plan” to boost economic
growth, Ginley said. “In order to do this, you need cement. If
you don’t have cement, you can’t have development. That’s why
it’s very important for Indonesia that the local industry also
continues to invest and meet this challenge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  