-- London Whale’s Boss Martin-Artajo Sued by JPMorgan
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-10-31T16:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/london-whale-s-boss-martin-artajo-sued-by-jpmorgan.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sued the
executive responsible for supervising Bruno Iksil, the trader
nicknamed the London Whale for market-moving wagers at the
division responsible for a $6.2 billion trading loss.  Javier Martin-Artajo, Iksil’s boss in the chief investment
office, is a defendant in a London lawsuit filed Oct. 22 by the
bank and made public today. The court filings didn’t reveal any
details of the complaint. Both men have left the bank.  JPMorgan disclosed trading losses in May after what Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said were “egregious” failures
to manage flawed positions on synthetic credit securities. The
bank is still recovering from those bets, the losses on which
had risen to $6.2 billion through the first nine months of 2012
and may increase, the bank has said.  Martin-Artajo hasn’t been served with the lawsuit and
hasn’t seen the bank’s evidence against him, according to his
lawyer Greg Campbell. His client is “deeply disappointed by the
bank’s unjustified assertion that he may have attempted to
conceal the losses,” and is confident he’ll be cleared of any
wrongdoing, Campbell said in an e-mail.  JPMorgan ousted managers responsible for the group’s loss
and said it would claw back their pay after an internal probe
found traders may have intentionally tried to hide the problem.
The company didn’t name the managers. Iksil, Martin-Artajo and
former Europe CIO head Achilles Macris were responsible for
overseeing the trades.  Kate Haywood , a spokeswoman for the New York-based bank,
declined to comment on the litigation by e-mail.  Pricing Trades  The internal investigation by JPMorgan found that Martin-
Artajo encouraged Iksil to put higher values on his trades than
they would have fetched on the open market, the Wall Street
Journal reported in August.  JPMorgan is facing regulatory scrutiny and criminal probes
over the CIO group’s trading as well as U.S. lawsuits from
pension funds claiming they lost as much as $52 million because
of its activities. The unit was pushed by Dimon to make bigger
and riskier bets with the bank’s money in the years leading up
to the losses, according to former employees.  The botched bets spawned management changes and dismissals,
beginning with Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, who retired
four days after the loss was disclosed on May 10. Barry Zubrow,
who had overseen JPMorgan’s risk management function during the
period, will retire at the end of this year, he said Oct. 5.  The case is: JP Morgan Chase & Co v. Mr Javier Martin-
Artajo,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division,
HQ12X04391  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  