-- One57 Plan Devised by Engineers as Midtown Crane Dangles
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/one57-crane-dangles-as-nyc-plans-ways-to-secure-it.html
City engineers are devising a method
for removing or securing the dangling boom of a construction
crane, work that may take weeks, following multiple trips to the
the top floors of  Manhattan ’s luxury One57 condo development.  “They’re formulating a plan to remove the boom or fasten
the boom to the building,” Anthony Sclafani, a spokesman for
the  New York  City Department of Buildings, said yesterday in an
interview. “This process is still in its early stages. There’s
no complete plan on how to remove it. It’s being formulated as
we speak.”  The crane partially collapsed on Oct. 29 as gusts from
superstorm Sandy pounded Manhattan. Buildings near the site at
157 W. 57th St., including  Le Parker Meridien  hotel and the
Salisbury Hotel, were evacuated, and nearby streets remain
closed as the boom of the crane hovers like a dagger aimed at
57th Street.  The street will remain closed and people won’t be able to
return to their homes until sometime this weekend at the
earliest, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said yesterday at a news
conference. Sporadic street closings may continue for weeks, as
parts of the crane are removed and new components hoisted.  “We’ll do the best we can,” Bloomberg said. “We do
expect the weather to cooperate and we’ll be able to tie it
down, which will allow us to dramatically reduce the size of the
area that you can’t go in.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Price Record  The 90-story tower, being developed by Extell Development
Co., is poised to be New York’s tallest residential building.
One57 set a price record for a single Manhattan residence in May
when an 11,000-square-foot (1,000-square-meter) unit, spanning
the top two floors, sold for about $90 million. The building,
located between Sixth and Seventh avenues, is scheduled to open
in mid-2013.  At the height of Sandy on Oct. 29, engineers from the
Department of Buildings ascended to the 74th floor to inspect
the crane. They returned the next day, climbing to the top of
the project and reviewing the crane floor by floor, Sclafani
said.  Securing the dangling boom will require assembling another
crane or derrick that can grab hold of the hanging piece from
above, detach it and either lower it to the ground or secure it
inside the building, according to Gary Panariello, a managing
principal at  Thornton Tomasetti Inc. , a New York engineering
firm that isn’t involved in the project.  Like Hubble  Assembling a derrick would involve bringing it up the tower
in pieces, some of which are not readily available or located in
Manhattan, Panariello said.  “It’s kind of like fixing the Hubble telescope,” he said.
“It’s a long way to get out there and do it.”  Extell said it’s working under the supervision of the city
fire department and the Office of Emergency Management, among
others, to plan a “recovery procedure” for the crane.  “As soon as the fire department deems it safe, that
procedure will begin,” Extell said yesterday in a statement.  Lend Lease , the construction manager for One57, “took all
recommended measures to position the crane in anticipation of a
hurricane,” Extell said in its statement. “This was inspected
and approved by the Department of Buildings and is the standard
for hurricanes.”  Followed Procedures  In anticipation of the storm, the crane operator followed
procedures laid out in the design plans, according to Mary
Costello, senior vice president at  Lend Lease. (LLESF)   The crane was left in a “free slewing” position, Costello
said yesterday in a statement. That allows it to move with the
wind like a weather vane, and is the proper procedure for
enduring a storm, said Panariello of Thornton Tomasetti.  The evacuation of streets surrounding the project are
“hurting us,” said  Steven Smith , manager of Rue57, a
restaurant at the corner of 57th Street and Sixth Avenue, which
opened yesterday for the first time since the storm.  As soon the boom is removed, Smith said in an interview
yesterday, “it sure will help our business drastically.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  