-- Latham, S&C, Orrick, Covington & Burling: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-31T10:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/orrick-covington-jones-day-locke-lord-business-of-law.html
Latham & Watkins LLP advised  Schiff
Nutrition International Inc. (SHF)  on its sale to Bayer AG for
$1.1 billion. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP advised Bayer.  Investors will receive $34 a share in cash, Leverkusen,
Germany-based Bayer said in a statement yesterday. The price is
47 percent more than Schiff’s closing level Oct. 26, the most
recent day of  stock trading  in the U.S.  Latham’s corporate team was led by partners Tad Freese and
Jamie Leigh. Advice also was provided on employee benefits
matters by partner Robin Struve, on tax matters by partner
Laurence Stein, on intellectual property matters by partner
Anthony Klein and on antitrust matters by partners Karen
Silverman and Joshua Holian in  San Francisco .  S&C was led by Matthew Hurd. The employee benefits partner
was Matt Friestedt. IP special counsel Blaze Waleski and tax
partner Ron Creamer also assisted on the deal.  Bayer will strengthen its U.S. consumer-health unit with
the Salt Lake City-based business. Signed about six weeks after
Bayer agreed to buy  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s
animal-health business, the deal fits Bayer’s strategy of
building its life sciences unit with small- and mid-sized
acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Orrick Herrington Taps Mitchell Zuklie as New Leader  Mitchell Zuklie, the leader of Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP’s corporate business unit, was selected as
chairman to replace Ralph H. Baxter Jr., who has led the firm
since 1990.  Zuklie will take over in January 2014 following a
partnership ratification. Zuklie advises entrepreneurs,
technology companies such as Fisker Automotive Inc., and
venture-capital firms including  Benchmark Capital , Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers and  Sequoia Capital . He has led
venture-capital financings, public offerings, mergers and
acquisitions and licensing deals.  “Mitch has a tremendous sense of the firm and is a superb
lawyer as well as an insightful leader,” Baxter said in a
 statement . “I look forward to collaborating with him in the
coming year.”  Under Baxter’s leadership, Orrick has grown from a 250-
lawyer U.S. firm to one with 1,100 lawyers and 25 offices
worldwide.  Orrick said its nominating committee selected Zuklie after
an 18-month process. Other partners considered for the position
were  Los Angeles  finance partner Alan Benjamin, San Francisco
litigator Walter Brown and  New York  litigator James Stengel, the
American Lawyer magazine said.  In his current role, Zuklie oversees Orrick’s capital
markets, compensation and benefits, emerging companies, mergers
and acquisitions/private equity and tax groups. He is a member
of the firm’s board and management committee and last year was
on the 14-partner panel that conducted a yearlong review of
Orrick’s strategy.  BigLaw Banker Has ‘Robust’ List of Firms That May Fail  Dan DiPietro, chairman of The Law Firm Group at Citi
Private Bank, said he has a “somewhat robust” watch list of
law firms that may fail in the coming months.  “In this kind of economic environment, it’s hard to
imagine we wouldn’t have some” additional firms shutting their
doors, DiPietro said, though he doesn’t expect to see a “huge
spike” in the number.  Global law firms are perhaps most at risk, facing high
expenses and soft demand worldwide, with the U.S. fiscal cliff
looming, Eurozone problems continuing and the slowdown in China
developing, he tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  To see the interview, click here.  News  General Counsels Donate to Candidates on Both Sides  Occidental Petroleum Corp. general counsel Donald de Brier
gave $40,800, the largest amount to political candidates among
chief corporate counsel during the 2011-2012 cycle,  Corporate
Counsel  reported.  His donations went to support both Republican and
Democratic politicians, including $5,000 each to Senator  Dianne Feinstein  and Representative  Nancy Pelosi , as well as $30,800 to
the  Republican National Committee , the magazine said.  Viacom Inc. general counsel Michael Fricklas gave $30,630
to Democratic candidates, including $17,500 to the  Democratic
National Committee , according to Corporate Counsel.  Altria Group Inc.’s Denise Keane was the third-biggest
donor among public company general counsels, giving $14,320,
including $8,320 to Altria’s political action committee, the
magazine said.  Moves  PepsiCo Lawyer Hired by Covington to Head Public Policy Group  Covington & Burling LLP hired Dan Bryant, most recently
PepsiCo Inc.’s senior vice president of global public policy and
government affairs, to head the firm’s public policy and
government affairs practice.  Bryant, previously assistant attorney general at the U.S.
Justice Department, joins as a partner in the Washington office.  “Dan’s talents and ability to build relationships in both
the corporate and political worlds makes him ideally suited to
help us build on the strengths of our premier public policy and
government affairs practice,” said Timothy Hester, chairman of
the firm’s management committee.  In his seven years at PepsiCo, Bryant led the company’s
government-affairs team and directed its public policy efforts
around the world. Bryant previously served as assistant attorney
general for legal policy and assistant attorney general for
legislative affairs during the administration of President
 George W. Bush .  Earlier, Bryant served as chief counsel to the House
Judiciary Committee’s panel on crime and was on the staff of the
Senate Government Affairs Committee’s permanent subcommittee for
investigations.  Covington & Burling has more than 800 lawyers at eight
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Jones Day Hires Labor & Employment Partner in New York  Jones Day  hired Doreen Davis, former national co-chair of
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP’s labor-management relations and
labor disputes practice, as a partner in its New York office.  Davis focuses on representing employers in trials and other
proceedings before the  National Labor Relations Board , union
organizational activities and collective bargaining. She advises
clients on the labor aspects of mergers, acquisitions and plant
consolidations and provides strategic advice in corporate
campaigns.  “Doreen is an outstanding addition to our labor and
employment practice,” Larry DiNardo, the head of Jones Day’s
labor and employment practice, said in a statement. “Her deep
background on NLRB and union matters brings additional depth to
our already very significant labor and industrial relations
capabilities.”  Jones Day has 2,400 lawyers in 35 offices worldwide.  Locke Lord Hires Insurance Partner in London  Insurance and reinsurance lawyer Ian McKenna joined the
London office of international law firm Locke Lord LLP. He was
previously at Mayer Brown LLP.  McKenna’s practice focuses on contentious reinsurance and
insurance matters, including coverage disputes, reinsurance
recoveries, breach of contract, avoidance and related disputes,
both in commercial courts and in arbitration, the firm said.  Locke Lord has more than 650 lawyers in 13 offices in the
U.S., London and Hong Kong.  Litigation  Artemis Wins Trial Over California’s $4 Billion Junk-Bond Claim  Francois Pinault ’s Artemis SA holding company prevailed at
a trial over $4.33 billion in profits and interest sought by the
California insurance commissioner from a junk-bond portfolio
sold to French investors in 1991.  A federal jury in Los Angeles Oct. 29 rejected the claim
that if not for a conspiracy by the French investor group, then-
Insurance Commissioner John Garamendi, the conservator of
Executive Life Insurance Co., would have accepted a bid in 1991
for the insolvent insurer’s assets from a group of guaranty
associations that would have kept the profits from a junk-bond
portfolio in the company.  “We are very thankful for all the jurors’ hard work,”
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP partner Robert Weigel, Artemis’s
lawyer, said outside the courtroom. “We’re confident they came
to the right result.”  The case, which first went to trial in 2005, dates back to
the sale of failed Executive Life, at one point the largest
California life insurer, and its junk-bond portfolio to a unit
of Credit Lyonnais SA and a group of French and Swiss insurers
organized and secretly backed by the French bank to avoid
regulatory restrictions on the bank owning an insurer.  Artemis, the company through which Pinault controls  PPR (PP)  and
its luxury goods brands including Gucci and  Yves Saint Laurent ,
acquired part of the junk-bond portfolio in 1992 and a
controlling stake in the rehabilitated insurance company.
Artemis is the only one of the French defendants that didn’t
settle with the insurance commissioner.  California claimed the profits that the French investors
made from the  junk bonds , which “went through the roof” after
Garamendi sold them for $3.25 billion to Credit Lyonnais’s Altus
unit, rightfully should have gone to Executive Life policy
holders and the guaranty associations that made up shortfalls
for some of the insured.  “I respect the service performed by the jury who served on
this case, though I disagree with its findings,”  Dave Jones ,
the current Insurance Commissioner, said in a statement. “We
are considering all options in the wake of this disappointing
decision.”  Arthur Shartsis , of Shartsis Friese LLP, a lawyer for
insurance commissioner, said after the verdict was read that he
would consider an appeal.  “The whole thing turned on the jury instructions,”
Shartsis said outside the courtroom. “They were allowed to
assume away the existence of the fraud.”  The case is Garamendi v. Altus Finance SA, 99-02829, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  