-- Moscow Mercury City Tops Shard as Europe’s Tallest Tower
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-11-01T10:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/moscow-mercury-city-tops-shard-as-europe-s-tallest-tower.html
Mercury City , the tower Russian
retail billionaire Igor Kesaev is building in Moscow’s new
financial district, overtook  the Shard  in  London  as  Europe ’s
tallest skyscraper.  The tower reached its full height of 339 meters (1,112
feet), 29 meters more than the Shard, Kesaev’s Mercury
Development said today, citing Hamburg-based researcher  Emporis .
The 70-story skyscraper, designed by U.S. architect Frank
Williams, who died in 2010, and Russia’s Mikhail Posokhin, is
due to be completed in the first quarter next year.  “When I first came to New York in 1991 and saw the
Chrysler building and the Citibank one, I thought that such kind
of skyscrapers should appear in Moscow,” Kesaev said at a press
conference in the Russian capital today. “Now, 20 years later,
this dream has come true.”  Kesaev, who made his  $1.8 billion  fortune in wholesale
tobacco and food retailing, was among a handful of tycoons to
start building skyscrapers in Moscow City, the capital’s
emerging financial district. Not all reached fruition.  Billionaire Chalva Tchigirinsky scrapped a plan to build a
612-meter Norman Foster designed skyscraper after the onset of
the global financial crisis. Sergei Polonsky, who built
Federation Tower in Moscow City, lost his projects to banks as
they were pledged as loan collateral.  ‘Prestigious Location’  Investment in the project totaled $1 billion, Kesaev said.
The tower has about 90,000 square meters (970,000 square feet)
of office space and 20,000 square meters of apartments,
according to the developer’s website.  “There will definitely be good demand for offices in such
a prestigious location as Moscow City,” said Nikola Obajdin,
head of office property at Knight Frank LLP in Moscow. “The
rental price should be at a market level of about $800 to $900
per square meter a year, but on this stage of construction
tenants expect it to be about $700.”  Most demand for apartments comes from speculative investors
and there’s a large supply of units in Moscow City from other
developers, according to Knight Frank. The starting price for
apartments in Mercury City is $11,100 a square meter, according
to its website.  “It may take Mercury three to four years to sell out the
apartments,” said Olga Tarakanova, head of city sales at Knight
Frank. “Wealthy individuals who bought apartments in Moscow
City several years ago are offering them for sale now.”  Developers such as Capital Group, owned by Vladislav Doronin, are offering apartments in early-stage skyscrapers in
Moscow City for as little as $6,500 a square meter, according to
Knight Frank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 