-- Total’s Profit Rises 20% as European Refining Margins Widen
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-10-31T17:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/total-s-profit-rises-20-as-european-refining-margins-widen-1-.html
Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-largest oil
producer, said profit grew 20 percent in the third quarter,
beating analyst estimates as earnings from refining improved.  Profit excluding changes in inventories rose to 3.3 billion
euros ($4.3 billion) in the third quarter from 2.8 billion euros
a year earlier, the Paris-based company said today in a
statement. That compares with the 3.1 billion-euro average
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Refining benefited from the strong cracks seen over the
summer,” Matthew Yates, an analyst at Bank of America Corp. in
London, wrote today, referring to wider profit margins from
turning crude into fuel products. Results at the explorer’s
downstream division were better than expected, he said.  Total rose 17 cents to close at 38.82 euros in Paris.  The European refining margin indicator was $51 a ton in the
third quarter, from $13.40 a ton a year earlier and $38.20 a ton
the prior quarter. The increase marks a turnaround from the past
two years when refiners warned of overcapacity in  Europe  that
prompted Total to shut a plant in Dunkirk, northern  France .  Adjusted net operating income in the refining and chemicals
division rose 54 percent to 564 million euros amid a “more
favorable refining environment,” Total said. The company kept
the quarterly dividend unchanged at 59 cents a share.  Refining Income  “The refining margin reached a level that we haven’t seen
since September 2008,” Chief Financial Officer Patrick de la
Chevardiere said on a conference call. “We do not consider that
the margin will remain at such high levels in the future.”  The measure of profitability was $35 a ton today, he said.  Total’s production fell 2 percent to 2.27 million barrels
of oil equivalent a day in the quarter as field halts, including
those in the  North Sea , countered growth from new projects.
Benchmark Brent crude futures dropped 2.4 percent in the period
from a year earlier as slowing global growth curbed demand.  Production this year has been hurt by a natural-gas leak at
the Elgin platform that forced the evacuation and shutdown of
North Sea deposits. The company is seeking to resume operations
at the fields by the end of the year, it said today.  “Full year production could be slightly down compared to
2011,” de la Chevardiere said. “For 2013 the average
production will certainly not be at the 2011 level but we expect
it to be higher than the average of 2012.”  Production Outlook  Output in the fourth quarter will be affected by flooding
in  Nigeria , as well as high levels of planned maintenance in
offshore Nigeria, the U.K.’s North Sea and Qatar, de la
Chevardiere said. That may be partly countered by startups in
South Mahakam in Indonesia and Angola, he said.  The company said in September it expects to increase output
by an average of 3 percent a year from 2011 to 2015. It has also
set a longer-term target of reaching about 3 million barrels of
oil equivalent a day in 2017.  Total, whose largest European competitors are  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/) , is pushing to make larger discoveries by
drilling more exploration wells. It says it will assess recent
finds in Azerbaijan and  French Guiana  in coming months and
prepare exploration wells in the  Gulf of Mexico , Iraq,  Ivory
Coast , Kenya and  Gabon .  The company increased sales of liquefied natural gas
cargoes to 27 in the most recent quarter compared with 16 in the
previous three months, de la Chevardiere said.  “LNG is a core business for Total,” he said. The business
makes up about 24 percent of the upstream net operating income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  