-- Toyota Expects New Models to Extend Sales Rebound in 2013
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-10-31T20:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/toyota-expects-new-models-to-extend-sales-rebound-in-2013.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , headed for its
best U.S. sales in four years, will grow throughout 2013 on
demand for Prius hybrids and revamped models including a new
RAV4 sport-utility vehicle, the company’s U.S. sales chief said.  A full year of the redesigned Avalon sedan that goes on
sale in December, the Lexus ES sedan and the four-model Prius
lineup added this year, and new RAV4 and Corolla models due in
2013 will lift deliveries,  Jim Lentz , president of Toyota’s U.S.
sales unit, said in an interview Oct. 30.  “We’ll outpace the industry again next year with all the
product cadence we have,” he said. “We’re still working on the
forecast numbers, but we expect another good year. We’re looking
at a market that’s going to continue to firm up.”  U.S. sales of Toyota, Lexus and Scion models grew 32
percent this year through September, more than double the
industrywide 14.5 percent increase, and Japan’s largest
automaker has said it may finish 2012 with a 30 percent gain.
The company missed out on the recovery in U.S. deliveries that
began in 2010 because a recall crisis that year and then by
natural disasters last year, including an earthquake and tsunami
in  Japan , that slowed production its factories worldwide for
months.  Toyota and other automakers are scheduled to report October
sales today. While Toyota expected to post a 20 percent increase
for the month, this week’s superstorm Sandy reduced deliveries
to some extent, said Lentz, who is also a managing officer for
the Toyota City, Japan-based company.  “We are just assessing the damage now,” he said. Sandy
“for the most part shut off our sales last weekend in the  New
York  region. The same with the central-Atlantic region,” Lentz
said.  ‘Bright Spot’  This year Toyota’s U.S. sales should finish “in the 2-
million range,” he said, without elaborating. That would be the
most since 2008, when combined deliveries of its brands totaled
2.2 million cars and light trucks.  “If you look at the overall  U.S. economy , the  auto
industry  has really been the bright spot,” Lentz said. “There
is just a lot of pent-up demand, and the price of used cars
remains quite strong. New cars seem to be a much better value
than they have in past years.”  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is in Torrance,  California . The
company’s American depositary receipts gained 0.1 percent to
$77.47 at the close yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  