-- Palm-Oil Refining Capacity in Indonesia Seen Exceeding Crop
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-10-31T11:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/palm-oil-refining-capacity-seen-exceeding-output-in-indonesia.html
Palm-oil  refining capacity in
 Indonesia  may climb to more than 30 million metric tons next
year, exceeding output in the largest producer as companies step
up investments following tax changes, according to UBS AG.  “The capacity surge is due to increased profitability from
the government’s reduction of export taxes on refined oils,”
Andreas Bokkenheuser, an analyst in  Singapore , said in reply to
e-mailed questions. “The total capacity size will grow above 30
million tons, which is higher than” crude production, he said.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy cut taxes in October last
year to boost processed exports as it seeks to raise the value
of commodity shipments to spur economic growth and create jobs.
The increase in refining capacity may put margins under
pressure, Bokkenheuser said, without giving estimates.  “With the current tax structure there is about $1 billion
of investments coming in,” Sahat Sinaga, executive director of
the Indonesian Vegetable Oil Industry Association, said by phone
from Jakarta yesterday. “Production is close to the installed
capacity of 23 million tons. But it has not yet reached full
capacity because we still export crude palm oil.”  Palm oil has tumbled into a  bear market  as stockpiles in
Malaysia, the second-largest producer, gained to a record last
month while slower global economic growth cut demand. Futures on
the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, a global benchmark, ended at
2,501 ringgit ($819) a ton yesterday, 31 percent lower than the
year’s closing high on April 10. The January-delivery contract
fell 0.2 percent to 2,496 ringgit today.  Processed Shipments  Processed palm oil will account for 61 percent of total
shipments this year, with crude accounting for the rest, which
is a reversal from last year, when crude palm oil made up 60
percent of the total, Sahat said. Installed refining capacity
may increase to 25 million tons in 2013, Sahat said.  Malaysia  and Indonesia represent about 89 percent of global
shipments of the world’s most-used cooking oil. Last year,
Indonesia cut the maximum export duty on refined, bleached and
deodorized palm oil to 10 percent from 23 percent, while setting
the highest tax for crude exports at 22.5 percent. Malaysia
announced reforms this month, effective Jan. 1, including
dropping a duty-free quota for crude shipments.  Indonesia’s output may rise 5.2 percent to 26.2 million
tons in 2013 from an estimated 24.9 million tons this year,
according to a UBS report dated Oct. 12. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  forecasts Indonesian production of 27 million tons
in 2012-2013 from 25.4 million tons the year before.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  