-- Panasonic May Cut More Jobs as $9.6 Billion Loss Forecast
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2012-11-01T04:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/panasonic-predicts-full-year-loss-on-tvs-restructuring-cost.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s third-
biggest employer, eliminated almost 39,000 jobs in the past year,
and its chief financial officer said the TV maker doesn’t plan
another round of cuts. Investors say it has to.  Even after reducing its workforce by about 11 percent --
almost double the reductions at  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Sharp (6753)  Corp.
combined -- Panasonic will post a 765 billion-yen ($9.6 billion)
loss in the year ending March 31, the company said yesterday.
Panasonic  plunged  the most in at least 38 years in  Tokyo  trading
today, making it the biggest percentage loser in the  MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index (MXAP) , and Moody’s Investors Service said it will review
the company’s debt for a potential downgrade.  “They have to cut, cut, cut,” said Edwin Merner,
president of Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in Tokyo, which
manages about $300 million in assets. “They’re not doing it
fast enough. You have to be lean and mean.”  The projected second-highest  loss  in Panasonic’s history
prompted the Osaka-based company to skip a  dividend  for the
first time since 1950 because of an “urgent need” to improve
its financial position.  The  loss forecast , 30 times bigger than analysts estimated,
illustrates how Japanese consumer-electronics companies are
failing to come up with hit products to challenge  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Sony, Panasonic and Sharp are
valued at near three-decade lows as investors remain unconvinced
Japan’s three largest TV makers know how to rebound from
slumping demand, falling prices and mounting losses.  Sony Falls  Sony, Japan’s biggest TV maker,  declined  as much as 5.1
percent while Sharp, the nation’s largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, dropped as much as 3.5 percent. Both companies
are scheduled to report second-quarter earnings at 3 p.m. today.
Panasonic dropped by the daily-limit 100 yen to as low as 414
yen and changed hands at 419 yen as of 1:05 p.m.  The bulk of Panasonic’s projected loss for the year ending
in March will come from 440 billion yen of restructuring
expenses, more than 10 times greater than what the company
projected earlier. That includes a writedown of goodwill on
businesses such as solar, lithium-ion batteries and mobile
phones, the company said.  “The situation is worse than we had expected earlier, and
we have a severe outlook for the second half,” Chief Financial
Officer Hideaki Kawai told reporters. “Digital consumer
businesses such as TV, cameras, Blu-ray disc players and PCs
worsened faster than we had expected three months ago.”  Panasonic has no plan to cut jobs in significant numbers,
he said.  Debt Cost  With 321,896 workers on its payroll as of Sept. 30,
Panasonic trails  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s 328,762 workers as of June
30 and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s 327,325 as of Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Cutting jobs would be the path the company has to take,”
said  Makoto Sengoku , a Tokyo-based market analyst at Tokai Tokyo
Securities Co. “It would be good if we knew that Panasonic had
considered all the negative scenarios.”  The cost to insure Panasonic debt against nonpayment for
five years jumped 20 percent, or 64 basis points, to a record
380.68 yesterday, according to prices from data provider CMA.  Trading of options to protect against Panasonic losses
spiked to a seven-year high on Oct. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The put options were the most-traded
contracts in Tokyo on the day.  Balance-Sheet Damage  The extra yield investors demand to own Panasonic’s 150
billion yen of 1.081 percent notes due 2018 rather than
government debt jumped 19.4 basis points to a record 106.5 basis
points yesterday, according to data from JS Price.  “The large expected net loss will damage its balance sheet
significantly,” Moody’s said in a statement on Panasonic today.
“Its gross debt remains high.”  The ratings company placed Panasonic’s Baa1-rated long-term
senior unsecured bond and issuer ratings, as well as its shelf
registration, on review for downgrade.  Japan  Rating and Investment Information Inc. said it placed
Panasonic on monitoring and may downgrade its current A+ rating
by more than one level.  Sony has a market capitalization of $11.4 billion and Sharp,
the maker of Aquos brand of TVs, is valued at $2.3 billion. In
comparison, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, the world’s
biggest TV maker, is valued at $175 billion and Apple, the maker
of iPhones and iPads, has a market value of $560 billion.  Sony, the world’s third-largest TV maker, and Sharp,
Japan’s third-largest maker of TVs, are both expected to cut
their profit forecasts for the year when they report earnings
today, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Rating Cut  Sony’s net income may be 5 billion yen, compared with its
20 billion-yen forecast, and Sharp’s loss may be 296 billion yen,
or 18 percent wider than it forecast, according to the estimates.  “These companies are too dependent on TVs, which have
become commodities,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president of Fukoku
Capital Management Inc. in Tokyo. “They need to find a way to
shift away from TVs.”  Moody’s Investors Service lowered Panasonic’s  long-term
credit rating  by two levels to Baa1 in September, citing weak
earnings and higher debt. Panasonic’s cash and cash equivalents
fell to 443.9 billion yen as of the end of September from 574.4
billion yen in March, according to the company.  Lost Ground  Sony, Panasonic and Sharp -- once symbols of Japan’s
dominance in electronics -- have lost ground in TVs, phones and
tablet computers to Apple, Samsung and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  The
Japanese trio posted a combined 1.6 trillion-yen loss last year
as global TV shipments declined last year for the first time
since 2004, and a stronger yen hurt overseas sales.  Having the most advanced technology -- once a key strength
of the Japanese companies -- matters less now. Consumers are
increasingly paying attention to content and apps rather than
hardware specifications. Sony has forecast a ninth consecutive
year of losses from selling TVs while Panasonic has lost money
in each of the past four years.  “This uncertainty is common for Japan’s tech sector,”
said Kazuyuki Terao, chief investment officer of Allianz Global
Investors  Japan Co. (4689) , which oversees about 250 billion euros
($324 billion) of assets globally. “We don’t see when bad news
will stop coming out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 