-- Pao de Acucar Driving Retail Rally on Stimulus: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-10-31T19:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/pao-de-acucar-driving-retail-rally-on-stimulus-corporate-brazil.html
Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao  de Acucar,  Brazil ’s biggest retailer, is trading at
the most expensive level in 12 years relative to the benchmark
 stock index  as government stimulus fuels consumer demand.  Pao de Acucar, which soared 39 percent in Sao Paulo this
year, trades at 3 times the value of its net assets, up from 2.3
times at the start of 2012. That’s  the highest  valuation since
September 2000 relative to the Bovespa index, whose companies
trade at an average price-to-book ratio of 1.2, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  is seeking to fuel
economic growth by cutting taxes on  consumer goods ,  interest
rates  on loans and by demanding that banks, power companies and
phone operators reduce prices. While the measures are eroding
the value of financial and utility stocks, they have been a boon
for companies from Pao de Acucar to  Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4)  as
retail sales  surged  10 percent in the year through August.  “People are looking for places to hide from government
intervention and  China  slowing, and the consumer names in Brazil
tend to have a higher earnings visibility,” Samir Patel, who
helps oversee more than $800 million at Hermes  Emerging Markets ,
said in a telephone interview from  London . “That’s what’s
really driving this valuation.”  Pao de Acucar rose 0.1 percent to 93.20 reais at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo while the Bovespa declined 1.1 percent.  Consumer Staples  Consumer-goods companies are among the best performers in
Brazil this year. The  MSCI Brazil/Consumer Staples (MXBR0CS)  index of
eight stocks including Pao de Acucar advanced 13 percent before
today, compared with a 1.6 increase for the Bovespa. Consumer-
health products manufacturer  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3)  rallied 89 percent,
and pharmacy chain Raia Drogasil SA rose 74 percent.  Pao de Acucar, which is controlled by  France ’s Casino
Guichard-Perrachon SA, has the most expensive price-to-book
ratio among Latin American food retailers and wholesalers, and
the stock is nearing the average 12-month target price, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Pao de Acucar fell 0.4 percent
yesterday to close at 93.10 reais.  “Obviously the low-hanging fruits are gone,” Eric Conrads, who helps oversee $750 million in Latin American
equities including Pao de Acucar shares for ING Groep NV, said
in a telephone interview from  New York . “The good rally is
probably done, but it doesn’t mean the name is not attractive on
a fundamental basis looking forward.”  A press official at Pao de Acucar’s  Sao Paulo  headquarters
declined to comment.  Analyst Ratings  Twelve out of 22 analysts who  cover  Pao de Acucar, which
operates supermarkets and Ponto Frio stores selling electronics
and appliances, recommend buying the shares, making it the
highest-rated consumer-staple stock on the Bovespa index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Pao de Acucar was favored by the markets because it has
some defensive characteristics associated with the strength of
domestic consumption, like stability of revenue,” Ricardo Correa, an analyst at Rio de Janeiro-based Ativa Corretora, said
by phone. “The rally is close to exhaustion in the short term,
but the scenario is still looking very healthy.”  Brazil’s central bank has cut  interest rates  by 5.25
percentage points since August 2011 to a record low of 7.25
percent, the biggest reduction of any Group of 20 nation.
Economic growth will accelerate to 4 percent in 2013 from an
estimated 1.54 percent this year, according to a central bank
survey published this week.  ‘Scenario Abroad’  About 38 percent of Pao de Acucar’s revenue in 2011 came
from sales of  electronics , a segment that is benefiting from tax
cuts on industrialized products.  Pao de Acucar is expected to report after the market closes
tonight that third-quarter adjusted earnings rose to 81 centavos
a share, the average of five analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. That compares with 60 centavos a year ago.  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco WestLB do
Brasil SA, said consumer stocks remain attractive given the
outlook for growth in Brazil.  “The scenario abroad is still uncertain, and the
government has signaled that it will support economic growth
through stimulus, since foreign demand is not good,” Rostagno
said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “We should continue
to see economic policies aimed at boosting domestic demand, and
that should favor the sector’s stocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  