-- Pelamis in Talks on Tie-Up as Founder Sees Boost in Wave Energy
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-10-31T06:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/pelamis-in-talks-on-tie-up-as-founder-sees-boost-in-wave-energy.html
Pelamis Wave Power Ltd. , supplier of
the world’s first multiple-machine wave farm, is in talks on a
partnership to expand as it prepares for an influx of orders.  Pelamis is in discussions with several companies and making
“good progress” toward an agreement, Richard Yemm, founder and
director of the Edinburgh-based developer, said in an interview.
Pelamis needs the “right solution” in place before receiving
orders for multiple machines in one to two years, Yemm said.  The company’s technology, which uses the motion of waves to
generate power, received a boost from the U.K. and Scottish
governments in 2011 with an increase in the  incentives  provided
for marine-energy production. While no commercial-scale wave or
tidal projects are in operation, government data show they have
the potential to meet as much as 20 percent of Britain’s current
electricity demand, spurring Pelamis to prepare for expansion.  “When we reach the stage of the big array orders --
considering that even a 10-megawatt array is 60 to 70 million
pounds ($96 million to $113 million) -- the company needs to
have a decent balance sheet behind it,” Yemm said. That will
“reassure the customers that the company will stand behind the
technology and is going to be around in 10 years from now.”  Pelamis has already sparked interest from European
utilities:  Germany ’s  EON AG (EOAN)  and  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish Power
Ltd. are testing two Pelamis machines in Orkney,  Scotland , and
Vattenfall AB is helping the company build a 10-megawatt project
off the Shetland Islands. Pelamis supplied the world’s first
multiple-machine wave farm to  Portugal ’s Enersis in 2008.  Partnership Plan  The developer is “open-minded” to the structure of any
partnership, Yemm said by phone. Whether the tie-up is effected
through an investment or acquisition is “less crucial” than
the resources it brings, he said. “It’s really their presence
and additional skills that are needed.”  Marine-energy companies have attracted investments from
industrial groups as renewable-energy output expands. Siemens
AG,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, bought Marine Current
Turbines Ltd. in February.  Alstom SA (ALO)  acquired Tidal Generation
Ltd. from Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc last month.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  invested
in wave-technology maker Aquamarine Power Ltd. last year.  Pelamis said last November it was looking to team up with a
“strong” industrial company and had hired Ernst & Young LLP to
facilitate the process. The most likely strategic investors
would be large power engineering companies that haven’t already
backed wave technology, Angus McCrone, a senior analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said at the time. They include
Siemens, Areva SA and General Electric Co., he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  