-- Philippine Peso Has 2nd Monthly Gain on Remittances; Bonds Rise
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-10-31T08:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/philippine-peso-advances-for-second-month-after-remittances-jump.html
The Philippine peso completed a
second monthly gain after money sent home by overseas workers
increased and monetary easing in developed nations buoyed demand
for higher-yielding assets.  Government bonds  advanced.  The currency touched a four-year high on Oct. 18 after a
central bank report showed remittances from the 9.4 million
Filipinos living abroad jumped in August by the most in nine
months. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded its asset-purchase fund
yesterday for the second time in two months, following the
 Federal Reserve  in September. Moody’s Investors Service raised
the Philippines’ credit rating to one step below investment
grade this week, citing the nation’s growth prospects.  “Remittances will support gross domestic product and the
peso going into the fourth quarter, and the flow is especially
stronger during the festive season,” said Reuben Mark Angeles,
head of research at First Metro Securities Brokerage Corp. in
 Manila . “The Moody’s upgrade confirmed what the market has been
waiting for.”  The peso rallied 1.3 percent this month to 41.175 per
dollar in Manila, data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. The
currency is  Asia ’s best performer after  South Korea ’s won in
October, and has appreciated 6.5 percent this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, rose 10 basis points to 5 percent
today. It fell 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, this
month. Local financial markets are closed on Nov. 1 and Nov. 2
for public holidays.  Rating Upgrade  Moody’s upgraded the country one level to Ba1 on Oct. 29,
saying the economy was poised to record faster growth, lower
inflation, exchange-rate appreciation and an increase in
foreign-exchange reserves.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas cut its overnight rate by 25
basis points to  3.5 percent  on Oct. 25, the fourth reduction
this year. Governor  Amando Tetangco  signaled rate cuts were no
longer sufficient to curb the peso’s gains.  The yield on the 5.875 percent bonds due January 2018
dropped 12 basis points to 4.38 percent in October, capping a
fourth monthly decline, according to Tradition Financial
Services.  Government securities  gained 0.5 percent in October,
raising this year’s return to 6.2 percent, according to an index
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. That compares with a 12.8 percent
gain in all of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  