-- Pissarides Says Troika Should Soften Austerity Push
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-10-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/pissarides-says-troika-should-soften-austerity-push.html
Nobel economics laureate  Christopher Pissarides  said officials weighing international assistance to
indebted European nations should tame their demands for
governments to shore up their finances.  “The troika should be softer on fiscal austerity,” he
said in a speech at the British Academy in London yesterday.
“More time should be given for structural reforms to work.”  The so-called troika of the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  are
overseeing the progress Greece, Ireland and Portugal are making
in meeting internationally agreed fiscal targets that were part
of the countries’ bailouts.  For the currency union to work members are going to need a
flexible labor market, said Pissarides, a professor at the
 London School  of Economics. The problem is that the needed
reforms may take about four or five years to have an impact on
the economy, while fiscal austerity has an instant impact.  An insistence on austerity could produce an “immediate
deterioration in the labor market that might undermine the whole
reform process,” Pissarides said. “It’s like trying to cure a
patient by making him ill, and in the meantime you might
discover that the poor fellow has gone.”  ‘Gradual Austerity’  In Spain, “there have been reforms in the right direction,
they’ve moved quite a long way” by addressing permanent salary
increases and protection to workers, he said. The time needed
for reforms to take hold may be a matter of “how long it takes
for unions to see that circumstances have changed.”  An alternative would be to switch some funds that have been
put in place in the European stability fund to a European
structural fund. The money could then be used to invest in
countries “that are under scrutiny,” he said.  “Fiscal austerity could be imposed gradually as the
economy starts reviving,” he said. “Otherwise there’s no
prospect of anyone investing in those countries because who
would invest now in countries that have been put so deeply into
recession.”  In the U.K., the government has been trying to boost
private  job creation  and reduce public spending. “They claimed
cutting the public sector would do the trick, but it didn’t, it
just sank into a second recession,” he said.  Continental Cohesion  The economic issue that concerns him most is the question
of what will revive economies in southern Europe and how that
will affect cohesion in the continent, he said, adding that the
social unrest that has characterized Greece for more than a year
and is appearing in Spain may make its way to Italy.  “My main worry is what’s happening now in southern Europe
may have a much longer-term impact on European integration,” he
said. “When  Angela Merkel  visited Greece last summer, the
reaction was completely unacceptable.”  Germany “obviously will have to contribute more money for
the  euro zone  to be held together,” he said. “It only takes
one German politician to say that they’re not going to do it,
then financial markets will attack the euro immediately.”  Pissarides shared the Nobel economics prize in 2010 with
 Peter Diamond  of the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and
 Dale Mortensen  of  Northwestern University  in Evanston, Illinois,
for research into the difficulties of matching supply and
demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  