-- PMI Group Ends Fight With Operating Unit Over Tax Benefits
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-10-31T20:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/pmi-group-ends-fight-with-operating-unit-over-tax-benefits-1-.html
PMI Group Inc. (PPMIQ) , the bankrupt parent
of a mortgage-insurance company seized by regulators, ended a
court fight with the unit by agreeing to split tax benefits
related to more than $2 billion in losses, an attorney said.  The unit, PMI Mortgage Insurance Co., will be allowed to
apply $1 billion of the losses to cut its future tax bills, PMI
Group attorney Joseph Barry told the judge overseeing the
company’s bankruptcy today.  “As a result of mediation, we have reached a settlement,”
Barry said.  PMI Group, based in Walnut Creek, California, filed for
bankruptcy last year, just weeks after the  Arizona  Department of
Insurance seized PMI Mortgage, the main operating unit. PMI
Group listed assets of $225 million and debt of $736 million in
its bankruptcy petition.  PMI pays lenders after a homeowner defaults and a
foreclosure fails to recover enough to cover the mortgage. The
company lost money amid the worst slump in U.S. housing prices
since the Great Depression.  PMI Group and regulators from the state of Arizona, which
now controls PMI Mortgage, had been scheduled to make final
arguments in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware , over
which should control the tax benefits of the losses.  Instead, the two sides held a telephone conference with
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon to announce the
deal, which must be put in the form of a binding contract. That
contract will then be submitted for approval by Shannon and the
Arizona judge overseeing the regulators’ receivership case.  The case is In re PMI Group Inc., 11-bk-13730, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). The Arizona
case is State of Arizona v. PMI Mortgage Insurance Co.,
CV2011-018944, Arizona Superior Court, Maricopa County
(Phoenix).  -- Editors: Michael Hytha,  Andrew Dunn   To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  