-- Potash-Israel Chemicals Merger Faces Government Obstacles
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-11-01T15:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/potash-israel-chemicals-merger-faces-obstacle-from-government.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  is
in discussions to acquire  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  less than five
months after it dropped a bid to raise its stake. Talks may be
even more difficult this time as the country heads to January
elections amid security tensions.  “The chances of this deal going through, given that Potash
has tried to boost its stake in ICL in the past and failed, are
low,” said Richard Gussow, a senior analyst at DS Securities &
Investments Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . “The thought that you would have
a foreign entity owning a natural resource near  Israel ’s border
with Jordan doesn’t sound good, politically speaking.”  Potash Corp. may spend more than $13.6 billion if it buys
the 86 percent of Israel Chemicals it doesn’t already own, based
on yesterday’s share price. Such a transaction would be at least
three times bigger than the largest acquisition of an Israeli
company. To get it done, Potash Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Bill Doyle will have to win support from the government and the
billionaire Ofer family’s Israel Corp., which controls ICL.  The Israeli company is the country’s second-largest
publicly traded business by market capitalization and harvests
potash from the  Dead Sea . Any deal to sell off a key natural
resource before the elections would be seen as politically risky
for Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ,  Joseph Wolf , an analyst
at Barclays Plc, said by phone from Tel Aviv.  “The last thing the government wants is a group of
protesters holding signs against the sale,” Wolf said.  Political Experience  Potash Corp. rose 0.4 percent to C$40.31 at 11:36 a.m. in
Toronto. Israel Chemicals declined 0.2 percent to 48.5 shekels
at the close in Tel Aviv. Israel Corp. gained 0.9 percent.  The Israeli government holds a so-called golden share in
Israel Chemicals, allowing it to prevent a takeover by parties
hostile to the country and to protect natural resources. Any
sale of a holding in Israel Chemicals needs a thorough
examination to determine if it’s in the interest of the state,
said a government official, who declined to be identified citing
the sensitivity of the matter.  To acquire a majority stake in ICL,  Potash Corp. (POT)  would need
consent from numerous Israeli government agencies and
authorities, including the Government Companies Authority, the
Antitrust Authority, and the Prime Minister, Matthew Korn, a New
York-based analyst for Barclays, wrote in a note.  “This likely would not be a quick or easy process,” Korn
wrote. “Potash does have political experience in a proposed
acquisition of key national natural resources by a foreign buyer
to draw on.”  Talks Continue  Executives at the Canadian company held talks with
Netanyahu and government agencies about a “possible merger,”
Israel Corp. said in a Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange statement
yesterday, after Calcalist reported the negotiations. Israel
Corp. has a 52 percent  stake  in Israel Chemicals.  Potash Corp. said yesterday in a statement that it
“acknowledges” the statement by Israel Corp. and doesn’t
intend to comment further on the matter.  Netanyahu told reporters in Paris yesterday that the
government was looking at a proposed deal and that talks were
continuing. The biggest takeover of an Israeli company is  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $4 billion purchase of Iscar
Metalworking Cos. in 2006.  January Elections  Potash Corp. in June dropped a bid to increase its holding
in Israel Chemicals to as much as 25 percent from 13.9 percent,
saying the application process, filed in December to Israel’s
Ministry of Finance, was taking too long.  “No deal has been formulated yet, and Potash has not yet
approached the company or ICL,” Israel Corp. said yesterday.
“There is no certainty negotiations will take place.”  Financial newspaper Globes reported talks between Potash
and Israel Corp. about a controlling stake in Israel Chemicals
as early as 1999.  The Canadian company also owns 26 percent of Jordan’s  Arab
Potash Co. (APOT) , which harvests minerals from the Dead Sea on the
Jordanian shore. It bought that stake for $178 million in 2003,
according to its website.  Netanyahu has called early elections for Jan. 22 amid a
budget deadlock and growing tensions with  Iran  over a nuclear
program that Israel and the U.S. say is aimed at building an
atomic weapon.  A drone launched by the Hezbollah militia in south Lebanon
infiltrated Israeli airspace earlier this month and more than
150 rockets have been launched at Israel from the Hamas-
controlled  Gaza Strip . Israel says Iran supports both Hezbollah
and Hamas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net  