-- Potash Corp. in Talks to Merge With Israel Chemicals
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-10-31T20:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/potash-corp-in-talks-to-merge-with-israel-chemicals.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer, is in talks with the
Israeli government about taking control of  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) 
in a deal that may be worth more than $13.5 billion.  Executives of the Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company
have held talks with Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and met
with government agencies about a “possible merger,”  Israel 
Corp. said today in a statement to the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange.
Israel Corp., controlled by the country’s billionaire Ofer
family, is  Israel Chemicals’ biggest shareholder.  Potash Corp. Chief Executive Officer Bill Doyle, who
defeated a hostile $40 billion  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  bid in 2010,
will have to convince the Israeli government and the Ofers to
sell in order to win control of one of the few natural resources
held by the Middle Eastern nation. A takeover of Israel
Chemicals would be at least three times bigger than the largest
deal completed in the country.  “In the short term this is a positive for ICL and
fantastic for  Israel Corp., (ILCO)  but I think it will be very hard to
get an approval for the deal,” Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in  Ramat Gan , Israel,
said today by e-mail. “As Israel faces early elections we think
it is unlikely the prime minister will approve this deal now and
risk being criticized for selling natural resources and risking
the delicate ecology of the Dead Sea.”  Israel ‘Looking’  Netanyahu has met with Potash Corp.’s CEO and talks with
the company are “ongoing,” the prime minister said today at a
press conference in Paris. Israel is “looking” at a sale of
Israel Chemicals to Potash Corp., he said.  The Israeli government holds a so-called golden share in
Israel Chemicals, which was created when it sold a 25 percent
share in the company in 1995. The share allows the government to
ensure against a takeover of the company by parties hostile to
Israel and to protect the country’s natural resources.  The Potash Corp. talks come as declining Dead Sea water
levels prompt criticism from campaigners about fertilizer makers
in Israel and Jordan siphoning water for their operations.
Netanyahu called for early elections three weeks ago amid a
budget deadlock.  Potash Corp. is seeking permission to buy 100 percent of
Israel Chemicals, which has a market value of 61 billion shekels
($15.7 billion), the Calcalist newspaper reported earlier.  Potash Comment  Potash Corp. “acknowledges” the statement by Israel Corp.
and doesn’t intend to comment further on the matter, the company
said today in a statement.  Potash Corp. rose 0.5 percent to C$40.15 in Toronto.  The
shares (POT)  have fallen 4.7 percent this year.  A “key rationale” for Potash to control a bigger stake in
Israel Chemicals would be to eventually secure marketing control
of one of the two big producers not part of the two main potash
marketing organizations, Joel Jackson, a Toronto-based analyst
at BMO Capital Markets, said in a note today. Jackson said he
would expect an offer for full control would involve a
“significant” premium of possibly 30 percent or more.  Potash Corp., Plymouth, Minnesota-based  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  and
Calgary-based Agrium Inc. sell production through marketing
group Canpotex Ltd. OAO Uralkali and Belaruskali, two potash
producers in the former  Soviet Union , also have a joint export
trader, Belarusian Potash Co. K+S AG, based in Kassel,  Germany ,
is the other large potash producer not included in the two
groups, Jackson said.  Buffett Acquisition  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  acquired Iscar
Metalworking Cos. for $4 billion in 2006 in Israel’s largest
deal. The Ofers’ businesses include investments in shipping,
banking, chemicals, oil refining and construction. Their
personal fortune was estimated at $10.3 billion, according to
Forbes magazine, making them Israel’s richest family.  Israel Chemicals climbed 5.2 percent to 48.6 shekels in Tel
Aviv. Israel Corp. advanced 5.6 percent to 2,640 shekels. ICL’s
market value today was 61.8 billion shekels ($15.9 billion).  Potash Corp., which owns 13.8 percent of Israel Chemicals,
dropped a bid in June to increase its holding in Israel
Chemicals to as much as 25 percent from 13.9 percent, saying the
process was “taking a long time.” Tel Aviv-based Israel Corp.
owns 52.3 percent of Israel Chemicals, which extracts minerals
from the  Dead Sea  to make fertilizer and potash.  China, India  “No deal has been formulated yet, and Potash has not yet
approached the company or ICL,” Israel Corp. said in the
statement. “There is no certainty negotiations will take
place.”  Potash Corp. is battling falling sales for the crop
nutrient and last week cut its earnings forecast for 2012 on
slower than expected orders from buyers in  China  and  India .
Third-quarter net income dropped 22 percent to $645 million, it
said Oct. 25.  Sales of potash, which helps strengthen plant roots and
improve resistance to drought, generated 64 percent of the
company’s gross profit last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “I’m not aware of anything of this magnitude happening in
Israel,” Excellence Nessuah Investment House’s Alper said. “We
could be talking about a $14 billion deal before even a possible
premium that Potash could be paying on the company.”  In October 2010, China National Chemical Corp. acquired 53
percent of Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd. for $2.24 billion in
cash, making it the second-largest deal completed in Israel,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  