-- ProSieben Said to Choose Three Bidders for Nordic Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-31T17:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/prosieben-said-to-choose-three-bidders-for-nordic-unit.html
ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM) , Germany’s
biggest private broadcaster, has chosen Providence Equity
Partners Inc., Nordic Capital and  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) 
for the next round in the sale of its Scandinavian businesses,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  BC Partners Ltd. has left the sales process, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because talks are
private. The assets, which include television channels in Norway
and Sweden, may fetch between 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion)
and 1.5 billion euros and a sale could be completed by the end
of this year, they said.  ProSiebenSat.1, controlled by  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Permira
Advisers LLP, said in August that it was evaluating interest in
its Nordic assets after adviser  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was
approached by bidders. The company, based in Unterfoehring,
Germany, carried out a strategic review of northern European
assets last year to reduce debt. In April 2011, it agreed to
sell Dutch and Belgian broadcasting and print operations and
held on to the Nordic unit after deeming bids too low.  The German firm owns the Kanal 5 and Kanal 9 television
channels in Sweden, and Norwegian broadcasters TV Norge, FEM,
Vox and Max. The broadcaster’s second-quarter sales and profit
beat analyst estimates, propelled by the Northern European
television units and online services. Second-quarter revenue
from Norway grew 6.4 percent, while sales in Sweden climbed 12
percent.  ‘Credible Candidates’  “They have always taken a view if they get a good offer
for any of their assets, they’ll take it,” said Ian Whittaker,
an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London. “The three
bidders are all credible candidates” and ProSieben “can wipe
out their debt and possibly return cash.”  Officials at ProSiebenSat.1, Nordic Capital, Discovery and
BC Partners declined to comment. Officials at Providence were
not immediately available to comment.  ProSiebenSat.1 shares erased earlier losses before closing
down 0.5 percent at 21.50 euros. The stock has climbed about 52
percent so far this year, giving the company a market value of
4.7 billion euros.  The private-equity firms offered more than Discovery in the
indicative offers submitted earlier this month, said one of the
people. The bidders will hold talks and examine the company’s
figures through November, they said.  Kirch’s Empire  Providence, a firm based in the namesake capital of Rhode
Island, manages about $27 billion with a focus on investments in
media and education. The buyout firm belonged to a group of
investors that teamed up with Hollywood billionaire Haim Saban
in 2003 to buy ProSieben after the insolvency of Leo Kirch’s
media empire in 2002. They sold the German company to KKR and
Permira in 2006.  Nordic Capital is a Swedish private-equity firm that
focuses on investments in Scandinavia and German-speaking
countries.  Buyout firms typically use loans secured on the targets
they acquire to finance more than half of the purchase price,
while using cash from their own funds for the rest. Worldwide,
the value of private-equity deals announced in the third quarter
fell 29 percent to $95.1 billion from a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Discovery Communications, the cable-television company that
owns Animal Planet and Oprah Winfrey’s OWN network, is adding
channels and programming in new markets to counter slowing
growth in the U.S. The Silver Spring, Massachusetts-based
company gets about half its revenue from ads, with the rest
coming from rights fees from pay-TV operators.  Nordic Region  “It might be a good time to sell,” said Conor O’Shea, a
media analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris. “There are
some signs of strain in some of the Scandinavian markets,
particularly the Danish market.”  The Nordic region generated about 476 million euros in
revenue in 2011, or 17 percent of ProSiebenSat.1’s sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The unit would fetch as much as 1.5 billion euros if a
buyer paid about 12 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, said O’Shea. The expectation is
that they may get close to the top of the range, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  