-- PVH Unifies Calvin Klein With $2.9 Billion Warnaco Deal
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-10-31T20:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/pvh-says-to-buy-warnaco-in-deal-valuing-company-at-2-9-billion.html
PVH Corp., (PVH)  the owner of the Tommy Hilfiger brand, agreed to buy  Warnaco Group Inc. (WRC)  in a $2.9
billion transaction, bringing all Calvin Klein-branded apparel
under one roof in the largest clothing-industry deal announced
in 2012.  PVH will pay $51.75 in cash and 0.1822 of a PVH share for
each Warnaco share, the New York-based companies said in a
statement today. The offer is worth $68.43 per Warnaco share, 34
percent higher than the last closing price of $50.88. Warnaco
had licensed Calvin Klein’s jeans from PVH, which bought Calvin
Klein’s company from the designer in 2003.  PVH Chief Executive Officer Emanuel Chirico said last year
that he would “aggressively” seek deals to turn the company
into the world’s largest apparel business, while boosting
international sales and profit margins that trail competitors
such as  VF Corp. (VFC)  and  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  More than half of
Warnaco’s 2011 sales came from outside the U.S.  “PVH is in a position now to consolidate the entire Calvin
Klein brand and get it going in a common direction,”  Armando Branchini , founder of Milan-based consultancy Intercorporate,
said in an interview. “You get strategic brand management, and
the opportunity to get more negotiating power with retailers.”  PVH surged 20 percent to $109.99 at the close in New York,
its highest price since at least 1980. Warnaco jumped 39 percent
to $70.58 for the biggest one-day gain since at least 2003. The
shares have risen 56 percent and 41 percent respectively this
year.  Deal Multiples  PVH, which traces its roots to a shoe company founded in
1876, is  paying  11.6 times trailing 12-month earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than the 7.7 times
median for apparel industry deals over the past five years, the
data show. PVH paid $3.1 billion, or 15.6 times Ebitda, for
Tommy Hilfilger in 2010, the second-biggest U.S. apparel
takeover in history.  The takeover premium represents “quite a high price,”
though is “not unrealistic,” Branchini said.  PVH said the purchase will add 35 cents a share, excluding
integration and transaction costs, to its earnings in fiscal
2013 if the deal closes as expected in early 2013. PVH expects
the takeover to contribute $100 million in additional annual
revenue, or so-called synergies, offset by $175 million in
acquisition costs, which will be spread over three years. The
combined companies will have $8 billion in sales.  Emerging Markets  “We believe this is a very complementary acquisition for
us,” Chirico, who has been CEO since 2006, said on a conference
call with analysts and investors today. The transaction combines
Warnaco’s presence in fast-growing  emerging markets ,
particularly in Asia and Latin America, with PVH’s North
American and European operations. One goal is to expand Calvin
Klein sales in Europe by using its PVH operating platform there,
he said.  When the deal closes, Warnaco shareholders will own about
10 percent of the common stock of PVH. Warnaco’s board has
unanimously approved the deal, and Helen McCluskey, Warnaco’s
CEO since February, will probably join PVH’s board. Warnaco
began as a maker of corsets more than a century ago.  “Manny Chirico is a great business builder,” Lauren
Taylor Wolfe, a managing director of Blue Harbour Group in
Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in an e-mail. “This is smart for
both companies and very positive for their shareholders.”  Blue Harbour, which has $1.2 billion under management, owns
about 3 percent of Warnaco and previously was a shareholder in
PVH.  Gaining Confidence  PVH is buying Warnaco now after weighing such a deal for
eight to 10 years because its Tommy Hilfiger acquisition gave it
the confidence to run a global company and it has reduced debt
from that transaction, Chirico said in a joint phone interview
with McCluskey.  “This was an acquisition that clearly made the most
sense,” he said. “It was the one we understood most. What we
don’t have to deal with is to understand the brand.”  Warnaco felt it could grow faster in combination with PVH
than under its own steam or its own acquisitions, McCluskey said
in the interview.  “It makes sense to have the brand aligned for marketing
and advertising purposes,” Ashma Kunde, an apparel analyst with
Euromonitor in London, said in a phone interview today. “In the
more developed markets of U.S. and  Europe , super-premium jeans
and underwear are some of best performing categories, so
acquiring Calvin Klein jeans and underwear is a major
advantage.”  Brooke Shields  Prior to acquiring Tommy Hilfiger, the U.S. accounted for
almost 90 percent of PVH’s revenue, Bloomberg data show.  Bronx, New York-native Calvin Klein, 69, founded his
company as a Manhattan hotel coat shop in 1968 and built the
brand into one of the world’s best-known labels. He is credited
with creating the designer jean trend, helped by a young Brooke
Shields, who said in an ad campaign that nothing would come
between her and her Calvins. The brand drives $7.6 billion in
total revenue, according to PVH. Warnaco obtained rights to the
Calvin Klein brand in the 1990s.  Peter J. Solomon Co. served as lead financial adviser to
PVH for the transaction and financing. Barclays, BofA Merrill
Lynch and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. have committed $4.33
billion in financing, while also acting as financial advisers to
PVH, according to the statement. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
provided legal advice to PVH. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is financial
adviser to Warnaco, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
is acting as legal adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  