-- Quanta Services Rises on Storm Cleanup, Earnings: Houston Mover
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-10-31T20:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/quanta-services-rises-on-storm-cleanup-earnings-houston-mover.html
Quanta Services Inc. (PWR) , the biggest
U.S. power line contractor, rose the most in a year as its
earnings beat expectations and damage from the East Coast super-
storm Sandy brought the company more work.  Quanta, based in Houston,  rose  9.9 percent to $25.93 at the
close in in New York. Earlier, it rose as much as 10.5 percent
to $26.08, the most since Nov. 2, 2011 and its highest price
since Oct. 1, 2008.  Other utility contractors, including  MYR Group Inc. (MYRG)  and
 Pike Electric Corp. (PIKE) , also rose as investors looked for companies
that would benefit from the storm, Andrew Wittmann, an analyst
with Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee ,  Wisconsin , said in an
interview. Pike gained 6.2 percent to $9.11, the most since Aug.
3, and MYR rose 7.2 percent to $21, the most since Aug. 8.  Quanta earned 45 cents a share in the third quarter,
compared with 25 cents in the same quarter of 2011, according to
a statement today. Excluding one-time costs, the company earned
48 cents a share, 9 cents more than the average of 14 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Hurricane Sandy , which came ashore Oct. 29 with gusts as
high as 90 miles an hour and record flooding, cut a swath the
width of Texas through utility grids from  Virginia  to New
England. At the peak, more than 8 million customers were without
power, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Consolidated
Edison (ED) , which provides electricity for New York City, said the
storm caused the worst blackout in its history.  Good Year  Quanta was already having a strong year and now will be
able to move workers over to new, higher-profit storm
opportunities, Wittmann said.  “They’re sacrificing other, pretty good-margin work, for
even better-margin work, ” he said. Wittmann rates Quanta
neutral and doesn’t own any shares.  Quanta was able to move “a significant amount of
resources” into the region prior to the storm’s arrival, Chief
Executive Officer James F. O’Neill said on a call with analysts.  Repair work provides higher profit margins than other types
of construction, though it’s too early to estimate how much the
company may earn from the cleanup effort, O’Neill said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  