-- Rajoy Says Indecision Is Hardest Choice of All as Bailout Looms
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-10-31T13:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/rajoy-says-indecision-is-hardest-choice-of-all-as-bailout-looms.html
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy
is trying to turn his bailout indecision into a crisis-
management strategy.  “Sometimes the hardest decision is not to take any
decision,” Rajoy told the Spanish Parliament today in response
to criticism from lawmakers over his perceived dithering. “So
what someone in government has to do when dealing with issues
that aren’t mathematical, where one never knows if one is going
to get it right or not, is to weigh things up well and be very
aware of the consequences of one’s decisions.”  Rajoy has spent almost three months considering the
consequences of requesting a  bailout  that’s been on the table
since the European Central Bank unveiled its new bond buying
plan in September. The approach has puzzled and frustrated euro
region officials who want Spain to unleash the power of the
ECB’s tool-kit to show that it’s fully operational.  “One country that still has an elevated spread and has
problems with its banking system has hesitated and is hesitating
about whether to activate the anti-spread mechanism,” Italian
Prime Minister Mario Monti said on Oct. 23. “This country, as
you know, is not  Italy .”  Italy, like  France , has been nudging Rajoy to ask for help,
a move that could help shore up confidence in the ECB bond plan
and protect their own bond yields.  Spain is the leading candidate for  Europe ’s next bailout
with financing needs of at least 207 billion euros ($269
billion) next year and a 144 billion-euro hole in its banking
system.  Stubborn  Rajoy though, refuses to be rushed. The premier hails from
the north-western region of Galicia where people are famous for
sitting on the fence and has made a virtue of patience
throughout his career. He lost two general elections before he
finally led his party into power last year.  Rajoy is not alone in his approach to governing. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  delayed a decision on aid for  Greece  in
2010 until the last possible moment before backing a bailout.  Yet even her allies are losing patience with Rajoy’s
prevarication.  “He must spell out what the situation is,” Michael Meister, finance spokesman for Merkel’s Christian Democratic
Union, said in an interview last month. “Rajoy evidently has a
communications problem. If he needs help he must say so.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  