-- TransCanada Considers More Issuance After China Deal
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-31T12:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/transcanada-considers-more-issuance-after-china-deal.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , which announced a
C$3 billion ($3 billion) oil-sands pipeline with a Chinese
partner this week, said it may issue fresh debt to finance
future projects and tap low- interest rates .  The Calgary-based company behind the planned Keystone XL
pipeline, has added $7 billion of projects this year, Chief
Financial Officer Don Marchand told analysts on a conference
call yesterday.  “We will be opportunistic in sourcing required capital
given the compelling low-interest-rate environment,” Marchand
said, adding that the new  Alberta  pipeline project with a unit
of PetroChina Co. Ltd. will probably be funded with cash.  TransCanada and such rivals as  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and  AltaGas
Ltd. (ALA)  will sell debt as production accelerates in Alberta’s oil
sands, said Brian Miron, who helps manage C$16 billion in
Canadian fixed-income assets across several funds at Fidelity
Management and Research in Merrimack,  New Hampshire .  These companies “have incredible growth opportunities, and
they’re funded mostly with debt, which means these issuers will
be continuing and we expect more supply to come into the
marketplace,” Miron said in a phone interview. His funds own
Enbridge, AltaGas and TransCanada bonds.  TransCanada is among the biggest issuers of non-bank
corporate debt in  Canada , with almost C$19 billion in bonds
outstanding, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Enbridge,
a Calgary-based pipeline competitor, has about C$10 billion.  TransCanada on Oct. 29 said it’s teaming with Phoenix
Energy Holdings Ltd., a unit of  PetroChina, (857)  to develop a
pipeline project to ship oil from Northern Alberta’s oil sands
to Edmonton. The company last tapped the  bond market  in August,
when it cut its  commercial paper  holdings and issued $1 billion
of 10-year 2.5 percent senior notes.  Commercial Paper  With about $1.5 billion still held in commercial paper at
the end of the last quarter, TransCanada has room to replace
that with medium-term debt at attractive rates to fuel its
expansion, said Matt Kolodzie, a credit analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in Toronto.  “There’s certainly room to reduce that further and free up
some liquidity to fund capital-spending next year; free up some
room for the projects they have,” he said in a phone interview.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian investment-grade corporations
rather than that of the federal government held steady as of
Oct. 29 at 141 basis points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Yields were 2.98 percent.  In the provincial bond market, the spread over federal debt
was unchanged as of Oct. 29 at 75 basis points, according to
another Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. Yields were 2.52
percent.  Corporate Returns  Canadian corporate bonds have returned 5.6 percent this
year, compared with gains of 2 percent by the nation’s
government bonds and 2.6 percent by provincials, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Government bonds were little changed, with the  yield  on the
10-year benchmark note at 1.81 percent as of 8:27 a.m. in
Toronto. The price of the 2.75 percent notes maturing in June
2022 was C$108.24.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , testifying to the
House of Commons Finance Committee in Ottawa yesterday, said the
country’s labor market still has slack and there are mixed
signals in housing. He reiterated that the greatest threats to
the national economy are external.  The central bank last week whipped markets between positive
and negative growth sentiment as Carney said the need for higher
interest rates has become “less imminent” a day after
strengthening the case for tightening monetary policy.  Crude Expansion  Even as natural gas prices remain near historic lows and
weigh on TransCanada profits, its expansion into crude shipments
is being welcomed by bond investors. The spread, or premium
investors demand over benchmark  government bonds , on TransCanada
debt has narrowed an average seven basis points this month to
121 basis points, according to a  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch
index of Canadian corporate five to 10-year debt. The comparable
index narrowed an average of four basis points.  The Phoenix deal is “a credit positive as it further
diversifies the company,” said Kolodzie.  TransCanada bonds returned 3.2 percent in October, placing
it in the top 11 percent of a Bank of America index of more than
1,000 global energy bonds.  Energy producers are grappling with a gas glut in  North
America  that sent prices to a 10-year low in April, from which
it’s slowly begun to recover. TransCanada yesterday said third-
quarter profit fell 4.4 percent and missed analysts’ estimates
as it shipped less natural gas. Of the nine Canadian oil and gas
producers that have reported quarterly earnings to date, a third
have reported profit that missed analysts’ estimates, the worst
of any sector after financial services, according to Bloomberg
data.  Regulatory Hurdles  Oil and gas projects involving Canadian companies have hit
regulatory roadblocks.  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  fell 15
percent last week after the Canadian government blocked its
C$5.2 billion takeover by  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd.
Petronas, as the company is known, has since extended the offer
as it continues discussions with the Canadian government to
adjust terms of the deal.  TransCanada last month submitted a revised proposal for its
Keystone XL pipeline, after President  Barack Obama  rejected the
proposal in January. The original plan called for a 1,661 mile
(2,673-kilometer) pipeline that would carry 830,000 barrels of
Alberta crude to refineries along the  Gulf of Mexico .  Increasingly, Americans “see the job benefits, they see
the economic benefits and I think more than anything they see
the energy-security benefits,” he said.  RBC Capital Markets ’ Kolodzie said he thinks the pipeline
will be approved and its passage will get easier after the  U.S.
presidential election  next week.  “It’s a very compelling story for Americans,” he said.
“And a very strategic asset for Americans to back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  