-- Treasuries Fall as Market Opens After Sandy, Home Prices
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-10-31T11:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/treasuries-fall-as-market-opens-after-sandy-home-prices.html
Treasuries fell as the market opened
following yesterday’s closure for Atlantic storm Sandy and
before a  report  that economists forecast will show a gauge of
business sentiment improved in October.  Government debt was set to deliver a third month of losses,
the longest streak since the last quarter of 2010, after the
 Federal Reserve  announced a new round of measures on Sept. 13 to
spur growth. Yields that are less than the inflation rate led
investors to seek higher returns in corporate bonds and stocks.
Treasury 10-year note futures fell yesterday after a report
showed U.S. house prices rose the most in more than two years.  “Most of the U.S. data we’ve seen recently surprised on
the upside,” said Jussi Hiljanen, the head of fixed-income
research at  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  in  Stockholm . “The
housing market is definitely one of the bright spots. We expect
10-year Treasury yields to rise to around 2 percent in the
second quarter of next year.”  U.S. 10-year  rates  rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.75 percent as of 7:01 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 1.625
percent note due in August 2022 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000
face amount, to 98 27/32.  Trading in Treasuries was shut yesterday and closed early
on Oct. 29 as Sandy swept through the U.S. East Coast.  Business Sentiment  The Institute for Supply and Management-Chicago Inc. will
say today that its business barometer increased to 51 this month
from 49.7 in September, according to a median forecast of 54
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. A reading of 50 is the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S.
cities rose 2 percent in August from a year earlier, the biggest
gain since July 2010, a report showed yesterday. The Citigroup
Economic Surprise Index, which shows whether U.S. data beat or
fell short of forecasts, climbed to 55.5 on Oct. 15, the most
since February. It was at 50.2 yesterday.  U.S. consumer prices increased 2 percent in September from
12 months before, based on the latest data from the Labor
Department.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for costs in the economy over the life of
the debt, was 2.48 percentage points. The average over the past
decade is 2.17 percentage points.  Yield Projections  “The  U.S. economy  is recovering,” said Kazuaki Oh’e, a
debt salesman in  Tokyo  at CIBC World Markets Japan Inc., a unit
of  Canada ’s fifth-largest lender. “There’s no reason to buy at
negative real yields.”  Ten-year rates will climb to 2.04 percent by June 30 and to
2.33 percent by the end of 2013, based on a Bloomberg survey of
economists, with the most recent projections given the heaviest
weightings.  Treasuries have handed investors a 0.3 percent loss this
month as of Oct. 29, and the three-month decline is 0.8 percent,
the Bank of America figures show.  Bonds in an index of U.S. investment-grade and high-yield
corporate securities gained 2.5 percent since the end of July,
according to the data. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of
shares returned 4.4 percent including reinvested dividends in
the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ten-year Treasury yields will probably hold below 2 percent
for the weeks ahead, said Ali Jalai, who trades  U.S. debt  in
 Singapore  at Scotiabank, a unit of  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , one of
the 21 primary dealers authorized to deal with the Fed.  “We’re in a low-yield environment,” he said. “The
economy’s not falling apart, but it’s not that strong.”  Fed Policy  The Fed reiterated Oct. 24 it will keep its main  interest
rate  at almost zero until at least mid-2015 and buy $40 billion
of mortgage debt every month, seeking to “substantially”
improve the outlook for the labor market.  The U.S. jobless rate rose to 7.9 percent in October from
7.8 percent in September, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists before the Labor Department reports the figures on
Nov. 2. It will be the last of the monthly employment reports
before President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt
Romney  face off in the Nov. 6 election.  The Fed is also swapping its holdings of shorter-term
Treasuries with those due in six years to 30 years to put
downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.  The central bank plans to buy as much as $5.25 billion of
securities due from November 2018 to August 2020 today as part
of the program, according to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  Investor demand for long-term debt narrowed the  difference 
between five- and 30-year yields to 2.13 percentage points
yesterday, the least in seven weeks. The spread was at 2.15
percentage points today.  The U.S. is scheduled to announce today the sizes of three
auctions of coupon-bearing securities scheduled for next week.  It will probably sell $32 billion of three-year debt on
Nov. 6, $24 billion of 10-year notes the next day and $16
billion of 30-year bonds on Nov. 8, according to Wrightson ICAP
LLC, an economic advisory company based in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  