-- Treasury Sees Debt Limit End 2012
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-31T13:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/treasury-sees-debt-limit-end-2012-plans-72-billion-auction.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department
reiterated today it expects to reach the federal debt limit
“near the end of 2012,” and that it plans to sell $72 billion
in notes and bonds in next week’s refunding.  The Treasury said in a statement today that it can use
“extraordinary measures” that would “provide sufficient
‘headroom’ under the debt limit to allow the government to
continue to meet its obligations until early in 2013.” The
Treasury also said an auction under its planned floating-rate
note program is “estimated to be at least one year away.”  “Extraordinary measures are temporary in nature and not a
solution,” Thomas Simons, a government debt economist at
Jefferies Group Inc. in  New York  said. “Considering the debt
ceiling is going to be tied into the fiscal cliff discussions
there is a risk that we end up with another debt ceiling
scenario like last year.”  The  debt  sales come as Congress contends with a so-called
fiscal cliff, the more than $600 billion of federal spending
cuts and tax increases that will automatically take effect at
the start of next year unless Congress acts. In addition, the
department has said it expects to reach its debt limit of $16.4
trillion near the end of this year, and may need to use
extraordinary measures to keep the government running until
lawmakers act.  Treasury Auction  The Treasury intends to auction $32 billion in 3-year notes
on Nov. 6; $24 billion in 10-year notes on Nov. 7; and $16
billion in 30-year bonds on Nov. 8.  Treasuries pared losses as investors purchased  U.S.
government debt  at month-end to match adjustments in indexes
used as performance benchmarks, following yesterday’s closure
for Hurricane Sandy. U.S. 10-year rates rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.73 percent as of 9:17 a.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  Capital and liquidity requirements from the 2010 overhaul
of financial regulation in the Dodd-Frank Act, and from the
Basel III global rules, have increased demand for short-term,
high-quality debt at a time when supply has diminished.  The Treasury said it hasn’t yet made a decision on whether
to allow negative-rate bidding in auctions of Treasury bills.  The Treasury told members of the Treasury Borrowing
Advisory Committee to study “operational issues” connected
with possible negative-rate bidding, according to minutes of a
conference call with members of the committee.  The Treasury said it was on schedule for its first auction
of floating-rate notes late next year. The conference call was
held instead of the usual dealer meeting because of  Hurricane
Sandy . The committee of bond dealers meets quarterly with the
Treasury.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net 
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  